GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
l56LI -A:F
Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Project Document
June 1996
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters.
destruction of biodiversity, anid depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations EnvironmentProgramme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washington. DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 15541-AFR
K:ENYA, TANZANIA, UGANDA
Lake Victoria
Environmental Management Project
Project Document
June 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya (KSh), Tanzania (TSh), and Uganda Shillings (Ush)
US$1 = KSh58 (une 1996); US$1 = TSh615 (une 1996); US$1 = UShl,000 (June 1996)
SDR1.0 = US$144424
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ACRONYMS
ASARECA    Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa
CBO          Community-Based Organization
CIPA         FAO Committee for Inland Fisheries of Africa
EAFFRO       East African Freshwater Fisheries Research Organisation
EU           European Union
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organisation (of the United Nations)
FIRI         Fisheries Research Institute (Uganda)
FY           Fiscal Year
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GEF          Global Environment Facility
IAPSO        Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IPM          Integrated Pest Management
ISP          International Shopping Procedures
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IUCN         International Union for Conservation (World Conservation Union)
KEMFRI       Kenya Marine Fisheries Research Institute
LVEMP        Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
LVFO         Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization
MISO         Management Information Systems Officer
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NEMA         National Environmental Management Authority (Uganda)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NSP          National Shopping Procedures
NWSC         National Water and Sewerage Corporation (Uganda)
OPO          Operations Officer
PDO          Procurement/ Disbursement Officer
PIC          Project Implementation Committee
PIP          Proiect Implementation Plan
RPSC         Regional Policy and Steering Committee
SAP          Strategic Action Plan
SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
TAFIRI       Tanzania Fisheries Research Institute
TECCONILE  Technical Cooperation for the Promotion of Dev't. and Env. Protection of the Nile Basin
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNEP         United Nations Environment Programme
WMO          World Meteorological Organisation



PART I: PROJECT SUMMARY






KENYA, TANZANIA, AND UGANDA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GRANT, CREDIT, AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:              The Republic of Kenya, United Republic of Tanzania, and
the Republic of Uganda
Beneficiaries:           Fisherfolk, smallholder farmers
Amounts:   (a) GEF       Kenya SDR8.0 million (US$11.5 million equivalent)
Tanzania SDR7.2 million (US$10.3 million equivalent)
Uganda SDR9.2 million (US$13.2 million equivalent)
(b) IDA     Kenya SDR8.9 million (US$12.8 million equivalent)
Tanzania SDR7.0 million (US$10.1 million equivalent)
Uganda SDR8.4 million (US$12.1 million equivalent)
Terms (GEF):             Grant
Terms (IDA):             Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment Charge (IDA): Standard
Onlending Terms:        Grants to communities for microprojects
Financing Plan (US$ m):
GEF    IDA   Governments  Totals
Local        15.9    18.4        7.6       41.9
Foreign      19.1    16.6        0.0       35.7
Total        35.0    35.0        7.6        77.6
Economic Rate of Return:   No ERR calculated, as project benefits are not readily
quantifiable. The major direct economic benefit for which
the project lays the foundation is avoidance of collapse of
the lake fisheries, which is estimated to have a present
value of US$270-520 million to the lake community.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 15429
Map No.:                IBRD 27780
Project ID No.:          F2-PA-44135
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo, AFR
Director:            James W. Adams, AF2
Division Chief:      Sushma Ganguly, AF2AE
Staff:               Graeme Donovan, AF2AE






KENYA, TANZANIA, UGANDA
THE LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PART I: Grant and Project Summary
1.    The Chief Executive Officer of the GEF has endorsed the GEF financed portion of
the project pursuant to paragraph 30 of the Instrument for the Establishment of the
Restructured Global Environment Facility.
Country and Sector Background
Kenya
2.    Kenya remains a low-income country. Even though its population growth rate,
which historically has been very high, dropped to about 3 percent in 1993, and although
Kenya is one of the few countries in Africa that experienced a decline in fertility in the
eighties, a significant and sustained increase in per capita income has proved to be an
elusive goal in Kenya during the past decade. In spite of a few years of relatively good
growth during the second half of the 1980s, the performance of the economy has been
particularly inadequate in generating new jobs, and there has been no significant
improvement in the incidence of poverty. Overall, the economy has generated only
marginal increases in per capita output over the past decade; during the recent years, per
capita income actually declined - from $340 in 1991 to $260 in 1994 (at current prices and
exchange rates).
3.    Sustained Government effort since mid-1993 to tighten fiscal and monetary
policy has resulted in effective economic stabilization and the revival of economic
growth. The fiscal deficit (exclusive of grants) has been sharply reduced over two years
from over 11 percent of GDP in FY93 to about 2.5 percent in FY95. Combined with a
generally tight monetary stance, these policies have resulted in the reduction of inflation,
to a three-month annualized inflation rate of 2.8 percent by the third quarter of 1995. The
recent decline in domestic interest rates and the subsequent capital outflow, as well as the
gradual recovery of import demand, resulted in the shilling depreciating in the second
quarter of 1995 to about KSh 55 per US dollar where it has since stabilized. In parallel
with the improvement in inflation has been a resumption of real economic growth. GDP
growth (at factor cost) for 1994 is estimated at 3 percent, the first significantly positive
growth in three years, and it was projected at around 5 percent for 1995.
4.    Rising population pressures, migration and rapid urbanization have increased
the need for urgent actions to address Kenya's environmental problems. The more
critical problems are related to soil and land degradation, water resource management,
biomass and household energy issues, and the protection and management of fragile
ecosystems, including national parks. Rapid urbanization and inadequate physical
planning have also caused a significant deterioration in the urban environment. The
Government adopted a comprehensive National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in
June 1994. Areas for priority action include the development and adoption of a
comprehensive environmental policy, the establishment of an effective institutional and
legal framework, and the formalizing of a requirement for environmental impact
assessments for all development projects.



2                                                    Grant and Project Summary
Tanzania
5.    By the early 1980s, Tanzania had come to be a heavily state-controlled economy,
whose rigid economic system was battered by numerous shocks, and whose inadequate
policies led to economic stagnation and a fall in per capita income lasting almost a
decade. Beginning in 1986, the Government embarked on a program to reform and
fundamentally change the existing approach to economic development by dismantling
the system of pervasive economic controls and encouraging more active participation of
the private sector in the economy. Structural reforms, particularly relating to traditional
exports and the parastatal and financial sectors, were not fully completed, and
macroeconomic stabilization remained elusive. Nevertheless, the economy responded
well to the reforms that were implemented (notably, liberalization of food crop marketing
and progressive improvements in foreign exchange management) and the accompanying
increased availability of external resources. Official estimates indicate that GDP growth
averaged about 4 percent per year and exports grew by more than 4 percent per year
during 1986-94 (versus a 5 percent p.a. decline during 1979-85), with a marked increase in
food production, increased sales of traditional exports, and a doubling in non-traditional
agricultural exports since 1985. Recent household surveys have shown that the
adjustment program has been successful in reducing the incidence of poverty from about
65 percent of the rural population in the early 1980s to about 50 percent in the early
1990s.
6.    Progress has been made in reforming the foreign exchange and trade systems
over the last two years. Tanzania has moved to an interbank market and has abolished
all export retention and import licensing, except for items related to health and national
security. Excessive monetary expansion has been fueled by worsening fiscal
management. The fiscal deficit (including grants) was about 6 percent of GDP in FY93
and 5 percent in FY94, after broadly balanced positions in the previous four years. This
reflected widespread and increasing customs duty exemptions, an increasingly inefficient
tax administration and the failure of the expenditure control system. Efforts are being
made in the current fiscal year (among then a public sector hiring freeze, and reduced
transfers to parastatals) to reduce the fiscal deficit below 4 percent of GDP. Inflation,
which had accelerated above 25 percent p.a. is targeted by efforts to bring it down to 22
percent within the next fiscal year. Real GDP growth averaged about 3-4 percent per
year during FY92 to FY94. Growth in FY94 was seriously compromised by weak
economic management, and severe power shortages caused largely by less-than-average
rainfall. These developments limited the scope for generating employment and, in
particular, the high inflation rates resulting from macroeconomic mismanagement
continue to erode the real incomes of the poor.
7.    The recently completed National Environmental Action Plan focused on the need
for action in the key areas of land degradation, water supply, environmental pollution,
marine and freshwater resource management, habitat conservation and bio-diversity, and
deforestation. The action program for implementation includes revision of the legislative
framework to enable local participation in environmental management more fully.
Policies will support the environment in various ways, including applying the forest and
wildlife protection acts; developing the means for assessing environmental quality,
including water and air pollution; and strengthening environmental awareness
programs. Some Government policies are oriented towards using incentives, such as
implementing the new land policy to enhance the security of tenure; pricing policies for
fuel, including oil; and water rights to encourage efficient use and environmentally
sensitive practices.



Grant and Project Summary                                                3
Uganda
8.    With a per capita income of about US$200, Uganda is one the poorest countries in
the world. Its weak economy and poor social indicators are the legacy of nearly 15 years
of political turmoil and economic decline. Since 1987 the Government has been
implementing an economic reform program supported by a large number of donors. The
program aims to promote prudent fiscal and monetary management, improve incentives
to the private sector, reform the regulatory framework, and develop human capital
through investment in education, health and other social services. Economic recovery
and stabilization have been successful; hard-won macroeconomic stability has been
maintained for the past three years. The stability is precarious, however; continuation of
good policies and further improvement are therefore required. The dilemma facing
policymakers, is to get the economy moving ahead more rapidly, without generating
inflation which could unravel the entire adjustment program.
9.    Uganda's economic growth since 1987 has been good, but not spectacular. Real
GDP grew by an average of 5.4 percent per annum from FY87 to FY93, a gain of about 2.5
percent per annum in per capita terms. To a large extent this growth was the result of
bringing land and capital back into production, made possible by increased peace and
security. More recently growth has also been fueled by some private investment and by
the impact of trade, exchange rate and crop marketing liberalization. Preliminary
indications are that real GDP rose by 5 percent in FY94, mainly due to strong
performance by the manufacturing and construction sectors. The point has now been
reached where further growth will depend on increased private investment.
10.   The NEAP was approved by the Government in January 1994. The National
Environmental Policy that was adopted subsequently calls for re-aligning sectoral
development strategies so that they address priority environmental concerns relating to,
among others, land degradation, deforestation, loss of wetlands, and dwindling fish
stocks, several of which are directly related to environmental management of the Lake
Victoria basin. The policy also emphasizes strategies cutting across sectors such as the
need to control population growth and enhance security of land tenure. It also advocates
environmental education and a system of environmental impact assessments as essential
means of promoting rational resource use. The National Environmental Management
Authority (NEMA) established recently will serve as the central policy advisory body on
the environment, and coordinate implementation of the NEAP.
Lake Victoria and its Surrounds
11.   Lake Victoria (Map Number IBRD 27780), with a surface area of 68,800 km2 and
an adjoining catchment of 184,000 kM2, is the world's second largest body of fresh water
(second only to Lake Superior in size), and the largest in the developing world. Lake
Victoria touches the Equator in its northern reaches, and is relatively shallow, reaching a
maximum depth of about 80 m, and an average depth of about 40 m. The lake's shoreline
is long (about 3,500 km) and convoluted, enclosing innumerable small, shallow bays and
inlets, many of which include swamps and wetlands which differ a great deal from one
another and from the lake itself.
12.   Although there are many features of Lake Victoria which are of intense interest to
biologists, it is fish that receive the most attention. Most of the fish species now in the
lake also lived in the preceding, west-flowing rivers, but the cichlids, in particular, had a
remarkable burst of speciation in response to the change from river to lake conditions.



4                                                      Grant and Project Summary
Similar things happened in the other great lakes, but in Lake Victoria it happened much
more recently, more rapidly, and with, at first sight, fewer opportunities for ecological
isolation in different types of habitat. The cichlids are capable of rapid genetic change,
and more prone to speciation than other groups of African fish.
13.    Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda control 6, 49, and 45 percent of the lake surface,
respectively. The gross economic product of the lake catchment is in the order of US$3-4
billion annually, and supports an estimated population of 25 million people at incomes in
the range of US$90-270 per capita p.a. The lake catchment thus provides for the
livelihood of about one third of the combined populations of the three countries, and
about the same proportion of the combined gross domestic product. With the exception
of Kampala, the capital of Uganda, the lake catchment economy is principally an
agricultural one, with a number of cash crops (including exports of fish) and a high level
of subsistence fishing and agriculture. In Kenya and Uganda the areas of coffee and tea
in the catchment are a significant part of those nations' major agricultural exports. The
quality of the physical environment is therefore a fundamental factor in maintaining and
increasing the living standards of the growing population.
Major Threats to the Lake
14.    The lake basin is used as a source of food, energy, drinking and irrigation water,
shelter, transport, and as a repository for human, agricultural and industrial waste. With
the populations of the riparian communities growing at rates among the highest in the
world, the multiple activities in the lake basin have increasingly come into conflict. This
has contributed to rendering the lake environmentally unstable. The lake ecosystem has
undergone substantial, and to some observers alarming changes, which have accelerated
over the last three decades. Massive blooms of algae have developed, and come
increasingly to be dominated by the potentially toxic blue-green variety. Water-borne
diseases have increased in frequency. Water hyacinth, absent as late as 1989, has begun
to choke important waterways and landings, especially in Uganda. Overfishing and
oxygen depletion at lower depths of the lake threaten the artisanal fisheries and
biodiversity (over 200 indigenous species are said to be facing possible extinction).
Scientists advance two main hypotheses for these extensive changes. First, the
introduction of Nile perch as an exotic species some 30 years ago has altered the food
web structure; second, nutrient inputs from adjoining catchments are causing
eutrophication. Thus although the lake and its fishery show the evidence of the dramatic
changes in the lake basin over the past century, the lake is not the source of the problem.
The problems have arisen in the surrounding basins through human activity.
Project Objectives
15.    The Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project (LVEMP) is a
comprehensive program aimed at rehabilitation of the lake ecosystem for the benefit of
the people who live in the catchment, the national economies of which they are a part,
and the global community. The program objectives are to: (a) maximize the sustainable
benefits to riparian communities from using resources within the basin to generate food,
employment and income, supply safe water, and sustain a disease free environment; and
(b) conserve biodiversity and genetic resources for the benefit of the riparian
communities and the global community. In order to address the tradeoffs among these
objectives which cut across national boundaries, a further project objective is to
harmonize national management programs in order to achieve, to the maximum extent
possible, the reversal of increasing environmental degradation.



Grant and Project Summary                                                 5
Project Description
16.   The project is the first phase of a longer term program whose aims are as outlined
above. The first phase will provide the necessary information to improve management of
the lake ecosystem, establish mechanisms for cooperative management by the three
countries, identify and demonstrate practical, self-sustaining remedies, while
simultaneously building capacity for ecosystem management The project will consist of
two broad sets of activities. The first set, designed to address specific environmental
threats, will take place in a series of selected pilot zones. The second set of activities,
which will improve information on the lake and build capacity for more effective
management, will be of necessity lake-wide in scope.
17.   In the pilot zones, the project would do the following in an integrated way:
develop groundwater resources; conserve and develop wetlands; reduce sediment and
nutrient flow, especially of phosphorus, into the lake; reduce fecal coliform and
municipal nutrient output into the lake; regulate industrial effluent; define current
contamination of fish and prevent any increase; stabilize the catch of Nile Perch, and
increase the catch of indigenous species; increase incomes of local fisherfolk; and reduce
water hyacinth to manageable levels. A total of fourteen pilot zones have been identified,
four in Kenya, and five in each of Tanzania and Uganda. Work would be started in one
pilot zone in each country in the first year - Nyakach Bay in Kenya (including the city of
Kisumu), Mwanza Gulf in Tanzania (including the city of Mwanza), and Napoleon Bay in
Uganda (including the city of Jinja). The other pilot zones are Berkeley Bay, Usenge-Yala,
and Karungu Bay (Kenya); Mara-Shirati Bay, Speke Gulf, Emin Pasha Gulf, and Kagera-
Rubafu Bay (Tanzania); and MacDonald-Berkeley Bay, Murchison Bay, Sesse Islands, and
Sango Bay (Uganda).
18.    Among lake-wide actions the project would: assess and measure sources of
nutrients causing eutrophication; measure fisheries-trophic state interactions; model and
monitor lake circulation; define and measure the contaninant threat; harmonize
regulation and legislation; monitor recovery and impact; and build institutional capacity.
19.   The project would support the following specific regional and national program
activities: (a) management of fisheries, including the establishment and operations of the
Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation [US$2.3 million), improvement of fisheries research
and the information base for fisheries [US$13.3 million], strengthening of extension,
monitoring and enforcement capabilities of national fisheries administrations [US$14.1
million]; and studying and implementing a Fish Levy Trust [US$2.0 million]; (b)
management and control of the water hyacinth infestation [US$8.3 million]; (c)
management of lake pollution and water quality, including strengthening and
harmonizing national regulatory and incentive frameworks and enforcement capabilities,
and establishing a lake-wide water quality monitoring system [US$9.6 million],
improvement of research and the information base for pollution control and water
quality [US$4.3 million], pilot investments in industrial and municipal waste
management [US$1.7 million], and priority waste management investments [US$4
million]; (d) management of land use in the catchment, including improvement of
research and the information base for pollution loading from the catchment, assessment
of agro-chemicals, and pilot investments in soil conservation and afforestation [US$9.2
million]; (e) wetland management, including improving the information base [US$3.4
million], and pilot investments in sustainable management of wetland products [US$1.5
million]; and (f) support for institutions for lake-wide research and management, and
pollution disaster contingency planning [US$4.0 million].



6                                                     Grant and Project Summary
20.   Incremental costs of the project are estimated to be US$38.8 million (details in the
SAR Annex 7). In addition to financing the baseline and adjusted baseline measures from
non-GEF (IDA) sources, the three riparian governments have agreed to contribute US$3.8
million from their own resources to finance a part of the project's incremental cost. They
have requested a GEF grant of US$35 million to fund the balance.
21.    The total project cost of US$77.6 million would be financed by the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) (US$35 million), IDA (US$35 million), and the Governments
of Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda (US$7.6 million among them). Estimated project costs
and financing are given in Schedule A. Schedule B outlines the economic analysis,
Schedule C the procurement methods and disbursement estimates, Schedule D the
timetable of key project processing events, Schedule E the status of Bank Group
Operations in the three countries, and Schedule F an overview of the three countries.
Project Implementation
22.    The Tripartite Agreement (signed August 5,1994) which set in motion a
collaborative process of project preparation among the three countries, provided also for
project implementation. In particular it established three National Secretariats, each
headed by a high-level officer, selected by the respective governments, and supported by
a modest staff. These Secretariats served an essential coordination role during project
preparation, and it is planned that this role should continue into the project
implementation phase. They will be strengthened by the appointment of a
Procurement/Disbursement Officer, an Operations Officer, and a Management
Information Systems Officer. Among other things, these three officers will ensure
compliance with IDA and GEF reporting, procurement and disbursement procedures.
The three Secretariats, one in each country, will provide a day-to-day central contact
point and information clearing house for all agencies implementing the program, and all
donors supporting it While the many implementing agencies will be responsible for
progress on their own components, and for monitoring and reporting on that progress,
the Secretariats will gather information from all the agencies in their respective countries,
be responsible for overall monitoring, and prepare progress reports for decision making
about the overall project The Heads of the Secretariats will also, when necessary,
organize tripartite meetings of officials responsible for various components of the
program. The Regional Secretariat in Tanzania will organize meetings, when required, of
members of the Regional Policy and Steering Committee, which will also remain in
place, with the same membership as it has had throughout project preparation. The
Committee will have several roles, its most important being the mechanism for resolution
of disputes arising during implementation of the program.
23.    The Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization will assume overall coordination for
components associated with fisheries, although as the project description outlines,
implementation will be by individual national agencies, and the Regional Policy and
Steering Committee will be responsible for overall program coordination, including
coordination between the fisheries program as a whole and the rest of the program.
24.    The various national agencies will implement components of the projects as
follows. The three Fisheries Research Institutes (KEMFRI, TAFIRI and FIRI) will play lead
roles in all sub-components of fisheries research, and will collaborate with the Fisheries
Departments of their respective governments in the fisheries extension, and with the
Ministries of Water in the Water Quality components. For the latter components, the
Ministries of Water will be the lead agencies, and they in turn will collaborate closely



Grant and Prqect Summary                                                   7
with the Ministries of Environment, Natural Resources and Agriculture in their
implementation of the components on land use and wetland management. National
wetlands committees in all three countries will also be involved in these components,
with continuing assistance from the World Conservation Union (IUCN). The Moi,
Makarere, and Sokoine Universities, and the Universities of Nairobi and Dar es Salaam,
will be involved in many of the studies, including those on socio-economics. The water
testing laboratories of the Kisumu and Mwanza Municipal Councils, the Uganda Water
and Sewage Corporation, and the Lake Basin Development Authority (in Kisumu) will
extend the reach of laboratories already operating or planned by the respective Ministries
of Water.
25.   In order to address the variations in implementation capacity, from country to
country, and agency to agency, with some strong already but others less so, every sub-
program makes extensive provision for capacity building. For the whole project in the
three countries provision is made for more than 2,000 short term and on-job training
courses, about 100 regional Masters Degrees, and 15 PhDs. Care will be taken to strike a
balance in the training and its timing so that enough people are available to implement
the project.
26.    For the Water Hyacinth Control Program, national steering committees or task
forces will be set up, and rearing units for biological control agents will be assisted by the
respective national agricultural research institutes. Finally, the project will also draw on
the resources of local and international consultants in areas where particular scientific
expertise is called for beyond the abilities of staff in the implementing Ministries.
27.    Because of the extensive scientific investments in the program, the worldwide
scientific interest in Lake Victoria, the need to seek innovative solutions to solving
environmental problems that draw on a broad spectrum of physical, biological and social
sciences, and uncertainties associated with the dynamic lake ecosystem, it is also
proposed to appoint a high level panel of internationally renowned scientists, initially
with 7 members, to serve as an overall advisory group for the scientific studies in the
lake. Possible scientific specialties for representation on the panel will be limnology, fish
biology, zoology, entomology, plant physiology, microbiology, chemistry, meteorology,
economics, anthropology, sociology, soil chemistry and physics, forestry, and ecology.
The panel will contain at least three members representing the natural sciences and at
least two from the social sciences, and its membership will be reviewed every two years,
although members may serve unlimited terms upon reappointment by the nominating
agencies. Following each two-yearly review, the panel will elect from among its
members a corresponding secretary to facilitate communication within the panel. The
panel members will be mutually acceptable to the three riparian states (as represented by
the Regional Policy and Steering Committee) and to IDA.
28.    As they collaborated during project preparation, IDA, UNDP, and UNEP will
also collaborate during reviews of implementation. IDA will have overall responsibility
for review, UNDP will focus on stakeholder consultation and participation aspects of the
project, and UNEP will focus on water quality aspects of the project. As part of the Mid-
Term Review of the project, the three governments will prepare an updated analysis of
transboundary environmental concerns, to guide the second phase of project
implementation, and set the stage for subsequent initiatives. The Implementation
Completion Report prepared by the three governments at the end of the project will
include a revised Strategic Action Program, containing an outline of interventions needed



8                                                    Grant and Proiect Summary
to address priority problems. IDA will use this as the basis for convening a donors'
meeting to seek commitments to support such interventions.
Project Sustainability
29.    The two most important elements of sustainability are stakeholder ownership,
and provision for fiscal continuance. They have been addressed by a highly participatory
mode of project preparation, and will be addressed during implementation by special
efforts to involve local communities, and support for a Fisheries Levy Trust study to seek
sources of funds for ongoing support for lake ecosystem activities.
30.    Catalyzed by GEF financing, the three governments prepared the project
themselves, in the process resolving many issues among them, demonstrating good
technical collaboration, and generating strong ownership for the implementation phase.
The Tripartite Agreement signed in August 1994 covered both preparation and
implementation, thus providing for the implementation phase a continuing legal
framework which has already been tested and found sound. Institutional arrangements
which have proved their worth during preparation - especially the structure of National
Secretariats and a joint Policy Steering Committee - will be continued unchanged for
implementation, although the Secretariats will be strengthened.
31.    Supported by the UNDP, special efforts during preparation were made in all
three countries to involve communities around the lake in generation and discussion of
project proposals, along with information-gathering to ensure that project proposals
address the needs of local communities. In al three countries consultants were engaged
who visited communities, women's groups, projects of community-based organisations
and NGOs in fisheries and fish processing, soil conservation, wetlands development, and
water hyacinth control, among many others. In Tanzania, for example, a study of
community needs was conducted in three regions, 12 districts, 24 fishing villages and
more than 85 groups or communities. The consultants also worked with NGOs and
others to conduct stakeholder workshops, and with the government working groups to
incorporate a community focus into the preparation report. The large emphasis on
fisheries extension is one of many outcomes of this process. Others include the provision
for community micro-projects among the investments which the project supports, and the
proposals for community involvement in many of the research programs to be conducted
under the project. The government preparation report acknowledges that "one of the
major setbacks in aquatic resource management in East Africa is the general lack of
community participation in management programs", and notes that such participation
"is considered key to the successful implementation of this program.'
32.   Throughout the project special efforts will be made to involve local communities,
and the capacity of a number of local NGOs and CBOs will be strengthened so that they
could facilitate the process of community participation and ownership, and lead the
communities in undertaking wise use activities of the resources in the lake and its basin.
A special feature of the Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation program
implementation, for example, will be attempts to involve local communities in
identification of issues, tagging and recapture efforts, return of immature fish,
surveilance of protected areas, sampling of commercial catches, protection of research
equipment, and compilation of research data. Many of the other scientific initiatives will
involve communities in carrying out the measurements, and in caring for monitoring
equipment. For the water hyacinth control program, in particular, it wil be essential for
local people to understand and assist with the biological control efforts.



Grant and Project Summary                                                     9
33.    The project will have community participation woven into virtually every
component, funding for micro-projects, a great deal of community training, hundreds of
stakeholder workshops, and provision for community participation in everything from
scientific studies to water hyacinth control, fisheries research to own-enforcement of
agreed fishery regulations, sustainable use of wetlands to soil conservation, with benefits
springing from better fishing management, aquaculture, higher quality products, lower
post-harvest losses, cleaner water, more control over local fishing beaches, and
construction of community assets.
34.    Acknowledging that availability of reliable and adequate funding is essential for
management of fisheries, which involves continuing research, extension, monitoring and
enforcement, the three governments have proposed to study and implement jointly a
program in which funds raised from the commercial fisheries themselves will contribute
to underwriting fisheries management in the longer term, as well as assisting some of the
central monitoring and management initiatives to become fiscally sustainable. The study
will identify sources of funds, and also examine in depth the issues involved in managing
such funds on a regional basis. The LVEMP includes financial support for establishing a
shared Levy Trust Fund among the three countries, should the study show this to be
feasible.
Lessons Learned from Previous IDA and GEF Involvement
35.    This program will be the first of its kind within the region, addressing a complex
set of managerial, scientific/ technical and institutional issues across three countries. It
aims to provide Governments with the necessary skills, information, technical and
financial resources, and a proper institutional and legal framework to carry out
successfully such an endeavor. It will build technical capacity to promote, assist and
coordinate the various initiatives within a regional framework, and help design a
comprehensive set of national policies and strategies based on lessons learned from field
experience. An important lesson incorporated from past operations was to ensure that
preparation be done by the countries themselves. The resultant ownership will have the
usual national benefits, as well as being especially important in this program which
crosses national boundaries, since the three governments have already gained valuable
experience working together during preparation.
36.    The present report has responded to the GEF Technical Review by
acknowledging the uncertainty about sources and mechanics of eutrophication,
incorporating the specific management elements suggested by the reviewer, setting the
stage for a new approach to modelling, reiterating the emphasis already contained in the
first draft, that management of the lake's problems is the principal aim of the project, and
delineating the project's large elements of capacity building.
Rationale for GEF and IDA Involvement
37.    Lake Victoria is an international water body that is both of great economic worth
to the three riparian countries and of great scientific and cultural significance to the
global community, mainly in respect of its unique waterborne biodiversity. It is suffering
severely from three of the four major global environment concerns highlighted in the GEF
Operational Strategy for International Waters - degradation of water quality due to
pollution from land-based activities; introduction of non-indigenous species; and
excessive exploitation of living resources. It is also facing their typical consequences -
potentially irreversible environmental damage, hardship to the poor and serious health



10                                                    Grant and Project Summary
concerns. With poverty endemic to the region and many competing claims for scarce
development resources, the case for GEF-support to overcome the barriers to concerted
corrective action is extremely strong. As called for in the operational strategy, the GEF
assistance will act as a catalyst for the three countries to develop a better understanding
of how the lake functions, learn how the actions of their populations in the lake basin
affect the lake environment, and work out ways jointly with one another to implement a
comprehensive approach to managing the lake ecosystem to achieve global environment
benefits. The project is consistent with both the GEF waterbody-based operational
program and with the integrated land and water operational program, while also having
elements of the third, contaminant-based, operational program. The project will in
particular address another priority in the operational strategy - the conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity in freshwater ecosystems. As one of the world's largest
unique freshwater biodiversity habitats, Lake Victoria is a clear priority for GEF
assistance.
38.    The GEF funding for this project will make possible the elaboration of a strategic
framework for a large program of investments in the lake basin during the project
implementation period, particularly in municipal waste management and soil
conservation, and will also lay the foundation for a longer program of investments over
time in these and other areas. It will thus have an enormous "leveraging" impact, for the
benefit of the national and global environments. The GEF financing of preparation
succeeded in generating strong "ownership" of the project by the three governments
which prepared it, and catalysed close collaboration at every stage among IDA, FAO,
UNDP and UNEP. The information and pilot work carried out in the GEF project will
orient ongoing investments and guide new ones during its five years of implementation,
and far beyond. Within the next two years, under projects already begun, IDA and the
European Union will finance improvements to municipal sewage treatment schemes in
Kampala and Jinja in Uganda, and Mwanza in Tanzania. The funds will also finance a
study of storm water drainage, solid waste management, and water reticulation in
Kampala.
39.    Several other major infrastructure projects are planned to begin implementation
in FY98 which will finance water supply and urban sanitation in the lake basin, directly
in support of the LVEMP. Further projects are planned to support natural resource
management in the lake basin, including soil conservation and catchment afforestation.
All of these projects will reduce pollution and eutrophication in the lake. While most of
these projects were identified initially in the absence of the LVEMP, the latter will
increase markedly the success with which they address the priority issues. The major
projects still forthcoming will "take their signals" from the framework and findings of the
LVEMP. Numerous smaller scale activities with bilateral support, implemented by local
communities and NGOs, will also benefit from being planned in the context of the
improved information base and management plans designed for the ecosystem as a
whole, which will result from the LVEMP.
40.    The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
each of the three countries. The CAS for Kenya was discussed by the Board on January
31, 1996. One of the key elements of the strategy is to improve environmental
management within the country, and to assist Kenya to respond to its commitments to
enhance protection of the global environment. The CAS for Uganda was discussed by the
Board on June 1,1995. An important element of that strategy is to build domestic
environmental management capacity, and in particular to address issues related to
degradation of Lake Victoria. The CAS for Tanzania was discussed by the Board in



Grant and Project Summary                                                 11
March 1994, and a Progress Report was discussed by the Board on May 23,1996. IDA
financial support for the project is in line with two primary aims of the CAS, namely
capacity building for improved public sector management, and creating a climate for
environmentally sustainable investments.
41.    The project will be the first substantial investment in the environment for IDA in
two of the three countries following preparation of National Environmental Action Plans
in all three. Various other donors have supported a range of initiatives in and around
Lake Victoria, in smaller, uncoordinated, and sometimes incomplete ways. In the
absence of a coordinated management system for the entire lake and its ecosystem, these
smaller projects have sometimes fallen short, and continue to fall short, of realizing their
maximum potential. Building on its wide-ranging relationships with all three
governments, IDA has an important capability, and as implementing donor in this project
an important opportunity, to support the development of such a coordinated
management system. IDA also has the standing to mobilize scientific resources from
across the globe in support of an initiative which has unprecedented interest to the global
scientific community.
Agreed Actions
42.    At negotiations, agreements and assurances regarding the project's organization
and operational arrangements were obtained, which inter alia included the following: (a)
in order to ensure the cost-effectiveness of any one country's investments, the three
governments agreed to take steps to ensure that project components with regional
implications will proceed at a comparable pace in all three countries; (b) a high level
panel of internationally renowned scientists, with 7 members, will be appointed to serve
as an advisory group for the scientific studies in the lake, and they will meet at least once
a year to review progress on program implementation; (c) national steering committees
will be established in all three countries for the water hyacinth control program; (d) the
policies, procedures and core membership of the Regional Policy and Steering Committee
will not be changed without agreement of IDA; (e) herbicides used in the water hyacinth
control program will be acceptable to IDA, they will be used sparingly, in strictly selected
and confined areas, all persons applying such herbicides will be trained in their safe and
appropriate handling and use, and mechanisms for careful monitoring of herbicide use
will be established; (e with the exception of the biological control agents for water
hyacinth, no new species will be introduced into the lake without first carrying out an
environmental impact assessment; (g) prior to implementation of any intervention likely
to have a negative impact on fish ecology (such as changes in net sizes or other controls
over the fishing effort), the proposed intervention will be subjected to an environmental
impact assessment, with provision for public comment; (h) prior to implementation of
any project component related to pollution control, a project specific environmental
assessment will be carried out to guard against the possibility that any uncontrolled
dumping of domestic and industrial wastes would take place; (i) the National Secretariats
will prepare annual work programs, training plans, and related financing plans and
submit them to IDA for review by March 31 of each year; the annual work programs
would include details of the procurement of goods and services and the procedures to be
adopted for such procurement within the limits given earlier and agreed by IDA; (j)
disbursement arrangements will be satisfactory to IDA, and each Government will open a
Special Account at a commercial bank, and operate it in a timely manner; (k)
procurement of the goods, works, and consultant services required for the project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant and the IDA Credit will be undertaken
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA; (1) the three Governments will have



12                                                     Grant and Project Summary
the records and accounts of the project, including those for the Special Accounts and
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), audited each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; and will submit to IDA the audit reports within six months after the
close of the respective fiscal year; the audit reports will include a statement on the
adequacy of the accounting systems and internal controls; (m) after the first project year,
an annual comprehensive review will be held with the donors, to consider the annual
work plan and new financial procedures and arrangements for the forthcoming fiscal
year; modifications of project design and/or procedures will be introduced as
appropriate; (n) annual National Workshops coordinated by the National Secretariats
and an annual Regional Workshop coordinated by the Regional Secretariat in Tanzania
will be held to assess implementation progress and agree on any adjustments needed; (o)
a Mid-Term Review will be held prior to the end of March, 1999, during which the
performance of the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation, the three National Secretariats,
and the Policy Steering Committee will be reviewed and appropriate changes made; the
review will also carry out an in-depth examination of the arrangements for community
participation in project implementation; as part of the Mid-Term Review, the three
Governments will prepare an updated analysis of the transboundary environmental
concerns, to guide the second phase of project implementation, and set the stage for
subsequent initiatives; (p) subject to satisfactory completion of the Levy Trust Study, the
three Governments will jointly establish, by the end of July, 1988, a Levy Trust Fund into
which funds raised from commercial fisheries will be placed and disbursed in support of
joint fisheries management and central monitoring initiatives under the project; (r) the
three Governments jointly will prepare and submit to IDA an Implementation
Completion Report within six months after the closing date; the Implementation
Completion Report will include a revised Strategic Action Program, containing an outline
of interventions needed to address priority problems.
43.    Prior to Credit Effectiveness, the three Governments will, inter alia: (a) confirm
the membership of the Regional Policy and Steering Committee; (b) appoint Heads to the
three National Secretariats with qualifications and experience equivalent to a Deputy
Principal/Permanent Secretary, and appoint to each Secretariat a
Procurement/Disbursement Officer, an Operations Officer, and a Management
Information Systems Officer; (c) establish the Panel of Scientists; (d) agree standard
methods for measuring and monitoring water quality; (e) provide evidence satisfactory to
IDA that each of the three Governments has made budgetary allocations representing
their first year contribution to the Project; (f) finalize and submit to IDA the annual work
plans and financial plans for the first year of the Project Implementation Plan.
Environmental Aspects
44.    The program is in effect a regional environmental action plan for Lake Victoria,
having as its central objective improving the environmental conditions of Lake Victoria
and its catchment. However, the program will encompass a wide range of different
interventions and investments, and has been designated as Category B for environmental
analysis to ensure that adequate attention will be given to the many overall positive
impacts as well as to individual components which might have adverse local
environmental effects.
45.    The project will locate and quantify the environmental problems arising from the
very rapid growth of population around the shores of the lake, and in its catchment,
identify the sources of pollution and nutrient inflows into the lake, propose and begin to
implement ameliorative measures, including innovative pilot measures, and strengthen
existing institutions to sustain solutions in the longer term. The area in which the project



Grant and Project Summary                                                      13
is expected to make the most economic difference will be in heading off developing
instability and possible serious collapse of the valuable lake fisheries.
46.    The project will also address any negative environmental impacts which may
arise in the course of project implementation itself, in the following ways: (a)fish ecology -
any proposed interventions (such as changes in net sizes or other controls over the fishing
effort) will be clearly defined and carefully assessed through an environmental impact
assessment before introduction, in order to avoid unforeseen effects from attemptb to
restore and stabilize the fish ecology in the lake; (b) aquaculture - no new species will be
introduced into the lake into the lake without first carrying out an environmental impact
assessment; (c) biological control agents - all biological control agents under consideration
have been subjected to exhaustive field testing over twenty years in several countries,
and there are no remaining doubts about their safety; any additional biological control
agents available during project implementation will be subjected to similar testing
protocols; (d) herbicides - use of herbicides in the water hyacinth control program will be
confined to those acceptable to IDA, they will be used sparingly, in strictly selected and
confined areas, all persons applying such herbicides will be trained in their safe and
appropriate handling and use, and mechanisms for careful monitoring of herbicide use
will be established; (e) pollutants - pollution control projects will be subjected to project
specific environmental assessments to guard against the possibility that any uncontrolled
dumping of domestic and industrial wastes might take place.
Program Objective Categories
47.    The overwhelmingly positive contributions of the program to environmentally
sustainable development have been outlined above. The program will pursue poverty
alleviation through its emphasis on restoration of stability to the lake fishery, with positive
impacts on the lives of at least 500,000 persons whose livelihoods depend directly on the
fisheries. Through community involvement in implementation, the program will seek to
appropriate for poorer groups a larger share of gains arising from the fishery, and from
using resources in wetlands and other parts of the lake catchment. Improvements in
water quality around the lake will contribute to better health for all who rely on it for
their water supply, especially poorer groups. The welfare of women will be improved by
additional income-earning opportunities in fishery-related and wetland activities, as well
as by better access to water supply and improved health through the control of aquatic
weed infestations. The project will foster managerial efficiencies in both the public and the
private sectors by improving policy analysis, regulatory enforcement, harmonized internal
and external systems and procedures, and an environmental information base. The
project will also support regional cooperation and understanding among the three riparian
countries.
Project Benefits
48.    This regionally coordinated environmental management project is expected to
generate greater benefits than the sum of any individual country programs, since it will
reduce uncertainty in respect to actions by riparian partners and lower the probability
that benefits of actions taken by an individual government will be offset by actions or
non-actions by others. The project is expected to lay the essential foundations of
knowledge, capacity building and establishment of institutions for a wider program of
investments which will generate: (a) net economic benefits estimated to have a present
value to the lake communities of US$275-520 milion from stabilising lake fisheries; (b) a
reduction in the annual costs of the current water hyacinth infestation, estimated to be



14                                                     Grant and Project Summary
about US$6-10 million per year, as well as avoidance of even larger costs which might be
associated with increased infestations in the future were nothing to be done; (c) a
reduction in the additional water supply costs arising from treating water of deteriorated
quality, these costs estimated to be at least US$3.5 million per year; (d) diminished
incidence of disease among riparian communities as a result of improved quality of water
and sanitary environment; (e) increased productivity from wetlands and areas with
degraded soils; and (f) greater biodiversity, producing benefits to local communities,
tourists and the global community, compared to a "non-program" situation. A more
detailed discussion of project benefits is found in Schedule B.
Risks
49.    The main risk is that the strength of the commitments by the three Governments
will fail to sustain a regional environmental management program for the lake basin.
This may express itself through inadequate budgetary arrangements to fund regional
bodies (such as the LVFO) or coordinating agencies, erosion over time of the powers
given to such institutions, or unwillingness or lack of capacity to follow up on regional
regulatory decisions or guidelines through enforcement at the national level. Since the
three governments have collaborated well during program preparation, and the
proposed program provides many opportunities for low-risk collaboration on technical
issues, which should build confidence steadily during implementation, any waning
commitment would seem likely to arise only from sources external to the program. The
risk of inadequate or unforeseen results emerging from the research and studies in the
program would be reduced by the appointment of a panel of scientists who will review
regularly scientific issues arising in the course of project implementation. In the event of
fiscal crises, the project is structured so as to allow postponement of work in the pilot
zones planned for the outer years of the project. In this way the essential core of lake-
wide activities will be preserved, as well as the coordinated nature of the adaptive
environmental management approach in at least a sub-set of the 14 pilot areas. Upon
resolution of any funding crisis, work will be resumed with minimum disruption to
progress.



Grant and Project Summary                                                                 15
Schedule A
LAKE VICrORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Costs (US$'000)
%       % Total
Project Component                   Local    Foreign      Total     Foreign      Base
Exchange    Costs
A. Fisheries Management (LVFO)                          314      1,649      1,964     84          3
B. Fisheries Research                                 6,893      5,910     11,802     50         17
1. Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation       2,618     3,164       5,782     55          8
2. Aquaculture                                      1,544      1,237      2,782     44          4
3. Socio-Economics Studies                          1,332      1,048      2,382     44          3
4. Establishing Database                              399       458         858     53          1
C. Fisheries Extension, Policies, and Laws            7,411      4,947     12,359     40         18
D. Water Hyacinth Control                             5,423      2,042      7,465     27         11
E. Water Quality Monitoring                           3,226      5,262      8,488     62         12
1. Eutrophication                                   2,720     3,409       6,129    55           9
2. Sedimentation (pilot study)                        152       364         516    71           1
3. Hydraulic Conditions (pilot study)                 138       700        838      83          1
4. Lake Victoria Management Model                     216       789       1,005     78          1
F. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management          4,074      5,156      9,230     56         13
1. Management of Industrial and Municipal Effluent  1,871      1,897      3,768     50          6
2. Tertiary Municipal Effluent Treatment (pilot project)  481   260        740      35          1
3. Tertiary Industrial Effluent Treatment (pilot project)  462  260        722      36          1
4. Priority Waste Management Investments            1,260     2,740       4,000     69          6
G. Land Use and Wetland Management                    8,093      4,488     12,560     36         18
1. Pollution Loading                                1,962     1,603       3,566    45          5
2. Buffering Capacity of Wetlands                   1,751     1,339       3,091     43          5
3. Assessment of Agro-Chemicals (pilot)               344       424        768      55          1
4. Soil and Water Conservation (pilot)              1,143       182       1,325     14          2
5. Sustainable Use of Wetlands Products (pilot)      969        366       1,336     27          2
6. Afforestation                                    1,924       552       2,476     22          3
H. Policy and Institutional Framework                 3,097     2,193       5,290     41          5
1. LVEMP Secretariats                               1,975       462       2,436     19         4
2. Support to Riparian Universities                  319        628        947      66          1
3. Fisheries Levy Trust                              803        953       1,755     54         2
4. Pollution Disaster Contingency                       -       150         150    100          1
Subtotal Base Costs                                  37,532    31,627      69,159     46         100
Physical Contingencies                             3,550      2,604      6,155     42          9
Price Contingencies                                  707      1,482      2,270     65          3
TOTAL COSTS                                          41,869    35,713      77,582     46         112
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Component                Govemments   GEF          IDA        Total       %
A. Fisheries Management (LVFO)                      0.2         2.1                   2.3         3
B. Fisheries Research                               1.3         8.8        3.2       13.3        17
C. Fisheries Extension, Policies, and Laws          1.4                   12.7       14.1        18
D. Water Hyacinth Control                           0.8         4.5        3.0        8.3        11
E. Water Quality Management                         1.0         8.6                   9.6        12
F. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management        1.0                    8.9        9.9        13
G. Land Use and Wetland Management                  1.4         7.4        6.3       14.1        18
H. Policy and InsUtutional Framework                0.6         3.6        1.9        6.1         8
TOTAL COSTS                                         7.6        35.0       35.0       77.6        100



16                                                    Grant and Project Summary
Schedule B
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Background
The LVEMP is a comprehensive program aimed at rehabilitation of the lake ecosystem
for the benefit of the people who live in the catchment and its area of influence. The scientific
evidence shows that the present methods of exploitation and development in the catchment
are unsustainable, and that without intervention there could be serious environmental and
related socio-economic consequences. The most pressing concern is a possible decline in the
very valuable fishery (currently worth about US$320 million annually in export revenue), but
this predicted decline represents merely an immediately obvious outcome of the loss of
resilience of the ecosystem. Sediments and pollution are degrading water quality, increasing
urbanization and agricultural expansion are both resulting in the loss of wetlands - including
swamps and satellite lakes that still shelter a diminishing remnant of a once spectacular native
aquatic fauna, changes in feeding chains and trophic systems since the introduction of exotic
fish species are trending toward a highly unstable fisheries monoculture, and - a fundamental
and ominous change - the anoxic portion of the lake waters (a biologically almost dead zone)
has been steadily increasing over recent years.
The fundamental objective of the LVEMP is to restore a healthy, varied lake ecosystem
which is inherently stable and which can support, in a sustainable way, the many human
activities in the catchment Development pressures in the catchment are increasing because of
natural population growth and migration from poorer and less fertile rural areas, and the
multi-purpose central role of the lake is becoming increasingly important even as its capacity
to cope is being threatened.
The economy of the lake catchment is worth in the order of US$34 billion annually
and supports an estimated population of 25 million people at standards of living in the range
of US$90-270 per capita p.a., based on national figures. The lake catchment economy is
principally an agricultural one, with a number of cash crops (including exports of fish) and a
high level of subsistence fishing and agriculture. The quality of the physical environment is
therefore a fundamental factor in maintaining and increasing the living standards of the
growing population.
Gross Benefits
The main economic benefits of the overall LVEMP derive from avoiding the losses
that can be anticipated if effective action is not taken. According to the best understanding of
the local and international scientific research community, as documented in the material
presented by the Regional Task Forces for project preparation, the major consequences of not
halting the present trends could be: (a) a decline in the overall fishery as a result of both
overfishing and deterioration of lake water quality; (b) increasing extent and severity of water
hyacinth infestation; (c) unsuitability of the lake water for domestic supply or animal
watering; and (d) continued degradation of the wetlands.
(a) Fisheries
The most dramatic and direct effect of not taking action could be the onset of
instability in the Nile perch fishery. One possible scenario would be a highly variable and
unpredictable annual catch, which could drop in some years to as little as 10 percent of current



Grant and Project Summary                                                 17
levels. On the other hand, fisheries models suggest that a sustainable fishery could be
developed which would allow annual yields of perhaps 90 percent of current levels, still
dominated by Nile perch but with a wider range of other species.
The value of moving to the sustainable level of catch can be estimated, on a
conservative basis, as the difference between the income stream from 90 percent of the current
catch and that from an average 50 percent of the current catch, calculated after year 5 of a
management programme:
Export value of a sustainable fishery:   90% of $320m p.a. = $288m p.a.
Export value of an uncontrolled fishery: 50% of $320m p.a. = $160m p.a.
Difference, starting from year 6, attributable to the LVEMP = $128m p.a.
Present value of this revenue stream at a 12 percent discount rate: = $600m.
The major potential benefit of avoiding the projected collapse of the fisheries would
therefore be preserving export revenues with a present value of US$0.4-0.8 billion, depending
on the assumptions used. The direct revenues to the fishing communities on the lake, from
these export fisheries, are estimated to have a total present value of US$0.2-0.4 billion. These
communities would receive additional benefits from two sources: (a) that portion of the value
added in processing and packaging which is distributed to them in the form of payments for
good and services, estimated to have a present value of US$40-80 million; and (b) income
from local production and marketing of fish, estimated to have a present value of US$10-20
million. Moreover, one objective of the LVEMP is to increase the proportion of local food fish
in the system and the benefits of the program therefore include a real increase in the local
fishery, which would be at least of the same order of magnitude as the loss avoided. The total
present value of the impact of the LVEMP on the local fish economy is therefore estimated to
be US$20-40 million.
On reasonable assumptions, therefore, it is estimated that successful implementation
of the LVEMP could protect annual export earnings from the fishery to the extent of about
US$128 million per annum, which represents a present value of exports of US$600 million,
and of revenue to the lake community of US$240-480 million. In addition, the present value of
the local fishery would be increased by US$20-40 million over the case where no action is
taken.
Reversing the direct loss of revenue would have major impacts through the various
industries and activities which support the fishermen active on the lake. It has been estimated
that there is a multiplier of about 5 in terms of the numbers of people involved in these
supporting activities and therefore half a million people, including workers and their families,
would be affected by reversing the loss of revenue.
Water hyacinth
The spread of the water hyacinth infestation is imposing a wide range of direct costs
on the lake community. These costs include: (a) delays in commercial waterborne transport of
people and goods (in some cases reported to result in a 10-20 percent increase over scheduled
times); (b) increased operating costs (and possible loss of revenue) for hydropower production
at Owens Falls Dam, due to clogging of water intakes; (c) loss of fishing time (and revenue) as
a result of blocking of the beaches; (d) increased difficulty and time spent on gathering water
in villages where access to traditional water collection areas is blocked or dangerous (because
of snakes or crocodiles in the weed); and (e) blockage of intakes and loss of production at
urban and industrial water supply systems.



18                                                       Grant and Project Summary
Some initial estimates have been made for these costs but further data will be required
to refine the estimates. It should be noted that these figures represent the present costs: the
water hyacinth infestation is increasing at a rapid rate and - unless controlled - will spread and
also become more of a problem at existing sites. In the absence of a successful control
program, the following are the estimated costs within five years: (a) maintaining a clear
passage for ships to dock at Port Bell in Uganda: US$3-5 million p.a.; (b) cleaning intake
screens at the Owen Falls hydroelectric power plant at Jinja in Uganda: $1 million p.a.; (c)
losses in local fisheries from accumulation of water hyacinth at fishing beaches and landing
sites around the lake making it difficult or impossible for fishing boats to be launched or
recovered: US$0.2 million p.a. but with a very serious local impact; (d) loss of the beaches as a
water supply for domestic, stock and agricultural purposes: US$0.35 million p.a.; (e) loss of
supply or increased maintenance costs in urban water supply schemes because of blockages of
the water intakes by water hyacinth: US$1.5 million p.a.; and (f) small-scale horticultural
irrigation schemes rendered useless because of blockages of channels and pipes with hyacinth:
no costs have yet been attributed to these losses but they are important from a distributional
viewpoint since such schemes are being developed to help women in the poorer lakeshore
areas.
The total of these direct costs attributable to the water hyacinth (at its present levels) is
estimated to be US$6-10 million p.a., with a present value of US$25-40 million. This figure
can be compared with the suggested US$4.5 million cost for the Ugandan government's
emergency action program to tackle the problem, which must represent a lower bound to
estimates of the damage in what is only part of the total shoreline.
Water quality
Deteriorating water quality will have a number of direct effects, the avoidance of
which can be counted as potential benefits of the programme. These include: (a) additional
water treatment costs to deal with increasing levels of algae; (b) impacts on water available for
cattle: algal blooms can render water unsuitable for cattle and in extreme cases are known to
be fatal to animals; (c) loss of potential tourist revenue: polluted or foul-smelling water would
prevent the expansion of the present (low) level of tourism to the lake; and (d) health effects of
increased malaria and bilharzia as a result of stagnant and polluted water.
The costs of water supply improvements can be calculated once the extent of supply
systems round the lake are detailed. As a first estimate, assuming (as before) that one million
people are affected, an additional cost of US$1 per capita would mean US$1.5 million p.a. at
present, but this would increase as the population connected increased and a value double this
would be quite reasonable, i.e. US$3 million p.a. The costs of water for animals is more
difficult to estimate but costs of $1 per beast spread over half a million cattle in the vicinity of
the lake are plausible. A minimum cost associated with the decline in water quality is
therefore estimated at US$3.5 million p.a.,(present value US$15 million) and increasing.
Wetlands
Given the lack of data on the type and extent of wetlands it is not possible to estimate
the value of preserving these systems, but a wide range of functions of wetlands have been
identified, both in general and for Lake Victoria in particular. These include: buffering of the
impacts of increased loads of nutrients and sediments; breeding areas for fish and animals of
value to the local population; protection of local water supply sources; provision of papyrus
and other materials of commercial value. Preserving the wetlands is very important for



Grant and Project Summary                                                 19
sustaining biodiversity, as well as for helping to maintain the lake as a functioning and stable
ecosystem.
On the other hand, development of wetlands has been promoted because of their
potential for increased agricultural production and because of the perceived health problems
associated with wetlands (such as mosquitoes and tsetse fly). Further work is required to
understand and quantify the benefits of preserving key components of the existing wetlands
systems but the balance of professional opinion, supported by informed local comment, is that
the net value of preservation would be high.
Biodiversity
One objective of the LVEMP is the preservation of the existing richness of the
haplochromid fish fauna because of its scientific interest and its role in providing a resilient
ecosystem for the whole lake. The ecosystem support benefits are included in the valuation of
stabilizing the fisheries, but the intrinsic and scientific value of the biodiversity that is believed
to be in the process of continuing reduction under current conditions are additional benefits
for which no valuation is yet available.
Summary
The major direct economic benefit for which the program lays the foundation would
be avoidance of the predicted collapse in the fisheries, which is estimated to have a present
value to the lake community of US$270-520 million. The water hyacinth problem, which is
rapidly becoming more severe, is estimated to have an annual cost of US$6-10 million under
current levels of infestation. These costs, whose present value is an estimated US$2540
million, as well as even larger costs which might be associated with increased infestations in
the future were nothing to be done, would be largely avoided if the LVEMP were successfully
implemented. Deteriorating water quality may impose additional water supply costs which
are estimated to be a minimum of US$3.5 million p.a. (present value US$15 million) and
would increase considerably without action. Other benefits arising from the preservation of
wetlands and of biodiversity have not been valued here.
Net Benefits
The costs of achieving the benefits identified here will include the direct costs of the
LVEMP, which is a regional program, and of national actions which are taken in support of
the program. Many of the national expenditures, in particular, will be economically justified
in their own right (for example, fisheries post-harvest improvements or provision of sewerage)
and so the effect of the LVEMP will be to bring forward in time the net benefits of these
programmes. In such cases, the costs and benefits attributable to the LVEMP will be the
marginal ones related to the changes in timing or focus of the national programmes.
Typical of the projects to be tackled as national concerns, within the framework of the
LVEMP, which would be expected to produce net benefits in their own right, and where the
costs attributable to the LVEMP may be exceeded by the benefits achieved through bringing
the projects forward would be: expansion of artisanal fishing and processing; reduction in
post-harvest fish losses; imnplementation of water hyacinth control; wetland conservation;
improved pasture management; catchment soil conservation; rural water and sanitation;
urban sewerage upgrading; industrial pollution abatement. In so far as these projects can be
implemented under existing or proposed programmes and as long as they are economic in
their own right, the net costs to the LVEMP will be minimal.



20                                                    Grant and Project Summary
Schedule Cl
Kenya
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Item                         ICB             NCB              Other             Total
Civil Works                                    2.8                                2.8
GEF                               (0. 1)                             (0.1)
IDA                              (2.5)                              (2.5)
Vehicles                      2.2                               0.1               2.3
GEF              (1.0)                              (0.1)            (1.0)
IDA             (1.0)                                               (1.0)
Equipment                                                       3.6               3.6
GEF                                                 (1.9)            (1.9)
IDA                                                (1.4)            (1.4)
Training                                                        3.4               3.4
GEF                                                 (1.4)            (1.4)
IDA                                                (1.6)            (1.6)
Consultants                                                     3.7               3.7
GEF                                                 (2.2)            (2.2)
IDA                                                (1.2)            (1.2)
Operating Costs                                                11.1              11.1
GEF                                                 (4.9)            (4.9)
IDA                                                (5.1)            (5.1)
Totals                        2.2              2.8             21.9              26.9
GEF              (1.0)            (0.1)           (10.4)            (11.5)
IDA             (1.0)            (2.5)             (9.3)           (12.8)
Notes: the difference between the total project costs in each category and the GEF
and IDA provisions (in parentheses) would be financed by the Government.



Grant and Project Summary                                                21
Tanzania
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ nillion)
Item                        ICB             NCB              Other            Total
Civil Works                                   1.9                               1.9
GEF                               (0. 1)                            (0. 1)
IDA                              (1.6)                             (1.6)
Vehicles                     1.9                               0.1              1.9
GEF              (0.8)                             (0.1)            (0.8)
IDA             (0.9)                                              (0.9)
Equipment                                                      2.8              2.8
GEF                                                (1.5)           (1.5)
IDA                                               (1.0)            (1.0)
Training                                                       3.4              3.4
GEF                                                (1.6)            (1.6)
IDA                                               (1.4)            (1.4)
Consultants                                                    3.7              3.7
GEF                                                (2.3)            (2.3)
IDA                                               (1.0)            (1.0)
Operating Costs                                                8.9              8.9
GEF                                                (4.0)            (4.0)
IDA                                               (4.1)            (4.0)
Totals                       1.9              1.9             18.8             22.6
GEF              (0.8)            (0.1)            (9.4)           (10.3)
IDA             (0.9)            (1.6)           (7.6)            (10.1)
Notes: the difference between the total project costs in each category and the GEF
and IDA provisions (in parentheses) would be financed by the Government.



22                                                    Grant and Project Summary
Uganda
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Item                         ICB             NCB              Other             Total
Civil Works                                    2.2                                2.2
GEF                               (0.3)                              (0.3)
IDA                               (1.8)                             (1.8)
Vehicles                      2.5                                                 2.5
GEF              (1. 1)                                              (1. 1)
IDA             (1.1)                                               (1.1)
Equipment                                                       3.3               3.3
GEF                                                 (1.7)            (1.7)
IDA                                                (1.3)            (1.3)
Training                                                        3.2               3.2
GEF                                                 (1.3)            (1.3)
IDA                                                (1.6)            (1.6)
Consultants                                                     5.2               5.2
GEF                                                 (3.5)            (3.5)
IDA                                                (1.2)            (1.2)
Operating Costs                                                11.7              11.7
GEF                                                 (5.3)            (5.3)
IDA                                                (5.1)            (5.1)
Totals                        2.5              2.2             23.4              28.1
GEF              (1. 1)           (0.3)           (11.8)            (13.2)
IDA             (1.1)            (1.8)             (9.2)           (12.1)
Notes: the difference between the total project costs in each category and the GEF
and IDA provisions (in parentheses) would be financed by the Government.



Grant and Project Summary                                                 23
Schedule C2
Summary of Disbursement Schedule
Estimated GEF/IDA Disbursements
KENYA
Category                  GEF Grant    IDA Credit         Percent of Financing
(US$ m)       (US$ m)
1. Civil Works               0.1            1.5       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
2. Vehicles and Equipment    2.7            2.2       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
3. Consultants & Training    3.3            2.5       100 %
4. Micro-projects                           0.7       90 %
5. Operating Costs           4.4            4.6       90 %
6. Unallocated               1.0            1.3   =
Total                        11.5          12.8      1
TANZANIA
Category                  GEF Grant    IDA Credit         Percent of Financing
|______________             (US$ m)       (US$ m)
1. Civil Works               0.1            0.7       100% of Foreign Expenditures
l___________________ l__________ land 90% of Local Expenditures
2. Vehicles and Equipment    2.1            1.7       100% of Foreign Expenditures
I___________________            =       _______I___ and 90% of Local Expenditures
3. Consultants & Training    3.5            2.2       100 %
4. Micro-projects      l                    0.8       90 %
5. Operating Costs           3.5            3.7       90 %
6. Unallocated               1.1            1.0
Total                        10.3          10.1
UGANDA
Category                  GEF Grant    IDA Credit         Percent of Financing
(US$ m)       (US$ m)
1. Civil Works               0.3            0.6       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
2. Vehicles and Equipment    2.5            2.2       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
3. Consultants &Training     4.3            2.5       100 %
4. Micro-projects                           1.0       90 %
5. Operating costs           4.8            4.6       90 %
6. Unallocated               1.3            1.2
Total                        13.2          12.1



24                                                       Grant and Project Summary
Schedule C3
KENYA, TANZANIA, AND UGANDA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement (GEF and IDA)
(US$ million)
IDA FY               Semester        Disbursement       Cumulative           % Total
Disbursement
1997                     1                 0.0               0.0                0
2                6.8               6.8                10
1998                     1                 6.8              13.6               19
2                7.2               20.8               30
1999                     1                 7.2              28.0               40
2                7.6               35.6               51
2000                     1                 7.6              43.2               62
2                7.1               50.3               72
2001                     1                 7.1              57.4               82
2                4.8               62.2               89
2002                     1                 4.8              67.0               96
2                2.0               69.0               99
2003                     1                 1.0              70.0               100



Grant and Project Summary                                                         25
Schedule D
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:                        15 months
Prepared by:                                  Project PreparationTeam comprising
representatives of the Govermnents of
Kenya,Uganda and Tanzania through
multidisciplinary Regional Task Forces and
National Working Groups.
Appraisal mission departure:                  December 1, 1995
Negotiations:                                 May 20-22, 1996
Planned date of effectiveness                 November 1, 1996
Relevant ICRs:                                None
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in December 1996. The mission was
led by Graeme Donovan, Principal Economist, Agriculture and Environment Operations Division,
Eastern Africa Department (Task Manager), and included: Messrs/Mmes. Radha Singh
(Institutional Specialist), Robert Hecky (Limnologist), Craig Harris (Sociologist). The mission was
assisted by representatives of the UNDP, UNEP and FAO. The mission was assisted by and
worked cooperatively with the Heads of the LVEMP National Secretariats of the three countries,
the members of the Regional Policy and Steering Committee, the Ministries of Environment and
Natural Resources, Water, Agriculture, Fisheries and Finance of the participating countries. The
appraisal mission also worked in close cooperation with several specialised agencies in fisheries
research, management, aquatic weed control, agriculture, water quality, and wetlands
management of the three countries along with representative of the local/regional governments,
and NGOs and CBOs responsible for the development of the Project. Valuable contributions were
made by Lars Vidaeus and Robin Broadfield (ENVGC) and Les Kaufman(New England
Aquarium). Milena Hileman, Lorenzo Marchesini, and Cora Favis assisted with preparing the cost
tables. The peer reviewers are Stephen Lintner (ENVLW), Andrew Bond (ENVLW), Robert
Robelus (ENVLW), Ernst Lutz (ENVPE), and Cynthia Cook (AF4AE). Dr. Edwin Ongley is the
GEF technical reviewer. Sushma Ganguly and James Adams are the Division Chief and
Department Director, respectively.



26                                                                Grant and Project Summary
Schedule E
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1996
(US$ millions)
(Less Cancellations)
Fiscal                                                            Undis-
Credit No.    Year     Purpose                           Bank       IDA         bursed
Fifty-four (54) loans and sixty seven (67) credits closed,  985.87   1519.23
of which SAL, SECAL or Program Loan/Credit:             (60.90)    (925.45)
Cr.19040     1988      Population 111                                  12.09      4.90
Cr. 19730    1989      Geothermal Development                          40.70      3.00
Cr.20600     1990      Third Nairobi Water Supply                      64.80     21.54
Cr.20620     1990      Coffee Improvement II                           46.80     15.76
Cr.21110     1990      Population IV                                   35.00     30.27
Cr.21980     1991      Forestry Development                            19.90     10.45
Cr.21990     1991      National Agric. Ext. II                         24.90     17.95
Cr.22040 (S)  1991     Agric. Sector Adjustment II                     41.52      5.42
Cr.23090     1992      Universities Investment                         55.00     46.12
Cr.23 100    1992      Health Rehabilitation                           31.00     23.58
Cr.23330     1992      Mombasa and Coastal Water II                    43.20     25.35
Cr.23340     1992      Wildlife Services                               60.50     26.43
Cr.24400     1993      Parastatal Reform TA                            23.32     18.04
Cr.24450     1993      Agric. Sect. Mngt. II                           19.40     13.73
Cr.24600     1993      Emergency Drought Recovery                      20.00      9.09
Cr.25960     1994      Micro & Small Enterprise                        21.83     21.17
Cr.26710     1995      Institutional Development                       25.35     22.96
Cr.26860     1995      Sexually Transmitted Infections                 40.00     39.38
Cr.27970 *    1996     ARID Lands                                      22.00     21.58
Cr.28110 *    1996     Urban Transport                                115.00    112.41
Cr.28120 *    1996     Nairobi Mombasa Road                           5lam       49.57
Total                             985.87     2331.54    538.70
of which repaid                  733.04       598
Total held by Bank & IDA          252.83     2271.66
Amount sold    11.74
of which repaid 11.74
Total undisbursed                                       538.70
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
* Not yet effective.



Grant and Project Summary                                                                                                                      27
Schedule E
Kenya
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1996
(In Millions US Dollars)
Oriinal Gross Comminmenta
Undisb
IFC                         Held by   Held by    incl
Fiscal Years Committed              Obligor                  Type of Business      [FC Loan   Equity    Ptpnt    Totals       IFC       Ptpnt.    Ptpnt.
1967/                al Kenya Hotel ProperLies, Ltd     Hotels and Tourism              4 20      072       096       5 88
1970fl4177fl9181/88/90/9 Panafrican Paper Mills (E.A) Ltd Timber, Pulp and Paper       5226       579       397      6202      2487
1972                    Tourism Promotion Services (Ken Hotels and Tourism              1 63                0 79      2 42      0.04
1976                    Rif Valley Textiles Limited (RIV Textiles                       6 87      2 77      1 30     10 94      2 06       0 39
1977                  al X - Loans to small & medium scal Financial Services            2 00                          2 00
1980/84                 Development Finance Company o Financial Services                5 07      1.31                6 38       1 31
1981                  at Kenya Commercial Finance Cow  Financial Services               5 00                          5 00
1982                  a/ Bambufi Portland Cement Compa Cement and Construction M        4 43                          4 43
1982                    Diamond Truss of Kenya Limned Financial Services                          080                 0 80      0.80
1982V87                 Industrial Promotion Services (Ke Financial Services                      1 17                1.17       1.17                062
1983                 a/ Tena Pak Converters Limited     Timber, Pulp and Paper          2 17      0 37                2.54
1984/92                 Leather Industries of Kenya Limit Manufacturing                 212       0 63                2 75      0 63
1986                    Equatorial Beach Properties Limit Hotels and Tounsm             3 67                          3 67       5 36
1986                  a/ Madhupaper Intemational Limited Timber, Pulp and Paper         8 50      1 97     28 65     39 12
1986                  a/ Oil Crop Development Limited   Food and Agribusiness           9 65      1 40               11 05
1988/92                 Likulims Tools Ltd.            Motor Vehicles nd Components (includ       0 06                0 06      0.06
1989                    Premier Foods Industries Ltd   Food nd Agribusiness                       0 11                0.11      0.11
1989                 al Premier Refrigeration and Engine Food and Agribusiness                    0 14                0 14
1990                    Frigoken Ltd                    Food and Agribusiness                     0.06                0 06      0.06
1991                    Malaa Industries Limited        Food and Agnbusiness            053       0 16                069       069
1991                    Novaskins Tannery Ltd          Manufacturing                              0 14                0 14      0 14
1992                  a, Integated Wood Complex Limite Timber, Pulp and Paper           0 40                          0 40
1992/93                 Allpack Indusuies Limited       Timber, Pulp and Paper                    0 36                0.36      0 36
1993                    Futur Hotels Limited            Hotels and Tourism              0 50                          0 50      0 43
1994                    Aura Gamrents Manufacturing Li Textiles                         0 30                          0 30      0 30
1994                    East Africa Reinsurance Company Financial Services                        1.10                1 10       I 10                0.30
1994                    Mosi Limited                    Food and Agribusiness           0 29                          0 29      0 23
1994                 a/ Saw  Flom Limited               Food and Agnbusiness            032       0 19                051
1994                    Waterfont Hospitality Limited   Hotels nd Tourism               I 00                          100        1.00                100
1995                    Capital Fish Kenya Limited      Food and Agribusiness           065                           0.65      0.65                 065
1995                    Intemational Hotels (Kenya) Limi Hotels and Tourism             6 00                          6 00      6 00                 4 80
1995                    Island Fanm                     Food and Agribusiness           0 50                          0 50      0 50                 0 50
1995                    Kihingo Roses Limited           Food and Agnbusiness            0.52                          0 52      0 49
1995                    Vegpro Kenya Limited            Food and Agribusiness           095                           095       095                  0 15
1996                    ]acartsda Hotel Ltd.            Hotels and Tourism              0 50                          0 50      0 50                 0.50
1996                    Magadi Soda Company Limited  Chemicals and Petrochemica         9 00                          9 00      9 00                 8.60
Total gross commitments bh                                   129 03     19 25     35 67    183 95
Less cancellations, teffninations, epayment & sales           8067       880      35.28    12475
Total commitments now held cl                                 48 36     10.45      0 39      59 20     58 81      0 39     17 12



28                                                                                                   Grant and Project Summary
Kenya
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31,1996
(In Millions US Dollars)
Peding Commitnints
AEF-K-REP BANK                                                          1.00                100
AlP-XENFUNDS                                                            0.17                017
AlE-KENtOlNDS MGT                                                       0.09               0.09
AEF-WAXATE CENTI                                              0.43      0.43               0.16
Panafrican PaperMills (A) Ltd. Timber, Pulp and Paper        15.00                         15.00
Tol pendingconunitments                                      15.43      1.69               17.12
Toa commitments held and pending commitments                 63.79     12.14      0.39    76.32
Totalundiabuwedcomnitmentu                                   16.20      0.92               17.12
ae invauemt which have ben fully cancelled, teeminatad, written-off, sold. redeemed or repaid.
bt Gre. comnmitments oDns of appoved and signed project
c/Held wrmitnmnti consist of disbursed and undisbured investements.



Grant and Project Summary                                                29
KENYA - IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES
1.    As of March 31, 1996, there were 21 ongoing projects in the Kenya portfolio representing total
commitments, exclusive of cancellations, of $812.3 million; three of these projects (in the amount of
$187 million) were approved during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year and are expected
to be made effective shortly. Undisbursed amounts totaled $538.7 million, or 66.3 percent of total
commitments; excluding the three recently approved projects, the corresponding figure was 56.2
percent.  Kenya's disbursement performance over the past few years, as measured by the
disbursement ratio, has shown modest improvement - from 14.2 percent in FY93 to 15.4 percent in
FY94 to 16.3 percent in FY95. The corresponding figure for the first ten months of the current fiscal
year was 16.5 percent; present expectations are that the final FY96 figure will be around 21 percent. In
the meantime, as of end-April 1996, eight of the 18 effective and disbursing credits had posted
individual disbursement ratios for the fiscal year ranging between 22 and 40 percent.
2.    Considerable progress has been made during the past two years in laying the foundation for
aggressively addressing a number of generic implementation problems that have negatively
impacted on the quality of the Kenya portfolio. In addition to regular project supervision, there has
been since early 1994 an interactive dialogue between the Government and the Bank aimed at
resolving problems being faced by the portfolio in general.  It is explicitly recognized that
Government commitment and ownership remain critical to timely and efficient project
implementation, including resolution of major implementation problems if and as they arise. The
August 1994 CPPR, organized with the active involvement of the Government, effectively initiated
an ongoing process in which the Government and Bank staff are jointly addressing a number of
"generic implementation bottlenecks" (including inadequate project budgetary allocations, delays in
procurement/payment of contractors and suppliers, excessive delays in processing withdrawals and
replenishments of the special accounts, and extensive delays in audit report submissions); it is also a
process in which the Ministry of Finance (MOF) is playing a greater and more direct role in
overseeing and monitoring the portfolio. The August 1994 CPPR was followed by mini-CPPRs in
March and July 1995; these were followed by a Project Implementation Workshop conducted over
four days in November 1995 to address primarily the operational needs of project managers,
accountants and supply officers working on Bank projects. This approach to resolving portfolio-
wide implementation problems has been greatly facilitated by the creation in mid-1995 of the multi-
sectoral Operations Unit (OU) in the Nairobi Resident Mission, which established capacity for day-
to-day dialogue with Government and hands-on implementation assistance. The OU and the MOF
now meet once a month to review the status of overall project implementation, to agree on additional
steps to be taken with respect to previously identified generic problems, and to identify/resolve any
project-specific implementation problems that arise.
3.    Results have been encouraging. The Government's recently adopted improved budgetary
allocation process which attempts to ensure that all "core" projects are fully funded, resulted in FY96
being the first year in which no projects in the IDA portfolio experienced physical implementation
delays due to a lack of adequate budgetary allocations. The Government is currently finalizing the
FY97 budget, including provisions for all Government "core" development projects (in the context of
the ongoing joint Government/IDA public expenditure review). Sustaining this process of
expenditure rationalization should eliminate what, in the past, has been the most serious problem in
ensuring timely implementation under the Kenya portfolio.
4.    With the exception of projects primarily in the social sector, extensively delayed
procurement and improper procurement have not been a major implementation problem in the
Kenya portfolio. Excessive delays in the payment of contractors/ suppliers, on the other hand,
continue to occasionally surface as a concern, although much improvement has been made in this



30                                                      Grant and Project Summary
area during the past year, with significant time reductions being achieved during the past year by
the MOF and the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) in processing PAs (payment authorities) under the
special accounts as well as those for direct payments. Attention has more recently focused on
individual implementing agencies/line ministries, on identifying the extent to which there may be
excessive delays within the respective projects themselves concerning the processing of PAs, i.e.,
from the time of contractor/supplier invoice received until date PA is received by MOF, and specific
actions to reduce such delays.
5.     While increased attention is being given to the quality of accounts and how to use them more
effectively as a management tool, timely preparation of accounts and timely audit of accounts still
remains a problem. (It should be noted, however, that the quality of the audit reports themselves,
most of which are done by the public auditor, is not an issue.) Still, the magnitude of the backlog of
overdue audit reports is slowly being reduced - as of end-May, under the ongoing portfolio, there
were only nine reports more than four months overdue. More reports are being submitted sooner
(although still after the respective covenanted due date), in large part due to several ongoing
initiatives: (i) the MOF (in particular, the Accountant General) is taking a major role in monitoring
and overseeing the audit situation; (ii) there is a working group comprising the public auditor, the
MOF and the OU, that, with expert consultant assistance, is developing a strategy and operational
action plan to improve the quality and timeliness of accounts and audits; and (iii) the Department
has been aggressive and consistent in applying remedies in those instances where audits are not
received within a reasonable timeframe after becoming overdue. For example, in FY95, the SOE
disbursement procedure was suspended under seven projects, total disbursements suspended under
three projects and proposed amendment of legal documents has been conditional upon the receipt of
any overdue audit reports under the respective project. At present, Board presentation is being
made conditional upon receipt of all overdue audit reports for which the concerned accounts are the
direct responsibility of the implementing agencies/line ministries under the proposed project.
6.     As a result of these efforts, overall improvement in IDA's Kenya portfolio quality is being
achieved. As of March 31, 1996, four of the 21 projects in the Kenya portfolio (or 19 percent) were
rated "problem"; this compares with 33.3 percent (i.e., eight projects) for FY95 and 38.5 percent (i.e.,
ten projects) for FY94. These four problem projects are briefly discussed below:
Cr. 2110-KE (Fourth Population). Almost six years old and with 80 percent of credit proceeds
remaining undisbursed, agreement would be reached with the Government during the next "health
mission" on bringing this project to closure by its June 30, 1997 closing date. Implementation
progress to-date has been extremely disappointing, despite a restructuring of this project in October
1993 to finance the purchase of drugs for the prevention of sexually transmitted infections (in
addition to the project's main objective of increasing the availability, accessibility and quality of
family planning services provided by the Government and NGOs). Major problems in procurement,
due mainly to weaknesses in the tendering system of the Ministry of Health (MOH) and to
irregularities and lapses in strictly adhering to IDA's procurement guidelines, remain - at the Bank's
insistence, the Government has recently agreed to the hiring of a procurement agent for all ongoing
projects involving this ministry.
Cr. 2440-KE (Parastatal Reform and Privatization TA). Originally intended as the engine for parastatal
reform and privatization, the project's objectives and policy/implementation timetable as originally
agreed have not been achieved. However, with the policy agenda for parastatal reform and
privatization clearly defined under the recently agreed Policy Framework Policy for 1996-98 and the
recently approved Structural Adjustment Credit, this project is now being formally restructured to
support the reform implementation program set forth therein. Within this restructured project
framework, implementation status would be re-evaluated later this year.



Grant and Project Summary                                                   31
Cr. 2199-KE (Second National Agricultural Extension). Over five years old, with 70 percent of credit
proceeds undisbursed and with disbursements under the credit recently suspended for
noncompliance with audit covenants (i.e., outstanding SOE and project accounts audit reports more
than 12 months overdue), this project is not expected to be completed by its closing date of March
31,1998. By the end of September, the Bank and the Government would agree on a specific
implementation program through end-June 1997 and reconfirm project outcomes/identify specific
outputs to be achieved at the end of that period. Satisfactory resolution of outstanding audit and
financial management issues related to the project, including the lifting of the suspension of
disbursements, is critical to project implementation during the next fiscal year. Implementation
progress during the next year will form the basis for proceeding with the project beyond end-FY97.
Cr. 2596-KE (Micro and Small Enterprise Training and Technology).  Although the project
implementation team is now finally in place (in February, almost two years after the project was
approved) and a detailed implementation program agreed through the end of the year, it has been
rated unsatisfactory until implementation progress is demonstrated. During the next nine months,
supervision efforts will be intense, focusing closely on Government's commitment (i.e., actions) to
improving the enabling environment for the jua kali (small enterprise) sector.
7.    In addition to the above four rated "problem" projects, another four ongoing IDA projects are
currently classified as slow disbursing operations, i.e., with disbursement lags of 50 percent or more
(there are no operations
approved by the Board more than one year ago but not yet declared effective, nor are there any over-
aged operations - the Second Agricultural Sector Adjustrnent Operation, Cr. 2204-KE, although under
implementation for slightly more than five years, had a significant technical assistance component and
will close on June 30,1996):
Cr. 2309-KE (Universities Investment). Four-and-a-half years old and originally scheduled to close at
end-1996, expenditures under this project are mostly for staff development and procurement of highly
specialized equipment, mainly for science and engineering. Staff development has proceeded as
intended. However, due to flawed application of procurement procedures during the early years of
the project, equipment procurement had to be retendered, and the first fourteen equipment contracts
were awarded only in the second half of 1995 - as such, 75 percent of credit proceeds are currently
undisbursed. However, remaining Phase 1 and Phase 2 equipment tenders are to be advertised and
awarded in 1996, and past procurement problems are not expected to reoccur. A one-year extension
of the closing date was recently approved, and completion of the project by that date is now
anticipated.
Cr. 2310-KE (Health Rehabilitation). Extensive delay in initiating the civil works for rehabilitation of
Kenyatta National Hospital, which accounts for approximately 70 percent of credit proceeds under the
project, is the primary reason for the current 70 percent disbursement lag. Commencement of this civil
works component finally began in mid-1995, and this work is scheduled for completion by end-1996.
No extension of the June 30, 1997 closing date is anticipated, and the next supervision mission will
confirm with the Government, necessary arrangements for bringing the project to closure by that date.
Cr. 2333-KE (Second Mombasa and Coastal Water). Approved in February 1992, project implementation
is about 15 months behind schedule, thus explaining the current disbursement lag of slightly more
than 50 percent. Start-up was initially slow due to institutional weaknesses in the National Water
Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC - the implementing agency) and delays in the
selection of consultants. These initial delays were then followed by inadequate budgetary allocations
(IDA proceeds as well as counterpart funding) in fiscal years 1993-95, resulting in further delays in
physical implementation. This situation was further compounded by a seven-months' suspension of



32                                                  Grant and Project Summary
disbursements in 1995 by the Bank, for failure by NWCPC to timely submit to the Bank a number of
audit reports required under the project. However, with adequate budgetary allocations having been
provided in FY96 (and a respective disbursement ratio of 40 percent for the year as of end-May), the
project is expected to be completed by June 30,1997- one year later than originally scheduled. A one-
year extension of the closing date would be agreed by the Bank, upon confirmation by the
Government that adequate project funding has been provided in the FY97 budget to ensure that the
FY97 workplan can be timely implemented.
Cr. 2686-KE (Sexually Transmitted Infections). An overoptimistic disbursement profile for the first (as
well as second) year of project implementation, as assumed in the Staff Appraisal Report,
compounded by delays in the establishment of a funding mechanism, acceptable to the Government,
for disbursing credit proceeds to the participating NGOs and municipalities, explain the current
disbursement lag of almost 80 percent A task force comprising the MOH, MOF and the Bank is
presently working on resolving this bottleneck. There have also been delays in the appointment of a
procurement agent to carry out all procurement under the project; it is expected that a contract will be
signed by early July 1996. However, even with implementation expected to proceed shortly, as
originally envisaged, the original disbursement projections will continue to be reflected in a relatively
high disbursement lag during the next two-to-three years.



Grant and Project Summary                                                                       33
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1996
(US$ millions)
(Less Cancellations)
Loan or     Fiscal                                                                               Undis-
Credit No.  Year   Borrower       Purpose                           Bank           IDA           bursed
Twenty-seven (27) Loans and seventy five (75) Credits closed,       355.55       1,637.91
of which SECALS, SALs and Program Loans/Credits:                                 (795.42)
Cr. 18910   1988   Tanzania       Agr. Exports Reh. l                               30.00        11.79
Cr. 19700   1989   Tanzania       Nat'l. Ag. & Liv. Res.                             8.30         3.05
Cr. 19940   1989   Tanzania       Agric. Ext.                                       18.40         2.50
Cr. 20500   1989   Tanzania       Tree Crops                                        25.10         8.91
Cr. 20950   1990   Tanzania       Ports Modernization                               37.00        16.70
Cr. 20980   1990   Tanzania       Health & Nutrition                                47.60        30.81
Cr. 21370    1990   Tanzania      Educ. Planning & Rehab.                           38.30        23.80
Cr. 21490    1990   Tanzania      Roads 1                                          180.40        68.59
Cr. 22020   1991    Tanzania      Petrol Rehab                                      44.00        44.88
Cr. 22670   1991    Tanzania      Railways Restructuring                            76.00        59.66
Cr. 22910   1992   Tanzania       Urban Sector Eng.                                 11.20         2.30
Cr. 23300   1992   Tanzania       Engineering Credit                                10.00         0.59
Cr. 23350   1992   Tanzania       Forest Resources Man                              18.30        10.43
Cr. 24130   1993   Tanzania       Financial & Legal Ma                              20.00        12.50
Cr. 24860   1993   Tanzania       Telecom III                                       74.45        66.60
Cr. 24890    1993    Tanzania     Power VI                                         200.00       133.43
Cr. 25070   1993   Tanzania       Priv. Pub. Sect. Mgt.                             34.90        22.50
Cr. 25370    1994   Tanzania      ASMP                                              24.50        16.38
Cr. 25980   1994   Tanzania       Roads 11                                         170.20       165.28
Cr. 26480   1995   Tanzania       Mineral Sector Dev.                               12.50        10.97
Cr. 27710   1996   Tanzania       Financial Inst. Dev.                              109          I0
Total                             355.55       2729.96       722.60
of which repaid                  296.91         89.21
Total held by Bank & IDA           58.64       2640.75
Amount sold     6.29
of which repaid 6.29
Total Undisbursed                                            722.60



34                                                                             Grant and Project Summary
Tanzania
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31,1996
(In Millions US Dollars)
Ori2inal Gross Commitments
IFC
Fiscal Years Committed            Obligor                 Type of Business    IFC Loan  Equity    Ptpnt.    Totals
1960                a/ Kilombero Sugar Company, Ltd. Food and Agribusiness         4.66                         4.66
1978                a/ Highland Soap and Allied Product Manufacturing               1.38     0.37                1.75
1979                 a/ Metal Products Limited       Manufacturing                  1.33     0.18                1.51
1985                a/ Amboni Limited                Food and Agribusiness         4.38                0.99     5.37
1990                   Tanganyika Sisal Spirning Comp Food and Agribusiness        2.00                         2.00
1991                   Mufindi Tea Company Limited   Food and Agribusiness         2.80                         2.80
1994                   Nomad Safaris (Tanzania) Limite Hotels and Tourism          0.15                         0.15
1994                   Tanganyika Bus Services Compan Industrial and Consumer Ser  0.25                         0.25
1994                   Tourism Promotion Services (Tan Hotels and Tourism          8.04      1.06               9.10
1995                   Eurafrican Bank (Tanzania) Limit Financial Services                   0.73               0.73
1995                   Moshi Leather Industries Limited Manufacturing                        0.25               0.25
1995                   RafTia Bags Tanzania Limited    Manufacturing               0.50                         0.50
1995                   Tanzania Breeders and Feedmills Food and Agribusiness        1.00                        1.00
1995                   Tanzania Breiwries Limited    Food and Agribusiness         11.00     6.00      7.40    24.40
1995                   Tanzania Leatherlndustries Ltd. Manufacturing               1.00                          1.00
1995                   Tourism Promotion Services (Zan Hotels and Tourism           1.25     0.16                1.41
1996                   MIC Tanzania Ltd.            Infrastructure                  1.00                         1.00
Total gross commitments bt                                 40.74      8.75     8.39     57.88
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales        14.52     0.55      0.99     16.06
Total commitments now held ct                              26.22      8.20     7.40    41.82
Pending Commitments
A&K TANZANIA LTD                                            0.45                         0.45
AEF-ONE EARTH                                               0.70                         0.70
AEF-TRADECO                                                 0.93                         0.93
AEF-ZAINAB GRAIN                                            1.00                         1.00
Eurafrican Bank (Tanzania) Limit Financial Services                            5.00      5.00
ULC LEASING                                                 5.00      0.97               5.97
Total pending commitments                                   8.08      0.97     5.00     14.05
Total commitments held and pendingcommitments              34.30      9.17    12.40    55.87
Total undisbursed commitments                              14.36      0.25     7.40     22.01
at Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
b Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
ct Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investements.



Grant and Project Summary                                               35
TANZANIA - IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES
1.    As of March 31, 1995, there were 21 ongoing projects in the Tanzania portfolio
representing total commitments of US$1.1 billion. Undisbursed amounts totaled $723 million.
Disbursements on investment projects have risen from US$75 million in FY93 to US$119
million in FY95. However, the disbursement ratio has not increased owing to the relatively
large commitments on investment loans in FY93 and FY94. Because of no new adjustment
lending due to the inadequate macroeconomic environment, disbursements for the balance of
payments support were minimal in FY95.
2.    Efforts were made to improve the management of IDA's portfolio in Tanzania. Three
problem projects have been restructured, and mid-term reviews have been carried out for six
projects. Several former problem projects are now rated as satisfactory (e.g. Health and
Nutrition, Tree Crops, and Petroleum Rehabilitation). At present, there are five projects rated
unsatisfactory: Education Planning, Roads I and II, Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project
and Agriculture Exports Rehabilitation Project. The AERP is being closed on June 30, 1996. A
CPPR was held in May 1996, and a joint action program was agreed to help resolve generic
implementation issues (e.g. availability of counterpart funds, project management staff and
incentives, and accounts/auditing).
3.    On audit compliance, some progress has been made in reducing the number and
length of delayed audit reports. Following a firm stance, audit compliance improved, and
audits that were particularly delayed were submitted.
4.    Inadequate provision of counterpart funds has affected IDA-financed projects
particularly in agriculture, roads and education. Given the continuing weak fiscal situation,
the inadequacy of counterpart funds needs to be addressed by reducing the development
project portfolio and focusing on high priority activities. IDA has assisted the Government in
defining a core investment program, limited to high-priority projects which would get most of
their funding requirements. The Government has made some progress in reducing the
number of projects in the development budget and improving the budgetary allocation
towards core projects. However, this approach has not been sufficient to ensure adequate
levels of counterpart funding owing to the severity of the budget crisis.
5.    An important area of work in improving the portfolio has been the incorporation of
the findings from consultations with beneficiaries of IDA projects. For example, supervision
of the research and extension projects has taken place in the framework of the Farming
Systems Approach, involving researchers, extensionists, and farmers in joining identification
of improvements in the design and implementation of research and extension activities. The
efforts to restructure the health and education projects, and to redirect a portion of funds to
support new approaches to the social sectors, were based on surveys of both individual and
focus groups over the past year. To improve overall implementation, a study has been done
to address procurement issues, under the Integrated Roads Project, which include changes in
the procurement code, regulations and standard bidding documents. The study is currently
being reviewed by the Government and IDA for follow up action. A country Procurement
Assessment is planned for June/July 1996.
6.    Five IDA projects are identified as slow disbursing operations with disbursement lags
of about 50% or more: Health and Nutrition, Education Planning and Rehabilitation, Railways
Restructuring, Roads II and Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation.



36                                                    Grant and Project Summary
7.    Tanzania Health and Nutrition Project was slow to start and consequently suffered
from management problems in the first three years of its implementation. These initial
problems were addressed by setting up project management offices for each of the two main
components. However, since the project was managed by different ministries with project
coordination offices in two different cities, the management problems continued to plague the
project as it was difficult to coordinate their activities. This particular problem has now been
solved by locating both offices in Dar Es Salaam. In addition, the project was also affected by
the Government's inability to meet covenants which were tied to major activities such as
rehabilitation works and pharmaceuticals. The project has now been restructured and is also
supporting pilot-testing of innovative mechanisms of services delivery, e.g. community health
trusts and facility-based management.
8.    The implementation of Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation has been behind schedule by
two years mainly due to the delay in the credit effectiveness (18 months), for which the major
issues have now been resolved. The project restructuring was completed in November 1994.
As for the issue of losses of petroleum products on transit by rail, the consultant study has
been completed and an agreement was reached on the recommendations of the study. An
action plan for the railway to establish common-carrier liability tariffs has been in progress.
9.    The Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project suffered a slow start largely due to:
(a) the complexity of the project design and management; (b) the changing policy
environment; and (c) disagreements on the continued relevance of some components. The
disbursements increasingly lagged behind during the first three years. However, several
measures have now been taken to improve the situation. The project management has been
strengthened by the recruitment of accounting specialists; plans for improved implementation
and restructuring have been agreed and a number of concrete actions have been taken;
communication with the Bank has now improved; and part of the undisbursed balance is
being used to finance pilot activities in demand-side activities. As a result of these actions,
activities and the pace of disbursements have picked up again, and the project performance
will further improve during the remaining period of the project.
10.    The Railway Restructuring Project had a slow start in disbursements, mainly due to
the learning curve which the executing agency, TRC, had to go through. The pace picked up
since July 1995, and the disbursements are expected to improve.
11.   Implementation of Roads II project has been delayed, first by the delay in
effectiveness (about 5 months) and second due to problems of counterpart funds and
management weaknesses. To address these issues the Government has agreed to engage a
project management consultant to review management systems and procedures, determine
the physical and financial status of the projects (including that of the ongoing Roads I) and
prioritize the outstanding activities. Pending completion of this exercise and agreement on
improved management arrangements and systems the Government will not enter into new
civil works contracts for IDA financing. As a result, disbursements are expected to remain
slow for one to one and half years. Despite these problems, progress has been achieved in (i)
improving both the level and rate of transfer of maintenance funds to the Regional Engineers'
Offices; (ii) completing the transport sector administration studies which is providing the basis
for restructuring the sector; and (iii) defining an action plan for restructuring road transport
companies.



Grunt and Project Summary                                                             37
Scheduk E
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1996
(US$ millions)
(Less Cancellations)
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                    Undis-
Credit No.    Year    Borrower    Purpose                         Bank      IDA        bursed
Nine (9) Loans and forty eight (48) Credits closed,              42.92     1257.92     10.19
of which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans/Credits:                         (652.78)
Cr.21240     1990    Uganda  Water Supply II                                 60.00     40.65
Cr.21760     1991     Uganda  Livestock                                      21.00     13.86
Cr.21900 (S)  1991    Uganda  Ag. Sector Adj. Credit                        100.00      4.80
Cr.22060     1991     Uganda  Urban 1                                        28.70     14.18
Cr.22680     1991     Uganda  Power III                                     125.00     81.51
Cr.23150     1992     Uganda  Enterprise Development                         41.85     32.76
Cr.23620     1992    Uganda  Northem Reconstruct.                            71.20     40.75
Cr.24180     1993     Uganda  Econ. & Financial Management                   29.00      7.64
Cr.24240     1993    Uganda  Agric. Extension Prog.                          15.79      7.02
Cr.24460     1993    Uganda  Agric. Res. & Trg.                              25.04     15.30
Cr.24930     1993    Uganda  Primary Educ.                                   52.60     39.41
Cr.24960 (S)  1993    Uganda  Financial Sector Adjustment Cr.               100.00     51.83
Cr.25830     1994    Uganda  Small Towns Water                               42.30     41.66
Cr.25870     1994    Uganda  Transport Rehab.                                75.00     76.12
Cr.26030     1994     Uganda  Sexual Trans. Infections                       50.00     49.41
Cr.26090     1994    Uganda  Cotton Sector Development                       14.00     12.00
Cr.26790     1995     Uganda  District Health                                45.00     44.25
Cr.27360     1995    Inst. Capacity Building                                 36.40     35.07
Cr.27770     1996    Environment Management                                  11.80     10.93
Cr.27980     1996    Private Sector Comp.                                    12.30     12.10
Total                                     42.92     2214.90    631.25
of which repaid                          42.92       52.27
Total held by Bank & IDA                   0.00     2162.63
Amount sold    25.82
of which repaid 25.82
TOTAL Undisbursed                                              641.44
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL or Program Loan/Credit



38                                                                                                 Grant and Project Summary
Uganda
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31,1996
(In Millions US Dollars)
OriinaEl Gia. Commiments
Undisb
IFC                        Held by   Held by    incl.
Fical Years Committed              Oblirgo                Type of Business     IFC Loan  Equity    Ptpnt.    Totals    IFC        Ptpnt.    Ptpnt.
1965                 a/ MulcoTextiles, Ltd.          Textiles                       2.26      0.54     0.70      3.50
1972                 s/ Tourism Promotion Service (Ugm Hotels and Tourism           0.73               0.38      1.11
19U4                   Sugar Corporation of Uganda Lim Food ad Agribusiness         8.00                         8.00      6.00
19U4                 a TheToro andMityanaTea Comp Food and Agribusiness             1.12               0.50      1.62
1985                 a/ UgandaTea Corpomtion Limited Food and Agribusiness          2.81                         2.81
1985/93                Development Finance Company o Financial Services                       0.98               0.98      0.98
1993                   Clovergem Fish and Foods Limite Food and Agribusiness        0.85                         0.85      0.78
1993                   JubileelnsurnceCompanyUgan FinancialServices                           0.10               0.10      0.10
1993                &I Nge-ge Limited                Food and Agribusines           0.65                         0.65
1993                   Nile Roses Ltd.               Food and Agribusiness          0.30                         0.30      0.26
1994                   RwenzoriPtopertiesLimited     IndutrislandConsumerSer        081      0.19                1.00      1.00               0.05
1994                   SkyblueApart-Hotel            Hotels ad Tourism              0.51                         0.51      0.51               0.51
1995                   Cloveegem Celtel Limited      Infrastructure                 4.96      0.64               5.60      5.60               1.20
1995                   Polypack Limited              Manufacturing                  1.00                         1.00      1.00
1995                   Rainbow Internationa School Ka Industrial nd Consumer Ser    0.79                         0.79      079                0.31
1995                   Uganda Lesing Company Limite Financial Services                        0.33               0.33      0.33
Totidgrosscommitments b/                                   2479       2.78      1.58    29.15
Lea  cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales         9.68      0.54      1.58     11.80
Total commitsnmts now held et                              15.11      2.24               17 35    17.35                2.07
Pending Commitmnents
AEF GOVINDA KEWU                                            0.23                         0.23
AEF-AGRO MGMT                                               0.60      0.40                1.00
EAGW                                                        6.50                         6.50
Total pending commitments                                   7.33      0.40               7.73
Total commitments held and pending commitments             22.44      2.64              25.08
Total undisburwcd commitments                               2.07                         2.07
It Inveatmentu which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
b/ Grae commitments consist of pproved and signed projets.
c/ Held commitmentts consist of disbursed and undisbursed investements.



Grant and Project Summary                                                 39
Uganda: Implementation Issues
1.    The IDA portfolio for Uganda as of March 31, 1996 consists of 20 projects, with a total
commitment of about US$957 million, with an undisbursed amount of about US$631 million.
The portfolio showed improvement in FY95, largely as a result of intensified effort by GOU
and Bank staff to remove the obstacles to project implementation. Disbursements have
increased steadily in recent years from US$135 million in FY1993, US$165 million in FY94 to
US$193 million in FY95 and as of March 31, 1996, $133 million has already been disbursed.
2.    IDA's Uganda portfolio showed solid improvement in FY95, thereby continuing the
trend of the last few years. This is a real improvement and does not represent any relaxation
in ratings: in fact, task managers and country teams have become more rigorous in assessing
project performance in the past couple of years. It is the result of an intensified effort to
resolve some of the obstacles to project implementation and therefore to get better results in
the field.
3.    On slow disbursing operations, the Second Water Supply Project, FY90, has only
disbursed 38% of the US$60 million Credit; the procurement process for major civil works
under the project was delayed as the procurement documentation had to be revised in order
to comply with Bank procurement guidelines and procedures. In addition, procurement of
major works for the Kampala sewerage system was postponed in order to gather more
information before International Competitive Bidding was instituted. Although construction
activities under three of the four civil works contracts have gained momentum, progress is still
slow. However, the project's implementation performance has now become satisfactory, and
the project meets its development objectives in many respects.
4.     On the Transportation Rehabilitation Project, there was a 15-month delay in
procurement activities/selection of consultants related to the main roads component (a major
component of this project), primarily due to lack of familiarity (and therefore non-
compliance) with Bank procurement procedures, on the part of project staff. In addition, there
is a cost overrun (above the appraisal estimate) of about US$13 million (or 17% of IDA
financed portion of the project), for the three main roads contracts. However, the Borrower
has been asked to propose a solution, which may call for restructuring or cancellation of some
of the lesser priority components at mid-term review, early next year (1997). Training of
Borrower staff in contract administration and procurement is being undertaken, with a view
to enhancing their skills. Additionally, a twinning arrangement with the Finland Road
Authority is being put in place. At this time, steps have been taken to resolve the major
procurement issues and the project's disbursement performance is expected to improve over
the next few months.
5.    The Power III Project has disbursed some 32% of the US$ 125 million (SDR 86.9
million) Credit. Project effectiveness was delayed by about one year to October 1992, as a
result of delays in fulfilling the Conditions of Effectiveness. Thereafter, delays in meeting
disbursement conditionality has contributed to the slow disbursements under the project. In
order to ensure that the over 40 year old existing dam is adequately investigated and
strengthened, the project provides for IDA financing to be initially limited to only the advance
payment to the main civil work contract -which has been done- and withholding further
disbursements until an adequate work program and associated bidding documents required
to ensure the safety of the dam have been produced. This work program and the associated
bidding documents are planned to be completed by mid-1996; meanwhile the African



40                                                    Grant and Project Summary
Development Bank has been disbursing alone to avoid disruption of construction of the Owen
Falls Extension Project.
6.    The effectiveness of Livestock Services Project was delayed because of complexities
in project design. Implementation was also affected by the reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Industry, and Fisheries, which included the consolidation of crop and
livestock extension, and subsequently the Government's decentralization program, involving
a transfer of responsibilities to districts. Because of slow progress from that point, the project
was classified as non-core for FY94 and received no budget funds. The project was then
restructured and progress has been satisfactory since the restructuring was put into effect.
7.    On Sexually Transmitted Infections Project, the disbursement lag was due to problems
experienced in procurement. The bulk of the project finances drugs and condoms and since
the credit became effective in July 1994, the Ministry of Health has been struggling to procure
drugs and condoms. The problems are already being addressed; a team of Ugandan officials
visited Washington in January to discuss outstanding issues on the number of tenders which
were under review and to clarify IDA procurement rules. IDA is also making arrangements to
provide them with a pharmaceutical procurement expert to help prepare procurement for the
next two years.
8.    The District Health Project became effective in July, 1995. This project supports
delivery of health services with the Districts taking more direct responsibility for service
management. This is in line with the Government's decentralization policy. Actual
implementation of the project was delayed by the need to prepare districts to take on new
responsibilities. The time required for strengthening the capacity of the districts to plan and
manage their resources was underestimated. It has taken much longer to put in place
accounting and management systems. It was assumed that the districts would be able to
prepare good workable budget plans as a basis of their implementation by July, 1995 but was
only submitted in December 1995. Implementation has now started and disbursement
performance is expected to pick up.
9.    The Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project was approved by the Board in
February 1994, but did not become effective until August 1995 after changing the one
remaining condition of effectiveness into a condition of disbursement. Project implementation
started only in November/December 1995 after the conditions of disbursement were met.
This amounted to a 17-month delay in getting started especially because of delays in
establishing the legal framework for the water committees, and settlement by the Government
of all its overdue debts to NWSC. In this interval, considerable start-up work was
nevertheless carried out in the form of pilot activities in two of the 10 towns, funded through
the remaining portions of PPF, a Japanese PHRD Grant, and a component of the First Urban
Project. The implementation is now proceeding rapidly, with consulting firms for both major
project components in place and tendering for a number of other items in progress. The
Project Launch Workshop was held in March 1996.
10.   Institutional Capacity Building Project was approved by the Board in June 1995 and
became effective in August 1995. There were initial delays in procurement process. Actions to
initiate procurement of goods and consultancy services have now been undertaken and are
expected to redress the disbursement lag.



91e F
Kenya at a glance
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan    Low.
Kenya    Afuica  Income    Dwelopment dIlmondd
Poputin nid-1994 (milions)                          20.0      572   3,182                LHe expectancy
GNP per capIta 1994 (USS)                           260       500      390
GNP 1994 (bftons US$)                                6.6      286    1,241
Average annual growth, 1S0-94
Populton (X)                                         2.7       2.7      1.8    GNP                                G3ross
Lab  force (%)                                       3.4       2.8      1.9    per                              pln wy
Moat recentesttmate flatyesravail sloe n  198)                                capiba                         enrolknnt
Poverty: headcount index (t ofpopulatton)            37
Urban population (X ofota popWulason)                28        31       28
Ute expecy at birth (yars)                           59        52       83
Inftamort lltyr 1,000 Ive biths)                     58        92       68
Child mabiutrton (X of chgdren under 6)              23                 38              AcoosS to sot wabAr
Access to "et water (% odpopul aon)                                     67
Illiteracy (% opopulaton ag 15+)                     22                 35
Gro-s primary enrollment (% ofschoo  popslon)        91        71      105       -  Kenya
Moleb                                              92        77      112       -Low-/nce group
Female                                             91        64       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS ens LONG-TERM TRENOS
1978    1981      1994    1995      Economic ra_oe
GDP (biWon US$)                             3.3      6.1       8.9     7.9
Gross doneic hIvealmwGDP                   18.1    28.0       20.9    22.9               Opennes of economy
Exports of goods and nonfadora svl GDP     29.8    25.3       38.6    37.0
Gmoa domestic avingslGDP                   13.5    24.9       23.7    21.7
Grosa natlonal avngaGDP                     9.2    22.6       20.4    18.7
Current account b&WxeGDP                    -8.6    -7.0      -0.4    -4.2     Savings                     Invesbiwnt
Interest pymentWGOP                         1.4      2.7       4.3
Total debtUGDP                             39.6    68.1    106.0
Total debt wrvie/exports                   14.9    39.2       33.3
Prew ntvaue of debt/GDP                                       75.1                          Indebbdnes
Pre entvalue of debtlexports                                 193.3
197544  1988-"     1994      1996  1996.04
(average annual growh)                                                            -Kenya
GDPmp                              4.8      3.3      3.9       5.0     5.3        -Low-ncome group
GNPpercapfa                         1.1     0.1      3.1       3.7     2.9
Exports of goods nd nfa            0.3      5.1    -1.3        7.5     3.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1994    1995
of GDP)
Agriculture                                34.2    32.5       29.1         Or o .dpd hI
Indusry                                    20.2    19.1       17.4      o.
Manufacturing                             12.0    11.7      10.5               o             _
Sevce                                      45.6    48.4       53.5       .o                 "                        a
-20.
Privateconsumption                         68.2    57.6       81.5    61.8
Genal govement consumptlon                 18.3    17.5       14.7    16.8                 -GOt  -*-01P
Imports of goods end non-feator servIks    34.5    28.4       35.7    38.2
1976-84  198646      1SS4    1998
(avesge annual gmwth)
Agreufture                                  3.8      1.7       3.1                    r    a oxporm ad IWIo ('A
Indu"ry                                     4.8      3.5       2.0                    r
Manufacturing                              6.3     4.3       1.9               0                             A
ServIces                                    6.0      4.3       3.3      ./
Prhite consumpton                           3.3      3.6      10.3     0.7             s o                           a
General goverment eonsumptbon               4.3      5.5       8.6    10.3      15
Groas domec nvewnt                          1.8      0.4      18.7    10.9
Imports of goods wnd non-fadtor  evce       -3.7     4.7      30.3     5.3                -EpCpts   him
Gross naonal product                        5.0      3.0       5.8     6.4
Note: 1995 data we prelimiry estknats. Fge in Iakics am for ya other than tho  epoclld.
The diamond show forw key Indeo  in hthe country (in bold) compared with i Income-group average. if daae amisf g, the dimond wv
be Inomplete.



Schduh F
Kenya
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1994     1995    |Infation(%J
DomesUic prkces
(% change)                                                                         5C
Consumer pries (Ave. Nairobi CPI)             19.1     10.7      28.8      1.7    40
Implicit GOP deflator                         11.3      8.2      15.7      0.9    30
20
Government finnce (in fiscal years)      1974/75 1984/85   1993/94 1994/95         10
(% of GDP)                                                                          0      90   91    92    93    94    9f
Current revenue                                 ..    21.6       29.2     31.7
Current budget balance                           .     -0.8      -1.0      5.2                -GOPdef. -CPI
Overall surplusidefcit (on commitment basis     ..    -7.5       -8.0      -2.6
and exd. grants)
TRADE
(millions US$)                              11975     1985      1994      1995      Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                             ..    940       1,482    1,783      3
Fuel                                          ..      118        65       73
Coffee                                        ..    281         233      302      2.500
Manufactures                                  ..      117       159      184      2.000
Total Imports (cif)                                   1,486     2,04     2,606      1.0.
Food                                          ..      112       180      205      100  41b-IIEII-lIl
Fuel and energy                               ..      461       332      329       5- o,  i   11  111ll
Capital goods                                         340       503      578         0    [ V   IIi-i               L
Exportprlcelndex(1987=100)                      ..      90        122        .9   90  91  92  93  94  99
Import price Index (1987=100)                   ..      81         77             |                lExports mlmports
Termsoftrade(1987=100)                          ..    111         157
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1994     1995    r-
(millions USS)
Exports of goods and non-factor services      955    1,552      2,645    2,954    | 6 rrnt account balance to GOP ratio (%i
Imports of goods and non-factor services    1,131    1,850      2,448    3,053
Resource balance                             -176      -297       197      -99      0 e9
Net factor income                             -93     -213       -374     -365            I  I                                I
Net current transfers                         -13       81        148      128      -,                                   -J
Current account balance,                                                           t9
before offricial transfers                  -281     -429       -30     -336
Financhig iems (net)                          244      397        134      203    .10
Changesinnet reserves                          38       33       -104      133    .121
Memo:                                                                              __
Reserves Including gold (miLt. US$)           173      417        625      453
Converslon rate (1ocakVS$)                     7.3     16.4      56.1     51.0
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1993     1994
(millions USS)
Totaldebtoutstanding and disbursed           1,290    4,178     7,120    7,273
IBRD                                        106      751       566       501      Compositlon of total debt, 1954 (mnIll. US$)
IDA                                          81      408      1,631    1,789
Total debt service                            151      621        627      888
IBRD                                          6       85        156      155                      G   A
IDA                                           1        5         19      21                      e88  501
Compositin of net resource flows                                                                127|       1789
Offlclal grants                              31      195        292      311                              c
Offlcial creditors                           87      135        142       66                     0E
Private credKtors                            33        8        -37     -276                     2151  483
Foreign dect investment                      17       18          2        4
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0        0
Wotrd Bank program                                                                I
Commitments                                 219        6         92       64      A-IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                51      113       226        97      8 -IDA    D-Ov99rmufndateral   F-Priate*
Prlncipalrepayments                           1       35        108      115      C-IMF                        G-Short-term
Notflows                                     50       77        119      -18
Interest payments                             6       55        67        62
Nat transfers                                44       22         52      -79
Intenational Economics Departnent                                                                                     4/24/96
Note: Govemment fiscal year (July to June).



B@hdulb r
P2d 3of
Tanzania at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharmn    Low-
Tanzania    Africa  Income    Development diamond'
Population mid-1994 (millions)                       28.8      565    3,176                Lif expetancy
GNP per capRa 1994 (USS)                               ..      510      390
GNP 1994 (billions US$)                                ..      288    1,239
Average annual growth, 1990-94
Population (%)                                        2.9       2.9      1.8
Labor force(%)                                        3.0       2.7      1.8    GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent esUmate (latest year available since 1989)                          capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount Index (% of populatfon)            50
Urban population (X of total population)              23        28       26
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      52        52       65
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              84        94       53
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)             28                 38               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populas0on)                52         ..      67
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                   32        50       41
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populalion)  68       68      106       -Tanzania
Male                                                69        77      112         Low-income group
Female                                              67        62      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1994    1996      Economic raoS'
GDP (billions USS)                            ..      5.5       3.4      3.7
Gross domeatlc Investment/GDP                  ..    17.7      31.3    31.0               Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP   ..     7.7      23.8    28.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..      8.7       3.3      4.7
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..      9.8      12.0      9.1
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -9.3     -22.6       ..    Savings                     Investment
Interest payments/GDP                         ..      0.5       1.8
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    76.1     220.3
Total debt servIce/exports                   7.3    38.8       20.4
Present value of debWGDP                       ..      ..    198.0        ..
Present value of debtiexpolts                 ..       ..    782.6                            Indebtedness
1976-84  1985-94    1994      1996  1996.04
(average annual growth)                                                             -Tanzania
GDP(dt market prices)                ..      4.0      3.7       4.0      4.8        -Low-income group
GNP per capita                       ..       ..
Exports of goods and nfs             ..       ..       .._.._..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1994    1998
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   ..    52.1       56.9    56.8
Industry                                      ..    12.0       16.8    16.8       4
Manufacturing                                ..     7.9       7.8      7.8      2
Services                                             35.9      26.3    26.3          oth  t out ut and lnv etmenn I%
go   91   92   93   94   99
Private consumption                           ..    74.9       88.4    85.1
General govemment consumption                 ..    16.4        8.3    10.3                  -GDI   _GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services      ..    16.8       51.8    54.4
19765-4  1988-94     1994    1996
(average annual growth)
Agricuiture                                   ..      5.4       3.5      4.0
Industry                                      ..      6.8       2.9      4.3
Manufaduring                                 ..     2.8       -0.9     4.5
Services                                       ..     1.3       4.1      4.1
PrivEae consumption                           ..
General govemment consumption                 ..
Gross domestic investment                     ..
Imports of goods and non-factor services      ..
Gross national product                         ,      4.1       4.9
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicatos In the country (in bold) compared with Is Income-group average. f data are missing, the diamond wIll
be Incomplte.



adwidmle F
Pip 4 do 
Tanzania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1994     1995      Inflation (%)
DomUesc prflcas
(3C change)
Consumer prices                              26.1      33.3      34.1     32.9    60
Impicit GDP deflator                            ..    27.7       25.0     34.0      4!
Government finance                                                                  o   __
(% of GDP)                                                                                 90   91   92   93    94   9s
Current revenue                                 ..    18.5       15.0     14.8
Current budget balance                          ..    -2.3       -3.4      -4.2               -GDP det.  *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -7.8       -8.0    -11.4
TRADE
(millions US$)                               1975     1985       1994     1995      Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             .,    326         486      600
Coffee                                        ..      119       115      166       2.oDo
Cotton                                         ..      27       105      144
Manufactures                                  ..       33        77       82
Total imports (cd)                              '      999 13436 17503               I.DDO
Food                                           ..      78       128      137        5
Fuel and energy                               ..    223         149      155
Capital goods                                 ..      434       656      695          0
b9  90  91  92  93          9 ss
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..      96        126
Import prce Index (1987=100)                    ..      85        122       ..                    [ExOports [lmports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                              113        103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1986      1994     1995
(millions US$)
Exports of goods and non-factor services      482      445        848    1,025
Imports of goods and non-factor services      811    1,016      1,913    1,987      0 -
Resource balance                             -329     -571     -1,065     -962          89  90  51  92  93   w    s0
CU Zn :acco jr teba ice to GD  atic (%)
Net factor Income                              -3      -93       -147     -138    .10
Net current transfers                          12      148        450      437
Current account balance,                                                           .20
before official transfers                   -321     -516      -762     -663
Financing items (net)                         306      531        752      623
Changes in ntreserves                          15      -14         10       40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)            65       16       306       249
Conversion rate (localAUS$)                            17.9     477.6   624.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1993     1994
(millions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,264    4,127     6,963    7,442
IBRD                                         80      266       140       114
IDA                                          81      568      1,759    1,998
Total debt service                             36      181        172      172      Composition of total debt, 1994 Imill. USS)
IBRD                                          5       40        45        42
IDA                                           3        7        23        25                       G A
Composition of net resource flows                                                                   Fe5114 8
Offical grants                              128      267       786       564                     3   1P
Ollfidal creditors                          248       55        95       160
Private creditors                             5       46        34        12
Forelgn dired Investment                      ..       ..       62        63
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  40        8       334       183      A - IBRD                     E - Bilatral
Disbursements                                60       83        146      183      B - IDA    D - Other multlateral   F - Privabe
Principal repayments                          3       27        42        43      C - IMF                      G - Shorttnerm
Net flows                                    57       56        104      140
Interest payments                             5       20        26        24
Net transfers                                52       36        78       116
lntemational Economics Department *nd AF2CO staff estimates                                                             3v4J96
Note: Economic data refer to malnland Tanzania only. Govemment finance fiscal year (July to June).
Some entuies In Extemal Debt and Resource Flow section refled Africa Department staff estimates and may differ from
those reported in the Debtor Reporting System (Worild Debt Tables).



Uganda at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan    Low-
Uganda    Africa  Income      Development dlamond'
Population mid-1994 (millions)                       18.6      505    3,176                Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1994 (US$)                            200       510      390
GNP 1994 (billions USS)                               3.7      288    1,239
Average annual growth, 1990-94
Population (%)                                        3.2       2.9      1.8
Labor force (%)                                       2.9       2.7     118    GNP                                 Gross
pe-r                             pnmary
Most recent sstlmate (latestyear available since 1989)                          capita                         enrollrnent
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)            55
Urban population (% of total population)              13        28       26
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      43        52       65
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             122        94       53
Child malnutrntion (% of children under 5)            23         ..      38               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 ..                67
Illeracy (% of populabon age 15+)                    52        50       41
Gross primary enrollmen1 (% of school-age population)  67       68      106       -Uganda
Male                                                74        77      112       --Low-income group
Female                                              59        62      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1994    1995       Economic Utlos
GDP (billions US$)                            *-      3.5       4.0      5.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                7.6      9.0      14.5    14.0               Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GOP  8.2    13.8       8.2    11.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   5.5      7.1       4.1    -0.6
Gross national savings/GDP                   5.4      6.7      10.1      5.7
Cufrent account balance/GDP                    ..    -2.5      -6.6    -8.4      Savings                     Investment
Interest payments/GDP                         ..      0.5       0.8       .
Total debtWGDP                                 ..    35.5      86.8
Total debt service/exports                   6.6    38.8       44.1
Present value of debtGDP                      ..       ..      52.0
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    604.2                            Indebtedness
197544  1985-95    1994       1995  199644
(average annual growth)                                                            -Uganda
GDP                                   ..     5.8      6.0      10.4      3.3       -Low-income group
GNP per capita                       ..      2.6      2.6       7.6    -0.3
Exports of goodrs and nfs            ..      4.3    18.8       12.9      6.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1986      1994    1995
(%6 of GDP)I
Agriculture                                 72.2    52.7       49.4    48.8            rates of output and Inveatment (%)
Industry                                     8.2      9.8      13.9    13.4                                          /
Manufacturing                              6.3      5.8       6.5      6.3
Services                                    19.7    37.4       36.6    37.8    -10   /            NV           93   94   95
Private consumption                           ..    78.4       85.4    92.3
General govemment consumption                 ..    14.5       10.5      8.3                -GDI   o GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services    10.3    15.7       18.6    26.3
197544  1985-95      1994    1995
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   ..      4.0       1.6      6.0    q whh rates of expors and Imports (%)
Industry                                      ..      9.2      13.4    16.7
Manufacturing                               ..      9.5      15.2    17.7      45
Services                                      ..      6.8       8.0    12.7      30
Prvate consumption                             .      5.5       4.7    14. 5
General govemment consumption                 ..      5.2      13.7    30.8      1s     go          92   93   r4   0s
Gross domestic investment                     ..      6.5       6.2    16.9
Imports of goods and non-factor services      ..      3.5       7.1    51.4                 -Exports _Inpof
Gross national product                        ..      5.9       5.8    10.9
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wih its Income-group average. If data are miassng, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1994    1WO5    lnhdonf %)
Domestc pr.c.
(N chage)                                                                        150
Consumer pries                                       105.3       7.8      2.9
Impici GDP defltor                                   120.2       7.3      9.6    500.
90
Government finnce
(X of GDP)                                                                                go9   91   92   93   94   99
Curent revenue                                         9.1       8.3      9.9
Current budget balance                                 0.3      -0.6      0.6               -GrSPdut --CP
Overall surpkusidefc.                                 -4.3     -10.3    -7.0    |
TRADE
1975    1985       1994    1995       Export end Imlport levels (mii. US$)
(mRHons USS)
Totalexports(fob)                                     383        254      537
Coffee                                               353       172      408
Cotton                                                13         4        2      1,C00
Manufactures                                                                      No
Total Impors (cil)                                    404       672    1,086       eoo
Food..                                                 .        93      143       ar    fi111Li]           u       l
Fuelandenergy                                         76        55                no 2    |  HIL
CapItal goods                                 .        .       222      299J                             I    A
Export prce index (1987-100)                   ..    103         46       81            es  go   9    92  93  94  90
Import prce lndax (1987=100)                           80        128     138                     E       mlmports
Termsoftxade(1987l100)                                129         36       59    _Expo_  _Impo_a
BALANCE o PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1994    1995
(mlllons US$)
Exports of goods and non-factor servIces     248      408       333      609      9 rent  count balance to GDP rtao
Imports of goodseand non-fector services     313      484       841    1,367               90  el9j    2   93   9
Resource balance                              -65      -76      -508     -758
Net factor icome                               -4     -53        -61      -62    95
Net current traners                            -3      40       304      385
Current account balance,                                                         .10
before officil transfers                    -72      -89      -265     -436
Financing Ims (net)                           72      128       354      585
Changes In net reserves                        0       -39       -90    -150    -1-
Memn o:                                                                             _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _
Reaerves Including gold (mHIL USS)            31       85       219      391
Conversion rate (locaL4S)                              5.1   1,097.0  1,022.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1993    1994
(mNlons USS)
Total debt outstwnding and disbursed         211    1,248      3,131    3,473     Composition of tota debt, 1994 (rIL. US$)
IBRD                                         4       37        16       11
IDA                                         40      285      1,327    1,604
Totaldebt ervice                              17      158        165      152
IORD                                         1        3         8        7   |FG
IDA                                          0        4        13       17  9| s30
Composion of net resourcefows                                                                  E          a
Official grant                              30       47       260      319                   831  4f04
Officiacredtors                             11      139       307      198                   4   CI
PrIvate creditors                           -3        4        -11      -18                       383
Foreign dkea Investment                      2       -4         3        5
Portfolo equity                              0        0         0        0
trld Bank prgram
ComnItments                                  0       45       193      268      A -IBRD                      E-B
DIsburserents                                3       92       139      222      B-IDA    D-OOthrmurllaterel   F-Pw tve
Prindpa repayments                           1        2        11       12      C-iMPF                       G-Short-twm
Netfiows                                     2       90       128      210
Inttpaymrnt                                  1        4        11       12
Net transfers                                2       86       118      198
Intewntlonal Economics Depanment                                                                                     3N98



PART II: TECHNICAL ANNEX






KENYA, TANZANIA, UGANDA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
GRANT, CREDIT, AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................................i
1. BACKGROUND ................................................1
A. The Macroeconomies ................................................1
B. Lake Victoria and its Surrounds ................................................5
C. Major Threats to the Lake ................................................6
2. STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK ...............................................                                                                         10
A. Project Preparation ...............................................                                                                      10
B. The Lake Victoria Region in the Future ...............................................                                                  11
3. THE PROJECT ...............................................                                                                                 12
A. Objectives ...............................................                                                                               12
B. General Description ...............................................                                                                     13
C. Project Details ...............................................                                                                          14
D. Project Priorities ...............................................                                                                      24
E. Project Costs and Financing ...............................................                                                             24
F. Rationale for GEF and IDA  Involvement ...............................................                                                  26
G. Lessons Learned  and Technical Review ...............................................                                                   28
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................                                                                      28
A. Management Structure ...............................................                                                                    28
B. Implementing Agencies ...............................................                                                                   29
C. Specific Implementation Arrangements ...............................................                                                    30
D. Implementation Review ...............................................                                                                   32
E. Procurement ...............................................                                                                             32
F. Disbursement ...............................................                                                                            34
G. Accounting and Audits .35
H. Sustainability and Participation ...............................................                                                        36
I. Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................................                                                               37
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................................                                                                 39
A. Benefits ...............................................                                                                                39
B. Environmental Analysis ...............................................                                                                  44
C. Risks ...............................................                                                                                   47
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............................................                                                       48
Annexes
1.          Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan
2.          Estimated Schedule of Disbursement (GEF and IDA)
3.          Project Implementation Plan
4.          Project Performance and Impact Indicators
5.          Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
6.          Supervision Plan
7.          GEF Incremental Costs






LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
1.   BACKGROUND
A.   THE MACROECONOMIES
Kenya
1.1   Kenya remains a low-income country. Even though its population growth rate,
which historically has been very high (averaging 3.4 percent per annum as recently as
1987-91), dropped to about 3 percent in 1993, and although Kenya is one of the few
countries in Africa that experienced a decline in fertility in the eighties (from 7.7 in the
early 1980s to 5.2 in 1993), a significant and sustained increase in per capita income has
proved to be an elusive goal in Kenya during the past decade. In spite of a few years of
relatively good growth during the second half of the 1980s, the performance of the
economy has been particularly inadequate in generating new jobs, and there has been
no significant improvement in the incidence of poverty. Overall, the economy has
generated only marginal increases in per capita output over the past decade; during the
last four years, per capita income has actually declined - from $340 in 1991 to $260 in
1994 (at current prices and exchange rates).
1.2   The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, which employs 70 percent of
the labor force and contributes about one quarter of Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Coffee, tea and horticultural crops account for over 50 percent of merchandise exports.
Between 1991 and 1993, Kenya's macroeconomic performance was poor. In April 1992,
the Government agreed with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), on a program of
actions necessary to re-establish a sound macroeconomic framework which included
deficit reduction and liberalization of the foreign exchange regime. Until mid-1993, the
implementation of the actions required was unsatisfactory: although fiscal targets were
met, monetary targets were exceeded and the liberalization of the foreign exchange
regime proved to be unsustainable.
1.3   Sustained Government effort since mid-1993 to tighten fiscal and monetary
policy has resulted in effective economic stabilization and the revival of economic
growth. The fiscal deficit (exclusive of grants) has been sharply reduced over two years
from over 11 percent of GDP in FY93 to about 2.5 percent in FY95. Combined with a
generally tight monetary stance, these policies have resulted in the reduction of
inflation. Measured month over month, inflation peaked in January 1994 at 62 percent
and declined steadily to 6.6 percent in December 1994. The three-month annualized
inflation rate was reduced to 2.8 percent by the third quarter of 1995. Exchange rate
movements, after the initial inflation-induced depreciation to KSh 82 per US dollar in
June 1993, have reflected the interest rate response of short-term foreign capital flowing
in and out of Kenya. High interest rates led to the capital inflows which contributed to
a reserve accumulation and caused the shilling to appreciate to about KSh 45 per US
dollar by October 1994. The recent decline in domestic interest rates and the subsequent
capital outflow, as well as the gradual recovery of import demand, resulted in the



2                                           Lake Victoria Environrmental Management Project
shilling depreciating in the second quarter of 1995 to about KSh 55 per US dollar where
it has since stabilized. In parallel with the improvement in inflation has been a
resumption of real economic growth. GDP growth (at factor cost) for 1994 is estimated
at 3 percent, the first significantly positive growth in three years, and it was projected at
around 5 percent for 1995.
1.4   Rising population pressures, migration and rapid urbanization have increased
the need for urgent actions to address Kenya's environmental problems. The more
critical problems are related to soil and land degradation, water resource management,
biomass and household energy issues, and the protection and management of fragile
ecosystems, including national parks. Rapid urbanization and inadequate physical
planning have also caused a significant deterioration in the urban environment. The
Government adopted a comprehensive National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in
June 1994. The challenge since its completion has been to translate the NEAP's broad
concerns about environmental management into an operational program of effective
policy, legislative and institutional action. Areas for priority action include the
development and adoption of a comprehensive environmental policy, the establishment
of an effective institutional and legal framework, and the formalizing of a requirement
for environmental impact assessments for all development projects.
Tanzania
1.5   By the early 1980s, Tanzania had come to be a heavily state-controlled economy,
whose rigid economic system was battered by numerous shocks, and whose inadequate
policies led to economic stagnation and a fall in per capita income lasting almost a
decade. Beginning in 1986, the Government embarked on a program to reform and
fundamentally change the existing approach to economic development by dismantling
the system of pervasive economic controls and encouraging more active participation of
the private sector in the economy. Structural reforms, particularly relating to traditional
exports and the parastatal and financial sectors, were not fully completed, and
macroeconomic stabilization remained elusive. Nevertheless, the economy responded
well to the reforms that were implemented (notably, liberalization of food crop
marketing and progressive improvements in foreign exchange management) and the
accompanying increased availability of external resources. Official estimates indicate
that GDP growth averaged about 4 percent per year and exports grew by more than 4
percent per year during 1986-94 (versus a 5 percent p.a. decline during 1979-85), with a
marked increase in food production, increased sales of traditional exports, and a
doubling in non-traditional agricultural exports since 1985.
1.6   Recent household surveys have shown that the adjustment program has been
successful in reducing the incidence of poverty. The devaluation of the shilling and
removal of restrictions on the marketing of food crops boosted production and incomes
of smallholder agricultural families. The increased availability of consumer goods as a
result of liberalization directly benefited the rural poor (as well as the urban poor who
also benefited from increased supplies of food from liberalized agricultural marketing),
and liberalization opened new earnings opportunities for rural women and for off-farm
employment. Sample surveys for the preparation of a Poverty Profile suggest that the
percentage of poor declined from about 70 percent of the rural population in the early



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                            3
1980s to about 50 percent in the early 1990s. The liberalization program increased the
access of small-scale enterprises to production inputs which facilitated expansion of
low-wage employment in the informal sector.
1.7   Progress has been made in reforming the foreign exchange and trade systems
over the last two years. Tanzania has moved to an interbank market and has abolished
all export retention and import licensing, except for items related to health and national
security. Excessive monetary expansion has been fueled by worsening fiscal
management. The fiscal deficit (including grants) was about 6 percent of GDP in FY93
and 5 percent in FY94, after broadly balanced positions in the previous four years. This
reflected widespread and increasing customs duty exemptions, an increasingly
inefficient tax administration and the failure of the expenditure control system. Efforts
are being made in the current fiscal year (among then a public sector hiring freeze, and
reduced transfers to parastatals) to reduce the fiscal deficit below 4 percent of GDP.
Inflation, which had accelerated above 25 percent p.a. is targeted by efforts to bring it
down to 22 percent within the next fiscal year. Real GDP growth averaged about 3-4
percent per year during FY92 to FY94. Growth in FY94 was seriously compromised by
weak economic management, and severe power shortages caused largely by less-than-
average rainfall. These developments limited the scope for generating employment
and, in particular, the high inflation rates resulting from macroeconomic
mismanagement continue to erode the real incomes of the poor.
1.8   The recently completed National Environmental Action Plan focused on the
need for action in the key areas of land degradation, water supply, environmental
pollution, marine and freshwater resource management, habitat conservation and bio-
diversity, and deforestation. The action program for implementation includes revision
of the legislative framework to enable local participation in environmental management
more fully. Policies will support the environment in various ways, including applying
the forest and wildlife protection acts; developing the means for assessing
environmental quality, including water and air pollution; and strengthening
environmental awareness programs. Some Government policies are oriented towards
using incentives, such as implementing the new land policy to enhance the security of
tenure; pricing policies for fuel, including oil; and water rights to encourage efficient use
and environmentally sensitive practices.
Uganda
1.9   With a per capita income of about US$200, Uganda is one the poorest countries
in the world. Its weak economy and poor social indicators are the legacy of nearly 15
years of political turmoil and economic decline. Since 1987 the Government has been
implementing an economic reform program supported by a large number of donors.
The program aims to promote prudent fiscal and monetary management, improve
incentives to the private sector, reform the regulatory framework, and develop human
capital through investment in education, health and other social services. Economic
recovery and stabilization have been successful; hard-won macroeconomic stability has
been maintained for the past three years. The stability is precarious, however;
continuation of good policies and further improvement are therefore required.



4                                           Lake Victoria Enviroonmetal Management Project
1.10  A number of the structural reforms are now well advanced and appear to be
accepted in Uganda. Nonetheless, the reform program has its detractors, and is still
very fragile. Achieving higher investment, growth, and increased employment
opportunities are critical for the sustainability of the program. Macroeconomic stability
remains fragile also, notwithstanding the progress that has been made in curtailing
public spending and strengthening the Shilling. With widespread poverty and massive
unmet public needs, it will be difficult to maintain expenditure constraints. The key is
to mobilize additional tax revenue, which is a very low proportion of GDP in Uganda.
Doing so has not proven easy. A large part of the economy is in the informal sector and
thus escapes taxation. Better tax administration, fewer exemptions and stronger
enforcement can help in the short run, but any significant gains in revenue will come at
best only in the medium-term. Uganda's current balance on the external account is also
fragile. While internal price and exchange rate stability, together with good prospects
for extended political calm, has generated a substantial inflow of private capital over the
past several months, these flows could be reversed quickly if inflation or exchange rate
volatility were to reappear. The dilemma facing policymakers is to get the economy
moving ahead more rapidly, without generating inflation which could unravel the
entire adjustment program.
1.11   Uganda's economic growth since 1987 has been good, but not spectacular. Real
GDP grew by an average of 5.4 percent per annum from FY87 to FY93, a gain of about
2.5 percent per annum in per capita terms. To a large extent this growth was the result
of bringing land and capital back into production, made possible by increased peace
and security. More recently growth has also been fueled by some private investment
and by the impact of trade, exchange rate and crop marketing liberalization.
Preliminary indications are that real GDP rose by 5 percent in FY94, mainly due to
strong performance by the manufacturing and construction sectors. The point has now
been reached where further growth will depend on increased private investment.
1.12 The NEAP was approved by the Government in January 1994. The National
Environmental Policy that was adopted subsequently calls for re-aligning sectoral
development strategies so that they address priority environmental concerns relating to,
among others, land degradation, deforestation, loss of wetlands, and dwindling fish
stocks, several of which are directly related to environmental management of the Lake
Victoria basin. The policy also emphasizes strategies cutting across sectors such as the
need to control population growth and enhance security of land tenure. It also
advocates environmental education and a system of environmental impact assessments
as essential means of promoting rational resource use. The National Environmental
Management Authority (NEMA) established recently will serve as the central policy
advisory body on the environment, and coordinate implementation of the NEAP.



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                              5
B.    LAKE VICIORIA AND ITS SURROUNDS
Physical Description and Setting,
1.13   Lake Victoria (Map Number IBRD 27780), with a surface area of 68,800 km2 and
an adjoining catchment of 184,000 km2, is the world's second largest body of fresh
water, and the largest in the developing world, second only to Lake Superior in size.
Lake Victoria touches the Equator in its northern reaches, and is relatively shallow,
reaching a maximum depth of about 80 m, and an average depth of about 40 m. The
lake's shoreline is long (about 3,500 km) and convoluted, enclosing innumerable small,
shallow bays and inlets, many of which include swamps and wetlands which differ a
great deal from one another and from the lake itself. Because the lake is shallow, its
volume is substantially less than that of other Eastern African lakes with much smaller
surface area. Lake Victoria holds about 2,760 km3 of water, only 15 percent of the
volume of Lake Tanganyika, even though the latter has less than half the surface area.
1.14  Some 85 percent of the water entering the lake does so from precipitation
directly on to the lake surface, the remainder coming from rivers which drain the
surrounding catchment. The most significant of these rivers, the Kagera, contributes
roughly 7 percent of the total inflow, or one half of that over and above direct
precipitation. The Kagera River, which rises in the highlands of Burundi and Rwanda,
forms the border between Rwanda and Tanzania before turning to the east, and flows
for at least 150 km completely in Tanzanian territory. It discharges into the lake just
north of the border between Tanzania and Uganda. Some 85 percent of the water
leaving the lake does so through direct evaporation from its surface, and the remaining
15 percent largely by way of the Victoria Nile, which leaves the lake near Jinja in
Uganda, and flows via the Owen Falls, Lake Kioga, and the Murchison Fails to join the
outflow from Lake Albert; these two outflows are the main sources of the "White Nile".
1.15 The lake's origins are still the subject of scientific dispute, but it seems likely that
it is much more recent than the other great lakes of eastern Africa. Many of the rivers
now flowing east into Victoria (including Kagera) once flowed west, at least in the
Miocene, Pliocene, and part of the Pleistocene eras (within the past 2 million years),
possibly eventually into the Nile system, and a more recent upthrust of the western side
of the basin is thought to have reversed these rivers, and caused Lake Victoria to form
by flowing eastwards. It is possible that the lake could have formed as recently as
25,000 to 35,000 years ago, and recent evidence suggests it may have dried up
completely between 10,000 and 14,000 years ago.
Biological and Environmental Significance
1.16   Although there are many features of Lake Victoria which are of intense interest
to biologists, it is fish that receive the most attention. Most of the fish species now in the
Much of the information for the description of Lake Victoria and its workings was drawn from the
following: Beadle, L.C., The Inland Waters of Tropical Africa: An Introduction to Tropical
Limnology, Longman, London & New York, 1981,475 pp.



6                                             Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
lake also lived in the preceding, west-flowing rivers, but the cichlids, in particular, had a
remarkable burst of speciation in response to the change from river to lake conditions.
Similar things happened in the other great lakes, but in Lake Victoria it happened much
more recently, more rapidly, and with, at first sight, fewer opportunities for ecological
isolation in different types of habitat. The cichlids are capable of rapid genetic change,
and more prone to speciation than other groups of African fish. There are more than
200 endemic species and 4 endemic genera of cichlids in Lake Victoria, more than 150
species of which are of the genus Haplochromis. Another major lineage is the tilapiines.
From the primitive insect-eating types, mouths and pharynxes have evolved to allow
feeding on plants, molluscs, fish, and even the eggs and young larvae carried in the
mouths of brooding females of most cichlid species.
1.17   The non-cichlid fishes have also changed, and there are at least 50 species, of
which 29 are endemic, and one endemic genus. The non-cichlids show much less
divergence from the riverine stock than is the case with non-cichlid fish in Lake
Tanganyika, which has had a much longer time for them to diversify. While most of the
species remain year round in the lake, there are a number (at least 13 species) of
anadromous (ascending) fish, especially cyprinids, characids and siluroids, which swim
up the rivers when they are in flood, breed in a suitable place, and return with their
young fish to the lake as the level drops.
Economic Significance
1.18   Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda control 6, 49, and 45 percent of the lake surface,
respectively. The gross economic product of the lake catchment is in the order of US$3-
4 billion annually, and supports an estimated population of 25 million people at
incomes in the range of US$90-270 per capita p.a. The lake catchment thus provides for
the livelihood of about one third of the combined populations of the three countries,
and about the same proportion of the combined gross domestic product. With the
exception of Kampala, the capital of Uganda, the lake catchment economy is principally
an agricultural one, with a number of cash crops (including exports of fish) and a high
level of subsistence fishing and agriculture. In Kenya and Uganda the areas of coffee
and tea in the catchment are a significant part of those nations' major agricultural
exports. The quality of the physical environment is therefore a fundamental factor in
maintaining and increasing the living standards of the growing population. Although it
is not possible to put a single estimate to the global value of the lake in sustaining the
regional economy, it can be seen that if the deterioration of the lake resulted in a (say) 5
percent reduction in productivity of the region, the consequent loss would be of the
order of US$150 million annually.
C.    MAJOR THREATS TO THE LAKE
1.19   The lake basin is used as a source of food, energy, drinking and irrigation water,
shelter, transport, and as a repository for human, agricultural and industrial waste.
With the populations of the riparian communities growing at rates among the highest in
the world, the multiple activities in the lake basin have increasingly come into conflict.
This has contributed to rendering the lake environmentally unstable. The lake



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                                   7
ecosystem has undergone substantial, and to some observers alarming changes, which
have accelerated over the last three decades. Massive blooms of algae have developed,
and come increasingly to be dominated by the potentially toxic blue-green variety. The
distance at which a white disc is visible from the surface, (a transparency index
measuring algal abundance), has declined from 5 metres in the early 1930s to one metre
or less for most of the year in the early 1990s. Water-borne diseases have increased in
frequency. Water hyacinth, absent as late as 1989, has begun to choke important
waterways and landings, especially in Uganda. Overfishing and oxygen depletion at
lower depths of the lake threaten the artisanal fisheries and biodiversity (over 200
indigenous species are said to be facing possible extinction). Scientists advance two
main hypotheses for these extensive changes. First, the introduction of Nile perch as an
exotic species some 30 years ago has altered the food web structure; second, nutrient
inputs from adjoining catchments are causing eutrophication. Thus although the lake
and its fishery show the evidence of the dramatic changes in the lake basin over the past
century, the lake is not the source of the problem. The problems have arisen in the
surrounding basins through human activity.
Lake Biota and Fisheries
1.20   One of the main events of importance to the lake system in the past thirty years
was the introduction of new species of fish in the lake. The first were four species of
tilapia (Cichlidae), which were introduced in the early 1950s. In 1955 the Nile Perch
Lates niloticus (Centropomidae) was introduced into Lake Kioga, and when a few years
later it was found in Lake Victoria, steps were taken to ensure its establishment there.
Until 1978, Nile Perch remained a very small proportion of the commercial catch, less
than 5 percent. Then in 1978 a very rapid expansion of the proportion accounted for by
Nile Perch took place, with the result that by 1990 the commercial catch had a totally
different composition, dominated by Nile Perch (almost 60 percent) and Omena (most
of the remaining 40 percent). The haplochromines, and the mixture of other fish had
virtually vanished from the commercial catch.2
1.21   It is important to note that the size of the fishery also exploded from 1978 on,
perhaps by a factor of five or more. From Kenyan waters alone the recorded catch
climbed from around 25,000 tons in 1978 to more than 175,000 tons in 1990. In the years
preceding introduction of the Nile Perch, the total fisheries yield from the lake may
have been in the vicinity of 100,000 tons, while in more recent years yields have been
estimated in the range of 300,000 to 500,000 tons.3
2Data from Kaufman, Les, Catastrophic Change In Species-Rich Freshwater Ecosystems: The Lessons
of Lake Victoria, Bioscience, Vol. 42, No. 11, December 1992, 846-858.
3Data from Kitchell, James F., Richard Ogutu-Ohwayo, and Peter M. Reinthal, The Nile Perch in Lake
Victoria: Interactions Between Predation and Fisheries, draft paper 1995, forthcoming in Eco.
Appl.



8                                              Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Water Hyacinth
1.22   Water hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) is a flowering plant, whose origin is thought
to be the Amazon areas of Brazil. It appeared in Lake Naivasha in Kenya in 1982, and in
Lake Kioga in Uganda in 1988. In Tanzania, it was first reported in 1990. Its first
recorded appearance in Lake Victoria was in Ugandan waters in 1988. Since then it has
been reported in many locations, all around the lake, in the waters of all three riparian
countries. It is especially concentrated in Ugandan waters, possibly because the
prevailing southerly winds blow mats of the weed all the way from the mouth of the
Kagera River, down which the mats flow from lakes far up in the catchments in Rwanda
and Burundi. The hyacinth also flourishes in nutrient-rich waters, as those along the
Uganda shoreline of the lake are believed to be. The area between Entebbe and the
Uganda/Kenya border has widespread floating mats of water hyacinth, some of which
reach more than 1,000 ha in size.
1.23   The main detrimental effects of the spreading mats of water hyacinth are as
follows:
(a)   reduction in fish in the lake through de-oxygenation of water and
reduction of nutrients in sheltered bays which are breeding and nursery
grounds for fish, particularly tilapia;
(b)    physical interference with fishing operations, especially in the bays
where fish are brought ashore to piers or landing beaches;
(c)    physical interference with commercial transportation services for people
and goods on the lake;
(d)   physical interference with access to water supply from the lake, for both
urban and rural communities, together with additions to the cost of
purifying water with higher concentrations of suspended, decaying
organic matter as a result of the hyacinth presence;
(e)   threats to the intakes at the Owen Falls hydroelectric power station in
Uganda; and
(f)    provision of a preferred breeding habitat for the altemative host for
Schistosomiasis (bilharzia), namely the Biomphalaria snail, a home for the
vector mosquito for malaria, and a haven for snakes.
Eutrophication
1.24 Water quality in Lake Victoria has declined greatly in the past few decades,
owing chiefly to eutrophication arising from increased inflow of nutrients into the lake.
Nutrient inputs have increased two to three-fold since the turn of the century, mostly
since 1950. Concentrations of phosphorus have risen markedly in the deeper lake
waters, and nitrogen around the edges. Stimulated by these and other nutrients, the
five-fold increase in algal growth since 1960, and the shift in its composition towards



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                                9
domination by blue-green algae, is causing deoxygenation of the water, increased
sickness for humans and animals drawing water from the lake, clogging of water intake
filters, and increased chemical treatment costs for urban centers. Aside from the near-
total loss of the deepwater species, the deoxygenation of the lake's bottom waters now
poses a constant threat, even to fish in shallower portions of the lake, as periodic
upwelling of hypoxic water causes massive fish kills. The increased nutrient loads have
also spurred the water hyacinth infestations.
1.25   The nutrients represent a transfer of materials at an increasing rate from the
terrestial basin to the lake. Among others, these transfers comprise organic and
inorganic suspended solids and dissolved nutrients carried by streams, terrestrial dust
from wind erosion, inorganic compounds in the smoke produced by combustion (in
cooking fires or forest burning), and direct additions along the lake shores of human
and animal waste associated with domestic water use. Preliminary estimates suggest
the increased nutrient inflows are coming largely from rural areas, but although the
main causes of the eutrophication are known, the rates of enrichment, its sources, and
its numerous effects are not well quantified. Since many of the farms in the area apply
no fertilizers, or use very small quantities, these are not likely to be a major source of the
nutrients, nor will they be until fertilizer application rates reach substantially higher
levels than currently seen. Rather, the nutrients may be released from soil particles
washed or blown off the land surface by erosion, from burning wood-fuels, and from
human and animal waste from areas surrounding the lake. From the urban areas, the
main source is untreated sewage, which beside providing additional nutrients, also
increases the disease risk from water borne pathogens. Thus the water quality problems
of the lake arise in the watershed, not in the lake, and it is in the catchment that the
solutions must be found.
Water Pollution
1.26   Some areas of the rivers feeding the lake and the shoreline are particularly
polluted by municipal and industrial discharges. Some information has been collected
by local and national authorities on the scale and location of polluting industries, and
there are a number of basic industries that are common to most of the major urban
areas, for example, breweries, tanning, fish processing, agroprocessing (sugar, coffee)
and abattoirs. Some of these have implemented pollution management measures but in
general the level of industrial pollution control is low. Small scale gold mining is
increasing, in Tanzania in particular, and this is leading to some contamination of the
local waterways by mercury which is used to amalgamate and recover the gold. Some
traces of other heavy metals, such as chromium and lead, are also found in the lake,
although the problem has not yet reached major proportions.



10                                          Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
2.   STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
A.    PROJECT PREPARATION
2.1   Attempts at fisheries collaboration among Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda are
among the oldest on the continent. As early as 1928, it was recommended that a unified
lake-wide authority for regulation and for collection of fisheries statistics be set up.
Establishment of the East African Freshwater Fisheries Research Organization
(EAFFRO) in 1947 solidified collaboration, and it was boosted further with formation of
the East African Community in 1967. In the early 1970s, all three countries became
members of the FAO Committee for Inland Fisheries of Africa (CIFA). After the
disappearance of this coordinating mechanism with the ending of the East African
Community in 1977, the need for collaboration was felt so strongly that a special CIFA
Sub-Committee for Lake Victoria was set up in 1980. Although this was a useful forum
for the three countries, the difficulty of implementing management measures on a lake-
wide basis due to the lack of a strong inter-governmental mechanism for harmonization
of such measures, led to the design of proposals for the Lake Victoria Fisheries
Organization (LVFO), whose establishment the current project would support. Most
importantly, the current project would, for the first time, ensure that regional fisheries
management would operate within a regional framework for environmental action,
rather than having only a commercial orientation.
2.2   Each of the three riparian Governments has prepared a National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP). All three NEAPS acknowledge that Lake Victoria demands urgent
attention through regional cooperation. The NEAPs focus on problems such as water
pollution, biodiversity loss, land degradation, deforestation, and damage to wetlands,
all central concerns for the lake and its catchments. Scientists and resource managers
have increasingly warned that the absence of a regional management framework may
threaten the future viability of the lake basin. Discussions to broaden regional
environmental cooperation covering the Lake Victoria Basin started in late 1992. In May
1994 the three Governments decided to enter into an agreement jointly to prepare and
implement a Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program. A Tripartite
agreement to this effect was signed August 5, 1994. The essential soundness of this
agreement has been proven during project preparation, and its main institutional
arrangements, which have worked well, will continue into project implementation.
2.3   The Tripartite Agreement of 1994, as enhanced by the government preparation
report, constitutes a framework for action fully responsive to the requirement for a
Strategic Action Plan (SAP). This SAP, whose preparation included extensive
stakeholder consultation, was reviewed thoroughly during appraisal. It identifies,
acknowledges and analyzes the transboundary water-related environmental concerns
which the three governments share in common. Furthermore, it expresses their
determination jointly to build the capacity of existing institutions, and establish new
ones, in order that they may adopt a comprehensive approach to addressing the shared
transboundary concerns, and implement measures to deal with the priority concerns as
identified, with a particular focus on community stakeholder involvement and
measures to raise public awareness.



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                          11
2.4   Preparation of the LVEMP took into account ongoing activities funded by the
Global Environment Facility under the project Institutional Support for the Protection of
East African Biodiversity (UNO/RAF/006/GEF), implemented by FAO and UNDP.
The first phase of that project is coming to an end in 1996, just as the LVEMP
commences implementation. The latter will build particularly on the wetlands
components of the Institutional Support project, through which funds were provided to
wetlands programs under the technical oversight of the IUCN (The World Conservation
Union). These initiatives have established committees on wetlands in all three riparian
countries, which would coordinate wetlands components under the LVEMP.
2.5   A large number of donors have supported a vast range of development
initiatives in and around Lake Victoria. Some of these have addressed priority
environmental concerns, but mostly in small, uncoordinated, and incomplete ways, and
seldom with informed intentionality which had the wider environmental priorities in
mind. In the absence of a coordinated management and information system for the
entire lake and its ecosystem, these smaller projects have often fallen short, and
continue to fall short, of realizing their maximum potential. Although often successful
in their own terms, they could have achieved even more by being part of a coordinated
management initiative to address the lake ecosystem and its problems. The current
project is such a management initiative, which will lead to a quantum leap in
understanding the ecosystem, and in devising sustainable management strategies.
B.    THE LAKE VICTORIA REGION IN THE FUTURE
2.6   The Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project (LVEMP) will therefore
become the heart of the wider investments needed in the lake basin in forthcoming
years in direct actions to clean up the lake and its catchment, and manage the ecosystem
in a sustainable way. Substantial investments will be needed in direct actions to reduce
nutrient inflows from human waste (in both urban and rural areas), to decrease soil
erosion, to clean up industrial effluent, and reduce pollution from all sources. The
project will provide the information and build the capacity to coordinate the substantial
sums likely to be available for financing these direct actions in the next five years and
beyond. In the LVEMP itself an estimated 20 percent of project costs will be directed
towards studies, 42 percent towards capacity building, and 38 percent towards direct
actions.
2.7   A much broader program of investments in direct actions is already shaping up
around the LVEMP, directed towards actions to improve human sanitation and reduce
soil erosion in the lake basin. The bulk of these will take their cues from the early
findings of the LVEMP. When these investments are included, the proportion of the
program allocated for direct actions will increase markedly. Undoubtedly there will be
substantial additional flows from other donors. The LVEMP mid-term update to the
analysis of transboundary environmental concerns will guide the second phase of
project implementation, and set the stage for subsequent initiatives. The
Implementation Completion Report to be prepared by the three governments at the end
of the LVEMP will include a revised Strategic Action Program outlining interventions
needed to address priority problems. IDA will use this as the basis for seeking
commitments to support such interventions from the wider donor community. Thus



12                                             Lake Victoria Envirornenta Management Project
the LVEMP will be the essential first step in a long-term program for restoring and
sustaining the ecological foundations for economic development in the entire lake basin.
2.8    Furthermore, the LVEMP itself will include a study of potential sources of
funding for continuing support of fisheries management, and other collaborative
arrangements for sustaining the ecosystem established by the three riparian countries
during this first phase. The study will assess possibilities for raising and coordinating
levies on the commercial fisheries to enable some of the central monitoring and
management initiatives to become fiscally sustainable. The LVEMP includes financial
support for estabLishing a shared Levy Trust Fund among the three countries, should
the study show this to be feasible.
2.9    The economy of the lake basin is based on agriculture (about 35 percent), lake
fisheries (about 10 percent), industries and mining (about 15 percent) and the tertiary
sector (about 40 percent). The structure of the economy will continue to change as the
population grows, with livelihoods found increasingly in the secondary and tertiary
sectors rather than the primary. There is considerable scope for increases in agricultural
production, however, and especially in its value-added, as it is intensified and
diversified into higher valued enterprises. Because of their size, a significant proportion
of additional jobs will be found in agriculture and the fisheries for the foreseeable
future. It is vital that the additional pressure this will put on the resource base is
managed well, in order to head off increasing deterioration. The project aims at
providing the foundation for this improved management, (and thus for sustainable
development of the local economy), while the ancillary investments are regarded as
vital to clean up the lake, and reduce nutrient and pollution inflows to within acceptable
limits.
3.   THE PROJECT
A.    OBJECTIVES
3.1    The LVEMP is a comprehensive program aimed at rehabilitation of the lake
ecosystem for the benefit of the people who live in the catchment, the national
economies of which they are a part, and the global community. The program objectives
are to: (a) maximize the sustainable benefits to riparian communities from using
resources within the basin to generate food, employment and income, supply safe
water, and sustain a disease-free environment; and (b) conserve biodiversity and genetic
resources for the benefit of the riparian communities and the global community. In
order to address the tradeoffs among these objectives which cut across national
boundaries, a further project objective is to harmonize national management programs
in order to achieve, to the maximum extent possible, the reversal of increasing
environmental degradation.



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                             13
B.    GENERAL DESCRIPTION
3.2   The project is the first phase of a longer term program whose aims are as
outlined above. The first phase will provide the necessary information to improve
management of the lake ecosystem, establish mechanisms for cooperative management
by the three countries, identify and demonstrate practical, self-sustaining remedies,
while simultaneously building capacity for ecosystem management. The project will
consist of two broad sets of activities. The first set of activities, which are designed to
address specific environmental threats, will take place in a series of selected pilot zones.
The second set of activities, which will improve information on the lake and build
capacity for more effective management, wil be of necessity lake-wide in scope.
3.3   In the pilot zones, the project would do the following in an integrated way:
develop groundwater resources; conserve and develop wetlands; reduce sediment and
nutrient flow, especially of phosphorus, into the lake; reduce fecal coliform and
municipal nutrient output into the lake; regulate industrial effluent; define current
contamination of fish and prevent any increase; stabilize the catch of Nile Perch, and
increase the catch of indigenous species; increase incomes of local fisherfolk; and reduce
water hyacinth to manageable levels. A total of fourteen pilot zones have been
identified, four in Kenya, and five in each of Tanzania and Uganda. Work would be
started in one pilot zone in each country in the first year - Nyakach Bay in Kenya
(including the city of Kisumu), Mwanza Gulf in Tanzania (including the city of
Mwanza), and Napoleon Bay in Uganda (including the city of Jinja). The other pilot
zones are Berkeley Bay, Usenge-Yala, and Karungu Bay (Kenya); Mara-Shirati Bay,
Speke Gulf, Emin Pasha Gulf, and Kagera-Rubafu Bay (Tanzania); and MacDonald-
Berkeley Bay, Murchison Bay, Sesse Islands, and Sango Bay (Uganda).
3.4    Among lake-wide actions the project would: assess and measure sources of
nutrients causing eutrophication; measure fisheries-trophic state interactions; model
and monitor lake circulation; define and measure the contaminant threat; harmonize
regulation and legislation; monitor recovery and impact; and build institutional
capacity.
3.5   The project would support the following specific regional and national program
activities: (a) management of fisheries, including the establishment and operations of
the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation [US$2.3 m], improvement of fisheries research
and the information base for fisheries [US$13.3 ml, strengthening of extension,
monitoring and enforcement capabilities of national fisheries administrations [US$14.1
ml; and studying and implementing a Fish Levy Trust [US$2.0 millioni; (b) management
and control of the water hyacinth infestation [US$8.3 m]; (c) management of lake
pollution and water quality, including strengthening and harmonizing national
regulatory and incentive frameworks and enforcement capabilities, and establishing a
lake-wide water quality monitoring system [US$9.6 ml, improvement of research and
the information base for pollution control and water quality [US$4.3 ml, pilot
investments in industrial and municipal waste management [US$1.7 m], and priority
waste management investments [US$4 ml; (d) management of land use in the
catchment, including improvement of research and the information base for pollution
loading from the catchment, assessment of agro-chemicals, and pilot investments in soil



14                                           Lake Victora Environmental Management Project
conservation and afforestation [US$9.2 m]; (e) wetland management, including
improving the information base [US$3.4 ml, and pilot investments in sustainable
management of wetland products [US$1.5 million]; and (f) support for institutions for
lake-wide research and management, and pollution disaster contingency planning
[US$4.0 m].
C.    PROJECT DETAILS
Fisheries Management [US$2.28 million]
3.6    A Convention for the Establishment of the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation
(LVFO), drafted with FAO assistance, was discussed in the three countries in late 1993
and early 1994, and signed by all three countries on 30 June, 1994. The proposed LVFO
will be presided over by a Council of Ministers responsible for fisheries. It will have an
Executive Committee made up of Directors of Fisheries Research, a Fisheries
Management Committee, a Scientific Committee, such other sub-committees and
working groups as might be needed from time to time, and a Permanent Secretariat
located in Entebbe, Uganda. The LVFO will promote better management of fisheries on
the lake, coordinate fisheries management with conservation and use of other lake
resources, collaborate closely with all existing bodies (public and private, governmental
and non-governmental) dealing with the lake, and all programs for its management
(especially those relating to water quality), coordinate fisheries extension and related
training, consider and advise on introduction of any non-indigenous aquatic animals or
plants into the waters of the lake, and disseminate information on Lake Victoria
fisheries.
3.7   The Secretariat, headed by an Executive Secretary (assisted by a Deputy), will
have four permanent higher level staff - a Senior Biologist, Senior Economist,
Administrative Officer (Finance) and Administrative Officer (Information and
Database). It will engage short-term consultants (a total of 50 months over five years)
specializing in legal matters, socio-economics, fish processing technology, fish
harvesting technology, and water hyacinth control. It will be financed by GEF (90
percent). The project will finance vehicles; renovations of offices; office equipment;
personnel costs, and operation and maintenance expenditures.
Fisheries Research [US$13.33 million]
3.8   The program for fisheries research will provide information on the ecology of
the lake and its catchment, the biology of its flora and fauna, the impact of
environmental factors on the lake system, and socio-economic implications of use of the
lake's resources. This information will contribute towards improved ecological
efficiency, greater biodiversity, and ecological balance in the lake system. The research
program will be operated by scientists with the help and participation of the extension
services, fisherfoLk community leaders, Government departments, and other
stakeholders.



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                               15
3.9   The fisheries research component will have five sub-components: studies of fish
biology and biodiversity conservation, aquaculture, socio-economics, database
establishment, and a fish stock assessment. The stock assessment will be financed by
the European Union under a separate agreement, and although it is described below to
provide a complete outline of the fisheries research program, the LVEMP would ensure
only its coordination with other project components.
(a) Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation [US$6.58 million]
3.10   This program will identify the main factors affecting aquatic biodiversity,
determine diversity in aquatic flora and fauna, document them, map their habitats,
educate people on their importance, and propose ways to exploit them sustainably. The
program will rectify the serious lack of knowledge about the entire aquatic population
of the lake, focusing especially on non-commercial fish of great biological interest, their
species composition, population structure, food and feeding habits, trophic
relationships, reproduction and breeding habits, recruitment patterns, growth, oxygen
tolerance, mortality, and migrations, as well as the other organisms which play key roles
in sustaining the Lake Victoria ecosystem, including specifically other aquatic
vertebrates (frogs, reptiles, birds and mammals), macroinvertebrates (insects, molluscs,
Caridina), microinvertebrates (copepods, cladcerans, rotifers), phytoplankton (diatoms,
cyanophytes, green algae), macrophytes, and bacteria. The primary aim of this program
is to gain information with which to design initiatives to sustain a complex ecosystem of
substantial scientific importance. The outcomes of the studies will be species
distribution and habitat maps, information on the genetic make up and diversity of
different populations, understanding of the causes of decline of fish species,
understanding of the impact of environmental changes on the biology, behaviour and
survival of declining species, guidelines for species conservation and restoration, an
updated bibliography of Lake Victoria, training of scientists, and dissemination of
information to stakeholders through reports, videos, and workshops.
3.11   This sub-component will be implemented by the Fishery Research Institutes in
the three countries, KEMFRI, TAFIRI, and FIRI, and financed by GEF (90 percent). The
project will finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field equipment; training
and workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.
(b) Aquaculture [US$3.10 million]
3.12   This program aims at restoring and sustaining the survival of several
endangered and threatened species of fish. The program will address the continuing
pressures to introduce more fish species into the lake (to take advantage of their
production characteristics or market attraction), but will do so by avoiding the
unforeseen effects of exotic introductions. The program will study the domestication of
indigenous species of high nutritional value. The aim is to perfect aquaculture methods
for such species, to assist them to compete in the market place with exotic tilapiines and
carp. The outcomes of the program will be restored populations of selected endangered
and threatened species (particularly Oreochromis esculentus, Oreochromis variabilis,



16                                          Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Labeo victorianus, Bagrus docmac, and Protopterus aethiopicus), improved fish supply
to local riparian communities, return of delicacies to consumer markets, and
development of commercial activity in ornamental species which will secure their
survival rather than threatening it as at present.
3.13  This sub-component will be implemented by the Fishery Research Institutes in
the three countries (KEMFRI, TAFIRI, and FIRI); the Fisheries Departments of the
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife (Kenya), Ministry of Natural Resources (Tanzania),
and Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (Uganda); in collaboration
with local communities and NGOs. It will be financed by GEF (45 percent) and IDA (45
percent). The project will finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field
equipment; training and workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation
and maintenance expenditures.
(c) and (d) Socio-Economics and Database (US$3.65 million]
3.14  The aim of this program is to provide information which will be used to improve
management of the lake resources in order that local communities will increase their
benefits from the fishery, while sustaining the ecosystem from which the benefits arise.
The initial actions will be to analyze and disseminate data from previous and ongoing
projects on: (a) small scale fishing and fish commodity systems (financed by the
International Development Research Center [IDRC]); (b) understanding the socio-
economic impacts of changes in the lake fisheries (financed by the private MacArthur
Foundation); (c) sustainable management of ecotones (transition areas between adjacent
ecological communities) in collaboration with the University of Zurich; and (d)
management strategies of fishing communities (financed by the EU).
3.15  The program will further provide information on current fishery distribution
patterns, community involvement in harvesting up to marketing of fish, how activities
of fisherfolk contribute to environmental degradation, nutrition, health and other social
amenities of lakeside communities, alternative management systems incorporating
different stakeholders, the contribution of fisheries to the three national economies, and
the consequences of changes in fishing policies. The program outputs will be evolution
of policies with greater community participation, a larger share for communities in the
harvesting and marketing of fish, more fish available in local communities, and better
health and social services for these communities. The database program will develop
bibliographies and a central clearing house for information about the lake, an electronic
communications network, and train librarians and other database managers.
3.16  This sub-component will be implemented by the Fishery Research Institutes in
the three countries (KEMFRI, TAFIRI, and FIRI), in collaboration with Fisheries
Extension, riparian universities, local communities and NGOs. It will be financed by
GEF (23 percent) and IDA (67 percent). The project will finance vehicles and boats;
office, laboratory and field equipment; books and journal subscriptions; training and
workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                                 17
(e) Stock Assessment [financed separately by the EU]
3.17   The first comprehensive stock assessment survey since 1969/74, and the first
since the far-reaching changes believed to have occurred in the ecology of the lake, this
exercise will focus on prime commercial species, and will provide information about the
size of the fish stock, distribution and movement patterns, population structure,
breeding habits, estimates of potential yield, characteristics of fishing gear, catch rates,
description of the lake bottom, and updated bathymetric maps. Outcomes of the
program will be guidelines for fishery conservation, sustainable use, permissible quotas,
closed seasons, protected areas, and proposals for an integrated education program.
Fisheries Extension, Policies, Laws and Their Enforcement [US$14.09 million]
3.18   The intention in the project is to separate law enforcement and extension
activities. The law enforcement activities will comprise harmonisation of legislation
among the three countries, identification and establishment of closed fishing areas
(gazetted sanctuaries important for fish breeding, nurseries and juvenile feeding) in
Kenya and Uganda, and verification of those already set up in Tanzania, training and
empowerment of fisheries law enforcement officers, and establishment of customs posts
at selected border landing sites (Muhoru and Port Victoria in Kenya; Kirongwe and
Rubafu in Tanzania; and Mizinda/ Kasensero and Sigulu Island in Uganda). The
extension activities will comprise introduction of new techniques (such as lift netting and
live bait fishing), small scale aquaculture, and promoting organisations of fisherfolk
which will guard fisheries against illegal entry and gear thefts, act as channels for
improved gear and credit, and assist with overall monitoring of fisheries in the lake.
The program will begin in three pilot zones in the first year, and then be evaluated
thoroughly before being expanded to a further six pilot zones in the third year, and five
more in the fourth year. The program will also establish one fish quality control
laboratory in each country (to carry out testing for microbes, heavy metals, pathogens,
pesticides and other contaminants), and will study ways to reduce post-harvest losses of
fish through improvements in handling and processing, and strengthening and
harmonising data collection in the respective national Fisheries Departments. Included
in the component are provisions for micro-projects in selected fishing communities.
These will comprise small investments in community water supply from ground-water,
sanitary facilities, local roads, and health facilities. Details of management
arrangements for these are set out in the section on project implementation.
3.19   This component will be implemented by the Fisheries Departments of the
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife (Kenya), Ministry of Natural Resources (Tanzania),
and Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (Uganda); in collaboration with the
Fishery Research Institutes in the three countries (KEMFRI, TAFIRI, and FIRI), local
communities and NGOs. It will be financed by IDA (90 percent). The project will
finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field equipment; books and journal
subscriptions; training and workshops; technical assistance; construction of fish ponds;
and construction of community facilities for water supply from ground-water,
sanitation, roads, and health; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.



18                                          lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Fish Levy Trust [US$2.03 million]
3.20  This component will study and implement a system to collect levies from the
fishing industry and use them in support of fisheries and ecosystem management in the
lake and its catchment. In the first year of the project a study will be carried out of
mechanisms for revenue collection and disbursement already in operation in each
country, and additional possibilities for revenue collection. In the second year of the
project the findings of the study will be discussed and agreed among the three
governments, and a system to collect and disburse levies will be established in the third
year of the project. The study will be carried out by consultants under the supervision
of the Fisheries Departments of the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife (Kenya), Ministry
of Natural Resources (Tanzania), and Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and
Fisheries (Uganda), in collaboration with the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization. It
will be financed by IDA (90 percent). The project will finance vehicles; office
equipment; training and workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation
and maintenance expenditures.
Water Hyacinth Control [US$8.31 million]
3.21   The aim of the program is to establish sustainable long-term capacity for
maintaining control of water hyacinth and other invasive weeds in the Lake Victoria
Basin. This will be achieved by an integrated effort involving intensified publicity,
legislation, and integrated pest management with community involvement. The control
program will rely on mechanical methods and limited chemical interventions for rapid
short term control in restricted areas, and biological agents for longer term control.
Reducing nutrient inflows into the lake will be a vital element in long term approaches
to dealing with the problem. The biological control program will rely initially on
multiplication and release of two weevil species that have been used and found effective
world-wide, and have already been imported, reared and released in Kenya and
Uganda. The species are the chevroned water hyacinth weevil (Neochetina bruchi
Hystache) and the water hyacinth weevil (Neochetina eichorniae Warner). These two
species are complementary in their action. The possibilities will be explored for
supplementing the weevils by later releases of the moth Sameodes albiguttalis. The main
elements of the biological control program will be establishment of mass rearing
capacity in units around the shores of the lake as rapidly as possible, a coordinated field
release program involving local conununity participation, monitoring performance of
biological control agents in the field, and development of a monitoring and evaluation
protocol and training program.
3.22  Implementation of the water hyacinth control program will be led by the
agricultural research organizations of the three countries, namely the Kenya
Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) in the Ministry of Research, Technical Training
and Technology, the Uganda National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) in
the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries, and the Tanzania
Department of Research and Training in the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock,
Cooperatives and Development. The agricultural research institutions will be
responsible, in particular, for the program to multiply and disperse the biological
control agents. National Water Hyacinth Steering Committees will be established in



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                           19
each country to oversee and coordinate the program, and to ensure the involvement of
local communities and NGOs. The program will be financed by GEF (54 percent) and
IDA (36 percent). The project will finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field
equipment; laboratory chemicals and herbicides; biological control agents; rearing
facilities for bio-agents and renovation of offices and laboratories; training and
workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.
Water Quality and Ecosystem Management [US$9.58 million]
3.23  The aim of this component is to elucidate the nature and dynamics of the lake
ecosystem by providing detailed information on the characteristics of the waters of the
lake. The program will provide details of limnological changes, model and predict their
short and long term consequences, and provide guidelines for ameliorating potentially
disastrous changes. The program will provide quantitative information on nutrient
loading and recycling in the lake (particularly the internal loading of sediment
phosphorus); sources and mechanics of eutrophication and pollution and their effect on
lake productivity (with a particular focus on ways to stabilize or reduce eutrophic
status); phytoplankton communities and their composition; algal blooms and their
dynamics; lake zooplankton, microbes, benthic flora and fauna, lake fly and their roles;
primary production including estimation of lake carrying capacity; stratification of the
lake and the increasing problem of anoxia; trophic inter-relationships; and lake
palaeolimnology.
3.24  The program will consist of one core project, namely Management of
Eutrophication [US$6.86 million], two pilot projects, Sedimentation Studies [US$0.63
million] and Hydraulic Conditions in Lake Victoria [US$0.95 million], and construction
of a model of water circulation and quality in the lake, designed to help manage the
problems. The core project aims to establish periodic assessment of physical and
chemical characteristics of the lake system. It will measure temperatures in different
strata, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, pH, factors affecting light penetration such as
suspended silt/sedimentation concentrations, water clarity, and spectral characteristics,
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) levels, levels of heavy metals (mercury, chromium
and lead), pesticide residues, abundance and species composition of phyto- and zoo-
plankton, phytoplankton primary production, levels of B-coli and E-coli. Analysis of
these and other data will establish rates of change in water quality, relate these to the
observed status of inputs from the catchment, estimate the effects of poor water quality
on the economy of the region, and establish the basis for a practicable pollution control
program.
3.25  The pilot sedimentation study will estimate sedimentation rates at the mouths of
three rivers, the Kagera (Uganda), Simiyu (Tanzania) and Nyando (Kenya). It will
assess the rate of release of nutrients from sediments, analyze sediment-biota
associations, and compare the data with soil losses from surrounding areas. The pilot
hydraulic study will measure patterns of water circulation in the Rusinga Channel
(Kenya), and in similar areas in Tanzanian and Uganda waters, (Mwanza Bay and
Murchison/Pilkington Bays respectively) to determine the interaction between vertical
and horizontal circulation components, improve existing estimates of hydraulic



20                                           Lake Victona Environmental Management Project
retention periods in the lake, and develop simulation models of the dynamics of
nutrients and phytoplankton which will be used to predict the impacts of
eutrophication control programs and pollution intervention strategies.
3.26   Under the former Hydromet Project, in 1979/80, executed by the World
Meteorological Organisation (WMO) a Lake Victoria Water Quality Model was
constructed, designed to be linked with a hydrological model developed with
UNDP/WMO assistance. Unfortunately, this model was not calibrated, tested, or
validated. The basic process formulations in this model will be re-assessed to determine
their current validity, bearing in mind that scientific information about the lake has
increased since the model was constructed, and will increase still further under the
LVEMP. In addition, knowledge about what kinds of modelling are most useful for
management have changed in the interim, making it necessary for the model to be re-
formulated, calibrated, validated, and applied under the project to develop and test
management strategies for the lake.
3.27  Implementation of the program will be led by the Ministry of Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development (Kenya), the Ministry of Water (Tanzania), and the
Directorate of Water Development of the Ministry of Natural Resources in Uganda.
They will collaborate with the fisheries research institutes, communities, and NGOs in
the three countries, with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Ministry
of Agriculture, Moi University School of Environmental Studies, and the Institute of
Nuclear Sciences at Nairobi University (Kenya), the Ministry of Natural Resources and
the University of Dar es Salaam (Tanzania), and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Makarere University Departments of Zoology and Chemistry (Uganda). It will be
financed by GEF (90 percent). The project will finance vehicles and boats; office,
laboratory and field equipment; laboratory chemnicals and reagents; renovation of
offices, laboratories, and monitoring stations; training and workshops; technical
assistance; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance expenditures.
Industrial and Municipal Waste Management [US$9.89 million]
3.28   This program consists of one core project, namely Management of Industrial and
Municipal Effluents [US$4.28 million], two pilot projects on Integrated Tertiary
Municipal Effluent Treatment [US$0.80 million], and Integrated Tertiary Industrial
Effluent Treatment [US$0.81 million], and a component for Priority Waste Management
Investments [US$4 million]. The overall aim of the program is to improve management
of industrial and municipal effluent, and assess the contribution of urban runoff to lake
pollution in order to design alleviation measures. The program will prepare inventories
and classifications for all factories and industries in the catchment, assess treatment of
effluent before discharge and its dilution and dispersion levels in the receiving water
bodies, quantify pollution and nutrient flows from urban runoff, identify and
characterise pollution "hot spots", formulate guidelines and effluent discharge
standards, establish training arrangements for industrialists and local authorities,
launch a public awareness campaign, and initiate pilot treatment projects in selected
municipalities and industries.



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                           21
3.29  The pilot industrial effluent treatment will create "wetlands" to test tertiary
treatment through filtration of industrial waste from the PanPaper Mill in Webuye
(Kenya) before it discharges into the Nzoia River, from various industries in Mwanza
town (Tanzania), and from various industries in Jinja (Uganda). The pilot municipal
effluent treatment will create "wetlands" to test tertiary treatment through filtration of
municipal waste in Kisumu (Kenya), Mwanza (Tanzania), and Jinja (Uganda). The
program of Priority Waste Management Investments will include urgent rehabilitation
and/or extension of urban sanitation systems which are currently discharging untreated
waste directly into the lake. Under this sub-component the project will rehabilitate the
wastewater treatment works in Kisumu (Kenya), construct a community-based
simplified sewage scheme in a portion of Mwanza (Tanzania) to complement an
expansion of the water supply system financed by the EU, improve a sludge disposal
site in Bukoba (Tanzania), assist the National Water and Sewerage Corporation in
Uganda to develop a long-term pollution reduction strategy, and modify the main
effluent discharge into the lake at the Bugolobi treatment works in Kampala (Uganda)
to increase the detention time of effluent and reduce pollution entering the lake. Details
of management arrangements for these waste management investments are set out in
the section on project implementation.
3.30  Implementation of the program will be led by the Ministry of Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development (Kenya), the Ministry of Water (Tanzania), and the
Directorate of Water Development of the Ministry of Natural Resources in Uganda.
They will collaborate with municipal and local councils, and industries in all three
countries, with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the Lake Basin Development
Authority, and Moi University School of Environmental Studies (Kenya), the University
of Dar es Salaam (Tanzania), and the National Water and Sewerage Corporation
(NWSC) and Makarere University (Uganda). Postgraduate students from the three
universities will take up research study areas under this project, and it is envisaged that
the pilot experiments with artificial wetlands, in particular, will be carried out as
student research studies. The program will be financed by IDA (90 percent). The
project will finance vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field equipment;
laboratory chemicals and reagents; construction of artificial wetlands; feasibility studies
and structures for sanitation; training, workshops, and demonstrations; technical
assistance; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance expenditures.
Land Use and Wetland Management [US$14.05 million]
3.31  This program consists of two core projects, namely Management of Pollution
Loading [US$4.04 million], and Buffering Capacity of Wetlands [US$3.43 million],
together with four pilot projects: Assessment of the Role of Agro-Chemicals in Pollution
[US$0.86 million], Integrated Soil and Water Conservation [US$1.49 million],
Sustainable Use of Wetlands Products [US$1.49 million], and Afforestation [US$2.80
million]. Building on the last estirnates of primary nutrients reaching Lake Victoria
from its catchment, made in 1979/80 by the Hydromet Project, the pollution loading
project will establish a water quality monitoring network throughout the catchment,
estimate the effects of changes in land use planning on pollution loads in lake, and
develop policies and programs to control non-point source pollution. The second
project will investigate the buffering processes and capacity of Lake Victoria wetlands,



22                                          Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
and devise a management strategy for them. It will develop an inventory and
classification of the wetlands, monitor nutrient loading in priority areas, simulate the
changes of buffering function associated with threats to the wetland resources, assess
the economic value of buffering functions, and prepare guidelines and investment
proposals for introducing wastewater into wetlands, as well as rehabilitation and
artificial wetland construction.
3.32  The pilot project for agro-chemicals will be implemented on selected sites in the
Winam Gulf, Nyando and Nzoia catchments in Kenya, the Simiyu catchment near
Mwanza in Tanzania, and the Kakira sugar estate on the lake shore in Uganda. It will
carry out inventories of agro-chemicals in the pilot areas, conduct field trials on the fate
of pesticides and nutrients applied on farms, monitor residues leaching out of the pilot
catchments, and pesticide levels in receiving rivers, assemble and review a database of
agro-chemical use in the Lake Victoria Basin, establish arrangements for disseminating
information to all stakeholders, and mount training courses for extension services on the
better use of agro-chemicals. The soil conservation pilot will be implemented in the
catchments of the Simiyu, Nyando, and Kagera Rivers. It will quantify soil erosion and
nutrient loss from different land covers and uses, design remedial measures and
sustainable agricultural practices, develop systems to promote soil and water
conservation, and establish demonstration units to disseminate successful soil and
water conservation measures. The wetlands pilot project, in selected communities in
each of the countries, will estimate the economic benefits from wetlands products (fish,
papyrus, reeds, clay, livestock grazing, and agricultural products), develop management
strategies for their sustainable use, and for the rehabilitation of specific degraded
wetlands, evolve strategies for community participation in sustainable use, initiate pilot
activities to demonstrate this use, and strengthen capacity of local NGOs and CBOs to
undertake wise use activities. The afforestation pilot project will protect vital parts of
the lake catchment by planting trees. It will increase awareness among communities on
catchment protection and tree farming, develop local seed sources, improve
management of existing forest reserves and create new reserves, and conserve forest
biodiversity.
3.33  Implementation of the program will be led by the Ministry of Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development and the Ministry of Agriculture (Kenya), the Ministry
of Water and Ministry of Agriculture (Tanzania), and the Directorate of Water
Development of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ministry of Agriculture
(Uganda). They will collaborate with communities, NGOs, and the Ministries or
Industry and Community Development in all three countries, with the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources, and the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
(KARI) (Kenya), the Ministry of Natural Resources, and the Tropical Pesticides Research
Institute (Tanzania), the Ministry of Environment, and the National Agricultural
Research Organization (NARO) (Uganda). National wetlands committees in all three
countries would also be involved in the wetlands components, with assistance from the
World Conservation Union (IUCN), which would continue to foster regional
cooperation among the developing national wetlands programs. The sub-components
for Management of Pollution Loading and Wetland Buffering Capacity will be financed
by GEF (90 percent), the sub-components for Assessment of the Role of Agro-Chemicals
in Pollution, Integrated Soil and Water Conservation, and Afforestation will be financed



Lake Victonia Environmental Management Project                             23
by IDA (90 percent), and the sub-component for Sustainable Use of Wetlands Products
will be financed by both GEF (45 percent) and IDA (45 percent). The project will finance
vehicles and boats; office, laboratory and field equipment; books and subscriptions to
journals; laboratory chemicals and reagents; construction of raingauge stations;
feasibility studies and structures for sanitation; training, workshops, and
demonstrations; technical assistance; ground and aerial survey work; forestry seedling
nurseries and creation of reserves; personnel costs, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.
Institutional Framework [US$3.98 million]
3.34   This program consists of three components, namely maintaining the
coordinating Secretariats [US$2.75 million], support for riparian universities [US$1.06
million], and preparation of a Pollution Disaster Contingency Plan for the lake [US$0.17
million]. The three National Secretariats, which have proven successful in coordinating
project preparation, will be strengthened by adding three positions: a
Procurement/Disbursement Officer, an Operations Officer, and a Management
Information Systems Officer. The Secretariats will provide a central contact point and
information clearing house for all agencies implementing the program, and all donors
supporting it. While the line agencies will be responsible for progress on their own
components, and for monitoring and reporting on that progress, the Secretariats wir
gather information from all the agencies in their respective countries, be responsible for
overall monitoring, and prepare progress reports for decision making about the overall
project. They will ensure compliance with IDA and GEF reporting, procurement and
disbursement procedures (see the Project Implementation Plan, Annex 3). The Heads of
the Secretariats will, when necessary, organize tripartite meetings of officials
responsible for various components of the program. The Regional Secretariat in
Tanzania will organize meetings, when required, of members of the Regional Policy and
Steering Committee. This management and coordination component will be financed
by GEF (90 percent). The project will finance vehicles; office equipment; regional and
national meetings and workshops; technical assistance; personnel costs, and operation
and maintenance expenditures.
3.35 The component for the riparian universities will strengthen facilities for
environmental analysis and graduate teaching at Moi University School of
Environmental Studies (Department of Fisheries), at the University of Dar es Salaam
(Departrnent of Zoology), and at Makarere University (Department of Zoology). The
component will be financed by GEF (90 percent). The project will finance vehicles and
boats; office and laboratory equipment, chemicals and reagents; books and subscriptions
to journals; and operation and maintenance expenditures.
3.36   Under the guidance of the Regional Secretariat in Tanzania, consultants
preparing the Pollution Disaster Contingency Plan will draw up an inventory of
hazards, hazardous sites, and vulnerable water uses and sites; review safety regulations;
assess available facilities and planning provisions to deal with emergencies; implement
a public education program, establish early warning systems, and develop a Regional
Disaster Plan and Protocol to be agreed by the three governments. The component will



24                                           Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
be financed by GEF (90 percent). The project will finance technical assistance to
undertake a pollution disaster study and prepare a contingency plan.
D.    PROJECT PRIORITIES
3.37  In this project the individual components fit together like a web, as befits a
package of measures which addresses comprehensively the problems in an inter-
connected ecosystem. Almost all components will contain a mixture of information-
gathering, capacity building, and concrete actions to address the lake's problems. Much
of the information-gathering will follow an adaptive environmental management
approach, which involves learning by doing and adjusting or adapting rnanagement
actions based on results. It is not easy, therefore, to separate actions from knowledge-
building. It will be important for all components to be implemented from the
beginning, and in all three countries simultaneously, at a comparable pace.
3.38   Project investments do, however, comprise a mix of activities in pilot zones, and
activities carried out on a lake-wide basis. What is sequenced in the project is not the
actions, themselves, but the pilot zones in which they are carried out. In the first year of
the project, actions will be implemented in three pilot zones: Nyakach Bay in Kenya,
Mwanza Gulf in Tanzania, and Napoleon Gulf in Uganda. Thereafter, groups of pilot
zones will be phased in until by the end of the project actions will have been carried out
in all 14 designated pilot zones. If there were to be funding crises, the response would
be to postpone the work in the pilot zones planned for the outer years of the project. In
this way the essential core of lake-wide activities would be preserved, as well as the
coordinated nature of the adaptive environmental management approach in at least a
sub-set of the pilot areas. Upon resolution of any funding crisis, work would be
resumed with minimum disruption to progress.
E.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
3.39  The total cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at US$77.58 million, as outlined in the table below. Project costs are shown in
US Dollars, because three different domestic currencies are involved.
Financing
3.40  The three governments would contribute US$7.6 million to the project, leaving
US$70 million to be covered by donors. Incremental costs financed by the GEF amount
to US$35 million. The remaining project costs would be financed by IDA with an
allocation of US$35 million (Table 3.2).
GEF Incremental Costs
3.41  Incremental costs of the project under GEF definitions are estimated to be
US$38.8 million (details in Annex 7). In addition to financing the baseline and adjusted



Lake Victoria Environmental Managemenf Project                                                        25
baseline measures from non-GEF (IDA) sources, the three riparian governments have
agreed to contribute US$3.8 million from their own resources to finance a part of the
project's incremental cost. They have requested a GEF grant of US$35 million to fund
the balance.
Table 3.1        Project Cost Summary
(US$'000)
%        % Total
Project Component                    Local     Foreign      Total     Foreign      Base
Exchange    Costs
A. Fisheries Management (LVFO)                            314      1,649       1,964     84          3
B. Fisheries Research                                   5,893      5,910     11,802     50          17
1. Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation         2,618     3,164       5,782     55          8
2. Aquaculture                                        1,544      1,237      2,782     44          4
3. Socio-Economics Studies                            1,332      1,048      2,382     44           3
4. Establishing Database                               399        458         858     53           1
C. Fisheries Extension, Policies, and Laws              7,411      4,947     12,359     40          18
D. Water Hyacinth Control                               5,423      2,042      7,465     27          11
E. Water Quality Monitoring                             3,226      5,262      8,488     62          12
1. Eutrophication                                    2,720      3,409       6,129     55          9
2. Sedimentation (pilot study)                         152        364         516     71           1
3. Hydraulic Conditions (pilot study)                  138        700         838     83           1
4. Lake Victoria Management Model                      216        789       1,005     78           1
F. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management            4,074      5,156      9,230     56          13
1. Management of Industrial and Municipal Effluent    1,871     1,897       3,768     50          6
2. Tertiary Municipal Effluent Treatment (pilot project)  481     260         740     35           1
3. Tertiary Industrial Effluent Treatment (pilot project)  462    260         722     36           1
4. Priority Waste Management Investments              1,260     2,740       4,000     69           6
G. Land Use and Wetland Management                      8,093     4,468      12,560     36          18
1. Pollution Loading                                  1,962     1,603       3,566     45          5
2. Buffering Capacity of Wetlands                     1,751      1,339      3,091     43           5
3. Assessment of Agro-Chemicals (pilot)                344        424         768     55           1
4. Soil and Water Conservation (pilot)                1,143       182       1,325     14           2
5. Sustainable Use of Wetlands Products (pilot)        969        366       1,336     27          2
6. Afforestation                                      1,924       552       2,476     22           3
H. Policy and Institutional Framework                   3,097      2,193      5,290     41           5
1. LVEMP Secretariats                                 1,975       462       2,436     19          4
2. Support to Riparian Universities                    319        628         947     66           1
3. Fisheries Levy Trust                                803        953       1,755     54          2
4. Pollution Disaster Contingency                         -       150         150    100           1
Subtotal Base Costs                                    37,532     31,627     69,159     46          100
Physical Contingencies                               3,550      2,604       6,155     42          9
Price Contingencies                                    707      1,482       2,270     65          3
TOTAL COSTS                                            41,869     35,713     77,582     46          112



26                                                  Lake Victona Environmental Management Project
Table 3.2      Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Component            Governments  GEF        IDA      Total      %
A. Fisheries Management (LVFO)                 0.2       2.1                2.3        3
B. Fisheries Research                          1.3       8.8      3.2       13.3      17
C. Fisheries Extension, Policies, and Laws     1.4                12.7      14.1      18
D. Water Hyacinth Control                     0.8        4.5      3.0       8.3       11
E. Water Quality Management                    1.0       8.6                9.6        12
F. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management   1.0                8.9       9.9       13
G. Land Use and Watland Management             1.4       7.4      5.3       14.1      18
H. Policy and Institutional Framework         0.6        3.6      1.9       6.1        8
TOTAL COSTS                                    7.6      35.0      35.0      77.6      100
F.     RATIONALE FOR GEF AND IDA INVOLVEMENT
3.42   Lake Victoria is an international water body that is both of great economic worth
to the three riparian countries and of great scientific and cultural significance to the
global community, mainly in respect of its unique waterborne biodiversity. It is
suffering severely from three of the four major global environment concerns highlighted
in the GEF Operational Strategy for International Waters - degradation of water quality
due to pollution from land-based activities; introduction of non-indigenous species; and
excessive exploitation of living resources. It is also facing their typical consequences -
potentially irreversible environmental damage, hardship to the poor and serious health
concerns. With poverty endemic to the region and many competing claims for scarce
development resources, the case for GEF-support to overcome the barriers to concerted
corrective action is extremely strong. As called for in the operational strategy, the GEF
assistance will act as a catalyst for the three countries to develop a better understanding
of how the lake functions, learn how the actions of their populations in the lake basin
affect the lake environment, and work out ways jointly with one another to implement a
comprehensive approach to managing the lake ecosystem to achieve global
environment benefits. The project is consistent with both the GEF waterbody-based
operational program and with the integrated land and water operational program,
while also having elements of the third, contaminant-based, operational program. The
project will in particular address another priority in the operational strategy - the
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in freshwater ecosystems. As one of
the world's largest unique freshwater biodiversity habitats, Lake Victoria is a clear
priority for GEF assistance.
3.43   The GEF funding for this project will make possible the elaboration of a strategic
framework for a large program of investments in the lake basin during the project
implementation period, particularly in municipal waste management and soil
conservation, and wvill also lay the foundation for a longer program of investments over
time in these and other areas. It will thus have an enormous "leveraging" impact, for
the benefit of the national and global environments. The GEF financing of preparation



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                          27
succeeded in generating strong "ownership" of the project by the three governments
which prepared it, and catalysed close collaboration at every stage among IDA, FAO,
UNDP and UNEP. The information and pilot work carried out in the GEF project
would orient ongoing investments and guide new ones during its five years of
implementation, and far beyond. Within the next two years, under projects already
begun, IDA and the European Union would finance improvements to municipal sewage
treatment schemes in Kampala and Jinja in Uganda, and Mwanza in Tanzania. The
funds would also finance a study of storm water drainage, solid waste management,
and water reticulation in Kampala.
3.44  Several other major infrastructure projects are planned to begin implementation
in FY98 which would finance water supply and urban sanitation in the lake basin,
directly in support of the LVEMP. Further projects are planned to support natural
resource management in the lake basin, including soil conservation and catchment
afforestation. All of these projects will reduce pollution and eutrophication in the lake.
While most of these projects were identified initially in the absence of the LVEMP, the
latter will increase markedly the success with which they address the priority issues.
The major projects still forthcoming will "take their signals" from the framework and
findings of the LVEMP. Numerous smaller scale activities with bilateral support,
implemented by local communities and NGOs, will also benefit from being planned in
the context of the improved information base and management plans designed for the
ecosystem as a whole, which will result from the LVEMP.
3.45  The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
each of the three countries. The CAS for Kenya was discussed by the Board on January
31, 1996. One of the key elements of the strategy is to improve environmental
management within the country, and to assist Kenya to respond to its conmmitments to
enhance protection of the global environment. The CAS for Uganda was discussed by
the Board on June 1, 1995. An important element of that strategy is to build domestic
environmental management capacity, and in particular to address issues related to
degradation of Lake Victoria. The CAS for Tanzania was discussed by the Board in
March 1994, and a Progress Report was discussed by the Board on May 23, 1996. IDA
financial support for the project is in line with two primary aims of the CAS, namely
capacity building for improved public sector management, and creating a climate for
environmentally sustainable investments.
3.46  The project would be the first substantial investment in the environment for IDA
in two of the three countries following preparation of National Environmental Action
Plans in all three. Various other donors have supported a range of initiatives in and
around Lake Victoria, in smaller, uncoordinated, and sometimes incomplete ways. In
the absence of a coordinated management system for the entire lake and its ecosystem,
these smaller projects have sometimes fallen short, and continue to fall short, of
realizing their maximum potential. Building on its wide-ranging relationships with all
three governments, IDA has an important capability, and as implementing donor in this
project an important opportunity, to support the development of such a coordinated
management system. IDA also has the standing to mobilize scientific resources from
across the globe in support of an initiative which has unprecedented interest to the
global scientific community.



28                                         Lake Victona Environmental Management Project
G.   LESSONS LEARNED AND TECHNICAL REVIEW
3.47  This program would be the first of its kind within the region, addressing a
complex set of managerial, scientific/ technical and institutional issues across three
countries. It would aim to provide Governments with the necessary skills, information,
technical and financial resources, and a proper institutional and legal framework to
carry out successfully such an endeavor. It would build technical capacity to promote,
assist and coordinate the various initiatives within a regional framework, and help
design a comprehensive set of national policies and strategies based on lessons learned
from field experience. An important lesson incorporated from past operations was to
ensure that preparation be done by the countries themselves. The resultant ownership
will have the usual national benefits, as well as being especially important in this
program which crosses national boundaries, since the three governments have already
gained valuable experience working together during preparation.
3.48  The present report has responded to the GEF Technical Review of the project by
acknowledging the uncertainty about sources and mechanics of eutrophication,
incorporating the specific management elements suggested by the reviewer, setting the
stage for a new approach to modelling, reiterating the emphasis on management of the
lake's problems as the aim of everything in the project, and delineating the project's
large elements of capacity building.
4.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
4.1   The Tripartite Agreement (signed August 5,1994) which set in motion a
collaborative process of project preparation among the three countries, provided also for
project implementation. In particular it established three National Secretariats, each
headed by a high-level officer, selected by the respective governments, and supported
by a modest staff. These Secretariats served an essential coordination role during
project preparation, and it is planned that this role should continue into the project
implementation phase. They would be strengthened by the appointment of an
Procurement/Disbursement Officer, an Operations Officer, and a Management
Information Systems Officer. Among other things, these three officers would ensure
compliance with IDA and GEF reporting, procurement and disbursement procedures
(see the Project Implementation Plan, Annex 3). The three Secretariats, one in each
country, would provide a day-to-day central contact point and information clearing
house for all agencies implementing the program, and all donors supporting it. While
the many implementing agencies would be responsible for progress on their own
components, and for monitoring and reporting on that progress, the Secretariats would
gather information from all the agencies in their respective countries, be responsible for
overall monitoring, and prepare progress reports for decision making about the overall
project. The Heads of the Secretariats would also, when necessary, organize tripartite
meetings of officials responsible for various components of the program. The Regional
Secretariat in Tanzania would organize meetings, when required, of members of the



Lake Victoria Environnmntal Management Project                           29
Regional Policy and Steering Committee, which would also remain in place, with the
same membership as it has had throughout project preparation. The Committee would
have many roles, its most important being the mechanism for resolution of disputes
arising during implementation of the program.
4.2   The Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization would assume overall coordination
for components associated with fisheries, although as the project description outlines,
implementation would be by individual national agencies, and the Regional Policy and
Steering Committee would be responsible for overall program coordination, including
coordination between the fisheries program as a whole and the rest of the program.
B.   IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
4.3   The various national agencies would implement components of the projects as
follows. The three Fisheries Research Institutes (KEMFRI, TAFIRI and FIRI) would play
lead roles in all sub-components of fisheries research, and would collaborate with the
Fisheries Departments of their respective governments in the fisheries extension, and
with the Ministries of Water in the Water Quality components. For the latter
components, the Ministries of Water would be the lead agencies, and they in turn would
collaborate closely with the Ministries of Environment, Natural Resources and
Agriculture in their implementation of the components on land use and wetland
management. National wetlands committees in all three countries would also be
involved in these components, with continuing assistance from the World Conservation
Union (IUCN). The Moi, Makarere, and Sokoine Universities, and the Universities of
Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, would be involved in many of the studies, including those
on socio-economics. The water testing laboratories of the Kisumu and Mwanza
Municipal Councils, the Uganda Water and Sewage Corporation, and the Lake Basin
Development Authority (in Kisumu) would extend the reach of laboratories already
operating or planned by the respective Ministries of Water.
4.4   In order to address the variations in implementation capacity, from country to
country, and agency to agency, with some strong already but others less so, every sub-
program makes extensive provision for capacity building. For the whole project in the
three countries provision is made for more than 2,000 short term and on-job training
courses, about 100 regional Masters Degrees, and 15 PhDs. Care will be taken to strike a
balance in the training and its timing so that enough people are available to implement
the project.
4.5   For the Water Hyacinth Control Program, national steering committees or task
forces will be set up, and rearing units for biological control agents will be established
by the respective national agricultural research institutes. Finally, the project will also
draw on the resources of local and international consultants in areas where particular
scientific expertise is called for beyond the abilities of staff in the implementing
Ministries.
4.6   Because of the extensive scientific investments in the program, the worldwide
scientific interest in Lake Victoria, the need to seek innovative solutions to solving
environmental problems that draw on a broad spectrum of physical, biological and



30                                            Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
social sciences, and uncertainties associated with the dynamic lake ecosystem, it is also
proposed to appoint a high level panel of internationally renowned scientists, initially
with 7 members, to serve as an overall advisory group for the scientific studies in the
lake. Possible scientific specialties for representation on the panel will be limnology,
fish biology, zoology, entomology, plant physiology, microbiology, chemistry,
meteorology, economics, anthropology, sociology, soil chemistry and physics, forestry,
and ecology. The panel will contain at least three members representing the natural
sciences and at least two from the social sciences, and its membership will be reviewed
every two years, although members may serve unlimited terms upon reappointment by
the nominating agencies. Following each two-yearly review, the panel will elect from
among its members a corresponding secretary to facilitate communication within the
panel. The panel members will be mutually acceptable to the three riparian states (as
represented by the Regional Policy and Steering Committee) and to IDA.
4.7   The main aim of the Panel of Scientists will be to help ensure maximum benefits
to the riparian states from activities of the intemational scientific community, by
providing a means for improving the coordination of such activities and increasing their
contribution to specific capacity building and problem solving in the lake basin. They
will act as a standing committee of technical expertise to whom task and project
managers under the LVEMP may refer technical issues and reports for comment and
advice back to the referring managers. They will keep an up-to-date inventory of
international, externally funded scientific research pertinent to LVEMP programs.
Using electronic media such as the World Wide Web, they will keep the international
scientific community informed about outstanding research issues being addressed by
the LVEMP, in order to focus and mobilize that international community. They wir
help to identify international training opportunities for researchers from the riparian
countries, and encourage the formation of partnerships and consortia between regional
universities and the international community of universities. They will meet once a
year to review issues arising from project implementation, and could meet at other
times if required, as well as being available individually, at the request of the Regional
Policy and Steering Committee, to provide advice about specific issues.
C.    SPECIFIC IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.8   The project provides funds totalling about US$3 million for the three countries to
support micro-projects in selected fishing communities. These will comprise small
investments, costing up to US$15,000 each, in community water supply from ground-
water, sanitary facilities, local roads, health facilities, and seed funds for assisting
fishing communities to adjust to new regulations such as those related to fishing net
mesh sizes. These micro-projects will address concerns directly related to the fisheries
management and water quality emphases of the project, while providing incentives for
communities to participate in components of the project across the board. The funds for
these micro-projects will flow through the regional administrations, overseen by the
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife in Kenya, the Vice President's Office in Tanzania, and
the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries in Uganda.
4.9   The three Ministries responsible will each prepare an Operational Manual to
guide all micro-project activities. It will contain, inter alia, criteria for identification,



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                           31
appraisal, implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, reporting and
accounting requirements, sample contracting documents, standard forms for processing,
technical data on infrastructure projects, and procedures for carrying out environmental
assessments. An Evaluation Committee will be established in each of the three
Ministries, which will approve/reject project proposals from the regional offices. In the
regional offices, the proposed projects will be screened by Project Officers who will
assess the impact on the community and on special groups (e.g. poorer women), likely
returns on investment, factors affecting effective use and sustainability, satisfaction of
technical standards, sensitivity to environmental goals, realism of costs, arrangements
for implementation and supervision, and commnitment of beneficiaries to maintenance
(recurrent costs may be covered by allocation on the regional government approved
budget).
4.10  Micro-projects must have at least 10 percent community cost-sharing, in the form
of a financial contribution or through labor and materials. When micro-projects have
been approved, the central Ministry will prepare a disbursement schedule, bidding
documents, arrangements for procurement and contracts, review cost estimates, and
sign a Financing Agreement with the respective Community Project Committee.
Implementation of projects may be through self-help, by a Village Council or its
Community Committee, by private contractors answering to the Community
Committee, by Local Government Construction Units, or by an NGO contracted as a
Collaborating Agency. While Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) will, in general,
be preferred as implementing agencies, if NGOs are selected for implementation or to
provide technical assistance they will be selected competitively by shortlisting several
qualified NGOs, following IDA guidelines for use of consultants. Non-standard draft
contracts between the administering Ministries and NGOs will be subject to review and
"no objection" by IDA. Sole source selection of NGOs will be considered where justified
by circumstances.
4.11 Funds will flow from a line budget in the administering Ministries, through the
District Program Coordinators who will have an Authority to Incur Expenditure (AIE).
Full authority for procurement of goods and services (which will follow normal
government procedures satisfactory to IDA) will be vested in the districts. These
include shopping and local bidding procedures and/or direct contracting where the
first two methods are not feasible. Each micro-project will be supported by a technical
proposal, basic financial analysis and budget approved by the District Steering Group,
summarized in a sanction letter to be signed by the District Program Coordinator.
4.12  The priority waste management investments will be designed and implemented
under the project. During the first two years the project will finance detailed design
work for rehabilitating the existing wastewater treatment plant in Kisumu (Kenya), a
simplified sewerage system for a portion of Mwanza (Tanzania), improvements in
sludge disposal in Bukoba (Tanzania), and civil works on the main effluent discharge at
the Bugolobi treatment works in Kampala (Uganda). In addition, during the first two
years, the project will finance development of a long term pollution reduction strategy
by the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) in Uganda. In the third and
fourth years of the project, the civil works in Kisumu, Mwanza, Bukoba, and at the
Bugolobi treatment works will be constructed. Engagement of consultants to prepare



32                                          Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
the detailed designs and the strategy, and contracting of civil works, will follow
procedures acceptable to IDA as set out in the section on Procurement.
D.   IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
4.13   As they collaborated during project preparation, IDA, UNDP, and UNEP will
also collaborate during reviews of implementation. IDA will have overall responsibility
for review, UNDP will focus on stakeholder consultation and participation aspects of
the project, and UNEP will focus on water quality aspects of the project. As part of the
Mid-Term Review of the project (by March 1999), the three governments will prepare an
updated analysis of transboundary environmental concerns, to guide the second phase
of project implementation, and set the stage for subsequent initiatives. The
Implementation Completion Report prepared by the three governments at the end of
the project will include a revised Strategic Action Program, containing an outline of
interventions needed to address priority problems. IDA will use this as the basis for
convening a donors' meeting to seek commitments to support such interventions.
E.    PROCUREMENT
4.14  The entities responsible for coordinating program implementation and
procurement will be the LVEMP National Secretariats in the respective countries, the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources in Kenya, the Ministry of Natural
Resources in Uganda, and the Department of Environment in the Vice President's Office
in Tanzania. They would consult with the implementing sector Ministries and their
research organizations dealing with water, fisheries, and agriculture. Each
implementing agency will be responsible for procurement for the project components
assigned to it. The Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO) will be the
implementing and procuring agency for its activities.
4.15 IDA Guidelines for Procurement (1995) and IDA Guidelines for Use of
Consultants (1981) will be followed for all project components funded by the IDA
Credits and the GEF Grants. The Bank's Standard Documents for Procurement of
Goods (1995) and the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services (1995)
will be used for all procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures and consultancy contracts for Technical Assistance, respectively. Before
commencing procurement under National Competitive Bidding (NCB), and prior to
Credit Effectiveness, draft bidding documents will be finalised in consultation with
IDA. Standard bid evaluation reports developed by IDA will be used in presenting
evaluation reports to IDA.
Procurement Arrangements
4.16  As part of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), a procurement plan for major
contracts has been prepared for the project. Standard procurement processing times for
key activities were agreed with each of the participating Governments at negotiations.
4.17  Procurement of works, goods and services for all IDA/GEF financed
components will be coordinated centrally in each country by its LVEMP National



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                             33
Secretariat (LVEMP), but processing of bidding documents will be handled by the
sectoral ministry/agency in charge of project implementation. However, in the case of
common items such as vehicles, motor cycles, and office equipment, procurement will
be "bulked" at the national level. Procurement of these "bulked items" will be
processed by the LVEMP National Secretariats in each country. The National Secretariat
in each of the participating countries will be strengthened for this purpose by the
addition of a qualified procurement/disbursement specialist familiar with International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and procurement procedures.
4.18   The Category of Works includes civil works, on a pilot scale, for creation of
tertiary "wetlands" to test the treatment of municipal effluent using a system which
could be later adopted on a larger scale. The works would include design of the
"wetland", construction of diversion channels, pipes, sluice valves, gates, platforms,
access road(s), environmental protection works, and land development works. No ICB
procurement of works is foreseen due to the small scale of construction at dispersed
locations (contracts ranging from US$5,000 to US$100,000). Ministries that do not have
the required technical expertise will engage consultants to design and supervise civil
work contracts. Contracts for goods, including vehicles and equipment would be
grouped into packages of US$100,000 or more wherever practicable, and procured
through ICB.
4.19 Prior Review. All procurement packages for civil works, goods, supplies,
materials and maintenance contracts with an estimated contract value above US$100,000
wir be subject to IDA's prior review, in accordance with Appendix 1 of the IDA
Guidelines. All consulting contracts with firms with a contract value above US$100,000
or with individual consultants with a contract value above US$50,000 will be subject to
IDA's prior review. In addition, all terms of reference for proposed consulting
assignments wil be subject to IDA's prior review.
4.20  In order to ensure that appropriate procedures are being followed, the first three
contracts for goods, civil works, and consultancies, irrespective of contract value, will be
subject to IDA prior review. During supervision missions, IDA will review one in five
randomly selected contracts which are below these prior review thresholds.
4.21   Procurement Methods. The procurement of vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles,
office equipment, and supplies will be carried out in reasonable packages of similar
goods under the following procedures (aggregate amounts for non-ICB procedures are
shown in the respective procurement table for each participating Government, for the
GEF Grant and the IDA Credit):
* International Competitive Bidding (ICB), if the estimated contract value per
package is more than US$100,000;
*  National Competitive Bidding (NCB), if the estimated contract value per
package is more than US$50,000 but less than US$100,000;
* International Shopping Procedures (ISP) in accordance with Section III of
the IDA guidelines, on the basis of at least three quotations from reputable



34                                           lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
suppliers in two different countries, if the estimated cost per package is
more than US$20,000 but less than US$50,000; as an alternative to ISP, Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) procurement procedures may
be followed;
*  National Shopping Procedures (NSP) in accordance with Section III of the
IDA Guidelines, on the basis of at least three quotations from local
suppliers, if the estimated cost per package is less than US$20,000;
*  The aggregate amounts for ISP and NSP, respectively, would be 60 percent
and 40 percent of the Category "Other" for each GEF Grant and IDA Credit.
4.22  Technical Assistance Consultancies. The selection of consultants to provide
technical assistance will be carried out according to IDA Guidelines, including
shortlisting, letters of invitation and evaluation of technical and price proposals.
General procurement notices issued annually will highlight major consulting
assignments, which will assist in establishment of shortlists. Selections for short-term
assignments and the selection of individual consultants for contracts below the prior
review threshold will follow procedures specified in Section V of the IDA guidelines.
4.23   The selection of NGOs to provide Technical Assistance will be competitive
through shortlisting of several qualified NGOs, and otherwise will follow IDA
Guidelinesfor Use of Consultants.
4.24   Training. Each implementing department and agency will prepare an annual
tr-aining plan and submit it to the respective LVEMP National Secretariat. The training
program will identify the subjects and courses for training, their timing, duration,
estimated costs, name and location of the training institutions, the names of the persons
proposed, and the justification for their training. The training plans will be submitted to
IDA for approval, the first within three months of Credit Effectiveness, and subsequent
annual plans prior to the commencement of each fiscal year.
4.25   Procurement Monitoring. During project implementation the LVEMP National
Secretariats will provide quarterly reports on progress of procurement highlighting
difficulties encountered in the past, and how they would be addressed in the future to
ensure timely project completion.
F.    DISBURSEMENT
4.26  The proposed IDA Credits, respectively of SDR 8.9 million for Kenya, SDR 7.0
million for Tanzania, and SDR 8.4 million for Uganda, the proposed GEF Grants,
respectively of SDR 8.0 million for Kenya, SDR 7.2 million for Tanzania, and SDR 9.2
million for Uganda, would be disbursed over a period of 6 years with an expected
project completion date of June 30, 2002, and a closing date of December 31, 2002. The
schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 2.
4.27  Disbursement Procedures: Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be in
accordance with normal IDA procedures set out in the Disbursement Handbook



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                           35
(November 1992). Once agreement has been reached on the annual work program and
budgets with the respective implementing agencies, that is the LVEMP National
Secretariats and the focal Ministries in each country, or the LVFO as the case may be,
disbursements from the credit will be made following the standard procedures,
including: reimbursement of expenses incurred by the LVEMP National Secretariat, the
Ministries of Environment and Natural Resources, or the LVFO (as the case may be)
against submission of disbursement requests, direct payment to suppliers or
replenishment of special accounts.
4.28 To facilitate disbursement, IDA will advance a sum of US$500,000 for the Lake
Victoria Environmental Management Program to the LVEMP National Secretariats in
each of the three countries into Special Accounts in US Dollars to be opened with a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Upon effectiveness the advance amounts will be
deposited to the Special Account and subsequent amounts deposited against
disbursement application(s). Replenishment applications for the Special Accounts
would be submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account balances are reduced by
one third, whichever comes first. The account may be used to pay for expenditures in
either local currency or foreign exchange through the commercial banking system,
against any category of expenditure. All replenishments should be fully documented
except in the case where statements of expenditure (SOEs) are authorized.
4.29  Disbursements by IDA against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs): the respective
project implementing agencies may claim reimbursements on the basis of statements of
expenditures (SOEs) for:
(a)   Goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent.
(b)   Consultant contracts, costing less than US$100,000 equivalent for firms,
and less than US$50,000 for individuals.
(c)   All local training, workshops and studies.
(d)   All training costs less than US$10,000, and all operating costs.
The respective implementing agency will retain all the relevant supporting
documentation for reimbursements of SOEs for inspection by IDA. During the course of
the annual audit of the project accounts, the auditors will certify that all expenditures
claimed under SOEs have been properly incurred for the project.
G.    ACCOUNTING AND AuDrrs
4.30 A single set of consolidated accounts will be prepared for each component under
the program. For preparation of the component accounts, and records of project
activities, including SOE's and the Special Account in accordance with sound
accounting practices, responsibility will rest on the accountants appointed for this
purpose under the program (in the LVEMP National Secretariats and the LVFO when
established) under the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources in Kenya, the
Vice President's Office in Tanzania, and the Ministry of Natural Resources in Uganda.



36                                         Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Governments will have the
records and accounts of the Project, including the Special Accounts and SOEs, audited
for every fiscal year, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that it will submit
the audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of every fiscal year, with a
separate opinion by the auditors on SOEs.
4.31  Foreign exchange Special Accounts will be established by each country for the
program with an international commercial bank of good repute, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon credit effectiveness an initial deposit of US$0.5
million would be made into the Special Account of the Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program in each country, representing about four months of IDA/GEF
disbursements. Operation of these Special Accounts will follow IDA procedures, and
the account will be replenished on the basis of regular monthly applications from the
LVEMP Secretariat or the LVFO, documenting expenditures from the account.
H.    SUSTAINABILITY AND PARTICIPATION
4.32  The two most important elements of sustainability are stakeholder ownership,
and provision for fiscal continuance. They have been addressed by a highly
participatory mode of project preparation, and will be addressed during
implementation by special efforts to involve local communities, and support for a
Fisheries Levy Trust study to seek sources of funds for ongoing support for lake
ecosystem activities.
4.33  Catalyzed by GEF financing, the three governments prepared the project
themselves, in the process resolving many issues among them, demonstrating good
technical collaboration, and generating strong ownership for the implementation phase.
The Tripartite Agreement signed in August 1994 covered both preparation and
implementation, thus providing for the implementation phase a continuing legal
framework which has already been tested and found sound. Institutional arrangements
which have proved their worth during preparation - especially the structure of National
Secretariats and a joint Policy Steering Committee - will be continued unchanged for
implementation, except that the Secretariats will be strengthened by the addition of
specialized personnel.
4.34  Supported by the UNDP, special efforts during preparation were made in all
three countries to involve communities around the lake in generation and discussion of
project proposals, along with information-gathering to ensure that project proposals
address the needs of local communities. In all three countries consultants were engaged
who visited communities, women's groups, projects of community-based organisations
and NGOs in fisheries and fish processing, soil conservation, wetlands development,
and water hyacinth control, among many others. In Tanzania, for example, a study of
community needs was conducted in three regions, 12 districts, 24 fishing villages and
more than 85 groups or communities. The consultants also worked with NGOs and
others to conduct stakeholder workshops, and with the government working groups to
incorporate a community focus into the preparation report. The large emphasis on
fisheries extension is one of many outcomes of this process. Others include the
provision for community micro-projects among the investments which the project



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                           37
supports, and the proposals for community involvement in many of the research
programs to be conducted under the project. The government preparation report
acknowledges that "one of the major setbacks in aquatic resource management in East
Africa is the general lack of community participation in management programs", and
notes that such participation "is considered key to the successful implementation of this
program."
4.35  Throughout the project special efforts will be made to involve local communities,
and the capacity of a number of local NGOs and CBOs will be strengthened so that they
can facilitate the process of community participation and ownership, and lead the
communities in undertaking wise use activities of the resources in the lake and its basin.
A special feature of the Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation program
implementation, for example, will be attempts to involve local communities in
identification of issues, tagging and recapture efforts, return of immature fish,
surveillance of protected areas, sampling of commercial catches, protection of research
equipment, and compilation of research data. Many of the other scientific initiatives
will involve communities in carrying out the measurements, and in caring for
monitoring equipment. For the water hyacinth control program, in particular, it will be
essential for local people to understand and assist with the biological control efforts.
4.36  The project has community participation woven into virtually every component,
funding for micro-projects, a great deal of community training, financing for hundreds
of stakeholder workshops, and provision for community participation in everything
from scientific studies to water hyacinth control, fisheries research to own-enforcement
of agreed fishery regulations, sustainable use of wetlands to soil conservation, with
benefits springing from better fishing management, aquaculture, higher quality
products, lower post-harvest losses, cleaner water, more control over local fishing
beaches, and construction of community assets.
4.37  Acknowledging that availability of reliable and adequate funding is essential for
management of fisheries, which involves continuing research, extension, monitoring
and enforcement, the three governments have proposed to study and implement jointly
a program in which funds raised from the commercial fisheries themselves would
contribute to underwriting fisheries management in the longer term, as well as assisting
some of the central monitoring and management initiatives to become fiscally
sustainable. The study will identify sources of funds, and also examine in depth the
issues involved in managing such funds on a regional basis. The LVEMP includes
financial support for establishing a shared Levy Trust Fund among the three countries,
should the study show this to be feasible.
I.    MONrrORING AND EVALUATION
4.38  The project is designed to be a mixture of information-gathering, capacity-
building, institution establishment, and actions to deal with the environmental
problems of the lake and its catchment, with an emphasis on fisheries management,
water hyacinth control, improving water quality, and land use management (including
wetlands). A central concern is to reduce the flow of nutrients and pollutants into the
lake, and reverse some of the adverse environmental developments of the past. This



38                                             Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
project will attempt to lay the foundations in these areas, and provide a "central core"
around which will coalesce a larger program of investments to clean up the lake, and
establish sustainable development of the lake and its catchment in the face of the
growing population pressures likely to be experienced.
4.39   It will be difficult to isolate and measure the project's impact on development in
the lake and its catchment. Although there are some specific characteristics of the lake
which can be measured - water quality, fisheries yield, and ecological stability - the lack
of reliable historic data will make it hard to calculate in an exact way the extent to which
the LVEMP itself is responsible for changes noted, since these have to be considered
against some prediction of what would have happened without the project.
4.40   Monitoring of the lake catchment and of the LVEMP will focus on measuring the
state of the lake (water quality, fish stocks, and species richness) and measuring (or
estimating) changes in the inputs to the system (such as fishing effort, and loads of key
pollutants). Specific indicators of project impact will include (a) reductions in the
nutrient and fecal coliform counts from towns bordering the lake; (b) reductions in
sediment and phosphorus loading in rivers flowing into the lake; (c) reductions by at
least 50 percent over five years in significant industrial pollutants entering the lake; (d)
stabilizing the Nile perch catch at least at current levels, and increasing the recovery of
other species; (e) measurable reduction in the infestation of water hyacinth; and (f)
stabilization of areas retained as wetlands.
4.41 The main indicators of project implementation success will be (a) building
capacity within the riparian universities, the line ministries, the LVEMP secretariats and
the riparian communities for environmental analysis, conservation and adoption of
cohesive management practices on and around the lake; (b) harmonizing among the
three countries legislation addressing management of fisheries and environmental
variables important in the lake basin, and improved enforcement of this legislation; (c)
establishment of the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO); (d) completion of
gazetting and regulating fish landing sites within the pilot zone areas and enforcing
acceptable fishing practices within a 5 km radius of fishing villages within these areas,
with full participation of lake shore fishing communities; (e) establishing sustainable
long-term capacity for management and control of water hyacinth and other invasive
weeds in the Lake Victoria Basin, through integrated weed control methods and
community involvement; (f) establishing a lake wide water quality and rainfall
monitoring system with agreed parameters to generate information on eutrophication
management and pollution control; and (g) completing a full inventory and resource
survey of Lake Victoria wetlands, and preparing investment proposals for the economic
management of these wetlands, including their rehabilitation.



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                           39
5.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    BENEFITS
Background
5.1   The LVEMP is a comprehensive program aimed at rehabilitation of the lake
ecosystem for the benefit of the people who live in the catchment and its area of
influence. The scientific evidence shows that the present methods of exploitation and
development in the catchment are unsustainable, and that without intervention there
could be serious environmental and related socio-economic consequences. The most
pressing concern is a possible decline in the very valuable fishery (currently worth
about US$320 million annually in export revenue), but this predicted decline represents
merely an immediately obvious outcome of the loss of resilience of the ecosystem.
Sediments and pollution are degrading water quality, increasing urbanization and
agricultural expansion are both resulting in the loss of wetlands -- including swamps
and satellite lakes that still shelter a remnant of a once spectacular native aquatic fauna,
changes in feeding chains and trophic systems since the introduction of exotic fish
species are trending toward a highly unstable fisheries monoculture, and -- a
fundamental and ominous change -- the anoxic portion of the lake waters (a biologically
almost dead zone) has been steadily increasing over recent years.
5.2   The fundamental objective of the LVEMP is to restore a healthy, varied lake
ecosystem which is inherently stable and which can support, in a sustainable way, the
many human activities in the catchment. Development pressures in the catchment are
increasing because of natural population growth and migration from poorer and less
fertile rural areas, and the multi-purpose central role of the lake is becoming
increasingly important even as its capacity to cope is being threatened.
5.3   The economy of the lake catchment produces in the order of US$3-4 billion
annually and supports an estimated population of 25 million people at standards of
living in the range of US$90-270 per capita p.a., based on national figures. The lake
catchment economy is principally an agricultural one, with a number of cash crops
(including exports of fish) and a high level of subsistence fishing and agriculture. The
quality of the physical environment is therefore a fundamental factor in maintaining
and increasing the living standards of the growing population.
Gross Benefits
5.4   The main economic benefits of the overall LVEMP derive from avoiding the
losses that can be anticipated if effective action is not taken. According to the best
understanding of the local and international scientific research community, as
documented in the material presented by the Regional Task Forces for project
preparation, the major consequences of not halting the present trends could be:
(a)   a decline in the overall fishery as a result of both overfishing and
deterioration of lake water quality;



40                                            Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
(b)   increasing extent and severity of water hyacinth infestation;
(c)    unsuitability of the lake water for domestic supply or animal watering;
(d)   continued degradation of the wetlands.
5.5   The regional benefits of the programme would be the incremental avoidance or
reduction of damage costs associated with these consequences, beyond the damage
avoided as a result of actions that would have been taken to achieve local benefits. In
addition there would be other benefits as a result of bringing forward projects which are
in themselves economically justified (such as soil conservation or industrial pollution
control).
(a) Fisheries
5.6   The most dramatic and direct effect of not taking action would be the onset of
instability in the Nile perch fishery. One possible scenario would be a highly variable
and unpredictable annual catch, which could drop in some years to as little as 10
percent of current levels. On the other hand, fisheries models, which still need to be
verified, suggest that a sustainable fishery could be developed which would allow
annual yields of perhaps 90 percent of current levels, still dominated by Nile perch but
with a wider range of other species.
5.7   The value of moving to the sustainable level of catch can be estimated, on a
conservative basis, as the difference between the income stream from 90 percent of the
current catch and that from an average 50 percent of the current catch, calculated after
year 5 of a management programme:
Export value of a sustainable fishery:  90% of $320m p.a. = $288m p.a.
Export value of an uncontrolled fishery:   50% of $320m p.a. = $160m p.a.
Difference, starting from year 6, attributable to the LVEMP = $128m p.a.
Present value of this revenue stream at a 12 percent discount rate: = $600m.
5.8   The major potential benefit of avoiding the projected collapse of the fisheries
would therefore be preserving export revenues with a present value of US$0.4-0.8
billion, depending on the assumptions used. The direct revenues to the fishing
communities on the lake, from these export fisheries, are estimated to have a total
present value of US$0.2-0.4 billion. These communities would receive additional
benefits from two sources: (a) that portion of the value added in processing and
packaging which is distributed to them in the form of payments for good and services,
estimated to have a present value of US$40-80 million; and (b) income from local
production and marketing of fish, estimated to have a present value of US$10-20
million. Moreover, one objective of the LVEMP is also to increase the proportion of
local food fish in the system and the benefits of the program therefore include a real
increase in the local fishery, which would be at least of the same order of magnitude as
the loss avoided. The total present value of the impact of the LVEMP on the local fish
economy would therefore be US$2040 million.



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                                  41
5.9    On reasonable assumptions, therefore, it is estimated that successful
implementation of the LVEMP could protect annual export earnings from the fishery to
the extent of about US$128 million per annum, which represents a present value of
exports of US$600 million, and of revenue to the lake community of US$240-480 million.
In addition, the present value of the local fishery would be increased by US$20-40
million over the case where no action is taken.
5.10   Reversing the direct loss of revenue would have major impacts through the
various industries and activities which support the fishermen active on the lake. It has
been estimated that there is a multiplier of about 5 in terms of the numbers of people
involved in these supporting activities and therefore half a million people, including
workers and their families, would be affected by reversing the loss of revenue.
Water hyacinth
5.11   The spread of the water hyacinth infestation is imposing a wide range of direct
costs on the lake community. These costs include:
- delays in commercial waterborne transport of people and goods (in some cases
reported to result in a 10-20 percent increase over scheduled times);
- increased operating costs (and possible loss of revenue) for hydropower
production at Owens Falls Dam, due to clogging of water intakes;
- loss of fishing time (and revenue) as a result of blocking of the beaches;
- increased difficulty and time spent on gathering water in villages where access
to traditional water collection areas is blocked or dangerous (because of snakes
or crocodiles in the weed);
- blockage of intakes and loss of production at urban and industrial water supply
systems.
5.12   Some initial estimates have been made for these costs but further data will be
required to refine the estimates. It should be noted that these figures represent the
present costs: the water hyacinth infestation is increasing at a rapid rate and - unless
controlled - will spread and also become more of a problem at existing sites. In the
absence of a successful control program, the following are the estimated costs within
five years:
(a)    maintaining a clear passage for ships to dock at Port Bell in Uganda:
US$3-5 million p.a.;
(b)    cleaning intake screens at the Owen Falls hydroelectric power plant at
Jinja in Uganda: $1 million p.a.;



42                                             Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
(c)   losses in local fisheries from accumulation of water hyacinth at fishing
beaches and landing sites around the lake making it difficult or
impossible for fishing boats to be launched or recovered: US$0.2 million
p.a. but with a very serious local impact;
(d)   loss of the beaches as a water supply for domestic, stock and agricultural
purposes: US$0.35 million p.a.;
(e)   loss of supply or increased maintenance costs in urban water supply
schemes because of blockages of the water intakes by water hyacinth:
US$1.5 million p.a.;
(f)   small-scale horticultural irrigation schemes rendered useless because of
blockages of channels and pipes with hyacinth: no costs have yet been
attributed to these losses but they are important from a distributional
viewpoint since such schemes are being developed to help women in the
poorer lakeshore areas.
5.13   The total of these direct costs attributable to the water hyacinth (at its present
levels) is estimated to be US$6-10 million p.a., with a present value of US$25-40 million.
This figure can be compared with the estimated US$4.5 million cost for the Ugandan
government's emergency action program to tackle the problem, which must represent a
lower bound to estimates of the damage in what is only part of the total shoreline.
Water quality
5.14   Deteriorating water quality will have a number of direct effects, the avoidance of
which can be counted as potential benefits of the programme. These include:
- additional water treatment costs to deal with increasing levels of algae;
- impacts on water available for cattle: algal blooms can render water unsuitable
for cattle and in extreme cases are known to be fatal to animals;
- loss of potential tourist revenue: polluted or foul-smelling water would prevent
the expansion of the present (low) level of tourism to the lake;
- health effects of increased malaria and bilharzia as a result of stagnant and
polluted water.
5.15   The costs of water supply improvements can be calculated once the extent of
supply systems round the lake are detailed. As a first estimate, assuming (as before)
that one million people are affected, an additional cost of US$1 per capita would mean
US$1.5 million p.a. at present, but this would increase as the population connected
increased and a value double this would be quite reasonable, i.e. US$3 million p.a.. The
costs of water for animals is more difficult to estimate but costs of $1 per beast spread
over half a million cattle in the vicinity of the lake are plausible. A minimum cost



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                               43
associated with the decline in water quality is therefore estimated at US$3.5 million
p.a.,(present value US$15 million) and increasing.
Wetlands
5.16   Given the lack of data on the type and extent of wetlands it is not possible to
estimate the value of preserving these systems, but a wide range of functions of
wetlands have been identified, both in general and for Lake Victoria in particular.
These include: buffering of the impacts of increased loads of nutrients and sediments;
breeding areas for fish and animals of value to the local population; protection of local
water supply sources; provision of papyrus and other materials of commercial value.
Preserving the wetlands is very important for sustaining biodiversity, as well as for
helping to maintain the lake as a functioning and stable ecosystem.
5.17   On the other hand, development of wetlands has been promoted because of their
potential for increased agricultural production and because of the perceived health
problems associated with wetlands (such as mosquitoes and tsetse fly). Further work is
required to understand and quantify the benefits of preserving key components of the
existing wetlands systems but the balance of professional opinion, supported by
informed local comment, is that the net value of preservation would be high.
Biodiversity
5.18   One objective of the LVEMP is the preservation of the existing richness of the
haplochromid fish fauna because of its scientific interest and its role in providing a
resilient ecosystem for the whole lake. The ecosystem support benefits are included in
the valuation of stabilizing the fisheries, but the intrinsic and scientific value of the
biodiversity that is believed to be threatened under current conditions are additional
benefits for which no valuation is yet available.
Summary
5.19   The major direct economic benefit for which the program lays the foundation
would be avoidance of the predicted collapse in the fisheries, which is estimated to have
a present value to the lake community of US$270-520 million.
5.20   The water hyacinth problem, which is rapidly becoming more severe, is
estimated to have an annual cost of US$6-10 million under current levels of infestation.
These costs, whose present value is an estimated US$2540 million, as well as even
larger costs which might be associated with increased infestations in the future were
nothing to be done, would be largely avoided if the LVEMP were successfully
implemented.
5.21   Deteriorating water quality may impose additional water supply costs which are
estimated to be a minimum of US$3.5 million p.a. (present value US$15 million) and
would increase considerably without action.



44                                         Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
5.22  Other benefits arising from the preservation of wetlands and of biodiversity
have not been valued here.
Net Benefits
5.23  The costs of achieving the benefits identified here will include the direct costs of
the LVEMP, which is a regional program, and of national actions which are taken in
support of the program. Many of the national expenditures, in particular, will be
economically justified in their own right (for example, fisheries post-harvest
improvements or provision of sewerage) and so the effect of the LVEMP will be to bring
forward in time the net benefits of these programmes. In such cases, the costs and
benefits attributable to the LVEMP will be the marginal ones related to the changes in
timing or focus of the national programmes.
5.24  Typical of the projects to be tackled as national concerns, within the framework
of the LVEMP, which would be expected to produce net benefits in their own right, and
where the costs attributable to the LVEMP may be exceeded by the benefits achieved
through bringing the projects forward would be:
  expansion of artisanal fishing and processing;
*  reduction in post-harvest fish losses;
*  implementation of water hyacinth control;
*  wetland conservation;
*  improved pasture management;
*  catchment soil conservation;
*  rural water and sanitation;
* urban sewerage upgrading;
* industrial pollution abatement.
In so far as these projects can be implemented under existing or proposed programmes
and as long as they are economic in their own right, the net costs to the LVEMP will be
minimal.
B.   ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
5.25  The program is in effect a regional enviromnental action plan for Lake Victoria,
having as its central objective improving the environmental conditions of Lake Victoria
and its catchment. However, the program will encompass a wide range of different
interventions and investments, and has been designated as Category B for
environmental analysis to ensure that adequate attention will be given to the many
overall positive impacts as well as to individual components which might have adverse
local environmental effects.
Positive Impacts
5.26  The environmental analysis (available separately) outlines the problems the
program is trying to address, and the potential benefits from proposed measures to be



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                             45
implemented. Beginning with a discussion of population growth, which underlies the
pressures to which the lake and its catchment are increasingly being subjected, the
analysis proceeds to assess the pressures. Populations of urban areas around the lake
are growing at an estimated 6 percent p.a. or more, and rural areas near the lake shore
are experiencing in-migration which is causing faster growth of their populations even
than the already high national averages of over 3 percent p.a.
5.27  This population pressure is, in particular, contributing to the existence of
pollution "hot spots" where there is especially heavy localized degradation of water
quality in the lake, from human waste, urban runoff, and the effluent discharges of such
industries as breweries, tanning, paper processing, fish processing, sugar factories,
coffee washing stations, and abattoirs. In addition there is some inflow of residues from
the use of chemical herbicides and pesticides in selected agricultural operations in the
lake catchment, and specialized industries such as gold mining are responsible for the
presence of localized areas of heavy metals. The project would locate and quantify
these problems, identify the sources of pollution, propose and begin to implement
ameliorative measures, and strengthen existing institutions to sustain solutions in the
longer term.
5.28   The population pressure is also contributing to the inflow of nutrients into the
lake, which are responsible for algal buildup, oxygen depletion, and to the burgeoning
water hyacinth infestation. Since the levels of fertilizer use in agricultural areas around
the catchment are in general low, the main rural source of these nutrients is soil erosion,
which releases nitrogen and phosphorus held in the natural soil profile. In many
instances such nutrients are not available to agriculture, but are released by chemical
changes once the soil is washed into the lake. From urban areas and lake shore
communities, the main sources of nutrients are human waste, especially from untreated
sewage. Although sewage schemes in the lake catchment are frequently inoperative or
in bad repair, in some cases the nutrients are filtered out by wetlands prior to reaching
the lake. Where there is no such buffering capacity, or the capacity is overloaded, there
is a positive buildup of nutrients in the lake. The project will locate and quantify these
problems, identify the sources of nutrients, propose and begin to implement
ameliorative measures, including some innovative pilot initiatives, and strengthen
existing institutions to sustain solutions in the longer term.
5.29   The area in which the project would make the most economic difference would
be in heading off developing instability and possible serious collapse of the valuable
lake fisheries.
Negative Impacts And How They Would Be Addressed
5.30   The main areas where activities undertaken in the project may have negative
environmental impacts are the following:
(a)   measures to try to restore and stabilize the fish ecology in the lake might
have unforeseen effects, because the huge, complex ecosystem is not
understood completely, although knowledge of the ecosystem is better
now than it was when exotic fish were introduced previously;



46                                               Lake Victoria Environmental Managenent Project
(b)    attempts to develop innovative aquaculture might have unforeseen
effects on the ecosystem, as did the introduction of exotic species in the
past;
(c)    biological agents used as the main line of long term control of water
hyacinth might have unforeseen effects on other parts of the ecosystem
and the catchment;
(d)    herbicides used to control water hyacinth might damage other crops, add
to water pollution, kill fish, and themselves contribute to anoxia in the
lake, especially in littoral areas;
(e)    attempts to reduce the inflow of pollutants into the lake might result in
their having negative effects in other enviromnents.
5.31   The following steps will be taken during project implementation, to minimise
the possibilities of these negative impacts arising, or mitigate their effects:
(a)   fish ecology - the most important precaution is that any proposed
interventions (such as changes in net sizes or other controls over the
fishing effort) should be clearly defined and carefully assessed before
introduction. The assessment should include specific consideration of
possible unpredictable responses, and should allow for relevant peer
review or independent comment. The interventions must be
accompanied by projections of measurable responses in the system and
methods for measuring and reporting on the relevant parameters.
(b)    aquaculture - the scale of any proposed aquaculture needs to be limited
until the requirements and impacts of the system are well established.
The onus will be on the promoters of any introduced species to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the scientific community that this will
not have any adverse or unexpected effects. Therefore before any
releases take place, there will be a full environmental assessment. Where
systems are developed to support or reintroduce native species, the
schemes should be developed at a pilot scale so that the consequences of
large scale projects can be predicted and evaluated.
(c)    biological control agents - all biological control agents under consideration
have been subjected to exhaustive field testing over twenty years in
several countries. For all three control agents, the conclusion was: "there
is no doubt that [the agent] is restricted to water hyacinth and that it may
be introduced into regions infested with this weed without risk of
damage to other plant species."4 The two species of weevils have been
tested extensively in Kenya and Uganda, and released in both countries
in lakes other than Lake Victoria. The testing protocols have been
4Harley, K.L.S., The Role of Biological Control in the Management of Water Hyacinth, Eichornia
crassipes, Biocontrol News and Information, Vol 11, No. 1, 1990,11-22.



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                             47
satisfactory, and no results different from those observed elsewhere have
been noted. Any additional biological control agents available during
project implementation will be subjected to similar testing protocols.
(d)   herbicides - herbicides used in the water hyacinth control program will be
acceptable to IDA, they will be used sparingly, in strictly selected and
confined areas, all persons applying such herbicides will be trained in
their safe and appropriate handling and use, and mechanisms for careful
monitoring of herbicide use will be established.
(e)   pollutants - pollution control projects must be properly designed with the
necessary attention to treatment and disposal systems and to long-term
financing mechanisms which will allow for the necessary maintenance
and upgrading. A project specific environmental assessment will be
required for these components, and for any larger investments following,
to guard against the possibility that any uncontrolled dumping of
domestic and industrial wastes would take place.
C.    RISKS
5.32  The main risk is that the strength of the commitments by the three Governments
will fail to sustain a regional environmental management program for the lake basin.
This may express itself through inadequate budgetary arrangements to fund regional
bodies (such as the LVFO) or coordinating agencies, erosion over time of the powers
given to such institutions, or unwillingness or lack of capacity to follow-up on regional
regulatory decisions or guidelines through enforcement at the national level. Since the
three governments have collaborated well during program preparation, and the
proposed program provides many opportunities for low-risk collaboration on technical
issues, which should build confidence steadily during implementation, any waning
commitment would seem likely to arise only from sources external to the program. The
risk of inadequate or unforeseen results emerging from the research and studies in the
program would be reduced by the appointment of an international Panel of Scientists
who would review regularly scientific issues arising in the course of project
implementation. In the event of fiscal crises, the project is structured so as to allow
postponement of work in the pilot zones planned for the outer years of the project. In
this way the essential core of lake-wide activities would be preserved, as well as the
coordinated nature of the adaptive environmental management approach in at least a
sub-set of the 14 pilot areas. Upon resolution of any funding crisis, work could be
resumed with minimum disruption to progress.



48                                         Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   On August 5,1994, the Governments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda signed a
Tripartite Agreement jointly to prepare and implement a Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program (LVEMP). That important agreement provided for
organizational arrangements for project preparation, some of which will be continued
into project implementation. In particular, the Agreement provided for a Regional
Policy and Steering Committee, which has functioned during project preparation with a
membership of nine at the level of Permanent Secretary, three from each country, drawn
from the main Ministries dealing with environment, water, fisheries, and agriculture.
The existence of this Agreement reduced, but did not eliminate the need for further
assurances, which complemented and supplemented those already obtained under the
Tripartite Agreement.
6.2   The three Government s and IDA have agreed the following:
(a)   the National Secretariats will prepare annual work programs, training
plans, and related financing plans and submit them to the Regional
Policy and Steering Committee for its approval by March 31 of each year;
the annual work programs will include details of the procurement of
goods and services and the procedures to be adopted for such
procurement within the limits given earlier and agreed by IDA;
(b)   in its review of the annual work programs, training plans and related
financing plans, the Regional Policy and Steering committee will ensure
that all project components with regional implications will be
implemented at a comparable pace in all three countries; following its
approval of the annual programs and plans, the Regional Policy and
Steering Committee will submit them, along with its proposals for
ensuring coordinated implementation, to IDA for review by May 15 of
each year;
(c)   a high level panel of internationally renowned scientists, with 7 members
satisfactory to IDA, will be appointed by the Regional Policy and Steering
Committee to serve as an advisory group for the scientific studies in the
lake; they will meet at least once a year to review scientific issues arising
from project implementation, maintain an up-to-date inventory of
international scientific research pertinent to LVEMP programs, assist
with identifying international training opportunities for researchers from
the riparian countries, and be available, at the request of the Regional and
Policy Steering Committee, to provide advice about specific issues;
(d)   the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation (LVFO) will be established by
November 30, 1996;



Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project                               49
(e)   national steering committees will be established in all three countries for
the water hyacinth control program, by November 30,1996;
(f)   any changes in the policies, procedures and core membership of the
Regional Policy and Steering Committee will be acceptable to IDA;
(g)   herbicides used in the water hyacinth control program will be acceptable
to IDA, they will be used sparingly, in strictly selected and confined
areas, all persons applying such herbicides will be trained in their safe
and appropriate handling and use, and mechanisms for careful
monitoring of herbicide use will be established;
(h)   with the exception of the biological control agents for water hyacinth, no
new species will be introduced into the lake without first carrying out an
environmental impact assessment;
(i)    prior to implementation of any intervention likely to have a negative
impact on fish ecology (such as changes in net sizes or other controls over
the fishing effort), the proposed intervention will be subjected to an
environmental impact assessment, with provision for public comment;
(j)    prior to implementation of any project component related to pollution
control, a project - specific environmental assessment will be carried out
to guard against the possibility that any uncontrolled dumping of
domestic and industrial wastes would take place;
(k)   the three Governments will have the records and accounts of the project,
including those for the Special Accounts, and Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA; and will submit to IDA the audit reports within six months after the
close of the respective fiscal year; the audit reports will include a
statement on the adequacy of the accounting systems and internal
controls;
(1)    National Workshops coordinated by the National Secretariats and a
Regional Workshop coordinated by the Regional Secretariat in Tanzania
will be held in June of each year to assess implementation progress and
agree on any adjustments needed;
(m)   prior to the end of July, 1997, a comprehensive review will be held with
the donors, to consider the annual work plan and new financial
procedures and arrangements for the forthcoming fiscal year;
modifications of project design and/or procedures will be introduced as
appropriate; similar reviews will be carried out annually;
(n)   prior to the end of March, 1999 a Mid-Term Review will be carried out,
during which the performance of the Lake Victoria Fisheries
Organisation, the three National Secretariats, and the Regional Policy and
Steering Committee will be reviewed and appropriate changes made; the



50                                         Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
review will also carry out an in-depth examination of the arrangements
for community participation in project implementation; as part of the
Mid-Term Review, the three Governments will prepare an updated
analysis of the transboundary environmental concerns, to guide the
second phase of project implementation, and set the stage for subsequent
initiatives;
(o)   subject to satisfactory completion of the Levy Trust Study, the three
Governments will jointly establish, by the end of July, 1998, a Levy Trust
Fund into which funds raised from commercial fisheries will be placed
and disbursed to support joint fisheries management and central
monitoring initiatives under the project;
6.3   Prior to Grant/Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   the membership of the Regional Policy and Steering Committee will have
been confirmed;
(b)   the Heads of the three National Secretariats, with qualifications and
experience equivalent to the position of Deputy Principal/ Permanent
Secretary, will have been appointed, and the three National Secretariats
will have been strengthened by the appointment of an Accountant,
Disbursement and Procurement Officer, an Operations Officer and a
Management Information Systems Officer;
(c)   a panel of internationally renowned scientists will have been appointed;
(d)   common standard methods for measuring and monitoring water quality
will have been agreed among the three governments;
(e)   evidence satisfactory to IDA will have been provided that each of the
three Governments has made budgetary allocations representing their
first year contribution to the Project;
(f)   annual work plans and financial plans for the first year of the Project
Implementation Plan will have been finalized and submitted to IDA.
6.4   Subject to the above assurances, the project is suitable for IDA Credits of SDR 8.9
million (US$12.8 million equivalent) to the Government of Kenya, SDR 7.0 million
(US$10.1 million equivalent) to the Government of Tanzania, and SDR 8.4 million
(US$12.1 million equivalent) to the Government of Uganda, and for GEF Grants of SDR
8.0 million (US$11.5 million equivalent) to the Government of Kenya, SDR 7.2 million
(US$10.3 million equivalent) to the Government of Tanzania, and SDR 9.2 million
(US$13.2 million equivalent) to the Government of Uganda.



ANNEXES






Table 1 - Kenya
Lake Victoria Envlronnentil Management Project
Component. Project Cost Summary
(Koh COW)                                    CUSS 1000\
%     % Total                               %     % Tota
Foreign   Base                              Foreign    ase
Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  Cost    Local   Foreign   Total  Exchange  Cosdt
B. Fisheries Development
2. Research
fish bloiogy and biodversity conservatIon              53,882    52,709     10i,591       49       a      980      858    1,938       49       8
aquacutture                                            29,672    23,614      53,285       44       4      539      429      989       44       4
soda-economic studies                                  28,767    18,691      45,458       37       4      523      303      827       37       4
database establishment                                  10,846    8,602      19,448       44       2      197      158      354       44       2
Subtotal Research                                       123,187   101,818     224,783       45      17    2,239    1,848    4,087       45      17
3. Extension
Extension                                             101,673    58,680     180,272       37      12    1,849    1,085    2,914       37      12
4. Legl Framework
establishing dosed fishing aeas                        20,410     2,188      22,598       10       2      371       40      411       10       2
strengthening enforcement                              21,903     8,828      30,731       29       2      398      161      559       29       2
Subtotal Legal Framework                                 42,313    11,015      53,327      21        4      769      200      970       21       4
S. Fish Levy Trust
fish levy trust                                        17,398    18,781      34,179       49       3      316      305      821       49       3
Subtotal Flahee Development                               284,551   188,011     472,5e1      40       37    5,174    3,418    8,592       40      37
C. Water Hyacinth Control                                  98,207    36,729     132,938      28       10    1,749      888    2,417       28      10
0. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitoring
eubophicatIon                                          47,023    e1,381     108.404       57       8      855    1,116    1,971       57       8
sedimentabon la                                         3,458     7,613      11.071       89       1       63      138      201       89       1
hydrautcconditionst                                     2,921    11,922      14,843       80       1       53      217      270       80       1
Lake Vctoria management model                           3,683    14,988      18,828       79       1       70      272      342       79       1
Subtotal WaterQualltyMonitoring                          57,264    95,881     153,148       63      12    1,041    1.743    2,784       83      12
2. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management
management of indusbial and municipal effluent         33,439    39,893      73,331       54       8      808      725    1,333       54       8
tetaryindurble1effluenttreatment k                      10,382    5,034      15,415       33       1      189       92      280       33       1
tery mrnunIipel affluent frament/d                     10,524     5.034      15,557       32       1      191       92      283       32       1
prioltywastemanagementinvestments                      38,500    71,500     110,000       85       9      700    1.300    2,000       8f       9
Subtotl Industrial and Municipal Wate Management         92,844   121,480     214.304       57      17    1,e88    2,208    3,898       57      17
SubtotAl Water Quality Management                         150,109   217,341     367,450       59      28    2,729    3,952    6,881       89      28
E. Lend Use end Wetland Management
1. Lend Use
polluton loadng                                        39,T77    33,127      72,904       45       8      723      602    1,328       45       8
agro-chemrictisassessment/l                             7,240     8,538      15,778       54       1      132      155      287       54       1
soltandwaterconservation                               21,247     8,005      27.252       22       2      388      109      495       22       2
catchmentsfforestaton                                  44,050     8,399      52,448       18       4      801      153      954       1i       4
Subtotal Lend Use                                       112,314    58.089     158,383       33      13    2,042    1.019    3,082       33      13
2. Wetlands
wedands buffering capacity                             29,882    30,545      80.427       51       5      543      555    1,099       51       5
sustainable use of wetands products                    18,944     8,550      27,494       31       2      344      155      500       31       2
Subtotl Wedands                                          48,828    39,094      87,920       44       7      888      711    1,599       44       7
SubtotalLandi Useand WtlandManagement                     181,140    95,183     258,303       37      20    2,930    1,730    4,880       37      20
F. Indsttutonal Fmmework
LVEMP setariats If                                       35,683     9,820      45,503       22       4      849      179      827       22       4
suppoltto rpeudanunlvsrsites                              8,823    11,892      18,715       84       1      124      216      340       64       1
Subtotal InstItutIonal Framework                           42,508    21,712      64,218      34        5      773      395         ____34 
TotaIBASEUNECOSTS                                          734,512   558,958    1,293.488     43     100   13,355   10,183   23.518       43     100
Physical Contingencies                                   89,801    48,748     118,347      41        9    1,285      888    2,182       41       9
Pdce Contingencies                                      190,088   108,350     298,438       38      23      794      458    1,250       38       5
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                         994,190   716,052    1,710,251     42     132   15,414   11,505   26,919       43     114
\b pilot tudy
ib ptlot study
\c pilot project
Yd pilot projet
No pilot
V Lake Vtctoria Environmental Management Project



Table 2 - Kenya
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencles (Ksh '000)               Totals Including Contingencies (USS '000)
1997      1998      1999     2000      2001       Total     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
A. Fisheries Developmnent
2. Research
fish biology and biodiversity conservation             43,510    27,004    24,644    24,067    24,313     143,539     763     441     375    341      321    2,242
aquaculuLre                                            22,442    15,703    11,771    1t,101     9,897      70,914     393     257     179     157     131    1,117
3ocmo-economicstudies                                  15,888    13.377    11,127    11,117    10,115      61,623     279     219     169     158     134      958
databae establishment                                   5,651     4,764     6,264     5,200     4,975      26,853      99      78      95      74      66      412
Subtotal Research                                        87,491    60,848    53,806    51,484    49,300     302,929   1,534     994     819     730     652    4,729
3. Extension
Extension                                              59,216    25,365    59,062    46,209    28,270     218,122   1,038     414     899     655     374    3,381
4. Legal Framework
establishing dosedfishingareas                          4,966     6,860     6,008     6,609     7,270      31,713      87     112      91      94      96      480
strengthening enforement                               11,682     4,781     7,307     8,982     9,779      42,531     205      78     111     127     129      651
Subtotal Legal Framework                                 16,648    11,641    13,316    15,591    17,049      74,244     292     190     203     221     225    1,131
S. Fish Levy Trust
fish lvy tust                                           6,543         -    23,226     9,143    10,057      48,970     115       -    354      130     133      731
Subtotal Fisheries Developnent                            169,899    97,853   149,410   122,427   104,676     644,264   2,979   1,599   2,275   1,737   1,384    9,972
B. WaterHyacinth Control                                   59,347    30,548    27,134    31,556    29,614     178,200   1,041     499     413     448    391    2,792
C. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitoring
eutrophication                                         57,664    19,330    22,165    22,663    21.417     143,238   1,011     316     337     321     283    2,269
sedimentation                                           8,383     1,403     3,786         -         -      13,572     147      23      58       -        -     228
hydrauliconditions                                      8,681     5,026     1,537     3,492         -      18,736     152      82      23      50       -      307
LakeVctoriemanagementmodel                              6,049     4,912     5,659     4,253     4,920      25,792     106      80     a6       60      65      398
Subtota WterQualltyMonitorlng                            80,777    30,671    33,147    30,408    26,336     201,338   1,416     501     505     431     348    3,201
2. IndustrIal and Municipal Waste Management
managemrtentofindustrial and municipat effluent        28,340    14,916    17,788    19,410    19,789     100,242     497     244    271      275     262    1.548
tertiary industrial effluent treatment                  7,327     5,357     6,085       420       385      19,575     128      88      93       6       5      320
tertiarymunicipaleffkuenttreatment                      7,382     5,417     6,151       420       385      19,755     129      89      94       6       5      323
prioritywa8temanagementlnvestrnents                     8,250     5,500    55,000    41,250         -     110,000     150     100   1,000     750        -    2,000
Subtotal Industrial and Municipal Waste Management       51,299    31,190    85,024    61,500    20,559     249,572     905     520   1,457   1,037     272    4,190
Subtotl WatgrwQuality Managenent                          132,076    61,861   118,171    91,908    46,896     450,911   2,321   1,021   1,962   1,469     620    7,392
0. Lend Use and Wetdand Managernent
1. Land Use
pollution loading                                      24,369    17,540    19,882    20,719    17,412      99,922     427     287     303     294     230    1,541
agro-chemcals assessment                                  430     6,520     9,781     5,035         -      21,766       8     107     149      71        -     334
soil and water conservation                             8,772    12,530    13,460       117       128      35,006     154     205     205       2       2      567
catchmentafforestation                                 19,876    11,940    11,958    13,130    14,420      71.324     349     195     183     187     192    1,106
Subtotal Land Use                                        53,447    48,530    55,080    39,001    31,960     228,018     937     793     839     554     424    3.548
2. Wetlands
wetlands buffenring capacity                           23,571    10,876    15,177    15,752    17,507      82,884     413     178    231      223     231    1,277
sustainableuseofwetlandsproducts                        8,504     6,650     7,033     7,582     8,340      38,110     149     109     107     108     110      583
Subtotal Wetlands                                        32,075    17,527    22,210    23,334    25,847     120,994     562     286     338     331     342    1,859
Subtotal Land Use and Wetland Managernent                  85,523    66,056    77,291    62,335    57,807     349,012   1,500   1,080   1,177     885     765    5,407
E. Institutional Framework
LVEMP secretariats                                       13,101    10,311    12.102    13,303    14,624      63,441     230     169     184     189     194      966
support to riparian universdies                          11,609     2,651     2,979     3,345     3,840      24,424     204      43      45      47      51      390
Subtotal Institutional Framework                           24,710    12,962    15,080    16,648    18,464      67,865     433     212     230     237     245    1,356
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       471,554   269,280   387.086   324,874   257,457    1,710 251   8,273   4.410   6,056   4,774   3,405   26,919



Annexes                                                                                                 3
Table 3 - Kenya
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Components by Financiers
(US$S000)
The
Government of
Kenya      GEF         IDA              Total
Amount   Amount    Amount    Amount            %
B. Fisheries Development
2. Research
fish biology and biodiversity conservation                 224       2,018           -       2,242       8.3
aquaculture                                                112         503        503        1,117       4.2
sodo-economic studies                                       96         216        647         958        3.6
database establishment                                      41         371           -        412        1.5
Subtotal Research                                            473        3,107      1,149       4,729      17.6
3. Extension
Extension                                                  338           -       3,043       3,381      12.6
4. Legal Framework
establishing dosed fishing areas                            48           -        432         480        1.8
strengthening enforcement                                   65           -        586         651        2.4
Subtotal Legal Framework                                      113           -      1,018       1,131       4.2
5. Fish Levy Trust
fish levy trust                                             73           -        658         731        2.7
Subtotal Fisheries Development                                  997       3,107      5,868       9,972      37.0
C. Waler Hyacinth Control                                       279       1,508       1,005      2,792      10.4
D. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitoring
eutrophication                                             227       2,042           -       2,269       8.4
sedimentation                                               23         205           -        228        0.8
hydraulic conditions                                        31         277           -        307        1.1
Lake Victoria management model                              40         358           -        398        1.5
Subtotal Water Quality Monitoring                             320      2,881           -       3,201      11.9
2. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management
management of industrial and municipal effluent            155           -       1,393       1,548       5.8
tertiary industrial effluent treatment                      32           -        288         320        1.2
tertiary municipal effluent treatment                       32           -        290         323        1.2
priority waste management investments                      350           -       1,650       2,000       7.4
Subtotal Industrial and Municipal Waste Management            569          -       3,621       4,190      15.6
Subtotal Water Quality Management                               889       2,881      3,621       7,392      27.5
E. Land Use and Wetland Management
1. Land Use
pollution loading                                          154       1,386           -       1,541       5.7
agro-chemicals assessment                                   33           -        301         334        1.2
soil and water conservation                                 57           -        510         567        2.1
catchment afforestation                                    111           -        995        1,106      4.1
Subtotal Land Use                                             355       1,386      1,806       3,548      13.2
2. Wetlands
wetlands buffering capacity                                128       1,149           -       1,277       4.7
sustainable use of wetlands products                        58         262        262         583       2.2
Subtotal Wetlands                                             186      1,411         262       1,859       6.9
Subtotal Land Use and Wetland Management                        541       2,798      2,069       5,407      20.1
F. Institutional Framework
LVEMP secretariats                                            97         869           -         966       3.6
support to riparian universities                               39        351           -         390       1.5
Subtotal Institutional Framework                                136       1,220          -       1,356       5.0
Total Disbursement                                             2,842     11,514      12,563      26,919     100.0



4                                                                                                                                               Annexes
Table 1 - Tanzania
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(Tsh 000)                                               (USS 000)
%      % Totl                                          S      % Total
Foreign    Base                                        Foreign   Beas
Local        Fomign         Total      Exchange  Costs       Local      Fomeign      Total    Fxchange  Costs
A. Fisharts Development
2. Resarch
fish biology mnd biodiveruityconservalion                     374,061.0     697,524.0    1,071.5850        65        8        623.4     1,162.5      1,78.0        65        8
aquacustur                                                    276,875.3     243,272.3      520.147 5       47        4        461.5       405.5       869.0        47        4
socioeconomic sludies                                         244,020.0     184,065.0      428085.0        43        3        406.7       306.8       713.5        43        3
database establishment                                         52,17050     10959000       161 7600        68        1         87.0       182.7       2609.       68         1
SubtotalRessach                                                 947,126.3    1.234.4513    2.1815775         57       17      1,570.5     2,057.4      3,636.0       57       17
3. ExtensIon
Extension                                                     862,993 4     830.6230     1693.6173         49       13      1,438.3     1304.4       2,822.7       49       13
4. Legsl Fmrmework
establishingdosedfishingames                                  146.3310       24.9000       171,231.0       IS        1        2439         415        285.4        15        1
strengthening enforement                                      203,4537      222.1008       425,5545        52        3        3391        370.2       709.3        52        3
Subtotal Legal Frmwork                                          349,7847      247,0008       596,785.5       41        5        5830        4117        994.6        41        5
5. Flih Levy Trust
fish ley trus                                                 133.203 0     183,060.0      310,263.0       58        2        222 0       305.1       527.1        58        2
Subtotal Fisheries Dvelopment                                    2.293.1073    2,495,136.0    4,760,2433       52       38      3,821.8     4,158.6      7,980.4       52       38
B. WatortHyscnfh Control                                         1.008 189.0    357,949.5    1.366,130 5       26       11       1,6803       598.6      2,278.9       28       11
C. Water Quality Msnagement
1. Water Qusilty Monitoring
eutmnphcstion                                                 505,328.3     822,543.8    1,327,072.0       62       10        842 2     1,370.9      2,213.1       62       10
sedimentaton                                                   32,909.4      69,609.0      102,518.4      68         1         548        118.0       170.9        66        1
hydmuliccondibons                                              23,736.0     159,456.0      183,1920        87        1         396        265.8       305.3        87        1
Lake Victoria Mansgement Model                                 54,678.0     151.6200      206,298.0        73        2         911        2527        343.8        73        2
Subtotal WaterQualltyMonitoring                                 616,651.7    1,203,228.8    1,819,880.4      66       14      1,0278      2,005.4      3,033.1       86       14
2. Industrial end Municipal Waste Management
managefmnt of industrial and municipal effluent               359,055.0     357,4125       716,467.5       50        6        598.4       595.7      1,194.1       50        6
etoraryindustril effluent treatent                             80,973.0      53,112.0      134,085.0       40        1        135.0        885        223.5        40        1
ter0arymunicppaleofflonttreatmenl                              65,961.0      53,112.0      119,073.0       45        1        109.9        885        198.5        45        1
prioity wast management investments                           192,000.0     408,000 0      600,0000        68        5        320.0       680.0      1,0000        68        5
Subtotal Industral and Municipal Waste Management               697,989.0     871,636 5    1.569.6255        56       12      1,163.3      1,402.7     2,816.0       56       12
Subtotal WaterQuality Managemrent                                1,314,640.7    2,074,865.3    3.389 5059      61       27      2,191.1      3,458.1     5,049.2       61       27
D. Lend Use and Wetland Management
1. Land Ue
pollufion loading                                             334,051.5     303.135 0      637.186 5       48        5        556.8       505.2      1,D02.0       48        5
gro-chemicals assessment                                       64,604.5      1135140       178.1985        64        1        107.8       189.2       297,0        64        1
so0il andwaterconu rvaeion                                    235,221.0      23664 0       258,885 0        9        2        392.0        39.4       431.5         9        2
catchmen aftorestation                                        342.1800       90,120.0      432,3000        21        3        570.3       150.2       720.5        21        3
Subtotal Lend Use                                               976.137 0     530,4330    1,506 5700         35       12      1,626.9       884.1      2,511.0       35       12
2. Wetlands
weoandabuffenng cpecty                                        3780508       221,8124       5998632         37        5        6301        3697        999.8        37        5
sustainable use ofwetands poducs                              211 115.0      43,107 4      254,222.4       17        2        351.9        71.8       423.7        17        2
SubtotmlWetlands                                                589,165.8     264 919 8      854,085.6       31        7        981.9       441.5     1,423 5        31        7
Subtotal Land Use and Wetsand Management                         1,565.302 8     795,352.8    2,360,655.6      34       19      2.608 8      1,325.6     3,934.4       34       19
E. tnstitutlonsl Frntamwork
1. LVEMPsecrcetriata                                            464,646.0      62,604.0      527,250.0       12        4        774.4       104.3       878,8        12        4
2. support to riparien univemities                               46 894.5      128,494.5     175,389.0       73        1         78.2       214.2       292.3        73        1
3. pollution disaster coningency                                        -      00,000.0       90,0000       100        1            -       150.0       150,0       100        I
Subtotal InstitutionalFrmaework                                   511,5405      281,098.5      792,639.0       35        0        852.6       468.5     1,321,1        35        6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             6,692,7803    6,004,402.0   12,697,182.3       47      106     11,154.6    10,007,3    21,162.0        47      100
PhysicalConhngencses                                            634,074,7     443,117.1    1,077,191.7       41        8      1,056.8       738.5      1,795.3       41        8
PriceContingencies                                            7,634,861.9    6,166,640.9   13,001,502.8      45      109       -808.8       462.0      -348.8      -133       -2
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                                               14,961716.8   12,614,160.0   27,575,0768        46      217     11,402.6    11,207.9    22,8105         50     107



Table 2 - Tanzania
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
CD
Totals Including Contingencies (Tsh '000)                        Totals Including Contingencies (US$ '000)
1997       1998        1999       2000        2001        Total       1997     1998      1999      2000      2001      Total
A. Fisheres Developnment
2. Resach
fishbilogymndbiodiversrtywonservation                431,320.1   621,278.7   471,3344   453,535.2   543,217.3  2,520,6856     627.5    3295      413.4    308.9    287.3    1,9667
equaculture                                          199,0577    272,4316    259,834.1   193,0626    201,125.6   1,125,511 5  2896      1445     227.9     131.5    106.4       899.9
soco-eoonomicStudies                                 152,822.7   223,268.2   170,575.4   201,7756    213,534.8    961,976.8   222.3     118.4    149.6    137.4      1129       7408
dabtbase establishment                                47,957 5    95,994.8    88,466.9    81,559.6    89,064.0    403,042 8    698       50 9     77.6      55.6      47.1      300.9
Subtotal Reerch                                        831,1580  1,212,973.2   990,210.8   929,933.1  1,046,941.6   5,011,216 7    1,2091  643.4    8686     633.4    553.7    3,908.3
3. Extension
Extension                                            598,488 7   474,111.5   903,009.2  1,184,067.9   725,356.7  3,885,033 9  870 7    251 5     792.1     806 5     383.7    3,104.4
4. Legal Framnwork
establishingdcosedfishingareas                        40,635.7    83,326.3    70,803.7    93,4609    123,368.4    411,595.0    59.1     44.2      621       637       65.3      294.3
strengtleningenforcement                             213,2062    122,170.1   136,091.0   208,433.8   271,5826    951,4837     310.2      648     119.4    142.0    143.6        780.0
SubtoWtLegalFramework                                  253,8419   205,4964    206,894.6   301,894.8   394,951.0   1,363,0786    369.3    1090      1815      205.6    208.9    1,074.3
5. Filh Levy Trust
fish evy trust                                        78,856 0          -   302,720.1   159,066.9   233,2114     773,854 5    114.7        -    265.5      1083      123.3      612.0
SubtotdFisheies Devieopment                             1.762.344.6  1,892,581 1  2,402,834.7  2,574,9627  2,400,460.8  11,033,1838    2,5638    1,0039    2,1077    1,753.9   1,2696  8,698.9
B Water Hyacinth Control                                 632,232.1   566,845.2   449,200.1   564,014.9   644,8299   2,857,122.1  919.7     3007      394.0    384.2    341.1    2,339.7
C. Water Quaity Management
1. Water Qulity Monitorlng
eutrophicatin                                        638,129 8   461,465.8   475,899.2   696,210 3   664,979 1   2,956,684.3    928 3  244 8     417.4    474 2      362.3    2,427.1
sedimentation                                         84,988.0    19,350.6    56,272 9         -           -    160,611.4     123.6     10.3      49.4         -         -      183.3
hydraulicoonditions                                   98,963.3   129,433.0    61,757.0    97,199.2    16,422.4    403,774.9   1440      68.7      54.2      66.2       87       341.7
LakeVctoriaManagementModel                            68,3008    139,791.8    99.9015    92,251.2   125,9087    526,154.1      994      74.2      87.6      628       66.6      3906
Subtota WaterQuality Monitorlng                        890,3819    750,041.1   693,830.7   885,6608    827,310.2  4,047,224.8   1,295.3    3978    608.6    6033       4376     3,342.6
Z indudbral and Municipal Wte Managennent
managementofiduastrialandmunkipaleMuent              293,1814    276,348.0   277,6453    369,557.6   439.392.4   1,656,124.7  4265      146.6    243.5     251 7     232.4    1,3008
tertiary industrial effluent treatent                 69,129 8    84,345 0    91,007.7         -                244,482 6     100.6      44 7     79.8         -         -      225.1
tertiary municipal effmuent treatment                 62,744.7    75,9167     79,8823          -           -    218,543.7      91 3      40.3     701          -         -      201.6
pnority waste management investments                  75,0000    135,000.0          -   240,000.0   150,000.0    600,000.0    125 0    2250          -     4000      250.0    1,0000
SubtoalIndustral andUMunicipalWaste Managemnt          500,055.9   571,6098    448,535.3   609,557.6   589,392.4  2,719,151.0    743.4    456.6    393.4    651.7      482.4    2,727.5
Subl WaterQuality Managent                              1,390,437.8  1,321,650.9  1,142,3660  1,495,218.4  1,416,7026   6,766,375.8   2,0386  854.4   1,0021    1,255.0    9200   6,070 1
D. Land Use and Wetand Managerment
1. Land Use
poliution loading                                    193,636.5   314,533.4   294,9334    368,878.1   349,9387   1.521,920.0   281 7     166.8    256.7    251.3      1851     1,143.6
agrG-hdemicalsassessment                               2,543.2   165,668.4   134,2191    155,095.0         -    457,5257        3.7      879     117.7     1056          -      3150
soil andwaterconservation                             90,888.8   174,2244    203,574.6         -           -    468,687.8    132.2      92.4     1786          -         -      403.2
catcdmentantorestation                               150,1146    153,393.9   184,184.0   200,862.4   311,624.9   1,000,179.8  2184       81.4    161.6    1368       1648       762.9
Subtotal Land Use                                      437,1831    807,8201    816,911 1   724,835.4   661,5635   3,448,313.2    636.0    4285     716.6    493.7      349.9    2,624.7
2. Wetands
wetlandsbufferingcapacity                            303,4598    330,016.3   350,3936    59,488.7    84,335.9  1,127,694.4    4415      175.1    3074       405       446      1,009.0
sustainable use of wetlands products                  93,593.7    94,248.4   106,478 4    120,173.7   158,629.3    573,123.5  136.2     50.0      93.4      81.9      83.9      445.3
Subtalt Wetands                                        397,053.5   424,264.8   456,872.0   179,662.5   242,965.1   1,700,817.9  577.6    225.0    400.8    122.4       128.5    1,454.3
Sutotal Land Use and Wetand Management                   834,2366  1,232,084.9  1,273,783 1   904,497.9   904,528 7   5,149,131.1   1,213.6    653.5   1,117 3  6161     478.4    4,079.0
E. Inattutional Framework
1. LVEMP semetanaits                                   131,751.6   167,071.3   224,455.6   358,327.7   406,432.1   1,288,038.4    191.7   88.6    196.9    244.1       215.0      936.2
2 supporttoriparianuniversties                         106,468.5    58,524.5    46,114.8    64,938.0    89,141 1    367,186.8    154.9     31.0     42.2      44.2      471       319.5
3. pollution disaster contingency                      114,838.8          -           -          -                 114,838.8    167.1                  -         -         -      167.1
Subtota Institnonal Franmwork                            353,058.9   225,595.8   272,570.4   423,265.7   495,573.2  1,770,064.0   513.6    119.7    239.1      286.3    262.1    1,422.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     4,972,310.0  5,238,757.8  5,540,754.3  5,961,959.5  5,862,095.2  27,575,876.8   7,249.4   2,932.2   4,860.2   4,297.4   3,271.2   22,610.5    L



6                                                                                             Annexes
Table 3 - Tanzania
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Components by Financiers
(US$S000)
The
Government of
Tanzania    GEF        IDA        Total
Amount  Amount   Amount    Amount            %
A. Fisheries Development
2. Research
fish biology and biodiversity conservation                  198.1  1,768.6          -       1,966.7     8.7
aquaculture                                                  90.0    405.0      405.0        899.9      4.0
socio-economic studies                                       74.1    166.7      500.0        740.8      3.3
database establishment                                       30.1    270.9          -        300.9      1.3
Subtotal Research                                             392.2  2,611.1      905.0       3,908.3    17.3
3. Extension
Extension                                                   310.4        -     2,794.0      3,104.4    13.7
4. Legal Framework
establishing closed fishing areas                            29.4        -      264.9        294.3      1.3
strengthening enforcement                                    78.0        -      702.0        780.0      3.4
Subtotal Legal Framework                                      107.4        -      966.9       1,074.3     4.8
5. Fish Levy Trust
fish levy trust                                              61.2        -      550.8        612.0      2.7
Subtotal Fisheries Development                                  871.3  2,611.1     5,216.5      8,698.9    38.5
S. Water Hyacinth Control                                       234.0  1,263.4      842.3       2,339.7    10.3
C. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitoring
eutrophication                                              242.7  2,184.4          -       2,427.1    10.7
sedimentation                                                18.3    164.9          -        183.3      0.8
hydraulic conditions                                         34.2    307.5          -        341.7      1.5
Lake Victoria Management Model                              39.1    351.5           -        390.6      1.7
Subtotal Water Quality Monitoring                             334.3  3,008.3          -       3,342.6    14.8
2. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management
management of industrial and municipal effluent             130.1        -     1,170.7      1,300.8     5.8
tertiary industrial effluent treatent                        22.5        -      202.6        225.1      1.0
tertiary municipal effluent treatment                        20.2        -       181.5       201.6      0.9
priority waste management investments                       160.0        -      840.0       1,000.0     4.4
Subtotal Industrial and Municipal Waste Management            332.8        -     2,394.8      2,727.5    12.1
Subtotal Water Quality Management                              667.0  3,008.3      2,394.8     6,070.1    26.8
0. Land Use and Wetland Management
1. Land Use
pollution loading                                           114.4  1,029.2          -       1,143.6     5.1
agro-chemicals assessment                                    31.5        -      283.5        315.0      1.4
soil and water conservation                                 40.3         -      362.9        403.2      1.8
catchment afforestation                                      76.3        -      686.7        762.9      3.4
Subtotal Land Use                                             262.5  1,029.2     1,333.0      2,624.7    11.6
2. Wetlands
wetlands buffering capaicity                                100.9    908.1          -       1,009.0     4.5
sustainable use of wetlands products                        44.5    200.4       200.4        445.3      2.0
Subtotal Wetlands                                             145.4  1,108.5      200.4      1,454.3      6.4
Subtotal Land Use and Wetland Management                       407.9  2,137.7      1,533.4     4,079.0    18.0
E. Institutional Framework
1. LVEMP secretariats                                         93.6    842.6           -        936.2     4.1
2. support to riparian universities                            32.0    287.6          -        319.5      1.4
3. pollution disaster contingency                              16.7    150.4          -        167.1      0.7
Subtotal Institutional Framework                                142.3  1,280.5          -       1,422.8    6.3
Total Disbursement                                             2,322.5  10,s31.1   9,987.0     22,610.5   100.0



Annexes                                                                                                                          7
Table 1 - Uganda
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(Ush 000)                            (US$ OO00)             Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign       Total        Local     Forelgn      Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Fisheries Development
1. Fisheries Management (LVFO\
LakeeVictoriaFisheriesOffice                              314,400.0   1,649,1000    1,963.500.0     3144      1,649.1    1,9635       84        8
2. Fisheries Research
Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation              1,014,130 0   1,043,8600   2,057,990.0    1,0141      1,043.9    2,0580       51        8
Aquaculture                                               543,546 3    402,733 8     946,280 0      543 5      402.7       946 3      43        4
Socio-Economics Studies                                   402,610 0    438,575.0     841,185 0      402 6      438 6      841.2       52        3
Database                                                  114,6750     119,3000      233,9750       1147       119.3       2340        51       1
Subtotal Fisheries Research                               2,074,961 3   2,004,468.8   4,079,430 0   2,075 0     2,004.5    4,079.4      49       17
3. Fisheries Extension
Fisheries Extension                                     1,933,1193    1,529,933.2   3,463.0525    1,9331      1,529 9    3,4631       44       14
4. Legal Framework
Establishing Closed Fishing Areas                         338,6100      31,750.0     370,360.0      3386        318        370.4       9        2
Strengthening Enforcement                                 500,417 0    324,568.0    824,985 0       500.4      324 6      825.0       39        3
Subtotal Legal Framework                                    839,0270     356,3180    1,195,345.0      839.0      3563      1,195.3       30       5
5. Fish Levy Trust
Fish Levy Trust                                           264,680.0    342,500 0     607,180.0      264.7      342 5       607.2       56       2
Subtotal Fisheries Development                              5,426,187.6   5,882,3200   11,308,5075    5,426.2     5,882 3    11,308.5      52      46
B Water Hyacinth Control                                    1,993,690.0    777,1825    2,770,872.5    1,9937       7772      2,770.9       28      11
C. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitoring
Eutrophication                                          1,022,397.5    922,305 0    1,944,702.5   1,022.4      922.3     1,944 7       47       8
Sedimentation                                              34,441.5    110.0150      144,456.5       34.4      110.0       1445        76       1
Hydraulic Conditions                                       45,675.0    216,7600      262,435.0       457       216.8       2624        83       1
Lake Victoria Model                                        54,535 0    264,590 0     319,125.0       54 5      264.6       3191        83       1
Subtotal WaterQuality Monitoring                          1,157,0490    1,513,6700   2,670,719.0    1,157.0    1,513.7     2,6707        57      11
2. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management
Managementof industrial and Municipal Effluent            665,022 5    575,887 5   1,240,9100       665.0      575.9     1,2409        46       5
Tertiary Industrial Effluent Treatment (pilot)            156,657 5     79,520.0    236,177 5       156 7       79 5       236 2       34       1
Tertiary Municipal Effluent Treatment (pilot)             161,237 5     79,520 0     240,757 5      1612        79 5       240 8       33       1
Priority Waste Management Investments                     240,000 0    760,000.0   1,000,000 0      240.0      760 0     1,000 0       76       4
Subtotal Industrial and Municipal Waste Management        1,222,9175   1,494,927.5   2,717,845.0    1,222.9     1,4949     2,717.8       55      11
Subtotal Water Quality Management                           2,379,966 5   3,008,597.5   5,388,564 0   2,380.0     3,008 6    5,388.6       56      22
D. Land Use and Wetland Management
1. Land use
Pollution Loading                                         681,817.5    495,625.0   1,177,442 5     681.8       495 6     1,177.4      42        5
Agro-Chemicals Assessment (pilot)                         103,8880      79,9400      183,8280       103.9       799        1838       43        1
Soil and Water Conservation (pilot)                       365,105 0     33,680.0    398,785.0       365 1       33 7      398 8        8        2
Catchment Afforestation                                   552,712.5    248,600 0     801,312 5      552 7      248.6      801 3       31        3
Subtotal Land use                                         1,703,523 0    857,845 0   2,561,368.0    1,703.5      857.8    2,561.4       33       10
2. Wetlands
Buffering Capacity of Wetlands                            577,359.9    414,666 2     992,026.0      577 4      414.7      992 0       42        4
Sustainable Use of Wetland Products                       273,082.4    139,3456      412,428.0      2731       139.3      412.4       34        2
Subtotal Wetlands                                           850,442.3    554,011.8   1,404,454.0     8504        554.0    1,404.5       39        6
Subtotal Land Useand Wetland Management                     2,553,965.3   1,411,8568    3,965,822.0    2,5540     1,411.9    3,9658       36       16
E. institutional Framework
1 LVEMP Secretariats                                        551,295 0    179,040 0    730,335.0      551.3       179 0      730.3       25        3
2 Support to Riparian Universities                          117,1425     197,932.5    315,075.0       117 1      1979       315.1       63        1
Subtotal Institutional Framework                              668,437 5    376,9725    1,045,4100      6684        377.0    1,045.4       36        4
Tota; BASELINE COSTS                                        13,022,2468   11,456,929.2  24,479,176 0    13,022 2    11,456 9    24,479 2   47     100
Physical Contingencies                                    1,228,152 9    979,151.2   2,207,3041     1,228.2      979 2     2,207 3      44        9
Price Contingencies                                       2,728,406 8   1,913,387 9   4,641,794 7     802.2      564 2     1,366 4      41        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         16,978,806 6  14,349,468 2  31,328,274.8   15,052.6    13,000 3    28,052 9    46     115



Table 2 - Uganda
Lake Victoria Environmental Managemnent Project                                                                           o
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Toto lndcludng Contingndes (Ush 900V)                            Totls Indcludn Condngences (US$ 000)
1997       1SS8        1999       2000        2001        Totl        1997     1998      1t"      2000      2001      TotS
A. Fis DrbWpdwnt
1. Fbheie Mmeimit (1LVFO)
Lt Victr Fherme Oice                                619,449.7   455,272.7   491,712.3   492,139.5   531,509.6  2,590,063.9    603.1    420.7    431.2    409.6    419.8    2,284.4
t Fishwle Ruseaci
Fish Bolgy mid Biodivmdlty Cos tion                  806,447.5   501,565.5   486,889.5   438,047.9   436,742.2  2,649,692.6    7851    463.5    409.4    364.6       345.0    2,367.6
AQJsaathe                                            377,743.9   272,947.6   212,417.3   183,573.5   156,532.9  1,203,215.1   367.8    252.2    186.3    152.8    123.6    1,082.7
Soio-Econncmis Stuis                                 287,314.7   240,744.3   196,625.7   193,217.9   173,313.7   1,091,216.3    279.7    222.5    172.4    160.8     136.9      972.3
Datesr                                                72,393.1    55,046.6    76,131.4    53,399.7    45,220.4    302,191.2    70.5     50.9      66.8      44.4      35.7      268.3
Suo  FbIhres Reseach                                 1,543,899.1  1,070,303.9   952,063.9   868,239.0   811,809.2   5,246,315.2   1,503.1  989.0   834.9    722.6    641.2    4,690.8
3. FIs'edies Extenslon
Fihrs Extension                                     1,161,588.8   487,353.4  1,161,660.5  1,209,444.7   516,977.5  4,537,024.9   1,130.9    450.3   1,018.7   1,006.6    408.4    4,014.9
4& Legal Franrik
Esttlhs*  Clcsd Fishung Am                            80,162.4    86,575.0   120,188.6   100,981.5   109,060.0    496,967.5   78.0      80.0    105.4       84.0      86.1      433.6
Sblngthsnng EnWrcmnent                               392,504.0   148,634.9   160,527.7   173,370.0   187,239.4  1,062,275.9   382.1    137.3    140.8    144.3    147.9         952.4
Sublota LagS Fwnswqrk                                  472,666.3   235,209.8   280,716.3   274,351.5   296,299.4   1,559,243.4    460.2    217.3    246.2    228.3    234.0    1,386.0
K Flsh Levy Trust
Fish Levy Trust                                      117,831.9          -   390,894.9   1512078.9   163,165.0    822,970.8    114.7        -     342.8    125.7    128.9        712.1
SubttI- Fhwifes Deveopns                               3,915,436.0  2,248,139.9  3,277,048.0  2,995,253.5  2,319,760.9  14,755,638.2   3,811.9   2,077.3   2,873.7   2,492.9   1,832.3   13,068.2
S. Waer Hys*m CCOntc                                   1,172,444.0   749,350.6   513,255.8   563,581.8   529,151.5  3,527,783.7   1,141.9    692.7    450.1    469.0    418.0    3,171.7
C. Water CuaLty Maagnsn
1. Watd Quafty Monitoring
E~ophicton                                           957,443.7   349,163.0   391,363.6   391,134.4   372,528.8  2,461,633.5    932.1   322.6    343.2    325.5    294.3    2,217.7
SednerAnsI                                            92,510.4    19,562.2    62,528.4         -           -    174,621.0      90.1     18.1      54.8         -         -      163.0
HydrulicCordtian                                     151,304.9    63,895.0    29,356.0    53,600.2    4,311.2    322,467.2    147.3     77.5      25.7      44.6       3.4      298.6
Lake Vck  M0odel                                     243,730.4    64,862.5    70,054.0         -           -    378,646.9    237.3      59.9      61.4         -         -      358.7
SubttaWtr Qualit Monitong                             1,444.969.3   517.502.7   553,302.0   444,734.6   376,840.0  3,337,368.6   1,406.8    478.2  485.2    370.1      297.7    3,038.0
2 InduW  and MunicIpal W_lt Mdgnnt
Mlmgane'd ofktAUiSemidnoMtEpaent                     449.591.7   237,308.3   306,986.5   329,084.7   297,925.7  1,620,896.9    437.7    219.3    269.2    273.9    235.3    1,435.4
Trlwyk&u lEftlintTreebriaet(pikit)                  115.890.2    73,899.9    86,172.3    5,188.0     6,016.9    287,167.3    112.8      68.3     75.6       4.3       4.8      265.7
Twtiay Muncips Etrff ptTefnet(pt)                    116,874.0    77,433.5    87,319.9    5,188.0     6,016.9    292,832.3    113.8      71.5     76.6       4.3       4.8      271.0
Rimi Wade Magent h          vwents                   300,000.0   700,0S0.0          -          -           -   1,OS0,000.0    300.0    700.0         -         -         -    1,000.0
u Wtlhdusl NdW Mwdunipa W    Mwgmnat                   962,355.8  1,088,641.8   480,478.7   339,460.7   309,959.5  3,200,896.5    964.3   1,059.1  421.3    282.5    244.8    2,972.1
SubtarQWater  dityUanisaunt                            2,427,345.1  1,606,144.5  1,033.780.7   784,195.2   686,799.5  6,538,265.0   2,371.1   1,537.3    906.5    652.7  542.5    6,010.1
D. Laid Us. ai Wierd Id Mtaant
1. La  us,
PoFkion L                                            368,588.2   283,162.7   314,359.1   320,135.7   248,577.2  1,534,822.9    358.8    261.6    275.7    266.4    196.3    1,358.9
Agro-cheni    Asnseit (plot)                           7,429.0    87,937.0    98,783.9    40,484.7         -    234,634.6       7.2      81.3      86.6     33.7         -      206.8
SoA-id erConsplrvabon(pdot)                          130,775.1   175,151.1   162,531.3    1,857.1     2,005.6    492,320.2    127.3    161.9    160.2        1.5       1.6      452.5
C    rolur nt Affastai                               274,304.6   168,504.3   202,099.1   182,239.3   227,946.3  1,055,183.5    267.1    155.8    177.2    151.7    180.1        931.8
Subt  LLd us                                          781,097.0   714,845.1   797,773.3   544,716.8   478,529.1   3,316,961.3  760.5    660.6    699.7    453.3    378.0    2,952.0
2 VWileS
BhierligC CdtyoWfAfnd                                399,349.7   170,371.6   234,847.6   263,273.1   221,065.0   1,288,907.0  388.8    157.4    205.9    219.1       174.6    1,145.9
SucattflhUs  of V*dtjm  Pm&wsi                       125,249.8   1C0,917.B    94,679.1   114,629.8   108,452.1    544,128.3    121.9     93.2      83.0     95.6      85.7      479.4
SubtotalWsdud                                          524,50.5   271,289.2   329,526.7   378,102.8   329,617.1   1,833,035.3    510.7    250.7    2e9.0     314.7    260.3    1,625.3
Weubd Land Us L id W edlu Mangment                      1,305,696.4   986,134.3  1,127,300.1    9M,819.6   808,046.2   5,149,996.6   1,271.2    911.3  98a7    7680      638.3    4,577.4             4
E. huelbal        r FnMwmt
1.LVEMPScetauSs                                        219,469.9   166,003.0   179,498.3   193,6562    209,366.8    968,196.2    213.7    153.4    157.4    161.3    165.4        851.2 
2 8afpolt ID Rpvjtn LWrSub                             196,794.4    40,624.0    44,95.9    49,719.6    56,301.3    388,395.2    191.6      37.5     39.4      41.4      44.5      354.4
suboal hi _eloia  Franwik                                416,284.3   20e,27.0   224,454.2   243,577.9   285,668.0  1P&1e 591.4    405.3    190.9    196.8    202.7    209.8    1206.6
Totdl PROJECT COSIS                                     9,237,185.9  5,796,396.2  6,175,838.8  5,509,427.9  4,609,426.0  31,328,274.8   9,001.3   5,409.5   5,415.9   4,585.3   3,640.9   28,052.9



Annexes                                                                                              9
Table 3 - Uganda
Lake Victora Environmental Management Project
Components by Financiers
(US$'000)
The
Govemment of
Uganda       GEF         IDA         Total
Amount    Amount    Amount          Amount       %
A. Fisheries Development
1. Fisheries Management (LVFO)
Lake Victoria Fisheries Office                            228.4      2,055.9          -      2,284.4     8.1
2. Fisheries Research
Fish Biology and Biodiversity Conservation                236.8      2,130.8          -      2,367.6      8.4
Aquaculture                                               108.3       487.2       487.2      1,082.7      3.9
Socio-Economics Studies                                    97.2       218.8       656.3        972.3      3.5
Database                                                   26.8       241.4           -        268.3      1.0
Subtotal Fisheries Research                                 469.1      3,078.2     1,143.5     4,690.8    16.7
3. Fisheries Extension
Fisheries Extension                                       401.5           -      3,613.4     4,014.9    14.3
4. Legal Framework
Establishing Closed Fishing Areas                          43.4           -       390.3        433.6      1.5
Strengthening Enforcement                                  95.2           -       857.2        952.4      3.4
Subtotal Legal Framework                                    138.6           -      1,247.4     1,386.0      4.9
5. Fish Levy Trust
Fish Levy Trust                                            71.2           -       640.9        712.1     2.5
Subtotal Fisheries Development                              1,308.8      5,134.1     6,645.2    13,088.2    46.7
B. Water Hyacinth Control                                     317.2      1,712.7     1,141.8     3,171.7    11.3
C. Water Quality Management
1. Water Quality Monitoring
Eutrophication                                            221.8      1,996.0          -      2,217.7     7.9
Sedimentation                                              16.3       146.7           -        163.0     0.6
Hydraulic Conditions                                       29.9       268.7           -        298.6     1.1
Lake Victoria Model                                        35.9       322.8           -        358.7     1.3
Subtotal Water Quality Monitoring                           303.8      2,734.2          -      3,038.0    10.8
2. Industrial and Municipal Waste Management
Management of Industrial and Municipal Effluent           143.5           -      1,291.9     1,435.4     5.1
Tertiary Industrial Effluent Treatment (pilot)             26.6           -       239.2        265.7     0.9
Tertiary Municipal Effluent Treatment (pilot)              27.1           -       243.9        271.0     1.0
Priority Waste Management Investments                     120.0           -       880.0      1,000.0     3.6
Subtotal Industrial and Municipal Waste Management          317.2           -      2,654.9     2,972.1     10.6
Subtotal Water Quality Management                             621.0      2,734.2     2,654.9     6,010.1     21.4
D. Land Use and Wetland Management
1. Land use
Pollution Loading                                         135.9      1,223.0          -      1,358.9     4.8
Agro-Chemicals Assessment (pilot)                          20.9           -       187.9        208.8     0.7
Soil and Water Conservation (pilot)                        45.3           -       407.3       452.5      1.6
Catchment Afforestation                                    93.2           -       838.6        931.8     3.3
Subtotal Land use                                           295.2      1,223.0     1,433.8     2,952.0    10.5
2. Wetlands
Buffering Capacity of Wetlands                            114.6      1,031.3          -      1,145.9     4.1
Sustainable Use of Wetland Products                        47.9       215.8       215.8       479.4      1.7
Subtotal Wetlands                                           162.5      1,247.1      215.8      1,625.3     5.8
Subtotal Land Use and Wetland Management                      457.7      2,470.1     1,649.5     4,577.4    16.3
E. Institutional Framework
1. LVEMP Secretariats                                        85.1       766.1           -       851.2      3.0
2. Support to Riparian Universities                          35.4       319.0           -        354.4     1.3
Subtotal Institutional Framework                              120.6      1,085.0          -      1,205.6     4.3
Total Disbursement                                           2,825.3    13,136.1    12,091.5     28,052.9   100.0






Annex 2
KENYA, TANZANIA, AND UGANDA
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement (GEF and IDA)
(US$ million)
IDA FY              Semester      Disbursement    Cumulative           % Total
Disbursement
1997                   1                0.0              0.0               0
2               6.8              6.8              10
1998                   1                6.8             13.6              19
2               7.2             20.8              30
1999                   1                7.2             28.0              40
2               7.6             35.6              51
2000                   1                7.6             43.2              62
2               7.1             50.3              72
2001                   1                7.1             57.4              82
2               4.8             62.2              89
2002                   1                4.8             67.0              96
2               2.0             69.0              99
2003                   1                1.0             70.0             100



2                                                                             Annexes
Summary of Disbursement Schedule
Estimated GEF/IDA Disbursements
KENYA
Category                  GEF Grant    IDA Credit           Percent of Financing
(US$ m)       (US$ m)
1. Civil Works                0.1            1.5       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
2. Vehicles and Equipment     2.7            2.2       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
3. Consultants & Training     3.3            2.5       100 %
4. Micro-projects                            0.7       90 %
5. Operating Costs            4.4            4.6       90 %
6. Unallocated                1.0            1.3
Total                        11.5           12.8
TANZANIA
Category                  GEF Grant    IDA Credit           Percent of Financing
(US$ m)       (US$ m)
1. Civil Works                0.1            0.7       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
2. Vehicles and Equipment     2.1            1.7       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
3. Consultants & Training     3.5            2.2       100 %
4. Micro-projects                    X       0.8       90 %
5. Operating Costs            3.5            3.7       90 %
6. Unallocated                1.1            1.0
Total                         10.3          10.1
UGANDA
Category                  GEF Grant    IDA Credit           Percent of Financing
(US$ m)       (US$ m)
1. Civil Works                0.3            0.6       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
2. Vehicles and Equipment     2.5            2.2       100% of Foreign Expenditures
and 90% of Local Expenditures
3. Consultants &Training      4.3            2.5       100 %
4. Micro-projects                            1.0       90 %
5. Operating costs            4.8            4.6       90 %
6. Unallocated                1.3            1.2
Total                         13.2          12.1



Annexes                                                                                      3
Kenya
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Item                             ICB                NCB               Other               Total
Civil Works                                          2.8                                     2.8
GEF                                    (0. 1)                                 (0.1)
IDA                                   (2.5)                                  (2.5)
Vehicles                          2.2                                    0.1                 2.3
GEF                (1.0)                                   (0. 1)             (1.0)
IDA               (1.0)                                                      (1.0)
Equipment                                                                3.6                 3.6
GEF                                                        (1.9)              (1.9)
IDA                                                       (1.4)              (1.4)
Training                                                                 3.4                 3.4
GEF                                                        (1.4)              (1.4)
IDA                                                       (1.6)               (1.6)
Consultants                                                              3.7                 3.7
GEF                                                        (2.2)              (2.2)
IDA                                                       (1.2)              (1.2)
Operating Costs                                                         11.1               11.1
GEF                                                        (4.9)              (4.9)
IDA                                                       (5.1)              (5.1)
Totals                            2.2                2.8                21.9               26.9
GEF                (1.0)               (0.1)             (10.4)              (11.5)
IDA               (1.0)               (2.5)              (9.3)              (12.8)
Notes: the difference between the total project costs in each category and the GEF and
IDA provisions (in parentheses) would be financed by the Government.



4                                                                         Annexes
Tanzania
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Item                        ICB             NCB             Other             Total
Civil Works                                   1.9                               1.9
GEF                               (0. 1)                            (0.1)
IDA                              (1.6)                             (1.6)
Vehicles                     1.9                               0.1              1.9
GEF              (0.8)                             (0.1)            (0.8)
IDA             (0.9)                                              (0.9)
Equipment                                                      2.8              2.8
GEF                                                (1.5)           (1.5)
IDA                                               (1.0)           (1.0)
Training                                                       3.4              3.4
GEF                                                (1.6)            (1.6)
IDA                                               (1.4)            (1.4)
Consultants                                                    3.7              3.7
GEF                                                (2.3)            (2.3)
IDA                                               (1.0)            (1.0)
Operating Costs                                                8.9              8.9
GEF                                                (4.0)            (4.0)
IDA                                               (4.1)            (4.0)
Totals                       1.9              1.9             18.8             22.6
GEF              (0.8)            (0.1)            (9.4)          (10.3)
IDA             (0.9)            (1.6)            (7.6)           (10.1)
Notes: the difference between the total project costs in each category and the GEF and
IDA provisions (in parentheses) would be financed by the Government.



Annexes                                                                             5
Uganda
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Item                          ICB              NCB             Other              Total
Civil Works                                     2.2                                 2.2
GEF                                (0.3)                               (0.3)
IDA                               (1.8)                               (1.8)
Vehicles                      2.5                                                   2.5
GEF              (1. 1)                                               (1. 1)
IDA              (1.1)                                                (1.1)
Equipment                                                         3.3               3.3
GEF                                                  (1.7)             (1.7)
IDA                                                 (1.3)             (1.3)
Training                                                          3.2               3.2
GEF                                                  (1.3)             (1.3)
IDA                                                 (1.6)             (1.6)
Consultants                                                       5.2               5.2
GEF                                                  (3.5)             (3.5)
IDA                                                 (1.2)             (1.2)
Operating Costs                                                  11.7              11.7
GEF                                                  (5.3)             (5.3)
IDA                                                 (5.1)             (5.1)
Totals                        2.5               2.2              23.4              28.1
GEF              (1.1)             (0.3)            (11.8)            (13.2)
IDA              (1.1)            (1.8)             (9.2)            (12.1)
Notes: the difference between the total project costs in each category and the GEF and
IDA provisions (in parentheses) would be financed by the Government.






Annex 3
KENYA, TANZANIA, AND UGANDA
LAKE VICITORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECr
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A.   Introduction
1.    This summarizes the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), which is a joint product
of the Lake Victoria Environ-mental Management Secretariats (LVEMPS) of
Kenya,Tanzania and Uganda and IDA/GEF officials responsible for the Lake Victoria
Environmental Management Project (LVEMP).
B.   Overall Responsibility
2.    LVEMPS: Overall responsibility for coordinating project implementation will
rest with the LVEMP Secretariats (LVEMPS), created under the Tripartite Agreement
signed by the Governments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda on August 5,1994. Under
the Agreement the three governments undertook to establish a Regional Policy Steering
Committee ( RPSC) to be assisted by a Regional Secretariat and two National
Secretariats. The Regional Secretariat is located in Tanzania. Under the project the
LVEMPS's will: a) provide a secretariat to the LVEMP; b) ensure efficient
implementation of the LVEMP by establishing a monitoring and coordinating
mechanism; c) assist in building institutional and human resource capacity within the
program; d) organize donor coordination; e) assist in formulating harmonised policies,
institutions and a legal framework relevant to Lake Victoria; f) establish necessary
linkages between the LVEMP and the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation (LVFO); g)
provide logistical support to the sectoral ministries and agencies for implementation of
the program; h) ensure compliance with IDA and GEF reporting, procurement and
disbursement procedure; and i) provide policy guidance and a forum for conflict
resolution. In addition the Regional Secretariat through the RPSC will monitor and
review progress of implementation, report on progress every quarter, and provide
guidance and direction to the LVEMP.
3.    The Regional Secretariat in Tanzania will assist the RPSC, and provide linkages
with other regional agencies dealing with issues pertaining to Lake Victoria. This
Secretariat, working under the office of the Vice President in the Department of
Environment, Poverty Alleviation and Union Matters, will report to the RPSC. The
Regional Secretariat will also perform the function of the National Secretariat for
LVEMP implementation in Tanzania.
4.   In Kenya the LVEMP Secretariat will work under the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources, while in Uganda it will be under the Ministry of Natural
Resources.



2                                                                    Annexes
5.    The Regional Policy and Steering Committee, headed by a chairperson who will
be elected by that committee from among its membership at its first meeting and
thereafter on an annual rotation, will include a maximum of three representatives of
each country led by an officer at Permanent Secretary level. The Executive Secretary, to
be appointed by the RPSC, at its first meeting, will as head of the Regional Secretariat be
responsible for monitoring progress, preparing review meetings, and compiling reports
as required by IDA and GEF. The National Secretariat in each country will assist the
Executive Secretary of the Regional Secretariat in preparing regional meetings and
regional level reports. The locations of National Secretariats in each country will be
determined by the respective Governments.
6.    The Regional Secretariat in Tanzania and the National Secretariats in Kenya and
Uganda will each be headed by a full-time professional (equivalent in qualifications and
experience to a Deputy Principal/ Permanent Secretary) who will be accountable to the
Principal/Permanent Secretary of their parent Ministry and will have full responsibility
for coordinating LVEMP activities. Each LVEMP Secretariat will be staffed with: (a) one
Project Accountant; (b) one Procurement/Disbursement Officer (PDO); (c) one
Operations Officer (OPO); (d) one Management Information Systems Officer (MISO);
one secretary, two drivers and one messenger. The major responsibility of the PDO will
be to ensure that all Ministries, agencies, and institutions using Project funds set up
proper accounting systems and maintain proper accounts, and promptly claim
reimbursement from GEF and IDA. All withdrawal applications will be submitted to
IDA/GEF through the office of the PDO so that a proper track of expenditures on
different components of the Program in other institutions and ministries or departments
is kept, and IDA/GEF disbursements are received by the beneficiaries without undue
delay. The PDO will also be responsible for supervising the Project's "Special Account"
and guiding various implementing agencies with regard to procedures for its use. The
major responsibility of the OPO will be to supervise closely the implementation of
various Project components, identify implementation bottlenecks in the field and/or at
Headquarters, and bring these bottlenecks to the attention of the head of the Regional/
National Secretariat. The OPO will also coordinate training and provide the MISO with
reports on physical and financial progress. The latter will establish and operate an
approved management information system installed by consultants, obtain periodical
reports from various managers concerned with project implementation, collate data and
reports and submit them to the head of the LVEMP Secretariat. The MISO will collect
data on key monitorable indicators and prepare quarterly and annual reports to be
submitted to IDA/GEF in agreed formats, as well as background and progress reports
for IDA/GEF review missions.
7.    LVEMP secretariat staff will be recruited on personnel service contracts. Their
salaries and wages for the duration of the project will be financed by the GEF, together
with expenditures on vehicles and equipment required for LVEMP to ensure rapid
build up of its implementation capacity.
C.    Specific Responsibilities of the Secretariats for LVEMP
8.    The LVEMP Regional Secretariat's specific responsibilities will include, but not
be limited to: (a) organisation of semi annual meetings of RPSC members for obtaining



Annexes                                                                    3
their guidance and direction on implementation of the LVEMP including review and
monitoring of the Program; (b) creating implementation mechanisms to ensure
formulation of harmonised policies institutions and legal framework relevant to Lake
Victoria; (c) establishing close working linkages with the LVFO and reporting on its
progress to the RPSC; (d) upon direction of the RPSC establishing functional links with
the Permanent Tripartite Commission (PTC) and other regional organisations such as
the Kagera Basin Organization (KBO), the Association for Strengthening Agricultural
Research in Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA), and the Technical Cooperation for
the Promotion of Development and Environmental Protection of the Nile Basin
(TECCONILE); (e) environmental management capacity building in the public, private
and non governmental sectors; (f monitoring and coordination to ensure effective
implementation, from the regional to national to grassroot level, of all LVEMP
components, including research, extension, training, evaluation and transfer of
technological skills; (g) assisting IDA supervision missions with necessary information,
setting up meetings, organising field visits and accompanying the supervision mission
to meetings and field visits; (h) submitting quarterly progress reports to IDA/GEF in
agreed formats in addition to such other periodic reports which IDA/ GEF may
specifically request; (i) developing a detailed Operational Manual for LVEMP in the first
Project year (PY-1), and an Operational Plan to ensure sustainability after the closing
date, both in a format satisfactory to IDA; (j) conducting with IDA/GEF a Mid-Term
Review of Project progress by the end of February 1999; and (k) preparing an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months from the close of the
Project.
9.    The LVEMP National Secretariats' specific responsibilities will include, but not
be limited to: (a) organisation of Technical Committee meetings (at least three per year),
of members drawn from all implementing agencies for reviewing progress on
implementation of LVEMP; (b) creating implementation mechanisms to ensure
formulation of harmonised policies, institutions and legal framework relevant to Lake
Victoria in close cooperation with the Regional Secretariat; (c) effective participation in
meetings and workshops convened by implementing agencies for furtherance of the
program; (d) capacity building in environmental management of the lake and its
catchment, in public, private and non-governmental sectors; (e) monitoring and
coordination at the national and grassroot level, of all LVEMP components, including
research, extension, training, evaluation and transfer of technological skills and
providing feed back to their respective Ministries of Environment and Natural
Resources; (f) assisting IDA supervision missions with necessary information, setting up
meetings, organising field visits and accompanying the supervision missions to
meetings and field visits; (g) submitting quarterly progress reports to IDA/GEF in
agreed formats in addition to such other periodic reports as IDA/GEF may specifically
request; (h) developing a detailed Operational Manual for LVEMP implementation in
their respective countries during the first Project year (PY-1), and an Operational Plan to
guarantee sustainability after the closing date, both in a format satisfactory to IDA; (i)
conducting with IDA/GEF a Mid-Term Review of Project progress by the end of
February 1999; and (j) preparing an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six
month from the close of the Project. The three Governments have assured IDA/GEF
that they will provide adequate and timely budgetary and staffing support to the
implementing ministries, institutions and agencies to undertake these responsibilities.



4                                                                 Annexes
10.   The LVEMP secretariats will set up the following institutional and regulatory
mechanisms to secure inter-agency coordination, obtain periodic feedback, submit
regular progress reports to IDA/GEF in agreed formats, and thereby implement the
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program:
(a)   Project Implementation Committee (PIC): In each country the LVEMPS will set
up a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) with membership drawn from all
implementing agencies. The OPO of the LVEMP National Secretariat will be nominated
as Secretary of the PIC. Members will include representatives from the
Ministries/Departments of Environment and Natural Resources, Fisheries, Water, and
Agriculture, along with members of specialised technical agencies/institutions
participating in the program, private sector and non governmental organisations. The
PIC will meet every month under the Chairmanship of the Head of the LVEMP
National Secretariat. The agenda of PIC meetings will include review of the physical
and financial progress of the various project components including programs in littoral
pilot zones, in wetlands as well as in rivers within the Lake Victoria Catchment,
community participation, publication and dissemination of information, progress in
procurement, construction of works and installation of equipment. To this end, the
LVEMPS will define for each of the implementing agencies the formats and the timing
for submission of the quarterly progress reports.
(b)   Meetings with Regional Sub-Program Resource Personnel: In order to
maintain close grass root contacts and stay current with the problems of each region/
subcomponent, and to assist the newly set-up pilot zone administrations, LVEMPS will
convene meetings each quarter at selected places in the country, each in a cluster of
mostly contiguous regions. These meetings will be used to review, on a regional basis,
the problems encountered and progress made in the implementation of various
components of LVEMP, and to agree on the next steps and a work plan for the pilot
projects under implementation, including programs implemented lake wide. Project-
specific protocols for start up will be drawn up after rapid appraisal and establishment
of bench mark status. Representatives of the concerned research institutions,
government extension departments, stakeholders and community based organisations,
and the faculty of national universities will participate in these meetings.
(c)   Community Involvement in the Program: Community participation is
considered key to the successful implementation of the program. This will imply
involvement and participation of stakeholders including empowerment of communities
for eventual ownership of the programs targeted for their benefit. In keeping with this
overall oojective the LVEMPS will ensure that the processes of education,
communication, awareness creation, community participation and motivation are
followed consistently and thoroughly throughout the implementation phase of the
program, and that seminars, workshops and demonstrations are conducted in a timely
and organised manner. A systematic community education program will need to be
launched, to teach rural communities not only in formal class settings but through radio
or video programs the benefits of environmental conservation and management. The
LVEMPS will oversee these efforts by assisting in the preparation of workshops and
seminars, reviewing comprehensively the achievements of each of these events,



Annexes                                                                  5
identifying success and failure, and preparing in consultation with and cooperation of
all participating agencies, workplans for implementation during the following year and
assigning responsibilities for future specific actions. LVEMPS in their regular meetings
will review the progress in the implementation of recommended activities, and include
the results of such review in quarterly progress reports to their respective Ministry, IDA
and GEF.
(d)   Workshops on Procurement, Disbursements and Project Management: The
LVEMPS will organize, with IDA/GEF assistance, a workshop on procurement,
disbursement and project management in Project Year 1 (and in subsequent years if
necessary) for selected staff engaged in LVEMP implementation procurement,
disbursement and project management. The concerned staff will also receive intensive
training in IDA/ GEF procedures.
(e)   Mid-Term Review (MTR): The LVEMPS will collaborate with IDA in a Mid-
Term Review (MTR) of LVEMP, which will be held by the end of March, 1999. The
LVEMPS will enlist the participation of all implementing agencies. The MTR will
include a review of progress in policy reform, including harmonised legislation, legal
framework and institutional arrangements for regional cooperation. It will also review
progress achieved in staffing, funding and operational activities, and capacity building.
As part of the Mid-Term Review, the three governments will prepare an updated
analysis of transboundary environmental concerns, to guide the second phase of project
implementation, and set the stage for subsequent initiatives. Based on the findings of
the Mid- Term Review, the Project will be restructured, if and when necessary.
(f)   Project Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation: The LVEMPS will be
responsible for coordinating the development of annual work plans for various Project
components and maintaining data on implementation progress. To this end the
LVEMPS will:
(i) establish bench marks for evaluation of subsequent project
achievements in consultation with implementing agencies;
(ii) prepare quarterly progress reports, providing a descriptive and
analytical account of project achievements and highlighting implementation
problems; these reports will be submitted regularly to the respective Ministries
of Environment and Natural Resources and IDA for the quarters ending March,
June, September and December of each year. The comments and directives of
the Ministries, if any, on the quarterly reports will also be communicated to IDA;
(iii) prepare and submit to IDA an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) within six months from project closing date. IDA will provide the
LVEMPS with a standard format for the ICR. The ICR will, inter alia, include the
Government's assessment of the extent to which objectives were realized, details
of physical and financial achievements, problems encountered, solutions found
and lessons learned. The ICR will include a revised GEF Strategic Action
Program, containing an outline of interventions needed to address priority



6                                                                    Annexes
problems. IDA will use this as the basis for convening a donors' meeting to seek
conmmitments to support such interventions.
(g)   Audit: The LVEMPS will ensure that separate books of account are maintained
in LVEMPS and by each implementing agency for all project-related accounts. These
accounts, together with special accounts and statements of expenditure, will be audited
on an annual basis, by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, and audit reports will
be submitted to IDA within six months from the end of each fiscal year.
(h)   Quality Control: LVEMPS will organize periodical evaluations and technical
reviews of the program's implementation. The LVEMPS will also coordinate
arrangements for the Panel of Scientists, whose 7 members will serve as an overall
advisory group for the scientific studies of the lake. They will meet once a year to
review issues arising from project implementation, and will meet at other times as
required, as well as being available individually, at the request of the Regional Policy
and Steering Committee, to provide advice about specific issues. The LVEMPS will
ensure that the advice and comments tendered by the Panel are addressed by the
implementing agencies.
11.   The performance of the Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation (LVFO), which will
have a critical role in ensuring the quality of implementation of several important
components of the program, will also be reviewed by IDA/ GEF supervision missions.
The LVFO will furnish quarterly progress reports to the Ministries of Environment and
Natural Resources, in a format to be agreed during Project implementation; these
reports will, on request, be available to IDA. At the Mid-Term Review, the performance
and future needs/sustainability of the LVFO will also be reviewed.
D.   Focal Points For Implementation of LVEMP
12.   Focal points for implementation of LVEMP will be as follows: (a) at the
Regional level, the RPSC with the assistance of the Regional Secretariat will be
responsible for the overall direction, planning, monitoring and assessment of the
program; (b) at the National level, the LVEMP National Secretariats, assisted by the
sectoral ministries/ departments, identified universities and/or research institutions will
be responsible for the overall direction, planning, monitoring and assessment of the
respective national program; (c) at the Zonal level the office of the Regional
Commissioner, the Zonal Officer with the assistance of selected Extension Staff; and
Local Agencies; (d) at the Community /Village Level, Non Governmental
Organizations and Community Based Organizations, selected community leaders,
groups of fisherfolk, farmers and Extension Agents.
13.   Major components of the program will be implemented by various national
agencies as follows: (a) the three Fisheries Research Institutes (KEMFRI, TAFIRI and
FIRI) will play lead roles in all sub-components of fisheries research, and will
collaborate with the Fisheries Departments of their respective governments in the
fisheries extension, and with the Ministries of Water in the Water Quality components;
(b) the Ministries of Water will be the lead agencies for the Water Quality components,
and they will in turn collaborate closely with the Ministries of Environment, Natural



Annexes                                                                   7
Resources and Agriculture in their implementation of the components on land use and
wetland management (c) National Wetlands Committees in all three countries will also
be involved in these components, with continuing assistance from the World
Conservation Union (IUCN); (d) the Moi, Makarere, and Sokoine Universities, and the
Universities of Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, will be involved in many of the studies,
including those on socio-economics; (e) the water testing laboratories of the Kisumu and
Mwanza Municipal Councils, the Uganda Water and Sewage Corporation, and the Lake
Basin Development Authority (in Kisumu) will extend the reach of laboratories already
operating or planned by the respective Ministries of Water; (e) National Steering
Committees or task forces will be set up for the Water Hyacinth Control Program, while
the respective national agricultural research institutes will establish and operate the
rearing units for biological control agents.
E.    Capacity Building
14.   The LVEMPS will coordinate the capacity building programs under the program
and take the overall responsibility for Training. Each implementing department and
agency will prepare an annual training plan and submit it to the respective LVEMP
National Secretariat. The training plan will identify the subjects and courses for
training, their timing, duration, estimated costs, name and location of the training
institutions, the names of the persons proposed, and the justification for their training.
The training plans will be submitted to IDA for approval, the first within three months
of Credit Effectiveness, and subsequent annual plans by May 15 of each year.
15.   Every sub-program makes extensive provision for capacity building. The
training program will include regional fellowships (including about 100 Masters
Degrees and 15 PhDs), study tours, on-site training to the national regional and field
staff, selected community leaders, fisherfolk/farmers and entrepreneurs. At least 2,000
short-term and on-job training opportunities are provided in the project, and at least 600
stakeholder workshops.
F.    Implementation Plan, Key Monitorable Indicators and Supervision Plan
16.   The outline of key Monitorable Indicators, as agreed during negotiations, is in
Annex 4, the schedule of procurement activities arising out of the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) is in Annex 5, and the agreed Supervision Plan is shown in
Annex 6.



8                                                                   Annexes
Documents In the Project File
Abramovitz, Janet N. (1995), Freshwater Failures: The Crises on Five Continents, World
Watch, September/October: 27-35
Baskin, Yvonne (1994), Losing A Lake, Discover, March: 74-81.
Bootsma, Harvey A., and Robert E. Hecky (1993), Conservation of the African Great
Lakes: A Limnological Perspective, Conservation Biology, 7.3, September: 644-655
Crul, R.C.M., G.T. Silvestre, D.J. Postma, M.J.P. van Oijen, T.O. Acere, and G. Bongers
(1995), A Bibliography of Lake Victoria, International Hydrological Programme, United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Paris, SC-
95/WS/16: 164 pp. listing 2,180 references
European Communities (1993), Evaluation Study of Lake Victoria Fisheries Research
Project, Phase 1, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Project No. 5100 36 94 401, International
Agricultural Centre, Wageningen, the Netherlands, June: 79 pp.
European Communities (1994), Lake Victoria Fisheries Research Project: Formulation of
Operational Research Project, Technical Annexes, June: 91 pp.
European Communities (1995), Lake Victoria Fisheries Research Project - Phase II (REG
5316/001/ROR), Annex No. 2, Technical and Administrative Provisions for
Implementation, October: 6 pp. + Ann.
FAO (1993), Operational Water Resources Management and Information System in the
Nile Basin Countries, Project GCP/RAF/286/ITA, 36 pp.
FAO (1994), Land Cover Mapping of East Africa Based on Satellite Remote Sensing,
Project GCP/RAF/287/ITA, 48 pp.
FAO (1994), Information System for Water Resources Monitoring and Planning in the
Lake Victoria Region, Project GCP/RAF/304/JPN, 31 pp.
FAO (1995), Tanzania: Mara Region Agricultural Development Project, Socio-Economic
and Production Systems Study, Draft Report, 10 May: 71 pp. + Ann. + Maps
FAO (1995), Uganda: Emergency Control of Water Hyacinth - Lake Victoria, Mission
Report, Rome, April: 45 pp.
FAO (1995), Uganda: Emergency Control of Water Hyacinth - Lake Victoria, Time-
Bound Action Plan, Programme Document TCP/RAF/2371, Rome, July: 46 pp.
FAO (1995), A Remote Sensing System for Monitoring and Evaluation of Lake Victoria,
December: 45 pp. + Ann.



Annexes                                                                 9
Goldschmidt, Tijs, Frans Witte, and Jan Wanink (1993), Cascading Effects of the
Introduced Nile Perch on the Detritivorous/Phytoplanktivorous Species in the
Sublittoral Areas of Lake Victoria, Conservation Biology, 7.3, September: 686-700
Goodland, Robert (1995), Back to Office Report on Uganda Owens Falls Hydroproject:
Environment, July 24: 14 pp.
Government of the Republic of Kenya, Government of the Republic of Uganda, and
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania (1994), Agreement on the Preparation
of a Tripartite Environmental Management Programme for Lake Victoria, 5 August,
1994:4 pp. + Ann.
Government of the Republic of Kenya, Government of the Republic of Uganda, and
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program, Regional Task Force 1, Report on Fisheries Management and
Water Hyacinth Control, October: 299 pp.
Government of the Republic of Kenya, Government of the Republic of Uganda, and
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program, Regional Task Force 2, Report on Management of Water Quality
and Land Use Including Wetlands, September: 136 pp.
Government of the Republic of Kenya, Government of the Republic of Uganda, and
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Program Proposal [Preparation Report] (1996), Final Report, January, 1996,
323 pp.
Hamilton, L.D. (1986), Proposed BNL/ BEAD Activity in Environmental Action Plan for
Lake Victoria Basin, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Biomedical and Environmental
Assessment Division (Upton, NY), Draft Proposal, May 30: 8 pp.
Hamilton, L.D. (1986), Environmental Management in Developing Countries: The Lake
Victoria Project, A Basin-Wide Pollution Control and Management Plan, Brookhaven
National Laboratory, Biomedical and Environmental Assessment Division (Upton, NY),
Briefing Document, September 17: 13 pp.
Harley, K.L.S. (1990), The Role of Biological Control in the Management of Water
Hyacinth, Eichornia crassipes, Biocontrol News and Information, 11.1: 11-22.
Harris, Craig K., David S. Wiley and Douglas C. Wilson (1995), Socio-Economic Impacts
of Introduced Species In Lake Victoria Fisheries, in Pitcher, Tony J., and Paul J.B. Hart,
The Impact of Species Changes In African Lakes, (London, Chapman and Hall), Chapter
11: 215-242
Hecky, Robert E. (1993), The Eutrophication of Lake Victoria, Peter Kilham Memorial
Lecture, Proceedings of the International Association for Theoretical and Applied



10                                                                 Annexes
Limnology, Congress in Barcelona 1992, Verh. Internat. Verein. Limnol. 25, September:
39-48
Hecky, Robert E. (1995), Report on the Pre-Appraisal Mission for Lake Victoria
Environmental Program, 17 June to 2 July: 21 pp.
Hecky, Robert E. (1995), Lake Victoria Environmental Management Programme: The
Need For An Adaptive Management Approach To Ecosystem Restoration, November:
24 pp.
Hecky, Robert E. (1996), Precipitation Chemistry Monitoring in the Victoria Basin: The
Need and a Proposal, May: 13 pp.
Hecky, Robert E., and F.W.B. Bugenyi (1991), Hydrology and Chemistry of the African
Great Lakes and Water Quality Issues: Problems and Solutions, Proceedings of the
International Association for Theoretical and Applied Limnology, Congress 1991, Mitt.
Internat. Verein. Limno. 23: 45-54
Hecky, Robert E., F.W.B. Bugenyi, P. Ochumba, J.F. TaUling, R. Mugidde, M. Gophen,
and L. Kaufman (1995), Deoxygenation of the Deep Water of Lake Victoria, East Africa,
Limnnol. Oceanogr.
Hecky, Robert E., H.A. Bootsma, R.M Mugidde, and F.W.B Bugenyi (1996). Phosphorus
Pumps, Nitrogen Sinks, and Silicon Drains: Plumbing Nutrients in the African Great
Lakes, in Johnson, Thomas C., and Eric 0. Odada (eds), The Limnology, Climatology
and Paleoclimatology of the East African Lakes, (New York, Gordon and Breach)
forthcoming 1996: 205-224
Hirji, Rafik, and Alfred M. Duda (1995), A Comprehensive Approach for Managing the
Lake Victoria Basin Ecosystem, Paper to the Nile 2002 Conference, Arusha, Tanzania,
February 13-16: 20 pp.
Hirji, Rafik (1995), Back to Office Report on the Tanzania River Basin Management and
Improvement of Smallholder Irrigation Project, and the Lake Victoria Environment
Management Project, June 12: 4 pp. + Ann.
Hirji, Rafik (1995), Back to Office Report on the Seminar on Water Resources
Management in Kenya, and the Tanzania River Basin Management and Improvement of
Smallholder Irrigation Project, July 24: 6 pp. + Ann.
Kamukala, G.L., and S.A. Crafter (1993), Wetlands of Tanzania: Proceedings of a
Seminar on Wetlands of Tanzania, (Gland, Switzerland, IUCN-The World Conservation
Union), 169 pp.
Kaufman, Les (1992), Catastrophic Change in Species-Rich Freshwater Ecosystems; the
Lessons of Lake Victoria, Bioscience 42.11, December: 846-858



Annexes
Kaufman, Les (1995), Lake Victoria Environmental Management Program, Comments
on the Draft Final Reports of National Working Groups 1 On Management of Fisheries
and Control of Water Hyacinth and Other Invasive Weeds, July: 24 pp.
Kaufman, Les, and Andrew S. Cohen (1993), The Great Lakes of Africa, Conservation
Biology, 7.3, September: 632-633
Kaufman, Les, and Peter Ochumba (1993), Evolutionary and Conservation Biology of
Cichlid Fishes as Revealed by Faunal Remnants in Northern Lake Victoria,
Conservation Biology, 7.3, September: 719-730
Kenya, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development, and Marketing (1990), Atlas of
Irrigation and Drainage in Kenya, Irrigation and Drainage Branch, March:132 pp.
Kenya, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing (1995), National
Soil and Water Conservation Programme, Programme Planning Workshop, Machakos,
7-10 November: 23 pp. + Ann.
Kenya, National Working Group 1 (1995), Draft Report on Fisheries Management and
Control of Water Hyacinth and the Invasive Weeds, June
Kenya, National Working Group 2 (1995), Draft Report on Management of Water
Quality and Land Use Including Wetlands, June
Kitchell, James F., Daniel E. Schindler, Richard Ogutu-Ohwayo, and Peter M. Reinthal
(1995), The Nile Perch in Lake Victoria: Interactions Between Predation and Fisheries,
draft paper, forthcoming in Ecol. Appl.
Lake Victoria Environmental Management Programme (1995), Final Report by the
Regional Consultants on Tasks 11, 16 and 17, in support of Regional Task Force 2 on
Water Quality and Land Use Including Wetlands (Wallingford, UK), November: 320 pp.
+ Ann.
Lipiatou, E., R.E. Hecky, S.J. Eisenreich, L. Lockhart, D.Muir, and P. Wilkinson (1996),
Recent Ecosystem Changes in Lake Victoria Reflected in Sedimentary Natural and
Anthropogenic Organic Compounds, in Johnson, Thomas C., and Eric 0. Odada (eds),
The Limnology, Climatology and Paleocimatology of the East African Lakes, (New
York, Gordon and Breach) forthcoming 1996: 523-540
Lowe-McConnell, Rosemary H. (1993), Fish Faunas of the African Great Lakes: Origins,
Diversity, and Vulnerability, Conservation Biology, 7.3, September: 634-643
OSIENALA (Friends of Lake Victoria) (1995), The Preparation of Community Members
of Lake Victoria Region for the Implementation of Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme, Kisumu, February: 7 pp.



12                                                                 Annexes
OSIENALA (Friends of Lake Victoria) (1995), Planning for the implementation of Lake
Victoria Environmental Management Programme: A Community Based Approach
(Workshop Proceedings, Recommendations and Proposals), May: 91 pp.
OSIENALA (Friends of Lake Victoria) (1995), Regional Preparatory Grassroot
Organizations' Workshop for the Lake Victoria Environment Management Programme,
Kisumu, 4-9 June: 15 pp.
Tanzania, National Working Group 1 (1995), Draft Report on Fisheries Management and
Water Hyacinth Control, June 15
Tanzania, National Working Group 2 (1995), Draft Report on Management of Water
Quality and Land Use, Including Wetlands, June
Uganda, National Working Group 1 (1995), Draft Report on Fisheries Management and
Control of Water Hyacinth and Other Invasive Weeds, June
Uganda, National Working Group 2 (1995), Draft Report on Management of Water
Quality and Land Use Including Wetlands, June
United Nations Development Programme (1995), Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme (Kenya), Promotion of Stakeholders Consultations and
Community Participation, A Report by Elizabeth Oduor-Noah and Alice Ligunya,
August: 147 pp.
United Nations Development Programme(1995), Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme (Tanzania), Stakeholder Consultation and Community
Participation in Tanzania, A Report by L.A. Msambichaka, September: 89 pp.
United Nations Development Programme(1995), Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme (Uganda), Consultation for the Promotion of Stakeholder
Partnership in Uganda, A Report by O.K. Odongkara, September: 47 pp.
United Nations Development Programme(1995), Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Programme, Draft Report of Regional Grassroot Organizations Workshop
on LVEMP held in Mwanza, Tanzania, 12-15 September: 28 pp.
United Republic of Tanzania (1995), Ministry of Agriculture, Programme for Control of
Water Hyacinth in Lake Victoria, October: 44 pp.
Wilson, Douglas C., and Modesta Medard (1995), The Implications for Fisheries
Mangement of the Changing Situation in Lake Victoria Fishing Communities:
Preliminary Findings, forthcoming in African Rural and Urban Studies, Draft Paper,
August: 33 pp.
Wilson, Douglas C. (1995), Factors Influencing the Relative Remuneration of Fishing
Crew In A Context of Increasing Commercialization: the Case of Lake Victoria,
Tanzania, Draft Paper, August: 32 pp.



Annexes                                                                 13
World Bank (1994), Evaluation of Point Source Discharge Treatment Options in the Lake
Victoria Area - Tanzania, Phase II Final Report, March: 108 pp.
World Bank (1994), Economic Development Institute, Proceedings of the Seminar on
Water Resources Management in Tanzania, Tanga, September 12-16: 218 pp.
Wright, A.D. (1995), Outline of Water Hyacinth Control in Australia, Paper to FAO
Meeting, Florida, September
Young, David (1995), Lake Victoria Environmental Management Programme, Technical
Mission, Report to the World Bank, 2 June: 45 pp.






Annex 4
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT INDICATORS
The project is designed to be a mixture of information-gathering, capacity-
building, institution establishment, and actions to begin to deal with the environmental
problems of the lake and its catchment, with an emphasis on fisheries management,
water hyacinth control, improving water quality, and land use management (including
wetlands). A central concern is to reduce the flow of nutrients and pollutants into the
lake, and reverse some of the adverse environmental developments of the past. This
project will attempt to lay the foundations in these areas, and provide a "central core"
around which will coalesce a larger program of investments to clean up the lake, and
establish sustainable development of the lake and its catchment in the face of the
growing population pressures likely to be experienced.
Project Implementation: success will be measured by (a) building capacity
within the riparian universities, the line ministries, the LVEMP secretariats and the
riparian comnmunities for environmental analysis, conservation and adoption of
cohesive management practices on the lake; (b) harmonizing among the three countries
legislation addressing management of fisheries and environmental variables important
in the lake basin, and improved enforcement of this legislation; (c) establishment of the
Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization (LVFO); (d) completion of gazetting and regulating
fish landing sites within the pilot zone areas and enforcing acceptable fishing practices
within a 5 km radius of fishing villages within these areas, with full participation of lake
shore fishing communities; (e) establishing sustainable long-term capacity for
management and control of water hyacinth and other invasive weeds in the Lake
Victoria Basin, through integrated weed control methods and community involvement;
(f) establishing a lake wide water quality and rainfall monitoring system with agreed
parameters to generate information on eutrophication management and pollution
control; and (g) completing a full inventory and resource survey of Lake Victoria
wetlands, and preparing investment proposals for the economic management of these
wetlands, including their rehabilitation.
Project Impact: success will be measured by: (a) reductions in the nutrient and
fecal coliform counts from towns bordering the lake; (b) reductions in sediment and
phosphorus loading in rivers flowing into the lake; (c) reductions by at least 50 percent
over five years in significant industrial pollutants entering the lake; (d) stabilizing the
Nile perch catch at least at current levels, and increasing the recovery of other species;
(e) measurable reduction in the infestation of water hyacinth; and (f) stabilization of
areas retained as wetlands.






LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
KENYA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                        P.M.*       1997            1998            1999           2000            2001
1  2  131 141 1  2l  l 4  l            1  2 T            3 14  1 I2  3  4
1. Works
1.1 Construction of fish ponds                                 NCB             1 23   4 56   7  8  9
1.2 Construction of fish hatcheries                            NCB               23   4 56   7  8  9
1.3 Renovating offices and weevil rearing rooms                NCB             1 23   4 567  8        9
1.4 Weirs                                                      NCB             1 23   4 56   7  8         9
1.5 Construction of Artificial Wetlands                        NCB             1 23   4 56   7  8         9
1.6 Littoral monitoring and rain gauge stations                NCB             1 23   4 56   7  8         9
1.7 Micro Projects                                             NCB                     1 23   4 56   7  8                                        9
1.8 Kisumu Sewage Treatment Plant                               ICB                           1 23   4  5  6  7  8                               9
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                  5 Bid evaluation                     ICB-Intemational Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                       6 IDA no objection for award         NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                  7 Contract award                     ISP/NSP-lnternational/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                                8 Construction
4 Bidding period                                  9 Construction complete            Procurement Method



LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
KENYA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                      P.M.*       1997           1998           1999           2000           2001
l  213   1          2    l 3   4    l  34T 1  4   l  2  3  4   1-2   3  4
2.Y Vehice
2.1 Cars, 4-Wheel Drive Vehicles, Motorcycles                 ICB            t: 23  4 56  7  8
2.2 Bicycles, Boats, Canoes, Dinghies and Engines            NCB             1 i23  4 56  7  8
3. Good
3.1 Laboratory Equipment                                      ISP            1 23  4 56        7       8      9
3.2 Office Equipment and Computers                            ISP            1 23   4 56  7 89
3.3 Field Equipment                                           ISP            1 234  5 789
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                 5 Bid evaluation                   ICB-Intemational Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                     6 IDA no objection for award        NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                7 Contract award                     ISP/NSP-intemational/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                              8 Delivery
4 Bidding period                                9 Installation                     Procurement Method



LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
TANZANIA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                        P.M.*       1997            1998           1999           2000            2001
II 2  13  I4    2  3 1 4  1   2  3   4   1 T      2 3    4   1  2 13  4
1. Works 
1.1 Construction of fish ponds                                 NCB            1 23   4 56   7  8  9
1.2 Construction of fish hatcheries                            NCB            1 23   4 56   7  8  9
1.3 Renovating offices and weevil rearing rooms                NCB            1 23   4 567  8         9
1.4 Weirs                                                      NCB            123   4 56   7  8          9
1.5 Construction of Artificial Wetlands                        NCB            1 23   4 56   7  8         9
1.6 Littoral monitoring and rain gauge stations                NCB            1 23   4 56   7  8         9
1.7 Micro Projects                                             NCB                    1 23   4 56   7  8                                        9
1.8 Mwanza and Bukoba Waste Management                          ICB                           1 23   4  5  6  7  8                              9
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                  5 Bid evaluation                     ICB-intemational Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                      6 IDA no objection for award         NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                  7 Contract award                    ISP/NSP-International/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                                8 Construction
4 Bidding period                                  9 Construction complete            Procurement Method



LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
TANZANIA
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                          P.M.*       1997            1998            1999            2000            2001
- I 1 2  131 14  l  2 1 3  4   I1 2   3  4   1I  2  3  4    1  2   3  4
2. Vehicles                                                                                                   I
2.1 Cars, 4-Wheel Drive Vehicles, Motorcycles                     ICB            1 23   4 56   7   8
2.2 Bicycles, Boats, Canoes, Dinghies and Engines                NCB             1 123   4 56   7  8 |
3. Goods
3.1 Laboratory Equipment                                          ISP            1 23   4 56         7       8       9
3.2 Office Equipment and Computers                                ISP            1 123   4 56 | 7 89
3.3 Field Equipment                                               ISP            1 234 5 789
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                    5 Bid evaluation                     ICB-International Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                        6 IDA no objection for award         NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                   7 Contract award                      ISP/NSP-Intemational/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                                 8 Delivery
4 Bidding period                                   9 installation                      Procurement Method



LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
UGANDA                                                                                                                                                   CD
Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                        P.M.*       1997            1998           1999           2000            2001
.                                                _     '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2  13 14  l  2   3 1 4    1 1 2   3 l 4    1 1 2   3 l    1  f2    3 r4
I. Works                                                                                          I1
1.1 Construction of fish ponds                                 NCB            1 23   4 56   7  8  9
1.2 Construction of fish hatcheries                            NCB            1 23   4 56   7  8  9
1.3 Renovating offices and weevil rearing rooms                NCB            1 23   4 567  8        9
1.4 Weirs                                                      NCB            1 23   4 56   7 1 8        9
1.5 Construction of Artificial Wetlands                        NCB            1 23   4 56   7  8          9
1.6 Littoral monitoring and rain gauge stations                NCB            1 23   4 56   7  8         9
1.7 Micro Projects                                             NCB                    1 23   4 56   7  8                                        9
1.8 Kampala Waste Management                                   ICB                            1 23   4  5  6  7  8                              9
1.9 LVFO office refurbishment                                  NCB             1 23   4 56   7  8  9             -              -               _
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                  5 Bid evaluation                     ICB-lntemational Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                      6 IDA no objection for award         NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BRD to 1DA                  7 Contract award                    ISP/NSP-lnternational/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                                8 Construction
4 Bidding period                                  9 Construction complete            Procurement Method



LVEMP: Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
UGANDA
UGANDA____________________________________________                 ______________                      Fiscal Years
ACTIVITIES                                                     P.M.*       1997           1998           1999  =  = 2000              2001
1  2 13 14        2 13  4  11 23  4  1 1    3  4  1 1    3  4
2. Vehicles                                                                                                              ---             
2.1 Cars, 4-Wheel Drive vehicles, Motorcycles                ICB            1 23  4 56: 7  8
2.2 Bicycles, Boats, Canoes, Dinghies and Engines            NCB            1i 23  4 56  7  8
3. Goods
3.1 Laboratory Equipment                                     ISP           1 23  456          7       8      9
3.2 Office Equipment and Computers                           ISP            14 23   4 56: 7 895
3.3 Field Equipment                                          ISP            1 23 56.'l 789
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                5 Bid evaluation                   ICB-Intemational Competitive Bidding
I Prepare bidding documents                    6 IDA no objection for award        NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA                7 Contract award                   ISP/NSP-lntemational/National Shopping Procedures
3 Clearance by IDA                              8 Delivery
4 Bidding period                                9 Installation                    Procurement Method



ANNEX 6
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan'
Timing        Staff Weeks                    Staffing                    Duration
(weeks)
FY1997             35       Bank resources of which:
-- Task manager                                10
-- Procurement Specialist                       5
-- Operations Management Specialist             5
-Fisheries Biologist                            4
-Limnology/Water Quality Specialist             4
-- Sociologist/Socio-economist                  4
-- Water Hyacinth Control Specialist            3
FY1998             30       Bank resources of which:
-- Task manager                                10
-Operations Management Specialist               5
-Fisheries Biologist                            4
-- Limnology/Water Quality Specialist           4
-Sociologist/socio-economist                    4
-- Water Hyacinth Control Specialist            3
FY1999             40       Bank resources (mid term Review) of which:
- Task manager                                 10
- Procurement Specialist                        3
-- Sanitation Engineer                          4
_ Operations Management Specialist              5
-- Fisheries Biologist                          4
-Linmology/Water Quality Specialist             4
-- Socio-economist                              4
-Water Hyacinth Management Specialist           3
-Soil Management Specialist                     3
FY2000             25       Bank resources of which:
-- Task manager                                 8
-- Operations Management Specialist             3
-- Sanitation Engineer                          3
-Fisheries Biologist                            4
-- Limnology/Water Quality Specialist           4
-Socio- economist                               3
FY2001             20       Bank resources of which:
- Task manager                                  8
- Operations Management Specialist              3
- Fisheries Biologist                           3
-- Limnology/Water Quality Specialist           3
-- Socio-economist                              3
Disbursements are scheduled to FY 2002. Some of the required expertise may be provided
by other agencies involved in project supervision.






Annex 7
LAKE VICTORIA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GEF INCREMENTAL COSTS
Lake Victoria is a "commons" of water, biota, nutrients, pollutants, and the human
activities which use the resources of the lake and its catchments, and impact upon them. In
matters such as fishing, the addition of nutrients to the lake, pollution of the lake and its
tributaries, the economic characteristics of behavior in a "commons" apply - in particular, the
incentives perceived by the individuals, and individual countries involved, all are conducive to
actions which may be in the best, short-term interests of the individuals concerned, but not in the
best interests of the whole group of countries, nor the global community.
The project will be the first regional program to address the major environmental threats
to the Lake Victoria ecosystem, all of which are transboundary in character. The project will
develop the information, capacity and institutions needed for collective action, and test, through a
number of targetted pilot actions and investments, the feasibility and initial impact of some of the
priority regional initiatives needed to stabilize the lake ecosystem. Each project component
involves significant transaction and regional capacity-building costs first to establish cooperative
agreements, and second to implement priority elements of them on a trial basis. These costs are
clearly incremental in that they are not in the national baselines, would not be incurred without
the project, and address transboundary environmental issues.
The project will lay the foundations - of knowledge, capacity, and cooperative
institutional frameworks - for a long-term program of investments in the lake and its catchments,
which will rehabilitate and stabilise the ecosystem. In particular, these will be investments in
cleaning up the waste discharges from polluting industries, rehabilitating and expanding water
supply and sanitation systems, reduction of soil erosion, and sustainable management of fisheries
and wetlands. There will be substantial investments in these even within the five years of
LVEMP implementation, guided by the conceptualization which has already taken place, and the
findings of the LVEMP during implementation. Success in the current project will lay the
foundations for longer term national benefits for the three countries concerned. For example, if
the long-standing barriers to regional fisheries cooperation can be overcome, the design and
implementation of a regional fisheries management program will eventually contribute to a more
sustainable fish catch, as well as conservation of the lake's aquatic biodiversity. Installation of
improved sanitation and water treatment facilities will have benefits for the health of local and
national populations.
There are, however, significant transaction costs which act as barriers to achieving these
benefits, as demonstrated by the lack of progress to date. Examples of the barriers are the lack of
institutional capacity, information and scientific understanding. The costs of overcoming these
barriers are therefore truly incremental. So too are the costs of actions to achieve additional
global benefits, such as aquaculture in support of endangered species, and conservation of critical
habitats. Incremental costs of the project are estimated to be US$38.8 million (details in following
table). In addition to financing the baseline and adjusted baseline measures from non-GEF (IDA)
sources, the three riparian governments have agreed to contribute US$3.8 million from their own
resources to finance a part of the project's incremental cost. They have requested a GEF grant of
US$35 million to fund the balance.



2                                                                                                         Annexes
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component            Cost      X  Cost         Domestic Benefit                  Global Environmental Benefit
Fish                 Baseline              0  None
Biology/Biodiversity
Conservation
Alternative        6.58                                    Improved knowledge of aquatic
populations and threats to their
survival, with education and design
of measures to strengthen
conservation planning and advance
understanding of evolution
____________ __   ; Increment  :6.58
Aquaculture          Baseline            1.55  Possible longer term economic gains
from increased food production and
trade in ornamental fish
Alternative        3.10                                     Restoration of endangered species
through development of sustainable
uses, and avoiding unforeseen
effects of exotic introductions
I tncrement      11.55
Socio-Economic       Baseline           2.00  Improved management of aquatic
Studies                                        resources to increase community
benefits
Alternative        2.67                                     Portion of socio-economic studies
devoted to understanding how to
sustain complex ecosystems while
alleviating poverty
:Increment o    0.67             .
Establishing         Baseline              0  None
Database              _____
Alternative        0.98                                    Shared database facilitating regional
collaboration
Increment        0.98:
Fisheries Extension,   Baseline        14.09  Gains from better fishing techniques,
Policies and Laws                              reduced post-harvest losses, higher
quality products
Alternative       14.09                                     Rescue and preservation of
endangered species through closed
fishing areas, harmonisation of laws
and regulations, and better
enforcement
Increment          0
Water Hyacinth       Baseline           3.32  Reduced damage to infrastructure
Control                                        and improved human health
Alternative        8.30                                    More effective, widespread,
environmentally friendly biological
control methods enabled by regional
collaboration
Increment         4.98
Water Quality         Baseline             0  No additional investment justified in
Monitoring                                    the absence of a regional framework
Alternative        9.58                                    Improved environment for
endangered species, catalyzing
regional collaboration in important
international waters, and increased
understanding of lake/catchment
management to sustain resources of
global importance
I Increment       9.58



Annexes
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component            Cost         Cost         Domesdc Benefit                   Global Environmental Benefit
_  Category  _US$m)                              _           _ _____                     _
Industrial//Municipal    Baseline       9.89  Identifying priority areas and
Waste                                          methods for investments in waste
Management                                     treatment
Alternative        9.89                                    Increased knowledge of
environmentally friendly biological
methods for managing toxic waste
through use of artificial wetlands for
tertiary treatment of municipal and
industrial waste
Increment           0
Land Use/Wetlands    Baseline           5.84  Identifying and managing agro-
Management                                     chemical hazards, reducing soil loss
through investments in afforestation
and soil conservation
Alternative       14.07                                    Conservation of biodiversity in critical
habitats through sustainable
management of wetlands, and
facilitating regional collaboration in
understanding catchmentUlake
interactions
Increment        8.23     _
Lake Victoria        Baseline              0  None
Fisheries
Organisation
Alternative        2.28                                    Intemational management
mechanism to harmonise
environmental laws/regulations, and
allow international collaboration in
management of common pool
resources
Increment        2.28
LVEMP Secretariats    Baseline             0  None
Alternative        2.75                                    Coordination in capacity building for
regional initiatives
Increment        2.75
Support to Riparian  Baseline              0  None
Universities
Alternative        1.06                                    Increased scientific capacity for
sustainable conservation of
biodversity
Increment        1.06
Fisheries Levy Trust   Baseline         2.06  Sustaining fisheries management by
providing sources of funds for
coordination, research, extension,
monitoring and enforcement
Alternative        2.06                                    Increased fiscal capacity for
sustainable conservation of
biodversity
Increment           0
Pollution Disaster   Baseline              0  None
Management
Alternative        0.17                                     Protecting integrity of international
biological resources of immense
value
Increment        0.17
TOTALS               Baseline          38.75
Alternative       77.58
Increment       38.83






32                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 27780
1.33~                                                                                           EAST AFRICA
.~~  ~/---  >U  A      N             D            A               I J I'\                            -  -          ~~LAKE  VICTORIA
Z A I E  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-r  'ENVIRONMENTAL
ZA  E  J   *~~~~~~                                                 -           --    / ~~~~MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DRtAINAGE BASIN BOUNDARY
,5,120                                                                                                                                       It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AiNFALL GAUGES
OPEN WATER SAMAFIJNG SITES
MUA G                                                                                      L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKE SIDE AND CATCHMENT PILOT ZONES
BA~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ISOHYETS IMEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL.,..
-0                                                                                                                                                                                ----- ~~~~~~~~~~~~/~  ~PA*K/RESERVE BOUNDARIES
(I)   I~~~~~~~~~~~~Z~~~~dO. ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ELEVATIONS IN FEET.
.5,000
I-.>'                                                                                                                 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6OG7,000
RIVERS (WITHIN DRtAINAGE BASIN BOUNDARY)
3,7 17 (W)                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SWA.MPS
o   SELECTED OMRS AND TOWNS
KAER  RUU  A N/                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITALS
\/N V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 -~~00   ,                           MAIN ROADS
----RAILROADS
k,78mb Ih).                                       "-r     ~        :M                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUJNDARIES
a          OR          O              WO.W3E3RS
h.                                     uk-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.J-d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    .--
i'R   Mw  a -              LIF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOAI
CENTRAL             ~~~~ETNIOFIA  -,
-  -  --,1   /                   -~~~~~~~~~~~2~~~-             (      /~~~KENYA j
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BA
TANZANIA
ZAMBI          )MZABQU
X  ) MOZAIROUEMADAGASCAR
APRIL 1996









Printed.on recycled paper
@ Printed on recycled paper



