Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                    GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028318
                        GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
                        TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
               (Lake Victoria Environment Management Project)
                                  between
                            THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                    and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                              acting as an
               implementing agency of the Global Environment
                                Facility
                         Dated September 10, 1996
                                    GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028318
                   GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
                              GRANT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1996, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund
by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF.
     WHEREAS: (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14,
1991, of the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF, to
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
     (B)  following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May
24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF
Trust Fund;
     (C)  the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Joint Project
Agreement of even date herewith, has requested assistance from the
resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and
the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with
the provisions of Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above;
     (D)  the Recipient has also requested the International Development
Association (the Association) to provide assistance towards the financing
of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Recipient and the Association (the Uganda IDA Credit Agreement) the
Page  2
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to SDR 8,400,000 (the Uganda IDA Credit);
     (E)  The Recipient and the Bank acting as an implementing agency of
the GEF intend, to the extent practicable, that the proceeds of the GEF
Trust Fund Grant provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account
of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the
proceeds of the Uganda IDA Credit are made;
     (F)  the Republic of Kenya (Kenya) and the United Republic of
Tanzania (Tanzania) have also requested the Bank acting as an implement-
ing agency of the GEF and the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project and by agreements of even date herewith between Kenya and
Tanzania, respectively, and the Bank acting as an implementing agency of
the GEF (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements), and Kenya and Tanzania,
respectively, and the Association (the IDA Credit Agreements), the Bank
and the Association, respectively, are agreeing to provide such
assistance in aggregate principal amounts equivalent to SDR 8,000,000,
SDR 8,900,000, SDR 7,200,000, and SDR 7,000,000, respectively;
     (G)  the Project will be carried out by the Recipient, Kenya and
Tanzania in accordance with the Joint Project Agreement of even date
herewith (the Joint Project Agreement) among the Recipient, Kenya,
Tanzania, the Association and the Bank acting as an implementing agency
of the GEF; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the fore-
going, to extend a GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The following provisions of the General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
          (i)  Article I;
         (ii) Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11),
              (15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
        (iii) Section 3.01;
         (iv) Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
          (v)  Article V;
         (vi) Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03,
              6.04 and 6.06;
        (vii) Section 8.01 (b);
       (viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
              9.09;
         (ix) Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
          (x)  Article XI; and
         (xi) Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
     (b)  The General Conditions are modified as follows:
          (i)  a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01
               to read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and
               the symbol "SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by
Page  3
               the International Monetary Fund in accordance with its
               Articles of Agreement";
         (ii)  the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions,
               other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and
               the last use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means
               the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF,
               except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also
               include the Bank acting in its own capacity;
        (iii)  the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions,
               means the Recipient;
         (iv)  the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General
               Conditions, means this Agreement;
          (v)  the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General
               Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
         (vi)  the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General
               Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
        (vii)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
               "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
               no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expendi-
               tures in the territories of any country which is not a
               member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
               provided from, any such territories; or (b) for the purpose
               of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
               goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
               Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
               Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
               the United Nations."; and
        (viii) a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in
               Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "an
               extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any
               further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant
               would exceed the resources available for disbursement
               from the GEF.".
     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Joint Project Agreement" means the Agreement of even date
herewith among the Recipient, Kenya, Tanzania, the Association and the
Bank, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Joint Project
Agreement; and
     (c)  "IDA Credit Agreements" mean the agreements of even date
herewith between the Recipient, Kenya and Tanzania, respectively, and
the Association for the Project, as such agreements may be amended
from time to time and such term includes the "General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreements and all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the IDA Credit Agreements.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Grant
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make the GEF Trust Fund Grant
available to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
Page  4
(SDR 9,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of works, goods and services required for carrying out the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
     (b)  The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Recipient of such later date.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Joint
Project Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to the Joint Project Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices
and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants'services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Uganda IDA Credit Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Recipient on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of the departments and agencies of
the Recipient responsible for carrying out said parts of the Project.
     (b)  The Recipient shall:
          (i)  have, or cause to have, the records and accounts referred
               to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
               the Special Account, audited for each fiscal year in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
               sistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to
               the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank as soon as
Page  5
               available, but in any case not later than six (6) months
               after the end of each such year, the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records and accounts and the
               audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
               Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified namely the events referred
to in Section 4.01 of the IDA Credit Agreements.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effectiveness; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement, namely that all conditions pre-
cedent to the effectiveness of the IDA Credits and the Kenya and
Tanzania GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement have been fulfilled.
     Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 6.03.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the
GEF Trust Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
                              ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The Minister of the Recipient responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
Page  6
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Recipient:
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box 8147
          Kampala
          Uganda
          Cable address:           Telex:
               FINSEC              61170
               Kampala
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA),
                                    64145 (WUI), or
                                    82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                    By /s/ Edith Sempala
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT acting as an implementing
                    agency of the Global Environment Facility
                    By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
          Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the
amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          GEF Trust Fund
                          Grant Allocated         % of
                           (Expressed in      Expenditures
Page  7
     Category             SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              210,000        100% of foreign
                                             expenditures and
                                             90% of local
                                             expenditures
(2)  Vehicles and equip-    1,730,000        100% of foreign
     ment                                    expenditures and
                                             90% of local
                                             expenditures
(3)  Consultants'           2,980,000        100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Operating costs        3,390,000        90%
(5)  Unallocated              890,000        90%
     TOTAL                  9,200,000
                            =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any such country;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Recipient; and
     (c)  the term "operating costs" means the incremental costs
incurred in carrying out the Project, including office supplies,
office utilities and other related expenditures including operation
and maintenance of buildings, office space, aircraft, boat, vehicles,
other equipments including fuel and lubricants, and field allowances.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, (b) works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equi-
valent, (c) services with consulting firms under contracts not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (d) expenditures for individual
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and
(e) operating costs all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                            Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Page  8
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equi-
valent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of SDR 1,200,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggre-
gate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
               for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be
               withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
               Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and
               in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
               been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account,
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions;
Page  9
or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
allocated to the Eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to
the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request, or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) or
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
