Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2907 KE
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2908 TA
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2909 UG
                                    GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 23819 KE
                                    GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 23817 TA
                                    GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 23818 UG
                        Joint Project Agreement
            (Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project)
                                 among
                           REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                 and
                      UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                 and
                        THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                 and
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                 and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                             acting as an
                       implementing agency of the
                      Global Environment Facility
                        Dated September 10, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2907 KE
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2908 TA
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2909 UG
                                   GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 23819 KE
                                   GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 23817 TA
                                   GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 23818 UG
                          JOINT PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1996, among REPUBLIC OF KENYA (Kenya),
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (Tanzania), REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (Uganda),
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implement-
ing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant
Page  2
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as
participants of the GEF.
     WHEREAS (A) by Development Credit Agreements of even date herewith
with Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda respectively, the Association has agreed
to make to Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda respectively, credits in principal
amounts in various currencies equivalent to eight million nine hundred
thousand, seven million and eight million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR8,900,000), (SDR7,000,000 ), and (SDR8,400,000),
respectively (the IDA Credits), for the purpose of assisting in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (B)  by GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements of even date herewith with
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, respectively, the Bank has agreed to make
to Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, respectively, grants in principal amounts
in various currencies equivalent to eight million, seven million two
hundred thousand and nine million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR8,000,000, SDR7,200,000, and SDR9,200,000), respectively,
(the GEF Grants) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the parties hereto have agreed on the execution of the
Project and the allocations, withdrawal and use of the proceeds of the
IDA Credits and GEF Grants, as well as other matters, as provided in
the above-mentioned agreements and hereinafter;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                              Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the IDA Credit Agreements, the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Agreements, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Borrowers" means Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda with respect to
the IDA Credit Agreements;
     (b)  "Lake Victoria Fisheries Organization" and "LVFO" mean the
organization to be established by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, pursuant
to the convention, dated June 30, 1994;
     (c)  "FIRI" means the Fisheries Research Institute in Uganda;
     (d)  "Financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into
between any of the Borrowers and a Community Project Committee for the
purpose of carrying out a Microproject under Part A.3 (f) of the
Project;
     (e)  "Community Project Committee" means a committee or other
administrative institution, legally established under the applicable
laws of a Borrower, to represent a group of people organized for the
purposes of implementing a Microproject;
     (f)  "Beneficiary" means a community which is represented by a
Community Project Committee;
     (g)  "Microproject Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made
by any of the Borrowers to a Beneficiary for a Microproject under Part
A.3 (f) of the Project;
     (h)  "KEMFRI" means the Kenya Marine Fisheries Research Institute;
     (i)  "NGO" means a non-governmental organization within the
territory of any of the Borrowers;
     (j)  "National Secretariats" means the three secretariats established
in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda pursuant to the Tripartite Agreement (as
hereinafter defined);
Page  3
     (k)  "Pilot Zones" means areas which are designated to address
specific environmental threats as follows: in Kenya: Nyakach Bay,
Berkeley Bay (trans-border with Uganda), Usenge Bay, and Karungu Bay
(trans-border with Tanzania); in Tanzania: Mwanza Gulf, Mara Shirati Bay
(transborder with Kenya), Speke Gulf, Emin Pasha Gulf, and Kagera -
Rubafu Bay (transborder with Uganda); in Uganda: Napoleon Gulf, Mac
Donald - Berkele Bay, (transborder with Kenya), Murchison Bay, Sesse
Islands and Sango Bay (transborder with Tanzania);
     (l)  "TAFIRI" means the Tanzania Fisheries Research Institute;
     (m)  "MENR" means the Kenyan Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources;
     (n)  "MLRRWD" means the Kenyan Ministry of Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development;
     (o)  "MOW" means the Tanzanian Ministry of Water;
     (p)  "MNRT" means the Tanzanian Ministry of Natural Resources and
Tourism;
     (q)  "MNR" means the Ugandan Ministry of Natural Resources;
     (r)  "MAAIF" means the Ugandan Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries;
     (s)  "Tripartite Agreement" means the Agreement on the preparation
and implementation of a Tripartite Environmental Management Program for
Lake Victoria, signed by representatives of the Borrowers on August 5,
1994;
     (t)  "RPSC" means the Regional Policy and Steering Committee
jointly established by the Borrowers pursuant to the Tripartite
Agreement; and
     (u)  PIP means "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan to be
adopted by the Borrowers pursuant to Paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda, declare their
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement and, to this end, without limitation or restriction
upon any of their other obligations, either under this Agreement, the
IDA Credit Agreements or the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements, shall
carry out the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices,
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and, except as Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, the Association
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credits or
GEF Trust Fund Grants shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2
to the IDA Credit Agreements.
     Section 2.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda
shall:
Page  4
     (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Asso-
ciation and the Bank, and furnish to the Association and the Bank not
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, the
Association and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
     (b)   afford the Association and the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views with Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda on said plan.
     Section 2.04. (a) Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda shall carry out,
jointly with the Association and the Bank, not later that March 31,
1999, a mid-term review of the Project. This review shall cover, inter
alia: (i) the performance of LVFO, the National Secretariats and the
RPSC; (ii) the arrangements for community participation in Project
implementation; (iii) transboundary environmental concerns; (iv) the
extent to which the development and other objectives of the Project
have been achieved, (v) compliance with the financial audit and other
obligations of the Borrowers; (vi) the provision of funds for the
Project; and (vii) constraints to the successful implementation of the
Project;
     (b)  Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank by February 28, 1999, a report in scope and detail,
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, describing the status of
progress regarding the items listed in paragraph (a) above and of
Project implementation generally; and
     (c)  Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda shall promptly prepare an action
plan, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, for the further
implementation of the Project and shall thereafter implement such
action plan.
     Section 2.05. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 2.01
of this Agreement, the Borrowers shall each make budgetary allocations,
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank representing their annual
contributions to the Project.
                               ARTICLE III
                      Consultation and Information
     Section 3.01. Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, the Association and the Bank
shall cooperate fully to assure that the objectives of the IDA Credits
and GEF Trust Fund Grants will be accomplished. To that end, all parties
shall from time to time, at the request of any party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the IDA Credit Agreements,
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements, and other matters relating to the
objectives of the IDA Credits and GEF Trust Fund Grants.
     Section 3.02. Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, the Association and the Bank
shall promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with
or threatens to interfere with the accomplishment of the objectives of
the IDA Credits and GEF Trust Fund Grants, or the performance by any
party of its obligations under this Agreement, the IDA Credit Agreements,
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements, and exchange views thereon with all
the parties to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE IV
                      Effective Date; Termination;
                      Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the IDA Credit Agreements and GEF Trust Fund Grant
Agreements become effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement, and all obligations of Kenya,
Tanzania, Uganda, the Association and the Bank thereunder, shall
terminate on the later of the following two dates: (i) the date on which
Page  5
the IDA Credit Agreements or the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements shall
terminate in accordance with their terms; or (ii) the date fifteen years
after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the IDA Credit Agreements and GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreements
terminate in accordance with their terms before the date specified in
Section 4.02 of the Agreements, the Association and the Bank shall
promptly so notify Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.
     Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE V
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties con-
templated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For Kenya:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi
          Kenya
          Cable Address:                Telex:
               FINANCE                  22921
               Nairobi                  MINFIN-KE
     For Tanzania:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 9111
          Dar es Salaam
          Tanzania
          Cable Address:                Telex:
               TREASURY                 41329
     For Uganda:
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box 8147
          Kampala
          Uganda
          Cable Address:                Telex:
               FINSEC
               Kampala                  61170
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Page  6
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     For the Implementing Agency:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of Kenya, Tanzania or Uganda may be taken pursuant to Section 7.01
of the respective IDA Credit Agreements and Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions in the same manner as if such action were taken under the IDA
Credit Agreements.
     Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF KENYA
               By /s/ Benjamin Kipkorir
                                                Authorized Representative
               UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
               By /s/ Mustafa Nyang'anyi
                                                Authorized Representative
               THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
               By /s/ Edith Sempala
Page  7
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
               AND DEVELOPMENT acting as an
               implementing agency of the Global
               Environment Facility
               By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) maximize the sustainable
benefits to riparian communities of the Lake Victoria basin from using
resources within the basin to generate food, employment and income,
supply safe water and sustain a disease-free environment; and (ii)
conserve biodiversity and genetic resources for the benefit of the
riparian countries in particular and the global community in general.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, the Association, and
the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Fisheries
1.   Fisheries Management
     (a)  Establishment of the LVFO.
     (b)  Rehabilitation of offices, acquisition of vehicles and office
equipment, and provision of technical advisory services for activities
under Part A.1 (a) above.
2.   Fisheries Research
     (a)  Carrying out studies of fish biology and biodiversity
conservation, through the acquisition of vehicles, boats, office,
laboratory and field equipment and the provision of training, work-
shops and technical advisory services.
     (b)  (i)  Carrying out studies on aquaculture with a view to
               restoring and sustaining the survival of several
               endangered and threatened species of fish; and
         (ii)  acquisition of vehicles, boats, office, laboratory and
               field equipment and provision of training, workshops
               and technical advisory services for the activities in
               paragraph (i) above.
     (c)  (i)  Carrying out socio-economic studies on small-scale
               fishing and fishing commodity systems, their effects on
               the environment, alternative management strategies,
Page  8
               consequences of changes in fishing policies, social
               amenities in fishing communities and the contribution
               of fisheries to the national economy;
         (ii)  establishment of a database to develop bibliographies
               and a central clearing house for information about Lake
               Victoria and an electronic communications network; and
        (iii)  acquisition of vehicles, boats, office, laboratory and
               field equipment, books and journals and provision of
               training, workshops and technical advisory services for
               above activities.
3.   Fisheries Extension, Policies and Law
     (a)  Harmonization of fisheries laws of the Borrowers.
     (b)  Identification and establishment of closed fishing areas in
Kenya and Uganda and confirmation of those already established in
Tanzania.
     (c)  Training of officers to ensure compliance with laws related to
fisheries and establishment of customs posts at selected border landing
sites.
     (d)  Introduction in pilot zones of new techniques in fishery,
small-scale aquaculture and promotion of organizations of persons
engaged in fishing to monitor fisheries in the Lake.
     (e)  Establishment of a fish quality control laboratory in each of
the Borrowers' territories.
     (f)  Carrying out by communities of Microprojects to provide
sanitary facilities, water supply, local roads and health facilities.
     (g)  Acquisition of vehicles, boats, office, laboratory and field
equipment and provision of training, workshops and technical advisory
services for activities in paragraphs (a) through (f) above.
4.   Fish Levy Trust
     Carrying out a study and making recommendations to raise revenues
and to implement a system to collect levies from the fishing industry
to support fisheries and ecosystem management in the Lake Victoria
Basin and its catchment area.
Part B:     Water Hyacinth Control
1.   Establishment of sustainable long-term capacity for maintaining
control of water hyacinth and other invasive weeds in the Lake Victoria
Basin, through an integrated effort involving, inter alia, intensified
publicity, enactment of relevant legislation and integrated pest
management, all with community involvement.
2.   (a)  Acquisition of vehicles, boats, office, laboratory and field
equipment, laboratory chemicals, herbicides and biological control
agents, for above activities.
     (b)  Rehabilitation of offices and laboratories and provision of
training, workshops and technical advisory services for above activities.
Part C:     Water Quality and Ecosystem Management
1.   Establishment of periodic assessments of the physical and chemical
characteristics of Lake Victoria, estimation of plankton abundance,
species composition and primary production, estimation of effects of
water quality on the regional economy, and establishment of the basis
for a nutrient and pollution control program.
2.   Carrying out a study to estimate sedimentation loading at the mouths
of the Kagera, Simiyu, and Nyando rivers, and to estimate the sedimen-
tation rates within the lake.
Page  9
3.   Carrying out a hydraulic study to measure patterns of water
circulation in the Rusinga Channel and similar areas in the territorial
waters of Tanzania and Uganda, to determine the interaction between
vertical and horizontal circulation components, improve existing
estimates of hydraulic retention periods in Lake Victoria and develop
simulation models of the dynamics of nutrients and phytoplankton, which
will be used to predict the impacts of eutrophication control programs
and pollution intervention strategies.
4.   Acquisition of vehicles, boats, office, laboratory and field
equipment, laboratory chemicals and reagents, and rehabilitation of
offices, laboratories and monitoring stations and provision of
training, workshops and technical advisory services for the above
activities.
Part D:     Industrial and Municipal Waste Management
1.   Improvement of the management of industrial and municipal effluent
and assessment of the contribution of urban runoff to lake pollution,
with a view to designing alleviation measures through: (a) the prepara-
tion of inventories and classification for all factories and industries
in the catchment area, (b) assessment of treatment of effluent before
discharge and its dilution and dispersion levels, (c) quantification of
pollution and nutrient flows from urban runoff, (d) identification and
characterization of areas with excessive pollution, (e) formulation of
guidelines and effluent discharge standards, (f) establishment of
training programs in managing industrial and municipal waste for
industrialists and local authorities, (g) launching of public awareness
campaigns, and (h) initiation of pilot treatment projects in selected
municipalities and industries.
2.   Creation of "wetlands" to test tertiary treatment through filtration
of industrial waste from the Pan Paper Mill in Webuye (Kenya) and from
various industrial companies in Mwanza and in Jinja.
3.   Creation of "wetlands" to test tertiary treatment through filtration
of municipal waste in Kisumu, Mwanza, and Jinja.
4.   Rehabilitation of urban sanitation systems in Kisumu, Mwanza, Bukoba
and Kampala, which are currently discharging untreated waste directly
into the lake.
5.   Acquisition of vehicles, boats, office, laboratory and field
equipment, laboratory chemicals and reagents, construction of artificial
wetlands, construction of urban sanitation works, and provision of
training, workshops, and demonstrations, and technical advisory services
for above activities.
Part E:     Land Use and Wetland Management
1.   Management of Pollution Loading: Establishment of a water quality
monitoring network throughout the Lake Victoria catchment area, to
estimate the effects of changes in land use on pollution loads in the
lake, and development of policies and programs to control non-point
source pollution.
2.   Buffering Capacity of Wetlands: Investigation of the buffering
processes and capacity of Lake Victoria wetlands and devising of a
management strategy for the wetlands.
3.   Role of Agro-Chemicals in Pollution: Implementation of the following
activities on selected sites in the Winam Gulf, Nyando, and Nzoia
catchment areas in Kenya, the Simiyu catchment area in Tanzania and the
Kakira sugar estate in Uganda: (a) carrying out inventories of agro-
chemicals; (b) conducting fields trials on pesticides and nutrients
applied on farms; (c) monitoring residues leaching out of the catchments
and pesticide levels in receiving rivers; (d) assembling of a database
of agro-chemical use in the Lake Victoria Basin; (e) establishing
arrangements for dissemination of information; and (f) providing training
courses for extension services personnel on better use of agro-chemicals.
Page  10
4.   Soil Conservation: Implementation in the catchments areas of the
Simiyu, Nyando and Kagera rivers of soil conservation measures, including:
(a) the quantification of soil erosion and nutrient loss, (b) designing
of remedial measures and sustainable agricultural practices; (c) develop-
ment of systems to promote soil and water conservation; and (d) establish-
ment of demonstration units.
5.   Wetlands: Carrying out a wetlands pilot program in selected
communities, to: (a) estimate economic benefits from wetlands products;
(b) develop management strategies for their sustainable use and for the
rehabilitation of specific degraded wetlands; (c) develop strategies for
community participation in sustainable use and initiation of pilot
activities to demonstrate this use; and (d) strengthen capacity of local
NGOs and community-based organizations to undertake activities.
6.   Afforestation: Protection of selected parts of the lake catchment
area including  planting trees.
7.   Acquisition of vehicles, boats, office, laboratory and field equip-
ment, books and journals, laboratory chemicals and reagents, construction
of rainguage stations, provision of training, workshops, and demonstra-
tions, and technical advisory services, carrying out of ground and aerial
survey work, and creation of forestry seedling nurseries and reserves to
support the above activities.
Part F:     Institutional Framework
1.   Strengthening the National Coordinating Secretariats in Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda.
2.   Strengthening facilities for environmental analyses and graduate
teaching at Moi University, School of Environmental Studies and the
Fisheries Department (Kenya), the Zoology Department of the University
of Dar es Salaam (Tanzania) and the Department of Zoology of Makerere
University (Uganda).
3.   Preparation of a pollution disaster contingency plan including: (a)
carrying out an inventory of hazardous sites and vulnerable water uses
and sites; (b) review of safety regulations; (c) assessment of available
facilities and planning provisions to deal with emergencies; (d) imple-
mentation of a public education program; (e) establishment of early
warning systems; and (f) development of a draft Regional Disaster Plan
and Protocol.
                                 *  *  *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                           Implementation Program
Overall Project Coordination
1.   (a)  Each Borrower shall maintain the Regional Policy and Steering
Committee (RPSC), established pursuant to the Tripartite Agreement dated
August 5, 1994. The RPSC shall, inter alia, be responsible for the
overall Project coordination and approve the annual plans prepared by
each of the National Secretariats.
     (b)  The Borrowers shall each maintain until the completion of the
Project, their National Secretariats, established pursuant to the
Tripartite Agreement. Such National Secretariats shall, for Project
activities within their respective territories: (i) provide a day-to-day
central contact point and information clearing house for all agencies
implementing the Project; (ii) gather information from all agencies in
their respective territories; (iii) be responsible for monitoring; and
(iv) prepare progress reports.
2.   (a)  Each National Secretariat shall be headed by an appointee, with
qualifications and experience, satisfactory to the Association and the
Bank, and which are equivalent to the position of Deputy Principal/
Page  11
Permanent Secretary.
     (b)  Each Secretariat shall have suitably qualified staff in
adequate numbers, with qualification and experience, satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank.
3.   The Borrowers shall establish and maintain a high level panel of
internationally renowned scientists (PS), whose qualifications shall be
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, to serve as an overall
advisory group for the scientific studies in Lake Victoria under the
Project. The PS, shall have seven members, at least three members being
suitably qualified natural scientists, and two members suitably
qualified social scientists. The membership shall be reviewed by the
Borrowers every two years. The PS shall assist in ensuring maximum
benefits to the Borrowers from activities of the international
scientific community relevant to the Project activities, by providing
a means for improving coordination of such activities and increasing
their contribution to specific capacity building and problem solving
in the Lake Victoria Basin. The PS shall provide to the Project
agencies guidance, comments and advice, and bring their technical
expertise to bear on Project activities. The PS shall meet at least
once a year to review issues arising during Project implementation
or, at the request of the RPSC, to provide advice on specific issues.
4.   Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrowers shall, in carrying out the Project, apply the procedures,
guidelines and monitoring indicators set out in the Project Imple-
mentation Plan, and shall not amend or waive any provision of said
Plan, which, in the opinion of the Association and the Bank, will
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
5.   The National Secretariats shall by March 31, in each year,
commencing March 31, 1997, prepare annual work programs, training
plans and related financing plans, submit such plans to the RPSC
for approval and thereafter furnish them by no later than May 15
in each year to the Association for its review and comments. The
RPSC shall also review all Project components with regional
implications and propose appropriate measures to ensure that
implementation is carried out at a comparable pace in Kenya,
Tanzania, and Uganda.
6.   The Borrowers shall annually, commencing June 1997, hold national
workshops coordinated by the National Secretariats and a regional
workshop coordinated by the Regional Secretariat in Tanzania, to assess
implementation progress and reach agreement on any adjustment needed.
7.   The Borrowers shall annually, commencing in July 1997, carry out
with the Association and the Bank, a comprehensive review, to discuss
the annual work plans, financial procedures and arrangements for the
following year.
Part A:     Fisheries
8.   The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures necessary to establish
LVFO not later than November 30, 1996, and (b) thereafter cause LVFO
to: (i) coordinate the activities associated with fisheries; (ii)
liaise with KEMFRI, TAFIRI and FIRI, who shall take the lead in
carrying out the activities related to fisheries research; (iii)
collaborate with the Fisheries Departments of the respective Borrowers
in fisheries extension activities and the various Ministries responsible
for water with regard to the water quality activities.
Water Hyacinth Control
9.   Each Borrower shall, by no later than November 30, 1996, establish
national steering committees for the water hyacinth control program.
Such national committees shall be comprised of at least five members,
and shall meet at least twice a year.
10.  The Borrowers shall ensure that all herbicides used in the water
hyacinth control program shall; (a) be acceptable to the Association;
(b) be used sparingly in strictly selected and confined areas; (c) be
Page  12
handled by persons trained in their safe and appropriate handling and
use; and (d) establish mechanisms for careful monitoring of their use.
11.  The Borrowers shall ensure that, with the exception of the
biological control agents for water hyacinth, no new species shall be
introduced into Lake Victoria without first carrying out an environ-
mental impact assessment.
12.  The Borrowers shall ensure that environmental impact assessments,
including public comments thereon, are carried out prior to introducing
any new interventions likely to have a negative impact on fish ecology.
13.  Part D:  Industrial and Municipal Waste Management
     The Borrowers shall ensure that Environmental Impact Assessments
are carried out prior to implementing any activities under Parts D.1
(h) and D.4 of the Project.
14.  Part A-4 Fish Levy Trust
     The Borrowers shall: (a) by December 31, 1997, complete the Levy
Trust Study under Part A.4 of the Project, and furnish the recommenda-
tions to the Association and the Bank for their review; (b) by July
31, 1998, jointly establish a Levy Trust Fund to support joint fisheries
and management and central monitoring initiatives under the Project.
15.  Microprojects under Part A.3 (f)
     The Microprojects shall be administered by the relevant regional
administrations in each of the Borrowers' territories and supervised
by the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife in Kenya, Office of the Vice
President in Tanzania and the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industries and Fisheries in Uganda. Each Borrower shall establish an
Evaluation Committee to approve proposals from said regional admini-
strations.
     Eligibility Criteria for Microprojects
16.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 15 above,
Microprojects shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit, only if they cost less than $15,000 per Microproject and
are determined by each Borrower, on the basis of an appraisal con-
ducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the PIP, to
satisfy the eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail
in the PIP, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
     (a)  the Microproject shall be for water supply from groundwater,
sanitary facilities, local roads and health facilities;
     (b)  the Microproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary which
shall include a village, group of villages, a district area, cluster
of communities or a neighborhood in an urban area or their representing
institutions;
     (c)  the Microproject shall be economically, financially and
technically viable in accordance with standards defined in the PIP;
     (d)  the Beneficiary community must provide at least 10% of the
estimated Microproject costs in the form of cash, materials, labor and
other services; and
     (e)  the Microproject shall be in compliance with the standards
set forth in the applicable laws and regulations of each Borrower
relating to health, safety and environmental protection.
     Terms and Conditions of Grants made for icroprojects
17.  In financing Microprojects, each Borrower shall enter into a
Financing Agreement with a Community Project Committee or other
appropriate administrative institutions legally constituted under
the laws of each Borrower. The terms and conditions of the Financing
Page  13
Agreements shall include provisions pursuant to which:
     (a)  the Community Project Committee shall be responsible for
Microproject implementation;
     (b)  financing shall be on a grant basis;
     (c)  each Community Project Committee shall be responsible for
implementing the Microproject in accordance with the provisions of
the Financing Agreement and the PIP, with due diligence and efficiency
in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and
managerial standards, and for maintaining adequate records;
     (d)  each Community Project Committee shall have the obligation
to report to each Borrower on the progress made in the implementation
of the Microproject;
     (e)  Each Borrower shall have the right to obtain all such infor-
mation as such Borrower, the Association or the Bank shall reasonably
request regarding Microproject implementation, administration,
operations and the financial condition of the Community Project Committee
and the benefits to be derived from the Microproject;
     (f)  the goods, civil works and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit for Microprojects shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreement; and
     (g)  Each Borrower shall have the right to suspend or terminate the
right of the Community Project Committee to use the proceeds of the
Credit for a Microproject upon failure by any such Community Project
Committee to perform any of its respective obligations under the
Financing Agreement.
