Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BAPt N.- P-3926-YAR
REPORT AND RECONMEHDAIIONS
OF THE
)-RESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL JEVELOPENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
N A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDRS 8.0 MILLION
TO THE
YEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNT PROJECT
January 22, 1985
This document has a restincted disriution and may be used by recipients aoly in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may net otherwie be disclowed witot World Bank anduintion.



CURENCY EQ ES
Currency Unit -  Yemeni rial (YIl)
Calendar year 1983                      November 1984
*1  -  1Rs 4.50                      *1 -  MRis 5.90
YR1 1  - *0.22                        Yll 1 -  $0.17
FISCAL YAR
Janury 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CACB        Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CBY         Central Bank of Yemen
CPO         Central Plannin  Organization
DEG         Deutsche Eutwicklungs Gesellschaft
aCs         Housing Credit Bank
IBY         Industrial Bank of Yemen
IDB        Islamic Development Bank
MM          man-month
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
YBRD        Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
YCIF        Yemen Company for Investment and Finance
YOMINCO     Yemen Oil and Minerals Resources Corporation



FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
YE1MEN ARAB REPUBLIC (YAR)
SECOND INDOUSTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower;             Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
BeneficiarM;           Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY)
*        Amounu;                Special Draving Rightsz  8.0 million
($8 million equivalent as of date of negotiations)
Terms:                Standard
Relending Terms:      The Government would pass on IDA funds to IBY at a rate
set at 5 percent below IBY's lending rate. Under the
line of credit component, IBY's subborrowers would
assume the foreign exchange risk. Funds for project
identification, preparation and promotion, would be
passed on to IBY as a grant, except for half the cost
of feasibilitv studies which is to be recovered from
recipient enterprises. Funds for the training of IBY
staff and of industrial managers would be charged in
local currency to IBY, who would recover 50 percent of
the cost of industrial managers training from recipient
enterprises.
Project Description:  Ihe project is designed to strengthen IBY's
institutional capacity to promote, finance and
supervise private industrial projects. The project
consists of three components: (a) consultants services
and training to improve IBY's capacity to prepare,
promote, appraise and supervise industrial projects,
and to assist entrepreneurs during their
implementation; (b) a pilot component for training of
industrial managers through overseas short-term and
on-the-job training courses; and (c) IBY's line of
credit to provide part of IBY's foreign exchange
resource requirements during the 1985 and 1986 period.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would strengthen IBY's institutional
capability to play an effective development role in the
industrial sector. The project carries acceptable
business risks.
This document has a rstrited disuribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost
Ust million (equivalent)
Local      Foreign      Total
I. Institution Building
Identification Studies                    -            0.3         0.3
Feasibility studies                        -           0.6         0.6
Promotion                                0.3           0.3         0.6
Training                                  -            0.1         0.1
Subtotal                                0.3          1.3         1.6
Contingencies                             -            0.1         0.1
0.3          1.4         1.7
II.  Subprojects Financed  yr
Line of Credit                          9.9          6.6        16.5
TOTAL                                  10.2          8.0        18.2
Financing Plan;
US$ Millior. (equivalent)
Local       Foreign     -Total
IDA                           -            8.0         8.0
Government                   0.3            -          0.3
Local Investors              9.9            -          9.9
Total                       10.2           8.0        18.2
Estimated Disbursements:
Us$ Million (equivalent)
IDA FY       1985    1986   1987    1988      1989    1990   1990
Annual                   0.4     1.9    2.5      1.7      1.0     0.4    0.1
Cumulative               0.4     2.3   4.8       6.5      7.5     7.9    8.0
Rate of Return:              Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:      Report Number 5203-YAR dated January 10, 1985



INrERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CRED[T
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Draving
Rights (SDRs) 8.0 million (approximately USS8.0 million equivalent as of
the date of negotiations), on standard IDA terms, to help finance a second
industrial development project.  The Government would pass on IDA funds to
IBY at a rate set at 5 percent below IBY's lending rate. Under the line of
credit component, IBY's subborrowers would assume the foreiga exchange risk.
Funds for project identification, preparation and promotion, would be passed
oa to IBY as a grant, except for half the cost of feasibility studies which
is to be recovered from recipient enterprises. Funds for the training of IBY
staff and of industrial managers would be charged in local currency to IBY,
who would recover 50 percent of the cost of industrial managers training from
recipient enterprises.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554-YAR) dated
January 6, 1982 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A report on
medium-term policy which reviews the public investment program has been
discussed with the Government, and will be distributed to the Executive
Directors shortly. Country data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The repub-
lican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution succeeded
in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the foundations of
a modern state. Political integration and the build-up of public institu-
tions, while maintaining a liberal market orientation, have provided the
basis for rapid development of the public and private sectors. Under the
Three-Year Development Program (1974-76) and the First Five-Year Plan
(1977-81), the foundations of the country's physical and social infrastruc-
ture were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting
agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval setting;
industrialization was also started, albeit on a small scale.
4.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around 965 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around t1.2 billion per year between 1977 and 1983. Largely as a result of



- 2 -
these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP haa increased significantly
over the last ten years, reaching an estimated $510 in 1983 (World Bank Atlas
methodology). Although there are no reliable data on income distribution,
there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent growth have been
widely distributed. Strong family ties ensure that many people benefit from
the increase in incomes.
Major Development Issues
5.       Overall economic performance during the First Plan period (1977-81)
has been satisfactory. GDP grew at around 6 percent per annum in real terms.
Investment effort was impressive averaging around one-third of GNP. These
achievements, remarkable as they are, should not detract from the fact that
YAR continues to be one of the world's least developed countries. Few
mineral deposits have been discovered so  sar. 1/  YAR's commodity exports are
negligible, reflecting the country's limited resources and the underdeveloped
state of its economy. Productivity levels are still extremely low,
especially in agriculture whicb accounts for about 70 percent of the labor
force. Agriculture's development has been constrained by the scarcity of
agricultural land and water and the high cost of production.
6.       Water related issues are among the most serious in the medium- and
long-run. Despite their scarcity, water resources are being depleted rapidly
around cities and towns. A number of initiatives are, therefore, called for
to address these problems: (i) establishing a comprehensive water resources
data base; (ii) improving coordination among the various agencies operating
in the water sector; (iii) introducing legislation to manage water use, and
(iv) strengthening cost recovery policies. At the request of the Government,
IDA is planning a detailed assessment of the sector to strengthen the water
management policy and provide the required technical assistance.
7.       Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be done. The adult literacy and school
enrollment rates are still very low; the shortage of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower is an overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity
of the public administration to manage and implement a growing and increas-
ingly complex development program. Health indicators depict serious problems
that call for an adequate policy framework and substantial efforts and
resources to improve the situation.  The rapid population growth (estimated
at about 3.0 percent per annum) also suggests that, despite cultural
constraints, the Government should start analyzing recent demographic trends
to reach a better understanding of the consequences of this high growth rate
in order to develop an appropriate policy.
8.       YAR's physical infrastructure remains underdeveloped despite the
fact that it has received the lion's share of public investment under the
1/ Oil has been recently discovered in YAR, but the extent of the discovery
is not known yet.



- 3 -
First and Second Five-Year Plans. Thus, although the length of the main road
network has tripled over the last decade, many areas are still without ade-
quate road connections. This is understandable ir. a country with a very
rugged terrain and scattered population and where the first paved road
connecting the main harbor to the capital city was completed only about two
decades ago.
9.       The budget deficit has emerged as a major concern in recent years.
Between 1978 and 1982, Government expenditures have increased at a pace
double that of revenues. By 1982, revenues represented only about 40 percent
of expenditures and the budget deficit increased to 33 percent of GDP. At
the same time, the share of the budget deficit financed by external loans
dropped from an average 44 percent in 1977-81 to 16 percent in 1982, which
compelled the Government to increase its borrowings from the banking system
(mainly the Central Bank). As a result, the money supply grew rapidly duriag
the recent years, and by more than 25 percent in 1982. Despite this rapid
growth, inflation hardly exceeded 6 percent since the growth of money supply
was accompanied by a continuous increase in imports and a decline in foreign
reserves, from 16 months of imports of goods and services in 1977/78 to 3.5
months by end 1982.
10.      In 1983 the Government succeeded in reversing the deteriorating
macrofinancial trend despite adversp exogenous factors; e.g., the earthquake
that caused substantial damage in the Dhamar area in December 1982, a severe
drought and a large drop in official grants. The balance of payments deficit
declined by 40 percent in 1983 mainly as a result of reduction in imports.
The Government adopted a more flexible approach to its exchange rate policy
and devaluated the Yemeni rial five times between October 1983 and November
1984 in total by about 30 percent. The budget deficit decreased by 9 percent
over 1982 as a result of the Government's effort to increase tax revenues and
to bring its expenditures under control. In 1983, current expenditures
levelled off and capital expenditures were down by 12 percent in line with
the recommendations of the Bank's report on the public investment program,
which was discussed with the Government and broadly agreed upon.
11.      However, with the budget deficit still representing 28 percent of
GDP and the money supply growing by 28 percent in 1983, the financial situ-
ation remains serious as illustrated by increasing inflationary pressures and
it would be premature to discontinue the austerity effort at this time. The
Government has no intention to do so, as reflected by the 1984 budget which
contains a 22 percent decrease in capital expenditures while recurrent
expenditures are expected to stay at their 1983 level.  Preliminary data show
that the budget deficit will be decreased further in 1984 and the draft 1985
budget foresees no increase in the deficit during the coming year.
Government ObjecLives
12.      Since the early 1970s, the country has been trying to develop human
resources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social



- 4 -
infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Most of the First Plan's targets which were in line with these
objectives have been met except in the agriculture sector where output of
some traditional crops has declined and overall growth fell considerably
below targeted levels. The primary reason for this appears to be the
abandonment of marginal rain-fed areas where income opportunities could not
compete with the opportunities of migration.  The production of qat (a mild
stimulant! .ias been on the increase and has competed for agricultural land.
13.      The Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) has a 7 percent GDP growth
target calling for a total investment of around $6.5 billion (1981 prices)
over the plan period. The sectoral distribution of investment underlies a
continued broad-fronted strategy with an emphasis on physical infrastructure,
agriculture and manpower development. The plan's financing envisioned heavy
dependence on external sources with around 70 percent of investment expected
to be covered by grants and loan disbursements and direct foreign private
investment. However, since this expected level of foreign finance has not
been forthcoming and because of the extremely tight budgetary situation that
has developed recently, the Government has been revising its investment
program with IDA's assistance.
Capital Flows and External Debt
14.      Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance.  Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid ;.as been provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements, in-
cluding grants, came to around $3.2 billion by the end of 1983. The
principal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates,
Iraq, USA and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA and the Arab
development funds.
15.      About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for
budget support, primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A
significant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come.
16.      Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans,
chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis on
roads, agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding on
December 31, 1983 was estimated at $2356 million, of which $1568 million was
disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $163.6 million or about 10 percent of
the total disbursed and outstanding debt reported. The terms of official
loan assistance have been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the



- 5 -
People's Republic of China are, for the most part, free of interest. Western
European countries have generally charged between 3/4 Fercent and 2-1/2 per-
cent. Interest rates charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 per-
cent. Loan maturities range from 5 to 50 years, with an average of 20 years.
17.      However, in 1983 commitments dropped sharply by about 77 percent
overall and by about 90 percent for bilateral sources. This drop is partly
related to the depressed oil market and the Iran-Iraq war, since commitments
from oil surplus countries and multilateral institutions related to them
declined from an average of $150 milLion per year over 1977-82 to $44 million
in 1983.
18.      Deot service amounted to $42.3 million in 1983, hardly more than 3
percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances
and private transfers). However, the debt service is projected to increase
substantially over 1985-90, and its budgetary burden could become difficult
to bear. These developments indicate that YAR would have to rely increas-
ingly on domestic resource mobilization.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
18.      This credit would be the fortieth to YAR, bringing total IDA commit-
ments to S395.6 million net of cancellations. The main goals of IDA's assis-
tance in YAR have been threefold: (a) to develop the basic institutions,
skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development;
(b) to develop production and income in the dominant productive sector,
agriculture; and (c) to support the Government in its programs to meet basic
needs in rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has
extended twelve credits (t128.4 million) for agriculture, fisheries and rural
development; fifteen credits ($158.6 million) for infrastructure; six credits
($61.0 million) for education and training; two credits each for industry
($14.0 million), and for petroleum and geothermal promotion and exploration
(t15 million); and a tlo.5 million credit to strengthen and expand the
capability of the Ninistry of Health to plan, staff and manage the country's
health care system. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made
three investments in YAR: (i) t2.4 million in FY78 to help finance a dairy
and juice project; (ii) $4 million in FY84 for a dry cell battery project,
and (iii) $4.5 million in FY85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee project.
Further opportunities for IFC involvement are being explored. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments as of
September 30, 1984. The attached map (number IBRD 15174R5) illustrates the
IDA-financed projects in YAR.
19.      A major constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of professional,
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-3790-YAR),
dated April 27, 1984, for the Geothermal Exploration projecc approved by
the Executive Directors on May 24, 1984.



skilled and semi-skilled manpower, and the insufficient experience and weak-
ness of its institutions. World Bank strategy has emphasized strengthening
institutions and manpower capabilities through increased training of local
staff and continued technical assistance, as well as through direct financing
for education. Thus all IDA-assisted projects in YAR contain substantial
institution-building components. Tiio particularly important examples of the
World Bank's support have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF).
20.      YAR's disbursement performance has been affected by a number of
implementation problems, although it still compares favorably to the EMENA                   p
region's average. Among the recurrent problems that are common to most
countries at YAR's stage of development are: delays in recruitment of
consultants, delays in award of contracts and resolution of conflicts with
contractors, and finalizing cofinancing arrangements. In addition, other
serious project-specific problems have also been affecting the implementation
of three projects: fisheries, health and Ibb and Dhamar water supply; these
problems have been discussed with the Government and corrective action is
being taken to resolve them. The Government and IDA have agreed to hold
country implementation reviews twice a year to monitor the recurrent
implementation problems more closely and to address them promptly.
21.      Future World Bank operations are expected to consolidate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate
assistance to the Government in the energy field, and continue to meet the
large requirements of education and training. Particular attention will be
given to YAR's abi'.ty to implement projects by insuring the availability of
key staff and technical assistance needs. Three additional projects have
already been appraised: (i) an agricultural development project in the
undeveloped Wadi Al Jawf region, (ii) a technical assistance project to CPO
and (iii) a project to provide technical and management assistance to the
state agency in charge of mineral and oil resources (YOMINCO). A power
distribution, an agricultural development, and a highways project are under
preparation and future operations are expected in the areas of energy,
transport, education, and possibly in the water supply and sewerage sector.
22.      YAR contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing
for IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was
favorable. However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years
and the fact that YAR remains among the least-developed countries, it still
requires special assistance through financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the
costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the
amounts that IDA can provide, and IDA will continue to cooperate closely with
other donors to maximize it's catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing.
IDA-supported projects have so far led to about $370 million equivalent of
cofinancing from other aid donors.



PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
23.      Manufacturing industry (which includes quarrying) developed in the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) mainly in the late 1970s. It forms a small part
of YAR's overall economy accounting for 7.5 percent of GDP and 5 percent of
total employment. Manufacturing output is dominated by food processing (44
percent of manufacturing value added), followed by building materials (21
percent). About 3,000 enterprises are currently registered in the country,
most of which are very small privately owned units. Many entrepreneurs are
traders who still consider industry as a side activity and expect quick
profits from it. The private sector dominates the manufacturing sector with
the Government owning a handful of large enterprises, including textiles,
cement, tobacco, drugs and flour milling.
24.      Aided by rising living standards and an adequate policy framework,
industrial activity increased rapidly during the second half of the 1970s.
Industrial value added and investment each increased in real terms by about
12 percent per annum compared to 6 percent p.a. for total GDP, and employment
rose by 10 percent p.a. The major impetus to industry came from the private
sector, fueled by worker remittances, and also, to some extent, from public
sector projects.
25.      Despite the quick growth of the 1970s, the overall prospects for
industrialization in YAR are limited. Nonetheless, analysis of economic
growth potential and prospects suggests that investment opportunities do
exist in six major industrial subsectors; food processing, building
materials, household and light chemicals and plastics, light engineering,
wood working, and service industries (workshops). The industrial sector
suffers from several development constraints which fall into three broad
areas; none of these are unusual in LDCs, but they are rarely found together
and to such a degree. First, poor endowment of natural resources and small
and dispersed domestic markets. Second, weak entrepreneurial capability in
formulating and managing projects, severe shortage and high cost of skilled
and managerial manpower and poor physical infrastructure. Third, lack of
both viable projects and adequate institutional support to promote and
finance such projects and to assist enterpreneurs in project planning,
implementation and operations. These constraints can only be resolved over a
long period of time through technical assistance and training to upgrade
skills and productivity, and through investment in infrastructure.
26.      The Government's policy framework is adequate.  The basic policy
governing the industrial sector is contained in Law No. 18 of 1975, which
encourages an open door policy towards foreign firms, and guarantees
repatriation of corporate profits of foreign holdings. Industrial incentives
are moderate. Quantitative import restrictions and price controls are
minimal. Import tariffs, primarily seen as a source of Government revenue,
are in general low. The Government's licensing procedures have been kept to



a minimum. The Government allows employment of foreign technicians and
skilled workers, where necessary.
27.      The institutional support structure consists of the Ministry of
Economy and Industry (MEI), more specifically its Department of Industry
(DI), which has the overall responsibility for industri.l research, planning,
development and regulation. It has established two BF.cialized agencies;
the Industrial Estates Development iuthority (IEDA), established in 1973, to
provide physical infrastructure, ard the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY) to
provide development finance.
28.      The Second Five Year Plan (SFYP: 1982-86) envisaged industrial
investment totalling t731 million, i.e., 12 percent of total investments, and
an increase of industrial output by 14 percent p.a., i.e., double that of
GDP. Due to external economic factors, primarily the decline in aid, the
Plan targets, particularly those relating to the public sector, are unlikely
to be achieved. The industrial investment growth rate in the 1980s is now
projected at about 12 percent p.a. in real terms. The Governu,ent is giving
priority to import-substitution in productive sectors, mainly agriculture,
industry and energy. Given budget constraints and the Government's liberal
market orientation, private investment is strongly encouraged while the
Government has been revising downwards its public investment targets.
29.      The SFYP document also underlines the need to identify viable
projects. About 70 percent of the industrial investment initially envisaged
in the SFYP was for new projects for which no study had been initiated.
Substantial project identification and promotion is thus a priority. Another
priority is to provide the private sector with the technical, managerial, and
financial support needed for project promotion and development.
30.      The Government's industrial development strategy includes three main
elements:
a) to focus on efficient import-substitution projects that help:
'i) manufacture products enjoying natural protection, (ii)
maximize domestic value added and (iii) develop the use of
domestic resources;
b) to build institutional capacity that helps: (i) identify and
prepare viable projects, and (ii) promote and finance these
projects through assistance to entrepreneurs during project
planning, implementation and operation; and
c) to promote the development of technical skills and alleviate
physical infrastructure bottlenecks.
31.      In accordance with the above strategy, the Government has decided
to give the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY) a somewhat wider role in the
industrial sector. IBY, as an agent of the Government, will identify,



prepare and promote projects for the private sector. IDA supports the
Government's decision to expand the functions of IBY. However, IBY is a
relatively fragile institution and its staff capabilities and financial
situation need to be considerably improved in order to meet these new
institutional objectives. These would be addressed under the proposed
project.
32.      IBY was incorporated in 1976 as an autonomous agency of the
Government to promote and assist through financial and technical assistance
the establishment of industrial projects in YAR. The Government holds 70
percent of the authorized share capital of YRls 100 million as ordinary
shares. Of the remaining 30 percent, which are reserved for the private
sector as preference shares, 22.7 percent are held byz the German Investment
Company (DEG, 6 percent), YBRD (5 percent) 2nd over 2000 enterprises and
individuals (11.7 percent); 7.3 percent has not been subscribed. In addition
to its equity, IBY's long-term resources consist of borrowings from foreign
sources, mainly the line of credit of SDRs 9.7 million (IDA Credit 1122-YAR)
and a loan from the Kuwait Fund of Dinars 4 million granted in 1983. IBY's
Board of Directors consists of seven appointed members, including the Chair-
man. who is also the Chief Executive (Managing Director), four ex-officio
representatives appointed by the Government and two representatives of the
local commercial banks and private sector preference shareholders. In 1981,
IBY appointed a General Manager to cope with the increased workload.
33.      IBY's overall legal and administrative structure has proved adequate
for the current level of operations. Its staff are organized into five
functional departments: {i) Projects appraisal and supervision, (ii) Finance
and Accounting, (iii) Administration, (iv) Legal and Cv) Planning and
Research. There are currently 55 employees, of which 18 are university
graduates, 22 are at the secondary level and the remaining 15 support staff
have an elementary education. IBY also has four advisors in key operational
and-support areas. However, to perform a more effective developmental role,
IBY needs to be substantially strengthened, both institutionally and
financially, which would be done as part of the proposed project.
34.      IBY's main areas of operation are long-term (more than three years)
loans, though it has also given some guarantees and made a few equity invest-
ments. In 1983, IBY approved long-term loans totalling YRls 49 million,
guarantees of YRIs 8 million and equity investments of YRis 3.4 million.
Operations approved have generally reflected the relative growth of sub-
sectors in YAK, and are thus concentrated in the construction materials and
food processing industries, and the geographical distribution of industries
centers around the three main urban areas, Sanaa, Taiz and Hodeida.
35.      IBY plans its operations on a commitment basis.  At the end of 1983,
the uncomnitted long-term resources available to IBY were YRlc 110 million or
$21_7 millioc-, which would cover IBY's commitment requirements turough .984.
The long-term debt/equity ratio was satisfactory but the liquidity ratio
(current assets to current liabilities) was high. Provisions for losses were



- 10 -
inadequate and profitability needed to he increased.   Operational and
financial projections are based on IBY's pipeline and medium-term plans for
1984-88, taking into account the economic prospects in the country for the
private industrial sector and the expected beneficial effects of the proposed
project identification, preparation and promotion activity. With the support
of thbe proposed project, TBY's approvals are projected to increase at a rate
of 15 percent p.a. in nominal terms or about 5 percent in real terms, which
appears reasonable.  To finance operations over 1984-86, IBY would need about
$8.2 million equivalent in local currency, and about $36.2 million in foreign
currency. Local currency needs would be met through the use of IBY's current
liquidities available for investment, and repayments on local currency loans
made out of its equity. As current foreign exchange resources were expected
to be substantially utilized by the end of 1984, IBY needs to mobilize about
$20.0 million of new resourcer in foreign exchange for commitment in 1985 and
1986.
36.      The main source of liquidity is IBY's equity, which has been
difficult to invest because of lack of demand for local currency resources.
IBY is being encouraged to consider local currency subloans to finance local
expenditures, thereby absorbing some of the excessive liquidity. Local
currency subloans are expected to increase from the current level of about
YRls 12 million p.a. to about YRIs 20 million p.a. by 1988. IBY is also
considering using its local currency resources for subloans for working
capital and equi:y investments.
The Financi.- Sector
37.      The banking system in YAR was developed largely in the last decade
and is still in its early formative stages.  It consists of the Central Bank
of Yemen (CBY), 10 commercial banks, including the state-owned Yemen Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (YBRD), which is the largest with 62 percent
of the commercial banks' assets, and three state-owned specialized financial
institutions. These are TBY, the Housing Credit Bank (HCB), and the
Cooperative and Agriculture Credit Bank (CACB), established in 1976, 1977 and
1980 respectively.l/ The Yemen Company for Investment and Finance (YCIF) was
established by YBRD in 1981, initially to handle its portfolio of long-term
investments; YCIF now envisages to providing term financing for industry but
lacks technical and financial resources. These institutions are relatively
young and small compared to commercial banks; their total assets of about
YRls one billion at the end of 1983 represent about 4.5 percent of the
banking sector assets. A considerable part of financial transactions in the
country is reported to be handled by unofficial channels and licensed money
changer:.  This reflects both the insufficient penetration of the rural areas
by the off.ciai financial institutions, and the preference of emigrants for
direct remittance flows through unofficial channels.
1/ In 1981, CACB was established by the merger of the Agricultural Credit
Bank formed in 1975 and the Cooperative Bank formed in 1980.



- 11 -
38.      Private deposits, mainly domestic and emigrants, savings, are the
major financial source for commercial banks. Sources of funds of specialized
banks are equity funds and long-term domestic and foreign borrowings.
Commercial banks account for 87 percent of total outstanding credit, of which
10 percent is medium and long term (MLT) and 90 per_ent is short-term (ST),
which reflects their short-term deposit structure. Given the high liquidity
in the commercial banks, they can be expected to play a somewhat greater role
in MLT financing operations.
39.      At the end of 1983, total industrial credit outstanding at the end
of 1983 was about YRls 301 million, or close to 9 percent of all credit
extended in YAR. Of this, MLT credit was about YRIs 145 million, the main
supplier being IBY (67 percent). Banks--mainly YCIF-also hold some equity
portfolio in industry and guarantees for overseas loans.
40.      YAR enjoyed a comfortable foreign exchange situation during the
second half of the 1970s. The situation has deteriorated in the early 1980s
because of the continued rise in imports and decline in foreign aid'. The
Government's response to the situation has been pragmatic. It has formed an
Import Licensing and Rationalization Committee (ILRC) to assess the economy's
import needs and to allocate the required foreign exchange to importers.
Priority is being given to import of food, raw materials, spare parts and
machinery. The procedure is working satisfactorily. The Government has also
begun to periodically adjust the exchange rate. For 11 years, the Yemeni
Rial was pegged co t:  US dollar at a rate of $1 = YRIs 4.45.  Since October
1983, the Rial was devalued five times and is now valued at tl = YRls 5.9, a
rate close to the market one.
41.      In general, the above policy and exchange rate measures are likely
to benefit the economy in terms of increased remittances and reduced imports
and in terms of restoring the competitiveness of some local industries. The
exchange rate adjustments have, however, resulted in a substantial increase
(27 percent) in repayment charges of industrialists on their borrowings in
foreign currency, either through suppliers credit or, in the case of IRY
customers, from IDA under the first line of credit to IBY.  Assuming .hat the
Yemeni rial would continue to depreciate in proportion to the diffe:ential
inflation between YAR nd its major trading partners in the next few years,
this policy would correspond to an additional charge of about 4 percent p.a.
42.      Interest rates for commercial banks in YAR are established by the
Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). The interest rate structure has generally
reflected the euro-market situation, though with a time lag.  At present,
deposit rates vary between 9.5 percent for three months and 12 percent for
12 months. Commercial banks lend only in local currency, at a single rate
which is currently 15 percent per annum irrespective of the maturity. Given
the current and the expected inflation rate (about 10 percent p.a.) this
interest rate struicture is satisfactory. IBY's interest rate policy is
decided by its Board in consultaLion with the Government. Until now, it has
maintained a single interest rate for its lending, both in local and foreign



- 12 -
currency. This rate was fixed at 11 percent (10 percent interest rate p.a.
plus a 1 percent service charge) at the time of IDA's first line of credit to
IBY (Credit 1122-YAR).
IDA's Operations in the Manufacturing Sector
43.      An IDA Report entitled Manufacturing Industryv  Performance, Policies
and Prospects (No. 3651-YAR of November 12, 1982) provided the opportunity to
discuss with the Government major problem  affecting the sector, and a set of
policy recommendations to ensure its efficient development. The report
provided the rationale for including project identification, preparation and
promotion activities as a part of the proposed project. IDA's report on
Mobilization of Domestic Financial Resources (No. 3354-YAR of January 6,
1981) discussed interest rate structure for term lending, in particular for
industry, and its role in resource mobilization. Also, during the review of
YAR's Second Five-Year Plan (para. 28), the relative roles of the public and
private sectors were discussed with the Government. These discussions are
being pursued in the context of the Public Iavestment Program review.
Finally, IDA and IFC have recently provided advice to the Government on its
proposed revision of the Investment Law of 1975, which set the incentive
framework for industrial development.
44.      IDA's financial assistance to the sector to date consists of two
credits; (1) a credit of t2.3 million in 1974 (Credit 465-YAR) to assist in
establishing an industrial estate infrastructure, and (ii) a line of credit
of SDR 9.7 million to IBY in 1981 (Credit 1122-YAR). In parallel with the
line of credit, IDA also provided technical assistance to IBY through
recruitment of an adviser to help the institution establish policies and
procedures, and organize itself to fulfill its role in an efficient way.
45.      IBY's overall performance under the first project (Credit 1122-YAR)
has been satisfactory. With IDA's assistance, IBY has developed adequate
policies and procedures, a capable and motivated staff, although still
relatively inexperienced, and has established itself as a competent and
efficient intermediary for term lending to industry. The line of credit has
been fully committed and is being disbursed. The 19 subprojects approved so
far represent a good mix of industrial activities, with 39 percent in
construction materials, 35 percent in agro-processing, 16 percent in metal
working and 10 percent ea_h in chemicals and plastics. These subprojects
have been or are being implemented satisfactorily, with minimal delays, and
have generally shown high returns, with financial rates of return estimated
at between 30-40 percent. The total investment generated in the 19
subprojects is 30 million; the total employment generated is 465 jobs with
an average cost per job of t64,000. This is due to both the very high cost
of skilled labor and to investors' preference for automated production
processes. The Industrial Estate project (Credit 465-YAR) was much less
successful and the Industrial Estate Development Authority (IEDA) is
experiencing severe financial, managerial and operational difficulties. The
credit was closed in December 1982. A Project Completion Report has been



- 13 -
prepared and proposed alternative options to solve the existing problems.
Following discussions with the Government, it is now envisaged to convert
IEDA into an agency for developing industri l plots for sale or rent. There
is indeed still a need for industrial infrascructure development to support
YAR's manufacturing sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.      The proposed project was prepared to follow-up and continue the
institution-building endeavors initiated with the first project. It was
appraised in March, 1984, and is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Second Industrial Development Project (Report No.5203-YAR,
dated January 10, 1985), which has been distributed separately. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from December 4 to December 7, 1984. The
Yemeni delegation was led by His Excellency Abmad Kaid Barakat, Minister of
Economy and Industry, and included representatives from the Central Planning
Organization, the Industrial Bank of Yemen, the Ministry of Economy and
Industry, and the YAR Embassy in Washington. The main features are listed in
the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Components
47.      The principal objective of the proposed project is institutional,
namely to strengthen IBY's capacity to be more responsive to the technical and
financial needs of private industry in YAR. It would help identify potential
investment opportunities in YAR, and prepare feasibility studies. It would
strengthen IBY's institutional capability to promote and finance industrial
projects through technical assistance, training and other measures. It would
also provide the scarce foreign exchange for investment in industry. To
pursue the above objective, the project would consist of three components:
[i) institution-building; (ii) a line of credit; and (iii) a pilot program to
train indastrial managers.
Project Cost and Financing
48.      The proje^t is estimated to cost about $18.2 million, of which $8
million equivalent would be in foreign exchange. An amount equivalent to
$16.5 million is associated with the cost of the investment subprojects to be
financed by IBY under the credit line. The institution-building component
would amount to about $1.345 million equivalent, and the pilot training
program for industrial mangers would cost about $55,000. The proposed IDA
credit would finance all of the foreign exchange requirements of the project.
The Government would contribute $0.3 million equivalent to the institution-
building components, whereas enterprises to be financed under the credit line
would contribute about $9.9 million equivalent as equity or self-generated
funds, as well as half of the cost of the training for industrial managers.
49.      The IDA Credit related to the line of credit operations would be
onlent by the Government to IBY, providing IBY with a spread of 5 percent on



- 14 -
the transactions; the maturity and grace period for the 3nlending from the
Government to IBY would be the average of those corresponding to the subloans
provided by IBY to subborrowers under the line of credit.   For the time
being, at IBY's lending rate of 11 percent p.a., the onlending rate would be
6 percent (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)). Signing cf the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and IBY on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01 (a)).  The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the expenditures for
institution building and training. The final subborrowers would bear the
foreign exchange risk on the subloans under the line of credit (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (b) and Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (e)).
Also, IBY would not bear foreign exchange risk on any other foreign funds
made available to it (Project Agreement, Section 3.06).
50.      For that part of the project related to institution-building, the
Government would lend to IBY $300,000 equivalent in Rials at no cost for 20
years, including three years grace, to finance local costs; the foreign
exchange costs ($1.3 million equivalent) would be financed by the IDA credit
and passed on to IBY by the Government as a grant except for half of the cost
of feasibility studies ($350,000) which would be recovered through IBY from
promoters of such studies.
51.      The Government would finance, from the IDA Credit, the foreign
exchange component of training. IBY would pay the full cost of training its
staff and 50 percent of the cost of training private industrial managLrs from
the private sector, the remaining 50 percent being paid in advance by par-
ticipating enterprises (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (b) and
Project Agreement, Section 2.05).
52.      The proposed IDA credit, excluding the amount allocated to the
institution-building and training components, would provide about 31.4 per-
cent of IBY's foreign exchange commitment requirement during 1985 and 1986.
Another 50 percent of IBY's foreign exchange requirements is to be provided
by the Islamic Development Bank (IDB), through lines of leasing and equity
totalling $10 million, in two tranches of $5 million each. The government
and IBY have approached several other donors to provide IBY with its
remaining requirements in foreign exchange, and there are indications that
completing IBY's external financing plan for 1985-86 should not be a problem.
Institutional Measures
53.      The Government agreed, under Credit 1122-YAR, to amend the IBY act
to strengthen IBY's institutional capacity; these amendments have been
recently approved by the Cabinet, but still require ratification by the
People's Assembly. These amendments include the following: (i) to treat the
Government loans as debt for calculation of debt/equity ratio; (ii) in the
absence of IBY's chairman, to delegate his responsibilities so as to ensure
the uninterrupted conduct of IBY's Board functions, and (iii) to permit IBY



- 15 -
to take a pari passu charge on the assets of its subborrowers, instead of
requiring IBY to take first charge. Besides the above changes, IBY's Board
of Directors has recently proposed an additional modification increasing
IBY's exposure limit by project from 10 to 15 percent of its equity, thus
enabling IBY to finance larger projects. Both IBY and IDA consider these
changes essential to improve IBY's overall management effectiveness and
lending and resource mobilization capability. Given the importance of these
amendments to the IBY Act, enactment of a new IBY Act incorporating these
changes will be a condition of effectiveness.
54.      Other institutional measures needed to consolidate IBY will be
pursued under the proposed project. In addition to the new measures
described below, IBY has agreed to the maintenance of at least the current
number of four advisers during the period of project implementation (Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(d)) and Project Agreement, Section 2.04
(d)), and to the recruitment of three additional staff professionals for
project appraisal (Project Agreement, Section 2.12). IBY would also send
seven staff members for overseas training, five of whom have already been
identified, in short term courses in project identification, appraisal and
legal work (Project Agreement, Section 2.05).
55.      Subproject identification, preparation and promotion is now the
primary function of IBY's Planning and Research Department (PRD). IBY would
hire short-term consultants for project identification and for preparation of
feasibility studies. The identification studies involve analysis of invest-
ment opportunities in the six subsectors described in para. 25 as having the
most prospects and preparation of about 40 profiles of potential subprojects,
followed by preparation of about 15 feasibility studies. To ensure that the
needs of small and medium industries are addressed, at least 75 percent of
the proposed allocation of $700,000 for feasibility studies would be used for
possible projects estimated to cost less than $3 million each (Project
Agreement 2.04 (c)). IBY would also hire an adviser on a two-year contract
and two local counterparts for promotion for the subprojects identified
through identification studies. Terms of reference for the short-term
consultant and for the promotion adviser have been developed with IDA's
assistance. As a condition of effectiveness, IBY should appoint the short-
term consultants for project identification studies and the long-term
promotion adviser (a consulting company and an individual respectively)
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01 (b)). The project includes
retroactive financing of SDR 300,000 for this purpose (para. 69). IBY has
appointed the Director (local staff) of PRD; the second local staff, a
statistician, is expected to be appointed by June 30, 1985.
56.      Recognizing the need to organize an effective follow-up system,
IBY's Board has decided to upgrade its follow-up section, currently under the
Projects Department, to a separate department reporting to the General
Hanager. The existing follow up staff of two professionals and a full-time
adviser would be transferred to the new department.  IBY has also decided to
appoint two additional professionals, includine an engineer, to the depart-



- 16 -
ment by June 30, 1985. The proposed staffing level would be adequate for
IBY's cu-r2nt follow-up requirements and should permit IBY to spot emerging
problems in any enterprises before they reach serious levels. The need for
additional staffing in the follow-up department would be periodically
reviewed. With IDA's assistance, a program for this department has been
developed which should enable IBY to supervise subprojects under construction
every 2-3 months and subprojects in operation every 3-12 months.
57.      Arrears over three months were 13.1 percent of the outstanding
principal as of September 30, 1984. Several factors are responsible for
IBY's arrears:  (i) the debt repayment discipline in the Yemen Arab Republic
is weak; (ii) IBY's initial weakness in project appraisal, which resulted in
IBY financing in its early years some projects of doubtful viability which
constitute the bulk of its arrears, including two public projects approved at
the Government's direction; (iii) IBY's lack of follow-up and collection
efforts until recently. In addition, the Government established early in
1983 new licensing procedures wfhich led to temporary delays in the issuance
of import licenses in 1983 and adversely affected industrial production, and
IBY's portfolio.
58.      In addition to strengthening follow-up (para. 56), IBY has raised
the penalty rate from 1 to 5 percent, thus bringing the interest rate,
including penalty to commercial banks levels, and started taking defaulters
to court. It is setting up a special unit for debt collection staffed with
three professionals, under the direct supervision of the General Manager,
which will periodically prepare a special report on arrears for management
consideration. Finally, it has done a thorough analysis of its portfolio and
prepared comprehensive rehabilitation programs for the ten enterprises in
serious difficulty, which account for 45 percent of IBY's total arrears.
These rehabilitation programs, which were agreed upon during negotiation,
range from management overhaul to rehabilitation of physical facilities,
rescheduling and court action. These efforts should result in a progressive
improvement in IBY's portfolio situation over the next 2 or 3 years. In this
connection, IBY agreed to reduce the level of arrears to below 12 percent of
its portfolio by the end of 1985, 8 percent by the end of 1986 and 5 percent
by the end of 1987 (Project Agreement, Section 2.03(e)).
59.      In spite of the present high level of arrears, IBY's financial
position remains sound. IBY has traditionally required substantial security
for its lending operations and, in addition, has progressively increased its
provision for possible losses to a level which now covers amounts due from
enterprises in serious difficulty. It has been agreed that IBY would build
up this provision to 8 percent of outstanding portfolio by the end of 1988,
which should more than cover possible losses (Project Agreement, Section
2.03(e)).
60.      IBY's low spread led to a decline in profitability.  Analysis shows
that IBY's spread must be maintained at least at 5 percent p.a. during the
next 3-4 years to permit IBY to build up provisions by 1988 to the required



- 17 -
level of 8 percent of portfolio and to earn a satisfactory return on its
capital. With the expected increases in both the quality and the size of the
portfolio resulting from efforts being undertaken by IBY to reduce arrears
and to develop its operations, IBY's spread requirement could later decline
to an acceptable 3-4 percent p.a.
61.      To provide IBY with the required spread, it has been agreed that the
Government onlending rate to IBY under IDA funds would be set at 5 percent
p.a. below IBY's prevailing lending rate (para. 49), i.e., at 6 percent
initially. The Government would also allow IBY a spread of at least 5
percent on other long-term funds made available to it (IBY) during the
1985-87 period (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). The initial
Government onlending rate of 6 percent p.a. is justified given that IBY is a
young institution struggling to develop infant industries and still in the
process of building its organization and staffing.
Line of Credit
62.      The line of credit is expected to finance up to ten subprojects.
Most of these subprojects are expected to be import substituting and to use
local resources. The subloan proceeds would be used to finance the fcreign
exchange cost of fixed assets and permanent working capital. There would be
no maximum size of the subproject but the maximum subloan amount according to
IBY's Act would be restricted to 15 percent of its equity (i.e. at present
about $3 million). To ensure that the needs of the small and medium
industries are properly addressed, at least 60 percent of the credit would be
used for subloans not exceeding S1 million (Project Agreement, Section
2.02(d)).
63.      IBY would onlend the line of credit funds to final subborrowers at a
fixed rate (including service charges of 1 percent) of 4 percent p.a. below
the prevailing local commercial bank lending rate which is 15 percent per
annum at present. The rate would remain unchanged for the duration of a
subloan once it is committed (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)
and Project Agreement, Section 2.03 (a)). As under the first project, the
foreign exchange risk would continue to be passed on to the subborrowers.
These arrangemeuts should ensure that IDA fundb would be passed on to
subborrowers at real positive rates, assuming the Government maintains its
current sound policy regarding interest rates and exchange rates (para. 64).
64.      By allowing its lending rate to fluctuate in accordance with local
commercial bank rates, IBY would get closer to the principle of interest rate
variability to reflect market conditions. This is particularly desirable in
an environment where there are significant interest rate fluctuations, as
observed in recent years and as may well continue to be the case in the
eighties. The present 4 percent differential between the commercial lending
rate and that of IBY is based on the estimated foreign exchange risk to be
borne by subborrowers. IDA, the Government and IBY would annually review
this interest rate policy: (i) to ensure that IBY's rate does not become



- 18 -
subsidized, in the unlikely event that Government decides to set local
interest rates of commercial banks at artificially low levels and (ii) to
ensure IBY's competitiveness in the event of high domestic inflation and,
therefore of an increase in the foreign exchange risk borne by the
subborrowers (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 (a), and Project
Agreement, Section 2.03 (b)).
65.      In addition to interest charges, IBY would apply its standard commit-
ment charge of 1 percent p.a. and an appraisal fee of - vercent of the subloan
amount under the proposed IDA credit. IBY subloans would have maturities of
up to 15 years including a maximum grace period of three years.
66.      Taking into account IDA's experience under Credit 1122-YAR and at
the same time to ensure IDA's continued involvement in the subproject review
process, the free limit would be set at $300,000, with an aggregate limit of
$4 million (Project Agreement, Section 1.01 (a)). It is expected that the
above arrangement would ens-.re IDA's review of about 85 percent of the credit
amount and 60 percent-65 percent of subprojects. The methodology for the
economic evaluation of subprojects has been satisfactorily applied under the
first project, and would be continued under the proposed project; IBY would
continue to prepare economic evaluation for all subprojects financed by it
where the subloan amount exceeds $300,000. In addition, the minimum cut-off
ERR would be 12 percent (Project Agreement, Section 2.03 (f)). The final
date for submission of subproject applications to IDA would be December 31,
1986 (Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (g)).
Training
67.      The objective of this component is to provide exposure to local in-
dustrial managers in management practices. Ideally, a systematic assessment
of the management training needs should precede this component and should be
the subject of a sector study.  However, the widespread shortage of skilled
industrial managers in IBY-financed subprojects is obvious. Accordingly, a
small pilot component of 30 man-months is included for this purpose. The
training would be in the form of specific short-term overseas formal and
on-the-job training programs in production, marketing and other functional
areas. IBY would implement this component and use this facility to address
the training needs of managers in subprojects it finances. Specifically, IBY
would ensure that training programs would be of relevance to the activities
of enterprises to improve their efficiency of operations, and that selected
candidates have the appropriate qdalifications.  The procedures for selecting
programs and candidates have been agreed with IDA.
Procurement and Disbursements
68.      As IBY finances mostly small and medium size projects, individual
contracts for the procurement of machinery and equipment under subloans are
not normally large enough to justify international competitive bidding.
Therefore we propose to follow procurement procedures applied for similar DFC



- 19 -
operations, so that procurement would be done by international shopping,
except for very small items which are procured locally off-the-shelf. IBY
normally requires quotations from at least three different suppliers in the
selection and purchase of the required machinery. Thus, IBY is in a position
to ensure that the procurement of goods is done efficiently, and at
economical prices (Project Agreement, Section 2.06(a)). For feasibility
studies costing $20,000 or more, IBY would recruit consultants in accordance
with IDA's guidelines. As for feasibility studies costing less than $20,000,
IBY would invite offers from at least three qualified consultants and appoint
the most suitable consultant without IDA's prior approval (Project Agreement,
Section 2.04 (b)). This would enable IBY to quickly respond to the
feasibility study requests for smaller projects.
69.      Disbursements.  With the exception of the cost of small contracts
costing the equivalent of $10,000 or less, all disbursements would be fully
documented. Withdrawal against contracts costing the equivalent of $10,000
or less would be made against statements of expenditures, the documentation
for which would be maintained by IBY and made available for review by IDA
during the course of supervision. No withdrawals would be allowed on account
of expenditures made in respect of a subloan more than 120 days prior to the
date on which IDA would have received the application and information
required (Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (h)). The project includes
retroactive financing of up to SDR 300,000 for expenses incurred for the
appointment of the consultants, to ensure early project start-up (para. 55).
A special account of $*00,000, to be operated by IBY, representing three
months of disbursements, would be opened to facilitate withdrawals against
eligible expenditures.
Benefits and Risks
70.      The project would strengthen IBY's institutional capability to play
an effective development role in the industrial sector. The project identi-
fication, preparation and promotion activity would lead to the financing of
viable industrial projects, which would benefit not only IBY but YAR in
general. The project would harness an untapped market of potential entre-
preneurs and their resources for possible investment in industry. It would
also strengthen IBY's pipeline and, thus, generate more business for IBY.
ITY's improved follow-up activities would enable it to understand the
problems of entrepreneurs at an early stage, thus it could initiate timely
corrective action.
71.      The project carries acceptable business risks, normal for an
operation of this kind. The proposed technical assistance and training
components would enable IBY to integrate within its organization the
functions of project promotion and follow up. The risk that some identified
projects may not materialize is being minimized by requiring that identifi-
cation and feasibility studies are undertaken in phases and that financial
commitment of entrepreneurs is obtained prior to carrying out feasibility
studies.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY), and the recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section t(d) of the Association's
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.      Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in Section III of Annex III. The special conditions of effective-
ness are: (a) the appointment of consultants by IBY for project identifica-
tion studies and for promotion tasks (Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.01(b)); and (b) the signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and IBY satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.01(a)).
74.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association.
PART Vi - RECOMMENDATION
75.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
January 22, 1985



- 21 -                                     ANNEX I
T AI L Z 34                                 Page  1 of  5
valN. ARAB RLP,OP.    -- SOCAL INDCATS DATA 5533T
TaNE AsA REp. or                    3 1mm  GRamS (NhIC D AURa) p
MOST               (MOST inCENT  maTS) Lb
bstoLk  i~ik      RlGtCCll       MIDDLI IllUM          MIDGLE INcm
1960Lb    1970m&      TATSL    N. AIRIrA & MID  AT        AT. AMICA 4 CAR
AREA (TROAIS sQ. U)
TOTAL                              195.0       195.0       195.0
AGRICULTURAL                        96.6       97.3         97.9
GNP P  CAPT  (U)                         ..        0.0        300.0            1149.6                 2108.6
O3CI CONISDIMall CKID
(KILOrRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        5.0       11.0         57.0             622.1                  95.5
APOTIDOI AM VTAL VTATIBTIGS
POEULATION*MIO.TAR (T"UOSAM)    4163.0       5258.0       7470.0 Is.
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)        3.4        7.5         14.3              46.2                   66.S
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN tEAR 2000 (qIa)                             12.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                              43.5
POPULATION MONENTtI                                        1.9
POPUIATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RH.                       21.3       27.0         37.2              36.3                    .7
PER SQ. lHH. AGRI. LAW            43.1       54.0         74.1             461.7                   92.4
POPULATION AGC STRUCTLUE (2)
D-14 WRE                         42.4       43.0         44.5              43.6                   39.9
15-64 YRS                         54.4       53.9        52.0               53.1                   56.0
65 AND ABOVE                       3.2        3.1          3.2               3.3                    4.1
POPULATION GROWS RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              2.3        2.3          2.9               2.8                    2.4
URBAN                              8.1       10.2          8.3               4.5                    3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TOMS)         49.7       48.8         48.3              40.4                   31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        28.6       26.5         21.6              11.5                    8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4        3.3          3.0               2.8                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL CTHUS)
US5ERS (Z OF MARRIED VOKW)          ..          .          1.0 ld           22.2                   60.3
FMOD A-  lmT10
INDEX OF FOOD PRMD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      119.0       84.0        93.0               97.3                  114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIRIT)          90.0       76.0         76.0             110.8                  110.6
PROlTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)         69.0       55.0         58.0              70.1                   67.3
OF WHICF ANDIAL AND PULSE       18.0       14.0         19.0 1.           17.8                   34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DLATH RATE         60.4       49.o         38.0              14.6                    5.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT BLHIH (TEARS)       35.8       38.5        43.7               57.5                  64.7
INFANT ST. RATE (PER THOUS)        211.6      188.0        163.0             101.5                  60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER CZPOP)
TOTAL                               ..        4.0          4.0ff            59.7                   65.4
URAN                                ..       45.0         30.0 f            84.5                  71LI
RURAL                               *-        2.0         2.0 7             38.4                   46.2
ACCESS TO EClRiETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
'                            TOTAL                               ..          ..          ..                ..                   5.9S
UAN                                 ..         ..          ..                ..                   67.0
RtUiRAL                             ..         .           ..                ..                    24.5
POPUJATION PEU PHSSICIAN        130090.0    24370.0      11670.0           4345.1                  1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               ..         ..      4580.0             1831.1                 815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL 810
TOTAL                           273D.0      1430.0 18   1700.0             632.9                  367.2
URBIAN                              ..         ..       340.0              545.5                  411.5
RURAL                               ..         ..       6380.0            2513.5                 2636.3
ASKISSIONS PU HtOSPITAL BED           ..         ..         14.3              26.2                  27.3
BOIISIHG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          .          5.0 th
URBAN                               ..         ..         42 2F
RURAL                               ..         ..         60
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/NOO
TOTAL                               ..         ..          Lb/h
URIAN                               ..         ..          I.S 7 
RURAL                               ..                     3   7b
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DIEIINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..          ..               462
URBAI                               ..         ..         56.5 /h.:l        77.7
RURAL                               ..         ..           ..              16.1



- 22 -                                        ANNEK I
T A S L C 3A                                   Page  2 of  5
YCtEN. LAUJ REP. OF    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEErT
mum1 ANI  REP. oF                   REFERNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) La
MOST               (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
RECNT      HIDENINCMEMIDDLE nc  ZEIANCOME
19001k    1970io     uSXDCArS     N. AfICA G MID EAST    LAT. AMERtCL A aC c
DDCATIDI
ADJUSTED ENROLU(ENT RATIOS
PR Y.t  TOTAL                      8.0        12.0        47.0              88.3                  105.4
MUZ                     14.0       23.0         L2.0             102.5                  106.3
FOKALs                   0.4        2.0         12.0              73.6                  104.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    ..         1.0         5.0              43.0                   43.2
MALE                     ..         2.0          9.0              52.3                   42.3
FEMALE                   ..         0.1          2.0              33.0                   44.5
vOcAIroNAL CE oF SECONDARY)          3.2 fl     2.2          4.6 /h           10.3                   33.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           45.0       51.0         44.0              30.3                   3D.I
SECONDARY                         24.0       24.0         18.0 /h           23.1                   16.8
ADULr LrTERACY RATE (t)              2.51a     10.0 /k      21.0              43.5                   79.5
aonprrm
PASSENGER CARS/TIROUSAND POP               1..                ..               7.8                   46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          ..        15.3  a     15.6             13.8                   225.6
nT RECEIVERS/THOUSAID POP             ..         ..          0.2              46.1                  107.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             ..        10.7          ..              31.2                   63.5
CINDIA ANUAL ATTrDANCE/CAPITA         ..         ..          2.1               1.7                    2.8
FORCZ
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         1263.0      1481.0      1863.0
FEIALE (PERCENT)                   3.1        4.5          5.4              10.8                   23.
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.0        79.0        75.0              42.4                   31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 7.0        9.0         11.0              27.9                   23.9
PARTICIPAION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             30.3        28.2        24.9              26.2                   32.2
MAI.E                             57.7        55.0        49.9              46.4                   49.3
FEMALE                             2.3         2.5         2.6               5.8                   15.2
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.5        1.6          1.9               1.8                    1.4
TOUR DISEEIUUTOE
PRCENR OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED DY
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
HICHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHTLDS            ..
r    Tr  GOn
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERm  INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBEr                               ..          ..       366.0             274.8                  298.2
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..             177.2                  186.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (119 PER CAPITA)
URUlB                               ..         ..           ..             402.6                  522.8
RURAL                               ..         ..        157.0             284.9                  372.4
ESTDIATED POP. DELOW ASOLUrE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (t)
USAl                                ...
RURAL                               ..
NOr AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
/a  The group averaes for eahb indicator are population-imighted arithmetic mmns. Coverag of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and Is not unIform.
Jb  Unless otherwis  noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any yer between 1959 and 1961; "Data far 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Mbet Recant Eatinate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c  Reuident population. Includes migrant workers abroad for lose then a year; Id 1979; A 1977; If 1976;
.L  1972; A  1975; hI In the majr cities of Sna, Taiz and hodeidah; 1162; A    3.
UNE, 1984



- 23 -                                                                                   ANNE I
own-m~~~~~ w ~~Page  3  of 5
he.:nzh.c.ne  tea  ra   C. -6tnt..  tnrn            Nd    en.  -nt  ulp duti-tn -eLt-t. -t -ht   i.--                     ttCty-            eiti        nt
b. n.mn   e           - t)-                i   n   Cin.bnl              t   t(i            retettin             t   tC san-tElln         nb  n.l-      ysi,a  h
j~t.   -n. (n.n ie -~   ..n.fluCnttn    8ea, a.n Vii. Int-  beneb Stint  at k11. Isnn- in rhntn  ttnt   nnnrt.I-ln
Len hetntn  he tat.tC.    in ti  tn-tn   -  n-it~ int ts.itttaen in-tn- t-    tiattna   ..-i - PII.C. tT                           -     -4.
Li.=-    ittt.                                                                            .ts!   -tnt -                - I     et,.Lintnd S  -.6  .1ialn
Ca  i..*   an...    he       bttntne   nC    itetnfl   tI-t.                       nnts       ttl
t*tN.  -   itins                                                                          i.natn   egncn   et    . -r  W:           .  -    SMe.    .p.-Lntt (In
M,mw,                                                                   -tL_I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~am                  byt.!  iit  i   it   .nnni  tate~  ft. benn  -it-
W-    --eW (tn-       ~n   utsaent.             cnnn   nhapn..                               .nial   nmti. a  rni   I.ttt- .,ttlt.tbeilnt
c.nnsls  n  ~   e~n    it-  n'   istaanilCO4!bet.;                                nittiteI            a.   enEt! tn  nthInb-Intwa,  iat
tern. -  tent eg*                                                           Onnin. ent meetens,,-  -tIbls            n a.4.   ....-tntt.
minIPtastt   tn - Rf-.. ttnt t--    .1 1!. 1;Intl   t-                                                                    - a  min
tan                                                                              inen-St.    ~t.l  CCenen.e.St*2   c-.? aa. at ne.
lebalnnlnit  tni.t.  -    .el - bLtn   tb        .l      t!en -15Sin In   rnnn-nia   - titittl ._the.  liin I ..                                              t
tUCefet nn.nein a   a   E.m    -.*I-afe     fettnrsaELs                           -n   sn.tt _     sl         5 e.     In_e       -  fly        bercl    I
-f  -4=tt    ie-.t                                                                       inea           --     nn        e - c-nn--  -     sn                  
l-.%e.  tna               tet   nnntt.itnin                   ataln                       i    m      .  En. in nU teba.. i- i... lr   entt"  santinin
n.sl-   -af       n       nt        thee   nc.ti  s.!ie-  I tie                             tttsn  tnnn  tie   T                a.ti   nI   an~-mI.n  nr.nn....
tntnn   mc.~ttttitatnc   Ct.  tsflc  rent tl   - nin                        n.tt-ti.i.nCln
:snnz   nts mm  n-rstny a  i.   .-ntWtnt                e*   .ettse L--n  iene  .dnta        f  tn)- es.aa                                         mn 
tn-t ltS.  tiC.ItlIy  nncnn  Ue:           nno l- 1 (at
tIannI    nrlm. .t.n.t a-It  tn                                                                                     Ls-.ttgttI-- .e.  C
ScnLi-r nttatt - `I  a          ttn a,       .t-s-tt!e  ntsll_                         etne   hn -  nets?    W.nden!        In. tn.. n.atE
nsnn      n.Mv   atCnIn..n..1.nnnnit  n.tty.eni                                                     lntn.       s  nie   s.- tni.  e.ntt
tnt- i.. tnttetne~ ean Id et en      lan- l. -i  n                                  nni.neeIa,pnIa IIIt   ait.tiii  nSi
nertt   rt-I.   t  Ubs    tata.thebet an  in t                    enn h  tjaniC..tI Ctnn  IntS  t tiC                       tni.
..-t C c  . nntC.iE    a     ta   ntn              .     trt ntn    ie.tnnam   ainea    att                                                      m.
Pn.te!  na.l.  it.e                   tnn   tn           t .           i                   tntt    -t   nbl -  nitn  n              l, ntiin   cnn   ,
basn   i  entniettisten   tmnnnmti  In  eePnnsb?-tn.-&,.                                                          inn...--a OaO-          n    ne
s n.insi   cIte a. ttnn Itt,-3                                                                                                                  -ase.ntr    s?.  ietar.tn   aIn!Cnpa        ntlgm    tttt
it  wala ent inuItty  n..?.  - inman.nc Len; Ce. en.          nitnt.antn-           .-Innc.en ni tttat -C t te        tia   .   -2-
ttttl  ntt   t.SPe ad litst                                                              i!  mete-nran tLnt.               -1- tcnnt  nt   (shIn -  . ent  tnit. 
en.an.it  ntIet -ei    tt   - C t   f- att   CaatnlnnlIn                                .a        S   as   t!   pn.  lselan sem  IS m_-t 
rcmnmal l   in.rcl een   tetn       ttcn  itn  nt)   thn.r  t                              O ?S
tn-i...-.  -    tn'0.-                                                        catnat.t  nt. cn-nttt inia n-t.,at-.-.bn-n.
n.emngtnta  n tit. lnt-n,ad  ist.!                                         na. bnlntntin  nla-nsl-   -i ent annelntn   e rtn
?tmatI. Cta  ben ieenib-!.-O-ba         A -   n.lset -Ct ti  ten   9.                      w ittnc  C   n  oLt   E~ tI-tif mnplnn    elnWEin,
mnn.ntln Ce:ti.tt.mbain,At e-L                                                      ncteencnita t.ntIintIniunitl  5enn
Ott fin  he  (.echennA      WE -ttitie   .   n             ti-hni intnt;ininnn                                            nta,        bennlns .nt
tn-.ntn;  in.  .70  a   IStme,                                              rt. -Witbi  ie-tt.
era ite  kt nnit.ni    tn!atn.n. n            nCnt.yr                        t   nitr (eenban  rpnscnt -YeCtttttP-tinW                          i
EniiastiS  te-t  -n itin                                                            nti  nltnenta   tiltn   nsn   itne   Iintn
O'.t -n1k.ea  nta-ana        a   1  .e r-rtil?. m-.  inift-                                       sti   n   tn    n?int    !I P-         nn an in sCCt.
Cte   mnti  - ,n.ttci         detttt.tn                        - st     5t.pn.i it.nhnt  c                      t    Int_tC   tin   t-b.          ,.          -
it ttrt- Ktt.tint.ntr    I-n  -a.tttltni       In pisS                                 Cinn.in.. teenmntt m  tsnten.e bls -  tnt -               he      e
14  In 1-41-S. isr, -0 I'Mit) d__                               ftilc.tinI-       Ot  S-  yT- tttI"" at.   taifn-ntiin 
ennle itaCt -    E,t tta.n  .9nsett          M- nmtIan  i    ttisainel
CbII.-hnnlnt  ,  -   Ltenn 1.   nit-tM.Iaie                             ~iL    et   tnstn      .. si    tn   p.e. PI-igni.
tiin            ttil    n-t   .nt   a sieingti                                               Cen  a    ntV-h trntghentt E=                       tnnt S..-nnen
ma  &"Z d.- ~  ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       .-tnaa  i    n.            iniane   aitt tai   i
t m  ie l-t         ......                                                                        tit,  rS -     tA-1 ft.
in.  iEti neees E    .  sitCiSt.il-m                  qnnm.e.?  ietmt-ennthePtn    tnt                                                      iin?Iteien
.t'   ena  i  Ltpa  .ttttt. ' CtetI                    = 1dntn                   tCtnt.Iettt     aeCeti   ain.Citry    n,a
(at  _Inn .sntt  nwhC.                  tin    attraegna   s. -itlntC Iteten-.9  ti-   mit Cn.. itt. ti7                                            tint tattP
nitt_         it.1    n5ietn   anis               enet ttnn.(.3                           tttc.tte_Si    a            stsi  ?tt.  netstan    ineeita
Cttt   t  a  tntala.)        Cette  imittt.-   ittnt I.*seiin                                          .- -Cpetn-anttibnfn;tt.t
tani  ttt ,s atr-   nat  n-p- ali-.  ti -'.  -n  at2             n?a  tn  tt
San                                                                              Cmn.-,ant  ee tcen.ti- est  a. 1                 tne -?nnttmmn  n
t tte   ninn elen.incnt.1tileatt     ttsn   Caeirn   rn   c.Ctntatit.nI,a  tn.  ee(tc.
Lac   tnlia-   nin.nttntnitni   -inpn ent S"                                             ntne   CCii  n.siinn  ttatnt   i   a    n.ettn



- 24 -
ANMEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMC_. INICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mlm)                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTIH
1983                  (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)         FT1977-82       1983
GNP at Market Prices 1/            4179                    5            2
GDP at Market Prices               3773                    5            2
Gross Domestic Investments          1107                  18          -11
Gross National Savings              503                    2            5
Exports of GNFS                      309                  15          -14
Imports of GNFS                    2144                    8          -12
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force      V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln      2    Thousand       Z        US$        2
Agriculture            820      32         830       69         988      47
Industry               206       8          54        5        3815     182
Services              1492      60         318       26        -.691    224
TOTAL/AVE.L SE    2518     100        1202      100        2095     100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE CYRis Mla)
Z of GNP
197  79  1979/80  1981   198Z   1983      1983
Current Receipts               2161     2755   3277   3692   5302       28
Current Expenditure            1847     2531   3253   518!   5068       27
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)   314      224      24  -1489    234       1
Capital Expenditure            2618     2492   3807   4321   3803       20
Extzabudgetary Expenditure        -       523    788  2317   2090       11
Overall Deficit                 848      2333   2943   5262   4807      26
External Assistance, Net       1904       976   2437   2865   1752       9
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND Pr.:CES
-YRls Million Outstanding End Period-
1980      1981     1982     1983
Money Supply                      9180      9905    12519    15967
Domestic Credit                  4956       7273    11834    15980
Of which:
Claims on Government          (2017)    (4039)   (8454)  (12361)
Claims on Private Sector      (2939)    (3234)   (3380)   (3619)
-   -Percentage       s
1979/80   1981    1982     1983
Money Supply as X of GNP             63       66      75       85
Annual Increase in:
Money Supply                     16        8      26       28
Consumer Price Index            11         5       3        5
1/  Not including private transfers by Yemeni migrants whose duration of
stay abroad exceeds one year.



- 25 -
AEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (us$ Mln)
1978179   1980   1981   1982   1983
Exports of Goods, fob                3       13     10      5      10
Imports of Goods, cif            -1250   -1915  -1748  -1967- -1796
Trade Balance                    -1247   -1902  -1738  -1962   1786
Non Factor Services, net           -36     -21    -51    -37    -48
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                      833    1084    788    924   1103
Balance on Current Account        -450    -839  -1001  -1075   -731
N & LT Capital, net                416      600    542    635    386
Official Grants                  312     148    337    445    186
Official Loans, net 1/           104     452    205    190    200
Disbursements                 (114)   (467)  (262)  (232)  (224)
Repayments                    (-10)   (-15)  (-57)  (-42)  (-24)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net       194     128    198      76    136
Increase in Reserves C-)          -160    I11    261    364    209
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                         DEST SERVICES RATIO (1983) 2/
(US$ million)               1983                                       Z
Total Outstanding            2356         Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed           1568         Disbersed                    2.7
1/  Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ sligatlr from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/  Workers' remittances and transfers ictclnded in denominator.
EMIDB
June 1984



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEKEN ARAR  REPUBLIC
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984) 1/
Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                          (less cancellations)
Number Year      Borrower               Purpose                   IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve credits fully disbursed                      94.6
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0         0.6
670   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Water Supply II           100       2.2
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                    11.5        3.7
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tiha-m  Agriculture II          10.5        1.7
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution              10.0       2.7
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III           15.0      12.0
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                   10.0       2.3
950   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0        11.7
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV            5.5        1.7
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development           17.0        9.8
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic S. Uplands Rural Dev. II        17.0 2/    5.5 2/
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Electrification        12.0        1.6
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Tudustrial Development          12.0       4.0
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development         15.0        9.6
1203   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                    12.0        7.7
1216   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geethermal Exp.  2.0          1.1
1259   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agr. Research and Development   6.0         3.2
1267   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Highways IV                      7.0       4.2
1294   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Health                          10.5        7.3
1308   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agricultural Credit              8.0        7.4
1340   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Education V                     10.0        9.2
1361   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Power III                       19.0       17.5
1413 3/1983 Yemen Arab Republic Highways V                      13.0       12.0
1441   1984 Yemen Arab Republic Urban II                        12.0       11.5
1453 3/1984 Yemen Arab Republic Central Highlands Ag. Devt.      8.0        7.8
1470 3/1984 Yemen Arab Republic Education VI                    10.0        9.5
1484 3/1984 Yemen Arab Republic Geothermal Exploration          13.0       12.3
Total                                              387.6 4/
of which has been repaid                           0.7
Total now held by IDA                              386.9
Total undisbursed                                            179.8
1/   The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/   Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these column represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1984, for the undisbursed amounts.
3/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1984)
(Amount in USt millions)
Year            Obligor           Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice     Dairy Products        3.15      -     3.15
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983    Yemen Dry Batteries       Dry Cell Batteries   3.25      0.60   3.85
Total Gross Commitments                         6.40     0.60   7.00
less cancellations, terminations,             2.29      -     2.29
repayments, sales
Total commitments nov held by IFC               4.11     0.60   4.71
Total Disbursed                                 0.86     0.20   1.06
Total Undisbursed                               3.25     0.40   3.65
NOTE:   An investment loan of $5.4 million to the National Company for
Vegetable Oil and Ghee Industries was approved on September 11,
1984; it is not yet signed.
C.  Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of *200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, *300,000 and *425,000.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (YAR)
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplemental Data Sheet
Section I; Time Table of Key Events
a)  Time taken to prepare project          3 months (August - October 1983)
b)  Project Preparation agency             IBY
c) First IDA mission to consider
project                               August, 1983
d)  Appraisal mission departure           March 16, 1984
e)  Negotiations completed                December 7, 1984
f)  Loan effectiveness                    June 1985
Section II; Special IDA Implementation Actions
none
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Effectiveness
(a) The enactment of the new IBY Act (para. 53);
(b) Signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and IBY satisfactory to IDA (para. 49); and
(c) Appointment of consultants by IBY for project
identification studies and for promotion tasks (para. 55).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3. Other Conditions
IBY should;
(a) retain at least the current level of advisory services during
the implementation of the project and recruit three
professionals for project appraisal (para. 54);
(b) reduce its arrears to below 12 percent of the loan portfolio
outstanding by the end of 1985, to below 8 percent by the end of
1986, and to below 5 percent by the end of 1987 (para. 58);
(c) increase the level of its provision for possible losses to
8 percent of outstanding portfolio by December 31, 1988, and
maintain it at this level as long as arrears exceeds that level
(para. 59); and
(d) review its lending rate annually (para. 64).



IRAO .             AFCNmANiSIAN
N                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEMEN ARAB REPUBLlI(.
IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
'PA:A                                                                                                                              PROJECTS:
XuAE~                                                                                                                       Agricultural
SAUDI ARABIA                                                                                                                      KI Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
.'.-V   0                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Research Centers
yfMi  m91~ AEPugDmonst ration Farms
,pR           A,EM.ENa                                                                                                         I    Grain Storage
~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fisheries
Fish Markets
IS-IWALiA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Industrial
ETHIOPIA /.,*                                                                                                                            Health
________                                                                                          &   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Education
Highways
-- Highway Maintenance
Power Distribution Areas
X                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Power Stations
2'.'              ...~~~~~ ~  .~~~A 's'~~~ 'I'iJ4k ;$~~~~~4tk' sW                                    --   ~~~~Transmission Lines
/ I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1%1 Geothermal Exploration
~~.   ~   ~i4%.f.P  -~~~           U    Water Supply
t' Part Development
.4   ~~~~~~~~~* ~~~~~~~                                           0~~C   Urban Development
EXISTING FEATURES:
V J4       -                                               Primary Roads
~~.\; *.t#v2t1v5. ~~~~~~~                          Secondary Roads
M/DIANOS  I  *.g:1g~~~~~~~~$~~~ ~~                            t    :~ove:: rteCapitols
_W ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~                           ,'~'                                                                          National Capitals
<~~~~1(  /.b'')v                                           - - - - ~~~~~~~~~~Provincial Boundaries
EASrERN                 ~~~~~International Boundaries
Elevation (mi!iif
(/                                                                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~77
HO                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
RED SEA



.3                                                                                                                                                       A~~~~~~~~ALA
KILOMEIERS
RED SEA
FISCAL YEAR
PROJECT 8?  b l 4   .APPROVED
rrl                                                                                           * Highways 1                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1972
C   gTitioma. Agriculture I               1973
E Education 1                              1974
0                                                                                                       0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sana'a Water Supply 1  1974
A                                                                                       "~~~~I ~ *i    I    Small Industtry Development  1974
ii V-;I 1     Hoybon                                      * Southern Uplands Rural Deoelopment I     1975
.-.     PEOPLES   CE/               REP                   tfighlwaut f                             1975
OF   Y         N .  .Hodeida Waler Supply & Seeroase                             1975
.F  '(VEN                  .           .. iEducation m                           1474
6 Grain Sroroge & Processing               1976
LBvest Croh Redit A Prossing             1977
Santoa Water Suppy U1  Sewerge         1977
C Part DenG otIrm                          1974
,irVTr                                                           Hooighwa   IDH1973
/      rihoo Agricul turel  t                   1978
Tihanra Agrlculture ID                        1979
/                          '          rrl4msphsSnpotdbyrhft>*%ttd#trdbelSttPower ish,tribuio                                                                                      1979  
sir  rcabrs,cadi telst Sor b hkmclusol n   " *   ndbhhrNEducation M                                                                         1979
(hb S Dhoar YWbter Suppy  Sewerage    1980
          r                         Ftsnct CaporFlion  rhetlUtd"1~tnonH                                 poonol                          t Tihama AgricuureAtu N                  1980
Artisonol Fisher es1                    1980
Southern Uplands Rural Development !     19r1
iLl                                                                                                      Power 44  RegRonal Electrificatian       1961
--.                        ~~~~~~~~~Industrial Development           1981
r  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i ~~~~~~~~~~~~ADEN                                                                                               Education 13                            1982
i-~~~~~  or'  ,~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~ ~~~Bb I0            ane                                                                                            Agricultural Research  Development      1982
Bob .1 Mandab                                                                 H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tighways 37      1982
Petroleurn & Geothermal                  1982
Heallth                                 1983
Agricultural Credit                     1983
Education 7                              1983
Power MI                                 1953
Central Highlands Agricultural Development 1984
lIre readers aidS ~~~~~~a%wft'tw  , w   _____  at ~~~~Highways 1                                                   1984
Nsn ha M        peprd 6V rhe tt l4tr*iB     suN excka.*                                        EdO or eceo  -ucation TXhe8
on Use 5gM stafus of wy teritory or smy stareurus or eacqititr of ecA hossidbs.
4545






