Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Report No 12789
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1547-YAR)
FEBRUARY 25, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yemeni Rial (YR)
Yemeni Rials             US Dollars
Per US Dollar             Per SDR
March 1984-I               5.40                    1.10
December 1985              6.48                    1.11
December 1986              8.99                    1.22
December 1987              8.99                    1.42
December 1988              9.76                    1.35
December 1989              9.76                    1.31
December 1990             12.00                    1.42
December 19912/           12.00                    1.43
December 1992             12.00                    1.38
V  From Appraisal Report
" Loan Closing
FISCAL YEAR
Government of the Republic of Yemen: January 1 - December 31
Industrial Bank of Yemen: January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBY         =      Central Bank of Yemen
COCA        =      Central Organization for Control and Auditing
EDI         =      Economic Development Institute
ERR         =      Economic Rate of Return
GOY         =      Government of Yemen
IBY         =      Industrial Bank of Yemen
IEDA        =      Industrial Estates Development Authority
IIP         =      Industrial Investment Project
IRR         =      Internal Financial Rate of Return
ISSP        =      Industrial Support Services Project
SEDU        =      Small Enterprise Development Unit
SME         =      Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
UNCDF       =      United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Program
UNIDO       =      United Nations Industrial Development Organization
YAR         =      Yemen Arab Republic
YBRD        =      Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
YCIF        =      The Yemen Company for Investment and Finance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Yemen - Second Industrial
Development Project (Credit 1547-YAR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Yemen - Second Industrial Development Project
(Credit 1547-YAR) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared
by the Borrower.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. It provides a clear account of the factors that led to an
unsatisfactory outcome. The project's implementation coincided with a period of fast changing and
worsening macroeconomic conditions. This resulted not only in the weakening of the demand for
industrial credit, but it also affected the competitiveness of the existing Yemeni enterprises (many of whom
were Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY)'s borrowers) and the efficiency of their resource use as they faced
substantial devaluations of the Yemeni rial and import licensing restrictions resulting in capacity
underutilization. These problems were compounded by the unwillingness of the Government of Yemen
in utilizing IDA funds for technical assistance expenditures, ostensibly because of the availability of grants
from aid donors. As a result, the most important objective of this project -- institutional development --
never received the required attention and implementation deteriorated with the growing internal
management conflict. Exogenous events such as the unification of the two Yemens and the Gulf war also
contributed to a difficult implementation environment.
Part II of the PCR speaks of an "underlying tension" between the Bank and IBY. The borrower
complains that IDA "played no effective role in urging IBY and assisting it in organizing its utilization of
the section concerning institutional development". Furthermore, it questions IDA's impartiality in the face
of the internal management conflict. Therefore, it is not surprising that IDA's proposal in 1991 for a
managerial and financial restructuring (which had apparently been acceptable to the Borrower two years
earlier) met with little enthusiasm. The Region disagrees with the Borrower's assessment.
Of the nine approved subprojects, five were cancelled for various reasons. Others have been
implemented but some are already facing financial difficulties as shown by their irregular loan repayments.
The outcome of this project is, therefore, rated as unsatisfactory.  The project has had negligible
institutional development impact and its sustainability is uncertain.
No audit is planned.
R. Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
nits document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performnance of their official duties. Its contents
uay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN             FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 1547 - YAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS                       Page No.
Preface .i............................. . .
Evaluation Summary  ... .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  ii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project  Identity    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .1
Background .1
Project Objectives and Description  ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 5
Project Implementation  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 6
Project Design and Organization ... .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 7
Project Results .9.......................... . 9
Sustainability  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  16
IDA  Performance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   18
Borrower Performance  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
Project Relationship  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
Lessons Learned ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
Project Documentation and Data  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . 21
Introduction .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Project Results ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  22
IDA Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
IBY Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
Table 1  -  Related IDA Credits ... .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .   .  25
Table 2  -  Project Timetable ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .   .  26
Table 3  - Missions  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .......  .  .  .  .   .  27
Table 4  -  Use of Bank Resources ... .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .   .  27
Table 5 -  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .  .  . . . . 28
Table 6 -  Use of Credit Proceeds  ... .  .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .   . 28
Table 7 -  Status of Legal Covenants         .      .      ...... . 29
Table 8  -  Summary of Subprojects Approved Under the Credit  . ..   .  32
Table 9  -  Subproject Appraisal Report Estimates of
Rates of Return and Job Creation  . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 10 -  Features of Subloans      ... .Fu  of  .o ..34
Table 11 -  IBY Arrears Situation. . .e  .a .             .35
Table 12 - Exposure of IBY Shareholders' Equity .    .   . . . . . . . . 36
Table 13 - Adequacy of IBY Loan Loss Reserves .    .    . . . . . . . . .  37
Table 14 -  IBY Collections Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Table 15 -  IBY Income Statements          ..39
Table 16 -  IBY Balance Sheets  ......  .  ..    .........   .  40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1547-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Industrial
Development Project in the previous Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), for which
Credit 1547-YAR in the amount of SDR 8.0 million (US$8.0 million equivalent at
time of appraisal) was approved on February 12, 1985. The Credit was made to
the Government of Yemen (GOY) and onlent to the Industrial Bank of Yemen
(IBY).
The Credit was made effective on June 18, 1986, and closed on December
31, 1991, six months behind schedule. The final disbursement was made on
September 23, 1991. A total of SDR 3.46 million was cancelled.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Industry and Energy
Division, Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
(MENA). Part II was prepared by the Beneficiary, the Industrial Bank of Yemen
(IBY).
Preparation of this PCR was initiated during the final IDA
supervision/project completion mission in December 1992. The report is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; President's Report; Credit,
Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision reports; and correspondence
between the IDA and the Borrower/Beneficiary.






- ii -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 1547 - YAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMDARY
Obiectives
1.    The main objectives of the project were to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the IBY to be more responsive to the technical and financial needs
of the private industrial sector in Yemen, and to provide scarce foreign
exchange for investment (para. 3.01).
Implementation Experience
2.    IBY has tried to implement the project during a period of fast changing
economic conditions and increasing macroeconomic distortions. This has
affected project implementation by dampening credit demand particularly for
subloans carrying foreign exchange risks. To allow IBY additional time to
commit funds under the project, the original terminal date for subloan
commitments of June 30, 1987 was postponed on three occasions, to a final date
of June 30, 1991 (paras. 4.01 and 4.02). The closing date was postponed once
by six months to December 1991 on an interim basis, to allow IBY time to adopt
an appropriate action plan for institutional reform (paras. 4.03 & 7.05).
Reesults
3.    Overall, the project did not achieve the expected results.  This was
partly due to external shocks and a worsening macroeconomic environment (para.
5.01), and partly due to the failure of IBY and the Government, in spite of
IDA insistence, to take actions (para. 7.05) which would have helped IBY to
cope with and survive the distorted environment. On the institutional
buildina side, little was achieved. Irreconcilable management conflicts
within IBY eroded staff morale, and hampered the introduction of policies and
procedures, training of staff and recruitment of expatriate advisers. On the
financial side, IBY's financial situation deteriorated due to the following
major operational problems: (a) unacceptably high level of portfolio arrears
(para. 6.18); (b) a relatively low level of loss reserves resulting from IBY's
reluctance to classify and provision its loan portfolio and adopt an income
accruals policy in accordance with international accounting standards (para.
6.17); and (c) poor collection effort. Furthermore, IBY was unable to make
full use of the line of credit. About SDR 2.3 million (over 35 percent) of
that component was cancelled due in part to the Government's restrictions on
investments and imports which caused IBY's operations to come to a virtual
halt from mid-1986 to December 1988.



- iii-
Sustainability
4.    IBY is facing problems which are virtually threatening it. existence as
a going concern. The major problems relate to poor financial performance,
stagnation in operations and poor staff morale. For IBY to survive as a
development bank without substantial government support and capital infusions,
it will need to take a critical look at its organizational structure, role,
financial and accounting procedures, staffing and financial requirements
(paras. 7.01-7.06).
Lessons Learned
5.    The following are the lessons learned (para. 11.01): (a) management
conflicts have the potential to significantly undermine the efficiency and
performance of a development banking institution; (b) development banking
institutions should adopt and adhere to financial and accounting policy
standards similar to those of international banking institutions; (c)
development banking projects are particularly vulnerable to events which
weaken or distort the macroeconomic and financial policy environment and in
situations where the processes of debt recovery are protracted and financial
disclosure requirements are weak; (d) in appraising and supervising
development banking projects, close attention needs to be paid by IDA to the
competitiveness of the interest rate structure and to the interest rate spread
requirement; and (e) foreign exchange risks should not be passed on to
subborrowers oriented towards the domestic market who are unable to assess
such risks or hedge against them.



REPUBLIC OF YENEN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1547-YAR)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FRON IDA'S PERSPZCTIVE
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Proiect Name    : Second Industrial Development Project
Credit No.          1547-YAR
RVP Unit           Middle East and North Africa Regional Office,
Country Department II
Industry and Energy Division
Sector             Industry
Subsector          Development Banking
XI. BACKGROUND
The Industrial Sector
2.01        In the north of Yemen (the region of the former Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR)), the private sector dominates the manufacturing sector.
During the period from 1976 to 1986, private sector investment in
manufacturing was more than 60 percent of total investment in manufacturing.
Furthermore, in 1986, the private sector accounted for about 88 percent of
total manufacturing value added and the public and mixed sector enterprises
for about 6 percent each. In terms of employment, t|he private sector
accounted for an estimated 92 percent of manufacturing sector employment, and
the public and mixed sectors for about 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively.
2.02        The industrial sector in the north of Yemen expanded at an average
rate of about 12 percent annually from 1970 to 1985. During this period of
high growth, the sector was buoyed by high levels of external assistance and
workers' remittances, and by the Government's relatively free market stance,
moderate protection, modest official intervention, and generous fiscal
incentives. The sector performed well despite several handicaps, including
shortages of skilled manpower, high labor costs, a small and dispersed
domestic market, a weak natural resource base, a poor geographic location
relative to major European markets, and inadequate infrastructure. Given the
relatively undistorted macroeconomic framework during much of this period,



- 2 -
most of the investments were probably economically efficient when they were
made. Growth slowed down considerably in the mid-1980. due to lower
investment and problems in obtaining raw materials and spare parts because of
macroeconomic imbalances. In 1990, the manufacturing sector's share in GDP
was about 11 percent.
2.03        In the early 1980s, economic growth began to decline primarily due
to droughts and declining inflows of workers' remittances and official aid.
Rising public expenditures and an overvalued currency led to fiscal and
external imbalances and inflation rising above 5% per annum. With the advent
of increasing foreign exchange constraints in mid-1983, the Government began
to use import and investment licensing as a means to allocate the country's
foreign exchange resources, and to adjust the official exchange rate to be
close to the market rate.
2.04        This was the situation that was apparent during appraisal of the
project in May/June 1984. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) considered that
the Government's import licensing and exchange rate adjustment measures were
likely to benefit the economy in terms of increased remittances through
banking and through restoring the competitiveness of oome local industries, by
making imports more expensive.
2.05        The foreign exchange situation, however, deteriorated further from
1985 onwards. The Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) outlawed the money changers in
the parallel market. In addition, CBY began to severely restrict its foreign
exchange sales to the commercial banks, reducing the attractiveness of the
commercial banking system to foreign capital inflows. The parallel foreign
exchange market remained active, but under the import licensing system, only
foreign exchange obtained from commercial banks could be used to finance
imports. The Government imposed even more stringent import and investment
licensing restrictions as part of its efforts to address growing macroeconomic
imbalances. These restrictions severely reduced capacity utilization and
industrial investment, and have been a subject of policy dialogue between the
Government and IDA. The exchange rate was adjusted four times over the period
from 1985 to 1990, falling from YR5.86/US$l.00 in December 1984 to
YR12.00/US$1.00 on February 19, 1990. Inflation averaged about 19% annually
during 1987-89.
2.06        By 1989, prolonged and large budget deficits, financed largely by
borrowing from CBY, fueled inflation and led to an overvalued official
exchange rate and current account deficits in the balance of payments.
Inflation had accelerated to over 30% annually by 1990, continuing to rise to
over 40% in 1991. The discrepancy between the official exchange rate and the
parallel rate continued to widen following the 1990 devaluation, reflecting
the difference between domestic and international inflation rates. In
comparison with the official rate of YR12.00/US$1.00, the parallel rate
averaged about YR25/US$l during 1991, and YR42/US$l by end 1992.
2.07        By mid-1991, following the unification of the northern and
southern regions of Yemen on May 22, 1990 (formerly YAR and the Peoples
Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), respectively) to form the Republic of
Yemen (ROY), and the Gulf crisis and war in early 1991, the Government began



to liberalize the foreign exchange market by allowing almost all private
sector transactions to be conducted at the parallel rate and to allow foreign
exchange dealers to operate without hindrance. It also began to gradually
liberalize import and investment licensing and to eliminate most price
controls, especially in the southern region of Yemen.
2.08        Against this background, the Government's industrial strategy
during the second (1982-1986) and third (1987-1991) five-year plans was to
promote efficient import-substitution and increase exports; improve capacity
utilization and product quality to enhance competitiveness; and diversify the
small industrial base and gradually develop large-scale industries, possibly
through joint ventures.
The Financial Sector
2.09        In the 1970s, the Government established three specialized
financial institutions to support priority sectors: the Agricultural Credit
Bank in 1975; the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY) in 1976; and the Housing
Credit Bank in 1977. IBY has been a major source of investment financing in
Yemen and the dominant banking institution providing medium and long-term
industrial financing. It has also been the principal institution for
providing scarce foreign exchange resources for small and medium-scale
industries which do not have direct access to overseas sources. Until the
establishment of IBY, most medium to large-scale industrial projects in the
private sector were financed with the personal savings of their sponsors or
with short-term loans obtained from the country's ten commercial banks, of
which eight are branches of foreign banks. The commercial banks have tended
to concentrate on the traditional commercial banking activity of extending
short-term trade credit. Small-scale industries have received relatively
little outside financing due to their limited access to institutional sources
of funds and other support programs. The other principal financial
institutions serving the industrial sector are the Yemen Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (YBRD), and its subsidiary the Yemen Company
for Investment and Finance (YCIF).
2.10        In general, the financial system has been characterized in the
recent past by: (a) inflexible, and negative real interest rates, which have
depressed savings; (b) an overvalued exchange rate (since 1980) which favored
investments in non-tradeable assets and promoted distortions in relative
prices; (c) high reserve requirements and relatively high interest rates on
excess reserves; (d) conservative lending policies; (e) a weak legal
enforcement system for financial contracts; (f) weak prudential regulations,
supervision and enforcement; (g) limited availability of financial
instruments, and non-existence of capital markets; (h) lack of transparency in
financial activities, general disclosure requirements, and information
systems; and (i) a shortage of local banking and financial expertise.
2.11        Domestic interest rates have been subject to government controls
which, for commercial banks, took the form of minimum rates on savings and
time deposits and maximum rates on loans. At the time of appraisal, the
maximum commercial bank rate was 15% per annum. This rate has since been
adjusted upwards to 17% in February 1990.  The interest rate ceilings were



instituted primarily as a mechanism to curb unwanted short-term capital
inflows. The Government's policy was to maintain a flexible system of setting
commercial bank interest rates close to the rates prevailing in the
international capital markets, but also of setting the rates of the
specialized banking institutions at 3 to 4 percentage points below the
commercial rates to take account of perceived socio-economic considerations,
particularly the need to encourage investment in the productive sectors
relative to the traditional fields of commerce and real estate. The interest
rate structure has been adjusted only infrequently, in part to minimize any
potentially adverse effects on cash flows in the corporate sector. But since
1985, when inflation accelerated, CBY has allowed the interest rate structure
to remain substantially negative in real terms, favoring investments in non-
tradeable assets and promoting distortions in relative prices.
2.12        At appraisal in 1984, with domestic inflation of about 10% per
annum, IBY's lending rate of about 11% per annum was applicable to loans in
both domestic and foreign currency, and was consistent with a basket of Euro-
currency rates of the countries of likely procurement. It was therefore
positive in real terms. In addition, borrowers of foreign loans were required
to bear the foreign exchange risk.
Bank Groua Involvement in the Sector
2.13        The Bank Group has carried out three lending operations (including
the subject project) in the industrial sector in North Yemen (Part III, Table
1). The first project (IDA Credit 465-YAR of US$2.3 million equivalent)
approved in 1974 to support the development of an industrial estate in Sana'a.
The second operation (Credit 1122-YAR of US$12 million equivalent) approved in
1981 financed a line of credit to IBY to meet its investment requirements and
to provide technical assistance for institutional strengthening. The present
operation (Credit 1547-YAR of US$8 million equivalent) approved in 1985
focussed on further strengthening of IBY and provided it with a second line of
credit. A proposed Industrial Investment Project (IIP), which included a line
of credit to IBY, was appraised in June 1989 and post-appraised in March 1990,
but was later dropped from the lending program due to deterioration in the
macroeconomic environment. Subsequently, a proposed Industrial Support
Services (ISSP) project was initially proposed for consideration in 1992, but
was later dropped, due in part to the Government's unwillingness to borrow IDA
funds for technical assistance, and also to its reluctance to take decisions
on proposals for extension services to small and medium-scale enterprises
(SHE) and for public enterprise reforms. The project was to capitalize on the
institutional progress achieved through the three earlier IDA-assisted
projects and to support the Government's efforts to promote private sector
development. It was intended that the project would include technical
assistance support for restructuring and strengthening IBY's operations to
improve its efficiency and competitiveness in the banking sector.
2.14        Two sector reports have been prepared.  The first of these,
"Manufacturing Industry: Performance, Policies and Prospects (Report No. 3512-
YAR of November 12, 1982)," resulted in an interchange of views with the
Government of YAR on significant aspects and problems confronting industry,
primarily in private manufacturing but also covering public sector units. The



second, "Institutional and Policy Environment for Industrial Development
(Report No. 9008-ROY of December 2, 1991)," aimed to assist the Government,
following the unification, in analyzing the performance of the manufacturing
sector in the northern and southern regions. In addition, two IDA-executed
UNDP studies were carried out in 1989, prior to the unification, under UNDP
Project YEM85/006: "The Requirements for Extension and Technical Assistance
Services for Small-and Medium-Scale Enterprises in YAR (December 1989)," and
"The Manufacturing Sector of YAR: Effective Protection and Domestic Resource
Costs (December 1989)."
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Obiectives
3.01        The principal objective of the project was institutional; namely
to strengthen IBY's capacity to be more efficient and responsive to the
technical and financial needs of private industry in YAR. A second objective
was to provide scarce foreign exchange for investment.
Description
3.02        The project comprised three major components:
(a) Strenatheninc of IBY's institutional capacitv (SDR 1.3 million, about
USS1.3 million eauivalent) by:
(i) using consultants to identify about 40 industrial investment
opportunities, to prepare feasibility studies of about 15
industrial projects and to promote these and other projects;
(ii) using technical assistance to strengthen IBY's capacity to
appraise and supervise industrial projects and to assist
entrepreneurs during their implementation; and
(iii) seeking measures to improve IBY's financial health and
operational efficiency.
(b) A line of credit (SDR 6.6 million, about USS6.6 million eauivalent) to
finance a part of IBY's resource requirements during 1985 through June
30, 1987.
(c) Trainina (SDR 100.000, about USS100O000 eauivalent): (i) training of IBY
staff to improve their effectiveness through short-term overseas, on-
the-job and formal training courses; and (ii) a small pilot component
(US$55,000) primarily for training of industrial managers.
Main Features of the Credit ComDonent
3.03        Purpose   The credit component was intended to finance up to ten
import substitution and local resource based subprojects. The subloan
proceeds were to finance the foreign exchange costs of fixed assets and



permanent working capital. There was no maximum size of subprojects but the
maximum subloan amount war limited by IBY's Act which restricted it to 15
percent of its equity (i.e. about US$3 million equivalent at appraisal). To
ensure that the needs of small and medium-scale industries were properly
addressed, at least 60 percent of the credit war to be used to finance
subloans not exceeding US$1 million equivalent.
3.04        Interest Rate Structure and Foreion Exchanae Risk.  The Government
and IBY had agreed with IDA (Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement dated
May 20, 1985 and Side letter No. 2) that IBY would make fixed rate subloans,
with the subborrowers bearing the foreign exchange risk, at a rate of not more
than 4 percentage points below the maximum commercial bank lending rate
published quarterly by the CBY. The IBY rate was to be adjusted in accordance
with changes in the commercial lending rate which was estimated to be positive
in real terms when Credit 1547-YAR was appraised. In addition, the IBY rate
was consistent at the time with a basket of Euro-currency rates of the
countries of likely procurement. The four percentage points between the IBY
rate and the commercial rate was estimated to cover the foreign exchange risk
to be borne by subborrowers. The Government's onlending rate to IBY was set
at 5 percentage points below IBY's prevailing lending rate to cover IBY's
spread. In addition, IBY had agreed, in a supplemental letter to the Credit
and Project Agreements, to charge a penal rate of 5 percentage points on
defaults.
3.05        Free Lisit and Aareaate Free Limit.  The free limit was set at
US$300,000, with an aggregate limit of US$4.0 million. It was expected that
this arrangement would ensure IDA's review of about 85 percent of the credit
amount and about 60-65 percent of the number of subprojects.
3.06        Sconosic Evaluation of Suboroiects.  For subloan amounts exceeding
US$300,000, the minimum cut-off economic rate of return (ERR) would be 12
percent.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01        During the life of the project, the Government requested and IDA
agreed to three postponements of the terminal date for subloan commitments.
The first extension was for a two year period from June 1987 to June 1989; the
second and third extensions, in September 1989 and August 1990, were for one
year each to June 30, 1990 and June 30, 1991, respectively. The closina date
was extended once, by 6 months, from June 1991 to December 1991.
4.02        The main reason for extending the terminal date for subloan
commitments was to allow IBY to fully commit funds under the project. Due to
the Government's severe restrictions on investments and imports, IBY's
operations had come to a virtual halt since mid-1986, and almost no new
subloan commitments were made during the period from May 1987 to December
1988. At the time of the second and third extensions, added reasons in favor
of postponement were: (a) good progress had been made towards reaching
agreement with the Government and IBY on proposals for restructuring IBY in
the context of the appraisal of the proposed IIP project; (b) progress on



- 7 -
macroeconomic policy issues which were a subject of IDA dialogue with the
Government, in the context of a Medium-Term Framework Paper (MTFP), were
proceeding reasonably well though with some delay due to Government
preoccupation with unification issues in May 1990; and (c) some progress in
committing the credit was evident (at the time of the third extension,
subproject commitments totalled about SDR 5.0 million, or about 76% of the
original allocation of SDR 6.6 million).
4.03        The above three extensions did not affect the loan closina date
This date was later (in July 1991) extended by six months to December 1991.
The extension was made on an interim basis to give time for IBY to adopt an
appropriate Action Plan (para. 7.05), to address serious operational and
financial issues affecting IBY's performance. The Government and IBY were
informed that the adoption of the Action Plan was required to provide adequate
justification for a significant extension of the closing date. As no progress
was made on this matter, no further extensions were granted, and SDR 2.7
million was cancelled on March 19, 1992, as of December 31, 1991 (i.e., the
closing date), and a further SDR 757,323 was cancelled on June 18, 1992, as of
December 31, 1991.
V. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
5.01        Since project effectiveness in May 28, 1986, IBY has tried to
implement the project during a period of fast changing economic conditions and
worsening macroeconomic distortions. These distortions and the uncertainty of
economic prospects dampened credit demand in Yemen, particularly for subloan.
carrying foreign exchange risks, and adversely affected IBY's collections
performance and loan portfolio. Yemen continued to pass through a difficult
adjustment period during the unification of the two Yemens and in the
aftermath of hostilities in the Gulf Region which led to an influx of about a
million Yemeni returnees. IBY, which was experiencing its own operational and
institutional problems even before these events occurred, has continued to
feel their impact (para. 6.05). In retrospect, the volatile economic
situation that prevailed throughout most of the period of project
implementation, compounded by IBY's own institutional and operational
problems, brought to light various weaknesses in project design as outlined
below.
IBY Interest Rate Structure
5.02        Under the project, IBY was required to lend at an interest rate of
not more than four percentage points below the commercial bank rate ceiling
specified by CBY, to pass on the foreign exchange risk to its subborrowers,
and to price foreign exchange under subloans at the official rate of exchange
(para. 3.04). The main drawback of this structure is that it has been
determined to create excessive long-term financial risks for IBY's existing
and potential subborrowers, many of whom are small and unsophisticated and
oriented towards the domestic market, since they are not able to properly
assess foreign exchange risks in the narrow Yemeni financial market, nor hedge
against them. Since early December of 1992, the parallel rate has risen from
about YR30/$ to the current level of about YR42/$, compared to the official



rate which has remained at YR12/$. Nevertheless, changes in exchange rates
have the potential to significantly affect the cash flows of IBY's
subborrowers and, in turn, their ability to meet their debt service payments
to IBY. Thus, the foreign exchange risk borne by IBY's subborrowers has the
potential to be transformed into a credit risk for IBY.
5.03        IBY has not complied with the interest rate covenant.  At the time
of loan appraisal, the maximum commercial rate of interest was 15 percent per
annum and IBY had agreed to charge interest at not less than 4 percent below
the maximum commercial rate; that is, at 11 percent. IBY continues to charge
this rate although the maximum commercial interest rate has since been
increased to 17 percent per annum. IBY also charges 11 percent per annum on
its local currency loans, although inflation is currently over 30% per annum
and competitive commercial rates on short-term trade credit are about 15-16
percent. It is very likely that the large differential between IBY's rate and
the commercial rate actually provides an incentive to IBY borrowers to give
priority to servicing their commercial loans relative to their loans from IBY.
Furthermore, IBY is charging a penal rate of 3 percent on defaults, although
it had agreed in a supplemental letter to the Credit and Project Agreements to
charge a penal rate of 5 percent. In the current interest rate regime, the
penal rate of 3 percent above IBY's rate of 11 percent is not a true penalty
rate and does not provide any incentive to IBY's defaulting borrowers to repay
their due and overdue obligations to IBY.
5.04        Also, an IDA mission found that IBY had not passed on the foreign
exchange risk to a subborrower under an early subproject under Credit 1547-YAR
and also under some subprojects under the previous credit (No. 1122-YAR);
instead, these subprojects had been treated as local currency loans.
IBY Interest Rate Soread
5.05        The spread of 5 percentage points allowed to IBY under Credit
1547-YAR does not enable it to correctly price its risk exposure. Based on
preliminary financial analysis, IBY could require an interest rate spread of
about 8 percentage points or higher over the next few years primarily because
of the need for IBY to substantially increase its loan loss reserves to cover
existing portfolio risks and also to establish loss reserves more commensurate
with the risks of term lending in Yemen.
Pricing of Foreign Exchange
5.06        Under Credit 1547-YAR, foreign exchange under subloans is priced
at the official exchange rate. Since the tendency for the Government is to
substantially underprice foreign exchange, this formula could lead to
substantial windfall gains being received by IBY's subborrowers and to
significant distortions in resource allocation. Recent positive economic
developments, however, include actions by the Government to liberalize the
foreign exchange market by allowing almost all private sector transactions to
be conducted at the parallel market foreign exchange rate, and to gradually
liberalize import and investment licensing. The depreciation of the Yemeni
rial in the parallel market has adversely affected some of IBY's borrowers who
have significant debt service and/or operating costs in foreign currencies.



-9-
Proposals for Restructuring
5.07        In June 1991, IDA gave serious consideration to legal amendments
to the Credit to address issues relating to the interest rate structure and
the pricing of foreign exchange, and to other weaknesses in IBY's financial
and institutional structure. The purpose of the proposed amendments was to
implement key elements of a restructuring program which was formulated for IBY
during the appraisal of the proposed Industrial Investment Project (IIP) in
March 1990. Credit 1547-YAR was thus to be used as an alternative vehicle for
implementing selected institution-specific financial reforms. The main
objectives of the amendments were to make IBY more competitive with other
institutional sources of funds in Yemen, both in terms of the pricing of its
loans and the associated portfolio risks that it is required to bear, and also
to provide IBY with incentives to improve its portfolio management and become
more market and profit-oriented in its operations.
5.08        In brief, the amendments to the legal documents were to include
the following: (a) IBY's subloans would be denominated in Yemeni rials; (b)
its on-lending rate would be increased to the maximum commercial bank rate
permitted by CBY, but the Government would take over responsibility for
bearing the foreign exchange risk on IBY subloans in return for an appropriate
interest rate spread; (c) the interest rate spread of 5 percentage points
would be increased to about 8 percent; (d) foreign exchange under subloans,
which would be denominated in Yemeni rials, would be priced at the parallel
market rate; (e) IBY's loan classification system, provisioning and income
recognition policies would be amended to accord with internationally accepted
accounting standards; and (f) assurances would be obtained that IBY would
implement a program in accordance with an agreed schedule to strengthen its
follow-up activities.
5.09        Over the longer run, IDA proposed that IBY implement an action
program to diversify its activities to help reduce future business and
financial risks and to generate additional income from off-balance sheet
activities. This program would focus on: diversifying the lending portfolio;
leasing; working capital financing and letters of credit; other financial
instruments; funds management and investment consulting; and technical
consulting.
5.10        IBY did not take the necessary measures to launch this
restructuring.
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
Line of Credit Component
6.01        Part III, Tables 8, 9, and 10, give details on subprojects.  Nine
subprojects (amounting to SDR 6.4 million, US$8.3 million equivalent) were
approved by IBY under Credit 1547-YAR as against 10 estimated at appraisal
(SDR 6.6 million, US$6.6 million equivalent). A summary of the subprojects is
given in Part III, Table 8. Of these nine subprojects, five (amounting to SDR
1.9 million, US$2.4 million equivalent) were later cancelled (Part III, Table



- 10 -
9), three at the subborrowers request, and two (Vehicle Radiators
Manufacturing and Al-Rushaishan Ready Made Garments) remained undisbursed at
the time the loan account was closed (April 1991) and, thus, were cancelled by
IDA along with other outstanding amounts. Furthermore, IBY submitted another
three subprojects (Al-Ghanami Car Batteries, Yassin Taha Marble, and Rigid PVC
Profile and Sheets) totalling about SDR 1.4 million equivalent. IDA reviewed
these subprojects and requested further information/clarification; however,
they were later withdrawn by IBY. Some were later financed by IBY with local
currency loans.
6.02        The four subprojects financed under Credit 1547-YAR (SDR 4.3
million, US$5.6 million equivalent), support the manufacture of wood products
and furniture, synthetic leather, aluminum products and the refining of salt.
All four are operational (the synthetic leather project was scheduled to begin
production in early 1993). Three of the four, however, are in arrears to IBY.
One reason, apparently, is the depreciation of the Yemeni rial in the parallel
market. This has increased the relative costs of operations for IBY's
borrowers who are relying on imported raw materials and/or are bearing foreign
exchange risks, and whose sales are oriented towards the domestic market.
Another reason is the weak collection efforts of IBY. The Salt Refinery
project in particular is experiencing problems because of a heavy load of
foreign debt financing combined with apparently weak management, particularly
in marketing. Close follow-up by IBY is essential. The total cost of the
four subprojects financed by IBY was estimated at SDR 16.2 million (about
US$20.1 million equivalent), giving an average total subproject cost of about
SDR 4 million (about US$5 million equivalent). This average is somewhat high
due to the project cost of the Salt Refinery project (SDR 8.9 million, or
about US$11.6 million equivalent).
6.03        A legal covenant requiring 60 percent of the project line of
credit for subloans to be allocated to subloans not exceeding US$1 million
equivalent was, however, not satisfied. Net of cancellations, about SDR 0.4
million out of total amount of subloans of SDR 4.3 million (one out of four
subloans), or about 10 percent, was for subloans below US$1 million. If,
however, the total amount of subloans approved prior to cancellations is
considered, then about SDR 2.4 million out of a total amount of subloans of
SDR 6.4 million (six out of nine subloans), or about 38 percent, was for
subloans below US$1 million (Part III, Table 8).
6.04        The total estimated number of jobs provided by the financed
subprojects amounts to about 330. The average cost per job is about US$63,000
equivalent, close to the US$61,000 under the previous credit 1122-YAR. The
high estimated cost per job, compared to an average cost per job of about
UsS15,000-US$25,000 in developing countries, was partly due to the shortages
and relatively high costs of skilled labor in Yemen. The financial and
economic rates of return estimated in the subproject appraisal reports, which
were reviewed by IDA, were high, ranging between 19 percent and 41 percent for
the internal financial rate of return (IRR), and between 20 and 37 percent for
the ERR as against the 12 percent required at appraisal.



- 11 -
Institutional Development
6.05        Overview.  Through IDA assistance in the past, IBY had evolved
into a fairly effective developiment finance institution, although substantial
financial and institutional strengthening is required as can be seen from the
following paragraphs. A major concern, however, has been the emergence of
apparent management conflicts within IBY which have eroded staff morale and
hampered the introduction of policies and procedures, training of staff, and
recruitment of expatriate advisers. Unless these problems are resolved in the
near future, IBY's prospects of operating as a sound development financing
institution will be greatly weakened.
6.06        On the positive side, IBY has managed to retain many of its good
professional staff. In addition, IBY's profit center and unit for small-scale
lending, the Small Enterprise Development Unit (SEDU), which is supported by
the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and the Netherlands
Government, appears to be performing well. SEDU has good management and has
also apparently adopted the accounting policies, including the asset
classification and provisioning policies, which past IDA missions have
recommended to IBY.
6.07        Technical Assistance.  Strengthening of IBY's institutional
capacity (para. 3.02), through a program of technical assistance and training,
fell far short of appraisal expectations. Of the US$1.3 million allocated to
consultants services for institutional building and US$100,000 for training,
IBY used only about US$240,000 for the former and about US$5,000 for the
latter. This is mainly a reflection of IBY's reluctance to use IDA funds for
technical assistance purposes.
6.08        In December 1987, IBY approached IDA with a request to reallocate
to the project line of credit, about US$960,000 of the IDA resources earmarked
for project promotion, training and certain feasibility studies, as the
Netherlands Government had indicated a willingness to provide grant funds for
technical assistance.  IDA expressed a willingness to consider such a
reallocation, provided IBY would prepare a plan indicating which parts of
these efforts would be covered by funds from the Netherlands and which ones
would continue to be covered under the IDA credit, in order to safeguard the
objectives of the technical assistance (TA) component. However, IBY did not
submit the required plan, and after substantial delays, funds from the
Netherlands for these activities was not forthcoming, and much of the
technical assistance component was not implemented.
6.09        Some effort was made in the identification of industrial projects.
Consultants were recruited in 1985 for this purpose. They prepared 35 project
profiles (compared to the target of 40 at appraisal), of which 29 were
accepted by IBY. Of these 29, IBY received approval from the former Ministry
of Economy, Supply and Trade to promote only 14. Apart from these profiles,
which were prepared as a one-shot activity, promotional activities in IBY have
been weak, in part because of a lack of assurances that investment licenses
would be made available for the projects being promoted. The Planning and
Research Department of IBY, recruited, in 1985, an industrial promotions



- 12 --
advisor to help establish a non-financial information system and to strengthen
IBY's capacity to prepare further project profiles. This advisor was
originally to be financed through IDA funds, but the Netherlands financed him
on a grant basis.
6.10        Feasibility studies of industrial projects, to be undertaken by
IBY on behalf of the promoters of such projects, did not materialize. The
terms in the credit agreement for carrying out these studies, required that
IBY recover from potential investors in advance and pay to the Government, in
equivalent Yemeni rials, 50 percent of the cost of the study at the time IBY
withdraws funds for the study from the credit account. These terms were not
attractive to potential investors.
6.11        Appraisal.  Project appraisal is the combined responsibility of
the Projects and Technical Departments. At the time of project appraisal,
IBY's Appraisal Department consisted of five economists/financial analysts and
3 engineers. Currently, the Projects Department consists of 1 manager and
about 1 economist, and the Technical Department consists of 1 manager and
about 4 engineers. Although the main determinants of the appraisal process
have been established, there are no written operational policies, procedures
or methodologies required to be followed which would ensure quality and
consistency of the project appraisal process. The appraisal process is in
need of further strengthening, especially in the areas of market and price
analysis, credit risk assessment and financial analysis. In the past, IBY has
placed greater emphasis on collateral requirements than on current and
projected cash flows. IBY's collections performance is weak and it has a high
level of loans in arrears (para. 6.18); one of the reasons for this is
considered to be deficiencies in IBY's appraisal processes. IDA urged IBY to
recruit external TA under the project to improve appraisal policies and
procedures, and prepared terms of reference for consultants. The Nletherlands
Government also indicated a willingness to fund consultants for this purpose.
Unfortunately, however, IBY did not avail itself of this offer, and
consultants were not recruited.
6.12        Follow-UD.  At appraisal, the Follow-up Department consisted of 2
professional staff and a full-time advisor. Currently, it consists of 1
manager and about 2 engineers and 1 financial analyst. The follow-up process
still suffers from weaknesses similar in their nature to the ones of the
appraisal process (e.g. lack of procedures and guidelines, inadequate staff
profiles, need for strengthening of skills). Although the quality and
frequency of follow-up for projects experiencing minor problems appears
satisfactory, follow-up needs to be further intensified for projects with
serious arrears problems. Follow-up staff do not have adequate resources to
provide advice or technical assistance to the extent needed in the areas of
finance, management and marketing, which are areas where problems are most
frequently encountered. Furthermore, the majority of IBY's clients, mostly
small and medium borrowers, either do not produce financial statements or are
reluctant to share them with IBY staff. IDA missions urged IBY to recruit
consultants to help strengthen its project follow-up policies and procedures
and also to gradually develop a package of assistance to its clients with the
primary objective of improving project performance and loan repayment. IDA



- 13 -
prepared terms of reference for the technical assistance, and the Netherlands
Government indicated a willingness to fund it. Again, however, IBY did not
avail itself of this offer and consultants were not recruited. IBY needs to
do much more in this area.
6.13        Trainino.  Training suggested under the project did not take
place. The pilot program for a limited number of IBY's managerial and
operational staff never materialized; and little progress was made in this
regard. The only initiative was that, in March 1989, a training program for
IBY staff, was sent to IDA for comments. The program consisted of a number of
study tours for IBY managers, and training visits to other institutions and
development banks. IDA suggested that the training program should also
include in-house training in the areas of project promotion/appraisal/follow-
up and accounting/finance/data processing.
6.14        The main sources of training for IBY staff have been seminars at
the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), Economic
Development Institute (EDI), the Islamic Development Bank, and the Kuwait
Institute of Research and Planning. In recent years, the volume of training
has declined, resulting in some skill deficiencies, particularly in areas
where staff turnover is more pronounced (e.g.-Technical and Projects
Departments). IBY management considers that staff skill enhancement demands
priority attention, but considers that the ad-hoc external training programs
have not been fully satisfactory, and often do not satisfy IBY's specialized
training needs in areas such as corporate financial analysis, internal
auditing and loan disbursement procedures. IBY is in particular need of
training programs that would develop the capabilities of its staff in the
Appraisal and Follow-up Departments as sector credit specialists, each having
an in-depth knowledge of a specific sector.
IBY Financial Performance
6.15        Part III, Tables 15 and 16, give IBY's financial statements from
1986 to 1991. IBY's financial position has deteriorated substantially over
the past few years, to an extent which threatens its long term sustainability
as a development banking institution. IDA has consistently drawn the
attention of senior IBY management to four major operational problems which
have the potential of seriously undermining IBY's financial position. IBY's
responses to these problems have been inadequate. The problems include: (a)
an unacceptably high level of portfolio arrears (para. 6.18); (b) a relatively
low level of loss reserves resulting from IBY's reluctance to classify its
loan portfolio in accordance with international accounting standards and to
make provisions appropriate to each risk category (para. 6.17); (c) IBY's
roluctance to amend its income accruals policy to accord with international
accounting standards (para. 6.16); and (d) poor collection effort (para.
6.18). Compounding these institutional problems are distortions in the
macroeconomic policy environment such as an overvalued official exchange rate
(although legal amendments were prepared to apply the parallel market rate to
IBY's credit operations), high inflation emanating from large government
budgetary deficits, and interest rate ceilings hindering rates from reaching
market equilibrium and/or becoming positive in real terms. These problems



-14 -
have led to a steady deterioration in IBY's performance and effectiveness, and
IBY is no longer in compliance with a number of legal covenants (Part III,
Table 7).
6.16        Profitability.  IBY's profitability is low (e.g., operating
profit/average equity was about 2.3% in 1991). Moreover, it has been
overstated in the past due to poor accounting policies. Real income has been
overstated by accruing as income, interest on loans which were long past due
(i.e., more than 180 days) and which has not been collected. IBY accrues
interest income on non-performing loans until the defaulters are taken to
court to recover the principal and accumulated interest in arrears. Hence,
actual financial results have been substantially different from those
reflected in the accounts. Provisions for loan loss reserves have also been
too low (para. 6.17). On the other hand, IBY's low profitability has also
been due in part to the inadequate spread of 5 percentage points that IBY has
been allowed during the implementation of Credit 1547-YAR, which has not
enabled IBY to correctly price its risk exposure. For the immediate future,
IBY would need a much higher spread of about 8 percentage points to enable it
to build up its provisions for loss reserves. This spread would be comparable
to the spreads earned by the commercial banks in Yemen on trade finance.
6.17        Loss Reserves.  IBY's unaudited financial statements as of
December 31, 1991, show IBY to be a financially sound institution with a
conservative capital structure, a debt-equity ratio of 1.2:1 and a current
ratio of 4:1. These figures are, however, misleading. If appropriate loan
loss provisioning policies were followed (Part III, Table 13), IBY would have
shown losses during the last three years which would have significantly eroded
its equity. Principal in arrears by over 180 days, less loan loss reserves,
as a proportion of shareholders' equity including share capital and reserves,
has increased substantially in recent years, to about 56% as of December 31,
1991 (Part III, Table 12). When interest in arrears (excluding non-accrued
interest) is also taken into account, this percentage rises to about 66%
(para. 6.18). An estimate made by IDA of the minimum loan loss reserves
required on the basis of an internationally accepted asset classification
system, indicates that IBY's loan loss reserves against principal overdue by
over 180 days, should have been YR 49 million at the end of 1990 and YR 62
million at the end of 1991 as against YR 19 million and YR 22 million
respectively (Part III, Table 13). The above-mentioned gap of YR 40 million
at the end of 1991 would have wiped off the reserves of YR 25 million (as per
unaudited 1991 accounts) and eroded the share capital by YR 15 million (Part
III, Table 16). IBY's loan loss reserves, as of December 31, 1991, covered
only about 24% of principal in arrears and only about 9% of IBY's total
outstanding loan portfolio (Part III, Table 13); provisions have been
inadequate and made on a subjective basis without relation to the risk
category of the loans or the enforceable value of the underlying security.
The high current ratio is also illusory in as much as the current maturities
of the portfolio shown as current assets include large amounts of arrears of
over 180 days which are not likely to be realized within 12 months.
6.18        Arrears.  As of December 31, 1991, IBY's principal and interest in
arrears by over 180 days, after deducting reserves made by IBY for losses,



- 15 -
represented about 66% of IBY's total shareholders' equity (Part III, Table
12).   More than 97% of the principal and interest in arrears is overdue by
more than one year, putting recovery in significant doubt and therefore IBY's
equity at severe peril. About 66% of IBY's arrears of principal are accounted
for by loans in court. The bulk of the arrears are also concentrated among a
small number of IBY borrowers: about 55% of the principal in arrears is
accounted for by about six borrowers, all of whom have been taken to court by
IBY. However, the process of recovery from loans in court is often protracted
over several years. The arrears have been growing steadily over the past
several years as is evident from IBY's collections performance. IBY is
estimated to have collected only about 33%, 26%, 16% and 18% of the principal
overdue and due in the years 1988, 1989, 1990 and 1991, respectively (Part
III, Table 14). The collections performance for interest in arrears is
similarly poor representing about 14%, 11%, 10% and 18%, respectively. IDA
urged IBY to take concerted actions to improve collections (para. 7.05).
Although IBY's arrears problem can be traced partly to the volatile economic
environment and an inadequate legal system for debt recovery, the main reason
is inadequate policy and institutional action on the part of IBY's management
and Board.
6.19        IBY's accounts also may not give a realistic picture of its
financial condition because its assets and liabilities have all been valued at
the official exchange rate. Some of them, however, may need to be valued
instead at the parallel market rate. In this regard, IDA learned that, since
about July 1991, the Government has required the principal portion of debt
service on new foreign currency denominated loans to be serviced in foreign
currency; the interest on the loans may be serviced in Yemeni rials at the
official exchange rate. Thus, the effective interest rate on foreign currency
denominated loans may be reduced considerably if the official exchange rate is
well below the parallel market exchange rate.
6.20        Audits.  Under Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement between IDA
and IBY, IBY is required to submit its audited accounts to IDA not later than
six months after the end of its fiscal year (i.e. by June 30). Until 1990,
this condition was usually satisfied by IBY. The 1990 accounts, however, were
signed by the external auditors only on October 17, 1991. The delay was due
to the auditors' concern over IBY's existing policies of making provisions and
accruing income on non-performing assets in arrears of over 180 days. To
date, IDA has not yet received IBY's audited accounts for 1991. IBY, in
consultation with the Central Organization for Control and Auditing (COCA), a
government agency responsible for auditing the accounts of Government offices,
public and semi-public sector enterprises, has recently appointed new
auditors.
6.21        There is wide recognition in the Government and among private
sector agencies and firms in Yemen that accounting and auditing skills and
practices need to be substantially strengthened to enhance the efficiency and
effectiveness of resource allocation and use. For this reason, in February
1992 an IDA mission visited Yemen to initiate a country-wide review of
accounting and auditing skills and practices. The Government showed keen
interest in the proposed review, and it was agreed that COCA would implement



- 16 -
the review with the help of consultants. Consultants have been recruited and
have recently initiated their assignment. The cost of the consultant services
are being financed out of the proceeds of an ongoing Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1556-YAR) with the Ministry of Planning and Development. The
UNDP is also providing assistance to strengthen COCA.
6.22        Resource Position.  IBY's foreign resource position is almost
fully depleted following the closure of Credit 1547-YAR and cancellation of
the undisbursed balance. At present, IBY's only source of domestic currency
resources is from the collection of debt service payments. Particularly given
IBY's weak collections performance, its cash flows are not adequate support
significant new lending. Thus, IBY's Board has decided to halt consideration
of new loans to medium and large-scale clients to help maintain cash flows in
the face of growing arrears. IBY's financial viability is being sustained by
its equity resources (it had a low debt/equity ratio), which are in effect
being eroded by arrears. Against this background, IBY has been receiving a
significant stream of loan applications from prospective clients.
VII. SUSTAINABILITY
7.01        IBY is facing problems which are virtually threatening its very
existence as a going concern. The major problems relate to serious and
growing portfolio arrears, stagnation in operations and poor staff morale, all
of which have been building up over the past few years. They stem
particularly from the apparent internal management conflicts in IBY which are
in need of early resolution. The need for IBY's transformation is reinforced
by the fact that it needs to develop strategies and capabilities to cope with
the new challenges Yemen is facing, following the influx of about a million
Yemenis from the region and the unification of the two Yemens. For IBY to
survive as a development bank without substantial government support and
capital infusions, it will need to take a critical look at its organizational
structure, role, financial and accounting policies, procedures, staffing and
financial requirements. Actions are required urgently.
7.02        The weak collections performance and past deficiencies in IBY's
appraisal processes are important causes of IBY's continuing arrears problems,
although other causes are exogenous to IBY. Macroeconomic distortions have
affected the competitiveness of Yemeni enterprises and the efficiency of their
resource use, import licensing restrictions have severely weakened many of
IBY's borrowers through capacity underutilization, and the substantial
depreciation of the Yemeni rial has greatly increased the debt service burdens
of its borrowers who have borne the foreign exchange risk. In addition, the
country's lengthy legal processes for debt recovery and its weak financial
disclosure requirements have also been important factors.
7.03        In general, IBY needs to become more aggressive in credit
management, to significantly increase its loss reserves, and to adopt a more
selective and less risky growth strategy for its term financing operations.
Of particular importance are operational policy improvements in the areas of
loan classification, provisioning and income accrual, and the adoption of
mandatory policies and guidelines for appraisal, follow-up and collection



- 17 -
processes. IBY also needs to become a force for improved financial
disclosure, by requiring and assisting its borrowers to meet reporting and
disclosure requirements adequate to monitor their performance. In addition,
IBY also needs to begin diversifying into other banking activities to help
increase returns and reduce overall business and financial risks, while
providing potentially synergistic benefits to existing operations. An
appropriate diversification program might focus on activities such as leasing,
working capital financing and letters of credit, funds management and
investment consulting, and technical consulting. In this regard, IBY's Board
of Directors needs to take responsibility for a leading role.
7.04        During the preparation and appraisal of the proposed Industrial
Investment Project (IIP) in April 1989 and June 1989, respectively, and again
during a post-appraisal in March 1990, IDA recommended a major restructuring
program to assist IBY to address its financial and institutional weaknesses so
as to enable the bank to operate more efficiently, effectively and profitably
in the Yemeni environment. The restructuring program included proposed
actions to improve portfolio risk management (e.g., improved asset
classification systems, provisions policy, income accruals policy, and
settlements policy), actions to diversify IBY's operations and lines of
business to reduce business risks, and actions to improve existing portfolio
management (e.g., project appraisal, promotion, follow-up, and collections),
including performance-based incentive systems. The IIP project, however, was
not negotiated and presented to IDA's Executive Directors given the lack of an
acceptable macroeconomic policy framework in Yemen. IDA also prepared
proposed amendments to the level and structure of IBY's interest rates to: (a)
enable on-lending of IDA funds denominated in domestic currency, with the
Government bearing the foreign exchange risk in return for an appropriate
interest rate spread; (b) amend IBY's on-lending rate to be competitive with
alternative sources of funds; (c) allow IBY a larger spread commensurate with
the risks of term lending in Yemen; and (d) price the foreign exchange made
available under the credit close to or at a market-clearing rate rather than
the official rate.
7.05      In June 1991, IDA recommended that the Government and IBY resolve
the internal management conflicts and that IBY urgently adopt a comprehensive
Action Plan, with the approval of its Board, to carry out the following
minimum priority actions:
(a) engage the services of an independent management consultant to carry out
an operational audit of IBY with a view to diagnose its present
organizational and operational deficiencies.
(b) establish a special "Collections Unit" within IBY. This unit would draw
up action programs on a quarterly basis for concentrating collection
efforts on a specific group of defaulting borrowers.
(c) establish an asset classification program, and introduce a procedure for
making loss provisions according to the risk category of the asset, with
a view to making the minimum estimated provisions within the two years.
This would also require a valuation by a professional of the market



- 18 -
value of the assets mortgaged by borrowers whose accounts are in arrears
by over 180 days.
(d) introduce internationally accepted income accrual policies and hold
accrued interest on non-performing loans with arrears of over 180 days,
in an interest suspense account until actual collections;
(e) establish appraisal and follow-up procedures and systems in the Projects
and Follow-up Departments with the assistance of consultants, for whom
terms of reference have been provided to IBY by past IDA missions and
whose services IDA would have been willing to finance out of Credit
1547-YAR; and
(f) establish a Loan Committee consisting of the managers of the Projects,
Follow-up, Technical, Finance, and Planning and Research Departments
under the Chairmanship of the General Manager, to clear projects before
they are submitted to IBY's Board of Directors for consideration.
7.06      Since no actions on the part of IBY and its Board were forthcoming,
the closing date and the terminal date for subloan commitments were not
extended and the undisbursed balance of the credit was cancelled on June 18,
1992, as of December 31, 1991.
VIII. IDA PERFORMANCE
8.01      IDA performed satisfactorily in project identification, appraisal
and supervision, but various weaknesses in project design became apparent.
During project supervision and the preparation of the proposed IIP project,
IDA focussed on institutional and policy measures to address IBY's portfolio
arrears problems, to strengthen IBY's business development efforts and to
improve collections performance. Action programs were formulated to
restructure IBY's asset classification and provisioning policies and income
accrual policies, and to help IBY diversify its business activities to reduce
its overall business risk structure. IDA also prepared proposed amendments to
the project to address issues relating to the level and structure of IBY's
interest rates, including the adequacy of IBY's spread, and the passing of
foreign exchange risks to subborrowers. IDA also assisted IBY in preparing
terms of reference for consulting services to help strengthen IBY's project
appraisal and project follow-up policies and procedures, as well as in
preparing programs for staff training and for improving computer automation in
IBY. Follow-up on issues of importance was carried out both during
supervision missions and from Washington through correspondence and telephone
calls. However, most of the proposed measures were not acted upon by IBY. As
is apparent from Part II of this report, however, IBY's views of IDA
performance may differ from the above assessment.
8.02      IDA also brought to the attention of high level officials on various
occasions, the apparent internal management conflicts in IBY which were
severely hampering its operations. A resolution of the problems, however, was
not achieved prior to closure of the credit.



- 19 -
IX. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.01      During the early stages of project implementation, IBY made
reasonable progress in building up its managerial and institutional
capabilities, including measures to help further its business development even
though the project was adversely affected by changes in the macroeconomic
environment and by the stringent import licensing controls introduced in 1986.
It also took an issues-oriented and reasoned approach to management decision-
making and to addressing issues raised by IDA supervision missions. The
quality of subproject appraisal reports prepared by IBY staff was satisfactory
particularly given the stage of development of the institution.
9.02     During the latter stages of project implementation, however, the
Government, IBY management and IBY Board did not take the hard decisions which
were required to restore the bank to a sound financial and operational
condition, capable of performing its role as an effective development finance
institution. In retrospect, however, the issues arose at a time of
significant socio-political change, both within Yemen (e.g., the unification
of the two Yemens) and within the Middle East region (e.g., Gulf crisis and
its aftermath), that likely hampered decision-making and issues resolution
processes within the Government. Nevertheless, IDA would urge that the
necessary decisions be taken urgently, since further delays would increase the
costs to the economy in terms of economic benefits foregone. As is apparent
from Part II of this report, however, IBY's views of its performance and of
the relative responsibilities of IDA and IBY for project implementation
results, may differ from the above assessment.
X. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
10.01    During project implementation, a good working relationship developed
between IDA and IBY staff. IDA made every effort to work closely with the
Government and IBY to help the latter identify its problems and find
solutions. The working relationships among IDA, IBY and the agencies of the
Government concerned with the project, such as the Ministry of Industry and
the Ministry of Planning, were satisfactory. Issues raised by the parties
were generally discussed in a frank and constructive atmosphere. However, as
suggested in Part II of this report, IBY's assessment of the project
relationship may differ.
XI. LESSONS LEARNED
11.01        The following important lessons were learned during project
implementation:
(a) Management conflicts have the potential to significantly undermine
the efficiency and performance of a development banking institution;
(b) Development banking institutions should adopt and adhere to
financial and accounting policy standards similar to those of
international banking institutions, so as to enable potential
problems and the need for corrective actions to be readily apparent



- 20 -
before problems become serious. Close attention needs to be paid by
IDA to the accounting standards and financial policies employed by
banking institutions, to ensure that they enable an accurate
reflection of true financial condition and provide for asset
classification and loan 1oBS provisioning in line with international
banking practices.
(c) Development banking projects are particularly vulnerable to events
which weaken or distort the macroeconomic and financial policy
environment. They are also particularly vulnerable in situations
where the legal processes for debt recovery are protracted and where
financial disclosure requirements are weak. For development banking
institutions such as IBY, diversification of their lines of business
may help to reduce their overall business risks and improve their
performance and competitiveness.
(d) In appraising and supervising development banking projects, close
attention needs to paid by IDA to the competitiveness of the
development banks' interest rate structure relative to other sources
of funds within the financial system, as well as to the interest
rate spread requirement of the banks to ensure that it is adequate
to serve the needs of the banks and is also competitive with the
spreads earned by other financial institutions.
(e) In view of the volatile nature of foreign exchange rates world-wide
and the particularly vulnerable position of developing countries
such as Yemen, foreign exchange risks should not be passed on to
subborrowers oriented towards the domestic market who are unable to
assess such risks or hedge against them. Instead, arrangements
should be made for the Government to bear such risks in return for
appropriate compensation, such as an implicit interest rate spread
incorporated in the interest rate structure. In addition, in
situations where official exchange rates are kept significantly
overvalued, arrangements should be put in place to enable foreign
exchange to be priced close to or at a market-clearing rate.
XII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.01     The legal agreements were found to be adequate for achieving project
objectives in both technical assistance and financial areas. The Staff
Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for reviewing the progress of
project implementation.



- 21 -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 1547 - YAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE'
(Prepared by the Industrial Bank of Yemen)
INTRODUCTION
Nature of IBY Relationship with IDA
The relationship between the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY) and the
International Development Association (IDA) dates back to the early eighties.
It is a good and solid relationship. Not only is IDA the Bank's main lender,
but it is also an important source of advice and consultation due to its
expertise and capabilities in areas of IBY development work.
The exchange of views and consultation with IDA through its missions and
periodic monitoring of IBY activities are paramount features of the
relationship between the two institutions since inception.
Thus, under the current conditions, IBY needs sustainability,
enhancement and development of this relationship. More than ever, IDA's
support and cooperation are needed to assist IBY in stimulating industrial
lending and strengthening it to play a distinctive role in carrying out its
mandate in the unified state and expanded local market, not to mention turning
its attention to extending its outreach to the southern and eastern
governorate as well as diversifying its activities to cover the tourist
sector, financing enterprise working capital, etc.
Regrettably, IBY admits that its relationship with IDA has been lukewarm
in the last three years due to a number of factors, particularly: lack of full
IDA understanding of developments in IBY and obvious impartiality in
supporting the viewpoint of one party and not the other. Therefore, Bank
management hopes that IDA would understand the circumstances to which it was
subject and extend a helping hand to overcome the current difficulties.
Efforts in such a direction would be highly appreciated. Management would
seriously strive to discuss and implement IDA's constructive proposals so as
to improve the situation and develop the Bank.
I/ Translated from the original in Arabic.



- 22 -
PROJECT RESULTS
Proiect General Position (Economic Impact and Sectoral Performance)
Nine projects were approved under IDA Credit No. 1547-YAR, 5 of which
were cancelled and the remaining 4 were financed under the said Credit. The
five projects were cancelled due to non-signature of the Credit agreement or
to borrowers turning to the local market to hedge against foreign exchange
risks.
All projects financed under the Credit have been implemented with the
exception of one, the synthetic leather manufacturing plant which is scheduled
for completion shortly.
Number of employees in implemented projects totalled 310 workers. Once
the synthetic leather manufacturing plant is completed, this figure is
projected to increase by 25 workers to a total of 335 jobs created under this
Credit compared with 288 jobs estimated in project studies. The increase in
employment is attributable to the increase in the "Abariq" manufacturing plant
from 91 workers to 135 workers.
Investment costs of implemented projects amounted to $20.1 million
compared with $15.2 million according to the feasibility studies. The
increase is attributable to expanding the capacity of some projects or cost
overruns which were not taken into account in the preparation of the
feasibility study.
Job creation costs amounted to about $60,000 compared to $61,000 with
respect to previous Credit 1122-YAR. It is considered high for the same
reasons as the previous Credit, namely, the high cost of the project's foreign
component and working capital requirements.
Institutional Issues
Three of the projects financed under the Credit operate well with the
exception of one facing some problems. On the other hand, although the three
projects operate without serious problems, loan repayment is irregular.
This may be due to using their cash flow for procurement of raw materials as a
hedge against emergencies.
Loan collection instruments available to IBY are ineffective in some
cases with respect to borrowers who willfully refuse to pay.
Arrears continue to accumulate in cases referred to the courts. This
reflects an unbalanced relationship between IBY and its borrowers.



- 23 -
IDA PERFORMANCE
obiectives. Im-lementation and Oversight
The objective of the Credit was to increase IBY financing capacity and
provide necessary foreign currency for the projects financed under the Credit.
This objective was achieved to a high degree.
The Credit also included provision of institutional services including
allocation of part of the Credit for training investors in basic project
aspects (management or accounting). This objective was not achieved.
As for implementation in terms of project approvals, IDA's performance
was unsatisfactory due to the numerous queries it made and the long delays in
forthcoming replies which resulted, in some cases, in borrowers turning away
from the IDA Credit.
IDA's performance was excellent with respect to withdrawals. Funds were
transferred smoothly without any difficulties due to IBY experience in
effecting withdrawals gained in the course of previous dealings with IDA.
IDA's oversight of this Credit was rather limited compared with Credit
No. 1122-YAR, i.e. it played no effective role in urging IBY and assisting it
in organizing its utilization of the section concerning institutional
development.
Lessons Learned
IDA's insistence that the borrower should bear foreign exchange risks
resulted in underutilization of a major part of the Credit because borrowers
turned to borrowing in rials to hedge against future foreign currency
escalation.
Funds allocated for institutional development purposes were very large
and incompatible with IBY capabilities in areas of organizing and designing
training systems.
IDA has ignored completely the issue of training IBY staff. At a later
stage of the project, IDA diverted part of the Credit earmarked for
institutional development to recruit consultants for IBY. In fact, the
experience gained from IBY activities over the past years does not encourage
expansion in the area of recruitment of consultants, while developing in-house
staff skills proved to yield a higher rate of return than the recruitment of
consultants, besides being less costly.



- 24 -
IBY PERFORMANCE
Credit Utilization
IBY is still realizing and distributing profits to shareholders despite
ongoing discussions with IDA on technical matters relating to allocations, and
consequently, the outcome of activities. We believe that the main problem
stems from the legal environment within which IBY operates, court proceedings
and fairness of court rulings.
Though a major part of the Credit has been cancelled, IBY considers
that most of the reasons are attributable to external factors, chief among
which is the trend of borrowers to turn away from dollar-denominated loans.
A very small portion of funds allocated for institutional development
was used. This reflects overestimation of IBY needs on the one hand, and
failure of IDA to take the initiative and exercise close oversight of action
with respect to said funds, on the other.
Lessons Learned
It is necessary to review the terms of any future project agreement,
particularly with respect to borrowers bearing foreign exchange risks. Given
the economic conditions of Yemen, IBY considers it inappropriate for the
borrower to be burdened with such a heavy obligation.
In its outlook to future relations with IDA, IBY hopes that due
consideration would be given to actual Yemeni realities, and expects IDA to
play a more effective and flexible role with regards to policies and
strategies.
IBY hopes that IDA will attach major importance to the issue of training
local staff. The issue is not merely one of allocating funds, but should go
beyond that to assist IBY in overseeing management of funds allocated for
training purposes by establishing policies, determining priorities and
designing programs.
IBY believes that due attention should be given in future to
strengthening institutional capacities by providing transportation to improve
IBY performance in conducting market surveys and monitoring the various stages
of projects. In addition, development of the computer system and its programs
whereby it can be utilized fully to serve the Bank's purposes, is required.
We would like also to emphasize the importance and necessity of staff training
and development in computer technologies to a point where maximum possible
benefits can be realized.



- 25 -
REPUBLIC OF YOMEN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1547-YARI
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related IDA Credits
Proiect:      Industrial Estate Prolect - Credit 465-YAR
FY     :      1974
Status        PCR issued on November 12, 1984
PurDose:      To develop the institutional capabilities of the Industrial
Estate Development Authority (IEDA) and the Yemen Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) to assist small and medium
industry through provision of infrastructural support and
technical and financial assistance. The Sanaa estate, am a
pilot operation, was to provide a mode for future industrial
estates in the country.
Comment:      In physical terms, an industrial estate was completed, although
with a substantially reduced scope. However, the main
objectives of the project namely to demonstrate the
replicability of the Sanaa industrial estate as a model for
industrial development in YAR and to develop IEDA's
institutional capability to undertake this task, was not
achieved. Also the project had no influence on YBRD's
investment-decision-making process.
Prolect:      Industrial Development Proiect - Credit 1122-YAR
FY            1981
Status        PCR issued on March 4, 1991
Purpose:      To strengthen the institutional capacity IBY to promote,
appraise, and private term finance for viable industrial
investments consistent with the country's economic plans and
priorities. The project comprised a line of credit to IBY of SDR
9.7 million ($12 million equivalent), including $ 250,000
equivalent to finance external training of IBY's senior staff
and the services of a development banking advisor.
Comments:     The technical assistance component had positive effects on the
quality of IBY's operations. However, at credit closure, a
number of activities remained relatively weak, particularly
project supervision and follow up procedures, risk management,
and rehabilitation.



- 26 -
Table 2. Prolect Ti-etable
Plann-d             Revis*d              Actual
Identification                                      -                    -               05/11/83  /1
Preappraisal                                        -                    -               03/17/84  /1
Appraisal                                       10/2/83  /1              -               05/25/84  /1
Negotiations                                         -                   -               12/043/84
Board Approval                                      -                    -               02/12/85
Credit  Signing                                      -                   -               05/20/85
Credit  Effectiveness                          09/18/85               12/18/85  /3   06/18/86
03/18/86
06/18/86
Credit Closing                                 06/30/91               12/31/91  /4         12/31/91
_______________________
/1 With supervision of Credit 1122-YAR.
/2 Mission delayed at Goverruent request.
/I  Delays: Mainly due to delays in conclusion of s*ubsdiary loan agremnt between the goverruent and IBY
and ratification of the Legal documents and preparation of the legal opinion. At the time of the first
extension the consultant/advisor for project promotion had not ben selected.
/4 IDA extended the closing date by six months, on an interim basis, to give time for IBY to formutate and
adopt an appropriate action plan.
Main Issues During Preparation/Agwraisal:
i)   IBY's interest roles:  IDA considered the existing 11 percent interest rate at that time too low and
recommended raising to 12 percent.
(ii) ISY's shortage of forelyn resource reouirements
iii)  IBY's serious arrears situation  in 1983 arrears over 3 months were about 12.3 percent of its
portfolio; and
(iv)   Amendments to IBY's Act as fotlows: (a) to treat the Goverment loan  to IBY as debt for the purposes
of calculating debt/equity ratio; (b) to delegate the responsibilities of IBY's Chairmen to the General
Manager in the absence of the Chairman; and (c) to permit IBY to accept as a security for its
Loans, a first pari pessu charge on assets of its borrower.
legotiations:
The following points were agreed to during negotiations:
(i)   reduction of IBY's arrears to 12 percent by 1985, 8 percent by 1986 and 5 percent by 1987;
(ii) retroactive financing increased from $100,000 to S300,000 to accowwodte delays in obtaining the
Goverruwnt's agreement on changes in the IBY Act; and
(iii) anmual review of interest rates by IDA.
Effectiveness:
In addition to ratification of the legal documents, the conditions of effectiveness for this credit were the
following:
(i)   the concluding of a subsidiary loan agreement betwen the Governwent nd IBY;
(ii) the appointment by IBY of consultants for project identification nd promotion; and
(iii) the enactment of changes to IBY's Act (signed by the President on May 22/1985 and pubflshed in the
official gazette on May 31, 1985).



- 27 -
Table 3. Mlssions
Month/      No. of      Days         Status
Year        Persons    in Field    Ratino
Identification            05/83           1          5
Preappraisal              03/84           3         15
Appraisal                 05/84           4          7
Supervision   I           11/85 /1        2         1S           1
Supervision  II           04/85 /         2         12           2
Supervision III           01/87 /1        2         15           2
Supervision  IV           10/87 /1        4          8           2
Supervision   V           08/88 /2        3         19           3
Supervision  VI           06/89 /3        5         22           2
Supervision VII           03/90 /A        3         16           2
Supervision VIII          06/90 /5        1          5           -
Supervision  IX           06/91 /6        3         10           3
Operational Disc.         08/91 /7        1          6           -
PCR Mission               12/92           1         10
Table 4. Use of Bank Resources
istaffweeks
Preappraisal         12.8
Appraisal            34.5
Negotiations          4.4
Supervision          77.2
PCR                   6.0
1349
/1 With supervision of Industrial Development Project (Credit 1122-YAR).
/2 With preparation of proposed Industrial Investment Project (IIP).
/3 With appraisal of proposed IIP project.
/4 With poot-appraisal of proposed IIP project.
/5 Partial supervision.
/6 With discussions of industrial sector report (No. 9008-ROY)
/7 Visit by Division Chief to discuss this and other projects.



- 28 -
Table 5. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
fUSS million)
As of June 30         198   1987  .19   .198    1990   199    12I   9I9    1924
Appraisal Estimate   0.40  2.28  4.80  6.48  7.48   8.00    -           -       -
Profile               0.80  2.08  3.36  4.64  5.60   6.24   7.20   7.84   8.00
Actual                     -      0.25   2.03  3.35   3.69   4.83   5.91        -
Final Disbursement:  September 23, 1991
Cancellations         US$ 3.46 million /1
/1 Note: Cancellations are shown at the original exchange rate at Board
approval, but disbursements are shown at the exchange rates applicable on the
transaction date.
Table 6. Use of Credit Proceeds
ISDR
Actual
Acoraisal Et.           Disbursed   Cancelled
Subproject Financing           6,600,000              4,296,983   2,303,017
Consultants for
Institution Building         1,300,000                240,143   1,059,857
Training                          100,000                 5,551       94,449
Total                 8L000 00Q               4,542Z677   3,457 323



- 29 -
Table  7.   Status  of Leaal Covenants
Original      Revised
Agreement      S*ctio      Status            DstLe        Date      Description of Covenants                 Comments
Credit         2.04                       06/30/91      12/31/91   Credit Closing Date.                      Postponed once.
3.01(b)    Not In                                    IsY shall utilize YR 1.7 million in   Partly used.
(ii)       compli nce                                government funding for development
of IBY's project promotion
capabilities under Part B2).
3.01(b)    Not In                                    Beneficiaries of feasibility             Promoters were
(iIi)      copliance                                studies under PART B(3) must pay 50   unwilling to accept
percent of costs in advance,            terms.
3.02(a)    Not in                                    Goverrnent shalt review interest         Interest rate issues
compliance                               rate policy with IDA and IBY at          were discussed in
least annually.                         context of both
macroeconomic policy
dialogue and a
proposed
restructuring of
IBY's rates, but no
amencdnents were
made.
3.02(b)    OK                                        Government shall enable ISY to set
Lending rate at least 5 percentage
points higher than weighted average
cost of funds.
3.02jc)    OK                                        Government shall ensure IY has
sufficient YRs and foreign
currencies to meet lending
requirements to end 1988.
3.03(a)    OK                                        Goverrnment shall permit ISY to         Completed.
accept as security a first par!
passu charge on a borrower's asset.
3.03(b)    OK                                        Goverrnent shall enable IBY to          Completed.
increase limit of lending to a
single borrower to 15 percent of
Its equity.
Project
1.01(a)    OK                                       Free limit subloan = S300,000 and
aggregate free limit = 4,000,000.
2.02Cb)    Not In                                   60 percent of subtoan allocation         After cancellations,
crampli nc*                              shalt be used for subloans of S1         about 10 percent of
million or Less.                         the aLlocation was
used for subloans
below S1 million.
2.02(g)    RVS             06/30/87    06/30/91   Terminal date for subloan                  Postponed three
comnitments.                            times.
2.03(a)    Not fn                                   IBY's lending rate shall not be          IBY's lending rate
compliance                               more than 4 percentage points below   is 6 percentage
the maximum commercial bank rate,       points below maximum
commercial bank
rate.
2.03(b)    Not in                                    IBY shall review its interest rate    Refer DCA 3.02
compliance                               policy with Goverrvnent and IDA          above.
ann ualy.



- 30 -
Original     Revised
Aur_ mnt       gntin   Statu                o                   Description of Covenants               Caute
2.03(c)   Se                                     IY shall obtain IDA approval for      [BY mAde one suboon
comeants                               change  in  ubloan trm and            under  ithch It did
conditions,                           not pass on foreign
exchangc risk to
subborrower.
Instead, it Is being
borrn by Government.
This aIsua wes
rafsed with IBY to
avoid awy further
instances of non-
comptl ance.
2.03(d)   OK                                      IBY shall mintain an adauto           ROE is low.
interest rate spread to cover         Profitability not
expenes, provisions at 8 percent      likely to irprove
of portfoLio by end 188, divide nd    uniess a radical
of 6 percent on preference shares,   transformaton of
and adequate reserves.                IBY Is undertaken.
2.03(e)   Not In                                  ITY shall reduce arrears to ltoe      Arrears (over 180
cospia nfe                             then 5 percent of portfolio by nd    days) Increasing.
1987.                                 Acceptance by IBY
Board of an action
plan proposed by IDA
was mAde a condition
of extenson of
closing date, but
the action plan was
not adopted.
2.03(f)   OK                                      IBY shall calculate  nd rquire an
ERR of at leat 12 percent for
subloan exceeding S300,000.
2.04(a)   OK                                     IDY shatl assign inplemntatfon
responsibility for subproject
studies and promotion to Its
Mlanning and Research Dertmnt.
2.04(c)   OK                                      At least 75 percent of funding for
feasibility studies shall be used
for subprojects costing Less than
53 milion.
2.04(d)   Not in                                 IBY shall employ an adeuto numer
copllance                              of advisory consultants for Its
development banking activities.
2.05      Not In                                  IBY shall iNplement training          Not done.
compli nce                             progr_ for IBY  nd its
subborrowers satisfactory to IDA,
and rquire subborrowers receiving
training to pay 50 percent of costs
in advnce.
2.08(b)   NYD                                     [BY will prepare a PCR.
2.12      OK                                      IY shall obtain IDA's prior
agreement to any changes in Its
policy statement or by-laws.
2.13      OK                                      I0Y shall review its staffing needs
with IDA nrunatLy.



-31 -
Original     Revised
Aarcn nt       Secjtion    status           Date         Date      Descriotion of Covenants                 Commnts
3.02       OK                                       IBY shall furnimh audited account
to IDA within 6 months of year end.
3.03 &     OK                                       IBY  hall  mintain a debt/quity
3.0S                                                ratio of not more than 3:1.
3.06       OK                                       IBr  shall protect Itself against
foreign exchange risks.
StppIe-                    Not In                                   IBY wfil prepare an annual report       Not done.
mont L                     coapiL  ance                             on supervision performance.
Letters
No.1                       Not In                                   IBY will apply an  annual 5 percent    Ponalty Interest is
caqpL iwnco                             penaLty interest rate on defoults,    still 3 percent.
nd assign adequate staff for            Coltection effort is
collection,                             very inadequate.
[BY wilt carry out training            Refer PA 2.05 abeve.
progras approved by IDA.
No.2                       Not In                                  Government policy allows commercial
compience                               banks to use only one commercial
rate of interest which is amounced
periodicaLly. IBY rate will be
below commercial rate by not more
than 4 percentaes  points  and will
not be changed through the
amortization period of the subloan
concerned.



Table 8.     Summarv of Suborolects Aooroved under the Credll
Exch.
Date of             US$S000                   SDR000           Rate /1
ProXlct Nam                Sector      ADoroval   Awrov.  Cancell.  Tolal    Armov.  Cancel.   Total  (U S/SDR)
Al.  Al Bashirl Granite Factory             Quarrying    03/13/87    888.9    888.9       0    705.5    705.5       0.0     1.26
A2   Egg Trays Manufac. Plant               Manufac.    0327/87     444.4    444.4       0    350.0    350.0       0.0     1.27
A3   Unted Co. for Furnilure                Manufac.    04/08/87    1,833.3    79.5  1,753.9  1,432.3    62.1  1,370.2      1.28
A4   Vehicle Radiators Manufacturing        Manufac.    05/04/87     333.3    333.3      0.0    254.5    254.5      0.0     1.31
A5   Synihetic Leather                      Manufac.    01/24/89    1.637.7    65.2  1,572.5  1,237.8    49.4  1,188.5      1.32
A6   Salah-Addin Aluminum Ware              Metals       01/24/89    716.5    151.5    565.0    541.6    114.6    426.9     1.32
A7   Dressing and Sharpening Sawing Blades  Metals       02/22/89    307.1    307.1      0.0    232.6    232.6      0.0     1.32
A8   Salt Refinery                          Chemicals   03/23/89    1,704.8   -       1,704.8  1,311.4    -      1,311.4    1.30
A9   Al-Rushaishan Ready-Made Garments      Textiles     08/02V90    416.0      416      0.0    325.0    325.0      0.0     1.28
8,282.0  2,685.9  5,596.1  6,390.6  2,093.6  4,297.0
SUMMARY                                     Year
Projects Approved In:                           1987   3,500.1   1,746.2  1,753.9  2,742.2  1,372.0  1,370.2
1988    -        -        -        -        -
1989   4,366.0    523.7  3,842.3  3,323.4    396.6  2,926.8
1990    416.0    416.0      0.0    325.0    325.0      0.0
1991    -        -        -         -        -        -
8,282.0  2.685.9  5,596.1  6,390.6  2,093.6  4,297.0
/1    Exchange Rates at time of Approval



Table 9.  Suborolect AnDraisal Reoort Estimates of Rates of Return and Job Creation
Exch.  Estim. No.   Cost
Total Subwrolect Cost     Rate    of Jobs   Per Job   IRR       ERR      Project
USSl OOO    SDRS'000   USS/SDR   Cueated   US$000      1)                TvDe
Al. Al Bashirl Granite Factory                    Cancell.     -         -        -         -        -         -
A2  Egg Trays Manufac. Plant                      Cancell.     -         -        -         -        -         -
A3  United Co. for Furniture                        4.261      3,329      1.28      135      31.6     40.7      20.1  New/Exp.
A4  Vehicle Radiators Manufacturing               Cancell.          -         -             -        -         -
A5  Synthetic Leather                               3,295      2.496      1.32       25     131.8     38.0      37.0   New
A6  Salah-Addin Aluminum Ware                       1.892      1,433      1.32      135      14.0     39.0      33.0   New
A7  Dressing and Sharpening Sawing Blades         Cancell.     -         -         -        -        -         -
AS  Salt Refinery                                11,614.9      8.935      1.30       37    313.9      19.0      18.9   New   i
A9  Al-Rushaishan Ready-Made Garments             Cancell.     -         -         -        -         39.4     -        -    L
Total             21.063      1 ]93                32 
(avg)



- 34 -
Table 10.  Features of Subloans
Sectoral Distribution of Subloana
Total
IDA
No. of       X of         Subkoin
Sectoral Disbribution          Proiects     IQi         (USS 000)
Manufacturing                          2        50%        3,326.4
Metals                                  1       25%          565.0
Chemicals                               1       2S%        1,704.8
4                  5 000l0    S96.2,
Actual Total Proiect Cost Distribution
Up to USS I million                       Nil
USS 1.1 mill, to USS 2.0                    1
USS 2.1 miUion to US$ 5 million            2
USS 5.1 miUion to US$ 10 million          Nil
Over USS 10 million                         1
4
Proiect Cost Per Job
Less than USS 10,000                            Nil             0%
US$ 11,000 - USS 20,000                           1            25%
USS 21,000 - USS 30,000                         Nil             0%
US$ 31,000 - USS 40,000                           1           25%
Over USS 40,000                                   2            50%



- 35 -
Table 11. IBY Arrears Situation
At December 31
Principal                  98        18         2Q91
(Unaudited)
Total Principal in Arrears            53,776    66,782    78,543          90,510
(YR '000)
Principal in Arrears over 180         52,721    65,005    77,077          89,569
Days (YR '000)
Total Loan Portfolio (Including    201,300   196,510   257,662           257,271
Principal in Arrears)
(YR '000)
Principal in Arrears (over 180           26%       33%        30%            35%
Days)/Total Loan Portfolio
Inter2*
Total Interest in Arrears 2!          20,186    27,480    42,307          46,248
(YR '000)
Interest in Arrears over 180          19,838    26,778    41,291          4S,358
Days (YR '000)
Total Outstanding Portfolio          221,486   223,990  299,969          303,519
(Principal Plus Interest in
Arrears) (YR '000)
Interest in Arrears over 180              9%       12%        14%            15%
Days/Total Outstanding
Portfolio
1/ Excluding non-accrued interest on loans in court



- 36 -
Table 12. Exoosure of IBY Shareholdergs Eauitv
At December 31
(Unaudited)
Principal in Arrears over 180          52,721    65,005    77,077           89,569
Days (YR '000)
Interest in Arrears over 180           19,838    26,778    41,291           45,358
Days 1/ (YR '000)
Loan Loss Reserves                     20,128    18,320    19,044           22,168
(YR '000)
Interest Loss Reserves                  8,747    15,238    23,463           32,609
(YR '000)
Shareholders' Equity                  117,624   118,721   119,766          120,834
(YR '000)
Principal in Arrears (less Loan           28%        39%       48%             56%
Loss Reserves)/Shareholders'
Equity (%)
Principal and Interest in                 37%        49%       63%             66%
Arrears (less Loss
Reserves)/Shareholders' Equity
(C)
1/ Excluding non-accrued interest on loans in court



- 37 -
Table 13. Adeauacv of IBY's Loan Loss Reserves
At December 31
(Unaudited)
Total Loan Portfolio  (Including Principal                    196,510    257,662               257,271
in Arrears (YR '000)
Total Principal  in Arrears  (YR  '000)                        66,782       78,543              90,510
Estimated Minimum Loan Loss Reserve                            42,166       49,369              62,254
Requirement Y/ (YR '000)
IBY's Loan Loss Reserv-s  (YR  '000)                           18,320       19,044              22,168
IBY's Loan Loss Reserves/Estimated                                 43%          39%                 36%
Minimum Loan Loss Reserve Requirement
(M)
IBY's Loan Loss Reserves/Total Loan                                 9%            7%                 9%
Portfolio (%)
IBY's Loan Loss Reserves/Total  Principal                          27%          24%                 24%
in Arrears (%)
1/ Based on the following asset classification system (not adopted by IBY):
Estim_ted Loan Loss Reserve
Reoui rement (l)
Performirn Assets:                                                   Mi3imn              Haim 
Current Accomts:            0-180 Days Past Due                       4X                 5S
Non-performing Assets:
Reschoduled Accounts        0-180 Days Post Due                       5X                 101
Substandard Loans:          180-270 Days Post Due                    10                 25S
Doubtful Loans:             270-360 Days Past Due                    201                 451
Loss Loans:                 Over 360 Days Past Due                   301                 7sx
Loans in Litigation:        Lown  In Court                           501                 100X
Minimu loss reserve would apply where the own are wtll-secured and the esti_mted fair m_rket
value of the securities underlying the lons is equal to or greater then 1251 of the outstanding
loan blamce. The actual allocation to loss reserves would be determined by pro-rating betwen the
msximum md minima requiremmnts on the basis of the securities coverage.
"Maximu. loss reserves would  pply where the estimated fair market value of the securities underlying
the loans is less than 25S of the outstanding loan balance.



- 38 -
Table 14. IBY', Collection Performance
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31
Uaud.
1998         1989         1990         1991
(YR MiUlion)
Pricpal Overdue at Beginning of Fical Year                   40.53        53.77        66.73        73.58
Principl Faling Due During the Year 1/                       39.21        33.t7        26.S4        32.34
im                                                        79.74        [7.64        93.32       110.92
Principal Collectod During the Year                          25.95        22.44        14.74        19.59
% CoUected                                                    32.5         25.6         15.t         17.7
Inigum Overdue at Beginning of Fiscal Year                   14.17        20.19        27.56        42.25
ntarag Faling Due During the Year 1/ 2                      20.2          20.17        24.22        28.20
Did                                                       34.42        40.36        51.7t        70.45
Waft Collected During the Year                               14.23        11.22         9.53        17.53
% CoUlcted                                                   41.3          27.8         18.4         24.9
! Principal and 1ntare  Collected                             35.2         26.3         16.7         20.5
of Amounts Overdue ad Due
1/ Before reaclmdulings. if any
21 Excluding oon_accued intereat on loa  in court
Source: Induarial Bank of Yemen



- 39 -
Table 15. IBY--Income Statements
(YR'000)
Income                                         19                                             1991
Loan Interest                                 17,887   22,913   20,710   22.403   26,972   27,391
Consultancy Fees                                582       348      567       316      214      270
Commitment Charges                              295        75      103        51       83       57
Guarantee Fees                                  246       182      117        38        -        -
Dividends Received                                -        17       35        10        -       10
Bad Debts Recovered                               -         -       12         7
Subtotal Portfolio Income                    19.010   23.535   21,544   22,825   27,269   27,728
Bank Interest                                  4,190    2,664    5,100    4,340    3.127    1,735
Other Income                                     28        73      278       213      246      219
Subtotal                                      4,218    2,737    5,378    4,553    3,373    1,954
Gross Ooerating Income                        23,228    26,272   26,922   27,378   30,642   29.682
Expenses
Loan Interest                                  7,399    6,558    5,874    5,080    5,911    8,444
Charges on TA Fund                             1.221    1,673    2,060     1,799    1,873     7
General & Admin. Expenses                      7,164    8,029    9,158    9,370    9,418    9,580
Bad Debts                                      1,090      106    2,095     1,988      499        -
Provision for Possible Losses                  5,192    4,614    4,912    5,653    8.795   12,126
Depreciation                                    444       613      523       605      895      816
Provision Against Currency Fluctuation         1,966        -        -         -    4,174   (4.174)
Other Expenses                                  140       124      213       168      195      131
Total Expenses                                24,616   21,717   24,835   24,663   31.760' 2692
Oceratino Profit                              (1,388)    4,555    2,087    2,715   (1,118)   2.759
Non-Ooeratlina Income:
Foreign Currency Gains                         3,948       40       31         5    4,196        3
Profit on Sale of Fixed Assets                   94    2,120         (3)      14      191      117
Prior Year Adjustments                            -      (754)     572         2     (337)    (434)
Profit Before Taxes                            2L4    5.91        2 687    2.736    2 932
Income Tax                                        0         0        0         0        0        0
Net Profit                                     2,654:   5.961    2Z687    2,736    2.932 ='-2,445
Appropriations
Declared Dividends                             1,847    1,886     1.997    2,019    2,044    1,542
Retained Earnings (reserves)                    807    4,075       690       717      888      904



- 40 -
Table 16. IBY--Balance Sheets
(YR 000)
Unaud.
1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991
Current Assets
Cash                                         23,896   36,335   48,242   51,815   22,733   33,300
Time Deposits                                38,674   19,668    6,034   15,724    5,140   20,736
Accrued Bank Interest                           307      448      341       381     1,219    1.035
Current Maturities on Ln. Portfolio          31,882   30.038   32,837   26,233   29,898   26.869
Principal In Arrears                         36,527   40,533   53,776   66,782   78,543   90.510
Interest in Arrears (ess interest
loss resrves & non-accrued interest)       10,434    6,374   11,439   12,243   18,844   13.639
Accrued Interest on Loan Ponfolio             3,535    3,074    3,603    3,420    5,523    4.703
Other Receivables & Prepayments              11,949   12,513    5,050    3,913    6,993    3,490
Total Curfent Assets                      157,204  148,983  161.322  180,511   168,893  194,282
Portfolio Investments
Medium/LongTermLoans                        135,520  150,817  140,545  124,617  162,122  166,761
Foreign Exchange Fluctuations
Recoverable from Customers                 18,756    8,103    6,979    5,111    16,997        -
Less Current Maturity of Pon.Loans           31,882   30,038   32,837   26,233   29,898   26,889
Less Loan Loss Reserves                      13,734   16,226   20,119   18,295   19,020   22,168
Equity investments                            4,375    4,375    4,375    4,590    4,590    4,294
Less Equity Inv. Loss Reserves                  306      306      306       321      321
Total Portfolio lnvestments               112,729  116.725   98,637   89,469  134,470  122.018
Fixed Assets Less Accum. Deprec.             14,072    4,043    2,938    3,600    4,042    2.576
Total Assets                              284,005  269,751  262,897  273,580  307,405  3t18876
Current Llabilities
Payables                                      3,949    5,984    9,104   12,674   16,824   17,931
Accrued Expenses                                641      723    1,032       688      768    1,406
Dividends Payable                             3,795    3,576    4,033    2,019    2,044    3,586
Interest on Borrowings                       13,803   15,213   16.361    17,441    23,007   23,950
Current Maturities of Borrowings             40,384   11,614    3,550       960    3,251       35
Total Cunent Liabilities                   62,572   37,110   34,080   33,782   45,894   46,908
Other Provisions                              2,422      457      441       441    4,615        -
Long-Term Borrowings
Loan from Government                            -    1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700
Loan from Central Bank                      5,667        -        -         -        -        -
IDA Credit 465                                646      647      647
IDACredit1122                              65,007   18,200        -        -         _
IDA Credit 1547                                      12,950   15,640   32,459   43,707   62,060
Kuwait Fund Loan                           76,069   93,044   95,410   86,532   94,069   86,504
Total Borrowings (inc. current maturities)  147,389  126,541   113,397  120,691   139,476  150,264
Lss Current Maturitie of Borrowings          40,384    11,614    3,550     960    3,251        35
Total Long-Term Borrowings                107,005  114,927  109,847  119,731   136,225  150,229
UNCDF Management Grant                          905      905      905       905      905      905
Shareholders Eauitv
Share Capital Issued and Paid              93,334   94,512   95,094   95,474   95,631   95,796
Retained Earnings (reserves)               17,767   21,840   22,530   23,247   24,135   25,038
Totai Eauity                                111,101   116,352  117,624  118,721   119,766  120,834
Total Liabilities and Shareholders' ECuity  284,005  269,751  262Z897  273.580  307,4056:  316,876



