Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/30/2009 
Report No.:  AC4300
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Sudan 
Project ID:  P115717 
Project Name:  South Sudan Gender Support & Development Project 
Task Team Leader:  Yasmin Tayyab 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 13, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: March 30, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTCS 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (70%);Micro- and SME finance 
(30%) 
Theme:  Gender (P) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
5.00 
 
Multi-donor Trust Fund for South Sudan 
5.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
10.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN]  
 
The project development objective is to achieve immediate peace dividends for targeted 
women in Southern Sudan, through the provision of: (a) improvements in access to 
existing economic opportunities and (b) support to the Ministry of Gender, Social Work 
and Religious Affairs to develop and implement gender policies and strategies.  
 
At the completion of the project, it is expected that there will be: (i) increased livelihood 
opportunities and/or increased income for the targeted women; (ii) sector guidelines 
streamlined to mainstream gender in all sectors at GoSS, state and county levels in place; 
and (iii)  improved capacity for more effective monitoring and supervision of gender 
impacts .   
 
3. Project Description 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN]  
 
The proposed Project has three components:  
Page  2
Component 1:  Economic Empowerment of Women  
 
The goal of this component is to assist in further empowering  women through the 
implementation of income-generating sub-projects in five states of Southern Sudan, 
mainly, but not exclusively, within the agricultural, fisheries and livestock sectors. The 
sub-projects will be identified and selected on the basis of criteria developed through a 
consultative process with the technical staff of the GoSS, and state sector ministries and 
gender directors (see Annex 1).  Enhanced access to income is one of the priority 
activities proposed by the MoG on the basis of the request from its constituency. Given 
the lack of women in the formal labor force, the concentration of women in the poorer 
tiers of society, and women’s crucial role yet accentuated constraints in agriculture, 
offering income-generating projects for women could translate into rapid development 
impact for the women of Southern Sudan.  In addition, proposed activities in the 
agricultural sector would improve the level of food security, which is currently dire.  
 
As women carry out most of food production activities and are responsible for 
household food security, the economic empowerment sub-projects will focus their efforts 
in part on accelerating production of cash crops and other more sustainable forms of 
agricultural production. Currently however, most women, especially in the rural areas, 
are unable to meet the responsibility of providing basic needs of their families.  Given 
their lack of technical know-how and lack of access to inputs and appropriate tools, these 
women are in need of significant and immediate support. The projects will seek ways to 
engage women also in high-yielding agricultural activities and seek ways of linking them 
to markets, thereby enabling ways for them to access additional income.  
 
To improve women’s access to effective and sustainable farming practices, the project 
will create partnerships and linkages with existing capacity-building training programs in 
good farming practices such as, soil conservation measures, and farming technologies 
that are suitable to women, prioritizing technologies that are also time-saving and labor-
saving, thus further freeing up their time to engage in productive activities. The 
Technology Menu will address elements of the production cycle, such as the provision of 
improved storage facilities and value addition of agricultural produce.   Moreover, the 
project will also seek to develop and strengthen market linkages and promote initiatives 
which aim to strengthen women’s presence in local markets.  
 
There is limited diversification of household incomes and most women do not have the 
skills and means to work beyond their household agricultural production. The linkages 
and skills provided by the project and the economic empowerment offered is expected to 
contribute to a ‘crack’ in the current situation, and, in combination with the efforts in the 
institutional component of the project, will thus in the longer term improve women’s 
secure and independent access to land and,consequently to credit, farming organizations, 
etc., and slowly break the vicious circle of women’s exclusion from the productive 
spheres of society.  
 
It is also expected that the group-based approaches adopted for the participatory 
consultations and for the technology development and transfer will contribute in breaking 
Page  3
rural women’s isolation and will provide them with much needed social capital which can 
form a basis for their future participation also in other spheres of decision-making.  
 
Component 2: Construction of a Building for the MoGSW&RA  
 
The signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, the Interim National Constitution 
and the Interim Constitution of Southern Sudan in 2005 constitutes the foundations for 
peace and the establishment of the semi-autonomous government in Southern Sudan and 
attendant ministries such as the Ministry of Gender, Social Work and Religious Affairs. 
The responsibilities of this ministry cover three substantive areas including gender 
development, social and child protection and religious affairs. Despite this broad 
mandate, the ministry has not been able to bring on board the staff required to fulfill its 
functions. The MoG lacks the necessary physical infrastructure required to house and 
coordinate the work of various directorates.  
 
The majority of GoSS ministries has established, or is in the process of constructing, 
centralized office spaces, with all staff members working under one roof.  In contrast, the 
MoG to date maintains insufficient dedicated work space to operate effectively. Currently 
housed within the Ministry of Health (MoH), the MoG consists of three directorates:  
Directorate of Finance Planning & Administration; Directorate of Gender & Child 
Welfare and Directorate of Social Welfare which occupy only 5 out of 44 offices. 
Scattered throughout the MoH, some MoG staff are even housed in the parking lot of the 
Ministry of Labor. Work spaces are very small and individual offices are shared by 
multiple staff.  The MoG is currently the only government ministry whereby the Director-
Generals, Directors, Deputy Directors, the Inspectors, and Assistant Inspectors all share 
offices with at least two other people. These working conditions seriously undermine the 
Ministry’s ability to work efficiently and productively and the lack of centralized space 
impedes collaboration and severely demoralizes its staff.  
 
This component therefore suggests the construction of a building for the MoG.  The 
Ministry has fulfilled the condition put forth by MDTF Secretariat of procuring 
uninhabited land, with all legal procedures and consultations pertaining to the ownership 
of the land to be completed prior to finalizing the project design. The MoG has 
successfully conducted consultation with the Traditional Community of Tokiman and 
with the Ministry of Lands and Infrastructure, Central Equatoria State (Annex 2). While 
the construction of the ministry is underway, temporary prefab facilities will be located to 
help house the project staff that will be hired to start their work on the implementation of 
the project and as the MoG begins to build its internal operating capacity.  
 
Component 3: Institutional Development of the MoG  
 
The Ministry of Gender’s responsibilities include ensuring that gender perspectives are 
addressed in all government processes, post conflict reconstruction, resource planning, 
Page  4
human resource development activities, as well as developing programs and strategies for 
addressing gender inequalities in Southern Sudan.  
 
The institutional development component will focus on strengthening the human and 
institutional capacity of the MoG and the relevant ministries of GoSS and all levels of 
states, counties and payams, so that it can effectively discharge its key functions of 
developing an efficient policy framework and formulating a strategy to implement the 
policy. In doing so, the Ministry will both
 “engender” the work of other relevant sector 
ministries at GoSS and state levels while managing its own specific projects. The 
improved capacity will make the MoG better equipped to support the continuing 
development of stronger capacity for the Ministry’s work in the states, on which it has 
already embarked.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
D.  Project location (if known)  
 
The project will implement sub-projects in all ten states. The investments in capacity 
building, training and research will address needs in all ten states and will be 
complementary to other ongoing government/donor-financed activities.  
 
In the first year, sub-projects will be sought from five States: E. Equatoria, W. 
Equatoria, C. Equatoria, Lakes and Warrap States, and years two and three will include 
all ten States. The identification of the states for the first year has been made by the MoG 
in consultation with other sector Ministries and stakeholders, so as not to overlap 
coverage and duplicate already existing activities. The sub-project proposals will be 
sought by the Ministry through a transparent and competitive process and evaluated on 
the basis of the criteria and procedures developed by the Ministry, and reflected in the 
OM. The focus of the sub-projects will be agricultural production and related sectors, 
such as animal production, poultry, fisheries and microenterprise activities. Key 
considerations for selected localities within each state will include such criteria as 
existing production capacities and commodities; road accessibility and general access to 
markets; local demand; and the availability of arable land and needed inputs for 
sustainable agricultural production.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Colin P. Rees (OPCQC) 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab (AFTCS) 
 
Page  5
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The sub-projects under the economic empowerment component will not undertake any 
construction. The Construction of the Ministry will apply the guidelines established in the 
ESAF to design, implement and supervise the construction. The construction of the 
Ministry component has an allocated supervision budget. There are no negative 
environment or social impacts envisaged under the project; it is expected that most of the 
impact will be positive. Only OP/BO 4.01 is triggered; no pesticuides are to be applied 
under agricultural interventions envisaged in the sub-projects.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
South Sudan has a draft ESMF which covers all major sectors and will be applied as 
needed.  Only OP/BO 4.01 is triggered; no pesticides are to be applied under agricultural 
interventions envisaged in the project. The client with the technical assistance from the 
MDTF Secretariate will prepare an Operations Manual for sub-projects which will 
include a simplified env/social assessment framework. The NGOs/CBOs seeking seeking 
funding for the sub-projects will be required to assess potential env/social impacts while 
preparing the sub-project proposals.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Like most of the Ministries in Southern Sudan, the MoGSW&RA is limited in its 
capacity to perform the oversight function that the project requires. Subcomponent 3.2 
will address the capacity needs of the Ministry and the sub-project implementing 
agencies by identifying expertise and training required to effectively perform the World 
Bank and government safeguards processes, human resource development activities, as 
Page  6
well as developing programs and strategies for addressing gender inequalities in Southern 
Sudan. The project has allocated budget for the training program and for the hiring of 
additional experts to provide the much needed support to the ministry for supervision of 
the sub-projects. An Inter-Ministerial Forum on the Environment has been constituted 
within the Directorate of Environment to help assure cross-sectoral coordination and 
compliance with all environmental and social safeguards. The project has allocated 
budget to provide training to the sub-project impleementing agencies in project 
preparation and management.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The implementing NGOs and CBOs will be required to develop the sub-projects in direct 
in put and consultation with the targeted communities, especially the women.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
09/15/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/20/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
10/21/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The document will be disclosed in the country six months after effectiveness.   
Page  7
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab 
03/25/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Colin P. Rees 
03/26/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab 
03/30/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ian Bannon 
03/30/2009 
Comments:   
