Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR2800
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(TF-095120)
ON A
MULTI DONOR TRUST FUND - SOUTH SUDAN (MDTF-SS)
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH SUDAN
FOR A
GENDER SUPPORT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 12, 2013
Post Conflict & Social Development Practice Group (AFTCS)
Sudan Country Department
Africa Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2013)
Currency Unit = South Sudanese Pound
1.00 SSP = US$0.29
US$1.00 = 3.50 SSP
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAFOD              Catholic Agency for Overseas Development
CBO                Community-based organization
CGA                Comprehensive Gender Assessment
CPA                Comprehensive Peace Agreement
DG                 Director General
ESAF               Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESIA               Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESMP               Environmental and Social Management Plan
FA&P               Finance, Administration and Planning
FM                 Financial Management
FMS                Financial Management System
FP                 Focal Persons
FPP                Final Project Paper
GA                 Grant Agreement
GLA                Grant Letter Agreement
GoSS               Government of South Sudan
GSDP               Gender Support and Development Project
IA                 Implementing Agency
ICR                Implementation Completion and Results Report
IFR                Interim Financial Statement
ISN                Interim Strategy Note
ISR                Implementation Status and Results Report
JAM                Joint Assessment Mission
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MA                 Monitoring Agent
MDTF-SS            Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan
MGCSW              Ministry of Gender, Child and Social Welfare
MOA                Memorandum of Agreement
MTR                Mid-Term Review
NGOs               Non-Governmental Organizations
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
PDO                Project Development Objectives
PFM                Public Financial Management


﻿PFMU               Project Financial Management Unit
RF                 Results Framework
SDG                Sudanese Pound
SPSC               Sub-project Selection Committee
SPLM               Sudan People's Liberation Movement
TA                 Technical Assistance
TF                 Trust Fund(s)
UN                 United Nations
USD                United States Dollars
VfM                Value for Money
WA                 Withdrawal Applications
WB                 The World Bank
WFP                World Food Program
Vice President: Makhtar Diop
Country Director: Bella Bird
Sector Manager: Ian Bannon
Project Team Leader: Yasmin Tayyab
ICR Team Leader: Yasmin Tayyab


﻿COUNTRY
South Sudan Gender Support & Development Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes   ................   ..... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes         ........................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.     ....................    ..... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance    ................     ........ 16
6. Lessons Learned           .....................................     ......... 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors ........... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                       ................................. 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component           ...............................  ..... 23
Annex 3. Efficiency Related Analyses ................................. 28
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes....... 29
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.       ..........    ............. 30
Annex 6. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 31
MAP


﻿A. Basic Information
Gender Support
Country:           South Sudan       Project Name:      Development Project
(GSDP)
Project ID:       P115717            L/C/TF Numbers:    TF095120
ICR Date:          06/12/2013        ICR Type:          Core ICR
Government of South
Lending Instrument:                  Grantee:           Sudan oSo
Sudan (GoSS)
Original Total     USD 10.00M        Disbursed Amount: USD 9.02M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:   USD 9.02M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Gender, Child and Social Welfare
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: BORR, MDSS
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process         Date          Process     Original Date    es)
Date(s)
Concept          01/15/2009  Effectiveness:                   11/16//2009
Review:
06/29/2011
Appraisal:       02/13/2009  Restructuring(s):                06/28/2012
06/28/2012
Approval:        08/26/2009  Mid-term                         05/18/2011
Review:
Closing:          06/29/2011     12/31/2012
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:         Substantial
Bank Performance:                    Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank              Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
Moderately                           Moderately
Quality at Entry:  Satisfactory      Government:        Unsatisfactory
Quality of         Moderately        Implementing       Moderately
Supervision:       Satisfactory      Agency/Agencies:   Satisfactory
Overall Bank       Moderately        Overall Borrower   Moderately


﻿Performance: : Satis factor  ]Perf orman ce:    Unsatis factoryy
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation        Indicators   QAG Assessments         Rating
Performance                            (if any)
Potential Problem                     Qlty at Entry
Project at any time  No               (QEA):           None
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any No             Quality of
time (Yes/No):                        Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before    Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory
Qaiy  o   riiafAta
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector    70
Micro- and SME finance                              30
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Gender                                              100
E. Bank Staff
Positions                At ICR                   At Approval
Vice President:     Makhtar Diop                Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
Country Director:   Bella Deborah Mary Bird     Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:     Jan Bannon                  Jan Bannon
Project Team Leader: Yasmin Tayyab              Yasmin Tayyab
ICR Team Leader:    Yasmin Tayyab               Yasmin Tayyab
ICR Primary Author: Cliff Burkley
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Achieve immediate peace dividends for targeted women in Southern Sudan through the
provision of: (a) improvements in access to existing economic opportunities, and (b)
support to the Ministry of Gender to develop gender policies and strategies.


﻿Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
No Change.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target   Formally       Actual Value
Values (from                    Achieved at
Indicator        Baseline Value        appro        Revised Target  cmplet
approval        Values       Completion or
documents)                     Target Years
% of target women who perceive an increase in income as a result of project
interventions
Value
quantitative or  N/A                         20%             1,527       40% or 2,854
Qualitative)
Date achieved   1                         06/29/2011       05/2011        12/31/2012
Based on beneficiary survey, interviews with focal persons, chairpersons of CBOs and
Coments monitoring visits by project staff. Final number of women benefitting from the project
(incl. %        is 7,134 based on field visits, interviews with CBOs, focal persons and chairpersons of
achievement)    women's organizations and monitoring reports.
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target   Formally       Actual Value
Values (from                    Achieved at
Indicator        Baseline Value        appro        Revised Target  cmplet
approval        Values       Completion or
documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1:    % of target women receiving training in non-farm income generating activities
Value
(quantitative            N/A                 20%             1,527       18% or 1,267
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             06/29/2011       05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2:    30% of target women receiving training in agricultural production activities
Value
(quantitative            N/A                 30%            2,290        29% or 2,037
or Qualitative)
IDate achieved  1                          06/29/2011       05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3:    % of target women utilizing at least one new agricultural production technology or
practice due to project interventions
Value
(quantitative            N/A                 30%            2,290        29% or 2,037
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              06/29/2011      05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        2,037 women out of 7,134 or 29%
achievement)
Indicator 4:    % of target women who perceive an increase in crop yields or harvests due to project


﻿interventions
Value
(quantitative             N/A                 20%            1,527        33% or 2,366
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   1                          06/29/2011       05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        2,366 women out of 7,134 or 33%
achievement)
Indicator 5:    % of sub-projects that will continue post project closure activities
Value
(quantitative             N/A                 10%              11          40% or 44
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved  1                          06/29/2011       05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Total number of sub-projects is 108
achievement)
Indicator 6:    % of women joining associations
Value
(quantitative             N/A                 10%             713         28% or 2,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              06/29/2011       05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7:   1% of collective action among women in project sites
Value
(quantitative             N/A                 10%              10           500% 520
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   1                          06/29/2011       05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Assumes no collective action prior to project for lack of data
achievement)
Indicator 8:   Interim prefabricated buildings, furniture and equipment installed
Value
(quantitative              0                  Yes             N/A             Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   I                          March 2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9:    Construction of new Ministry building completed
Value
(quantitative              0                  Yes             N/A             No
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                              06/29/2011      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        At the project closing the construction of the building is 31%
achievement)
Indicator 10:   Country gender assessment completed
Value
(quantitative              0                  Yes             N/A             Yes
or Qualitative)


﻿Date achieved                               06/29/2011        05/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11:    Completion of capacity building training program
Value
(quantitative               0                  Yes             N/A              Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   1                           06/29/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 12:   [Number of GoSS and state ministry staff receiving training
Value
(quantitative               0                   52             N/A               41
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                               06/29/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13:    Number of CBO participants in project training
Value
(quantitative             N/A                  N/A             N/A             3,395
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   1                           06/29/2011        05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments         3,304 participants in agriculture and non-farm sub-project training and 91 participants
(incl. %         in project-conducted training
achievement)
Indicator 14:   [Number of monitoring reports submitted by approved sub-projects
Value                                                        10 states
Valu    N/AN/A                              0 sttes     8 states submitted
(quantitative             N/A                  N/A           submitted
or Qualitative)                                           quarterly reports  quarterly reports
IDate achieved   1                          06/29/2011        05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments         Quarterly reports from CBOs were replaced by monitoring reports from focal persons
(incl. %         because of reporting challenges.
achievement)
Indicator 15:   [Number of supervision visits to approved project sites
Value                                                                     83 of the 108 sub-
(quantitative             N/A                  N/A             N/A         p         s
or Qulitaive)projects visited
or Qualitative)  _____________________
Date achieved                               06/29/2011        05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments         Outbreak of violence in some states prevented supervision visits.
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 16:    Number of project staff onboard within 6 months of effectiveness
Value
(quantitative             N/A                   7              N/A               7
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                               June 2010                        June 2010
Comments         All project staff onboard within 6 months of effectiveness. M & E Officer replaced in
(incl.%          Feb 2011.
achievement)


﻿Indicator 17:  [Number of sub-projects receiving full disbursement of grants
Value
(quantitative            N/A                 N/A             94              94
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   I                         June 2010        05/2011       12/31/2012
Comments        Grants for 14 CBOs were cancelled due to non-performance
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 18:  [Number of sub-projects complete by 2012
Value
(quantitative            N/A                 N/A             94              94
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved  I                     I    June 2010       05/2011        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                          Ata
No.     Ate                  DO                      IP             Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    03/27/2011 Moderately Satisfactoryl       Satisfactory                   5.33
2    10/14/2011         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   6.20
3    10/16/2012   Moderately SatisfactoryModerately Satisfactory              8.66
4    02/04/2013   Moderately SatisfactoryModerately Satisfactory              8.78
H. Restructuring
ISR Ratings     Amount
Restructuring      Board           at       Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring
Date(s)      Approved     Restructurin Restructurin      & Key Changes Made
PDO Change          g          g in USD
DO      IP      millions
06/29/2011         N              IClosing date extension
Amendment of GA
06/28/2012                                              (additional financing) and
extension of closing date


﻿I. Disbursement Profile
Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
io -
6   -------------------------------------------------   ----
4-
0/
2-i
-    N  m     -a                r
Y      Y o  o  o      Y     Y  Y  Y     Y  Y N  N  a Y
oCI            -   -  -  -  -  -
o              oooooo


﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.    The Gender Support and Development Project (GSDP) aimed to provide
immediate peace dividends to women's community based organizations in South Sudan
following the decades-long war. This was to be achieved by improving women's access
to economic opportunities and supporting the Ministry of Gender, Child and Social
Welfare (MGCSW) to develop gender policies and strategies. A US$10.0 million grant
was provided by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan (MDTF-SS) for the
project.
1.1 Context at Appraisal
2.    The end of the twenty-year war ushered a period of challenging transformation
and rebuilding for South Sudan. The civil war between the Government of Sudan and the
Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) ended in January 2005 with the signing of
the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA). Following the adoption of the CPA, the
Government of South Sudan (GoSS) was established. Coming out of civil war, the newly
established GoSS faced tremendous development challenges from the outset, including,
inter-alia, a virtual lack of government structures and institutions, a severe lack of basic
infrastructure and services, limited human and institutional capacity, and a weak
economic base. In March 2005, the United Nations, the World Bank, the Government of
Sudan, and the SPLM conducted a Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) and prepared a
report presenting the reconstruction and development requirements for the consolidation
of peace, and for attaining broad-based growth, poverty reduction, and sustained human
development aligned towards the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The JAM
laid the groundwork in developing the priorities after the CPA.
3.    The civil war had a devastating effect on development in the South. The JAM
described the country as follows: "Key education and health indicators, such as child and
maternal mortality and primary enrolment, are among the worst in the world.
Infrastructure is virtually non-existent, with no paved roads outside the main urban
centers ..." Poverty is widespread, estimated at 50%. Internal displacement was
estimated to be close to half of the approximately 8 million population of the country.
Isolation, underdevelopment and absence of basic services characterize most of the
country. Women and children are among the most severely affected by the war. The ratio
of adult women to adult men is 2:1; only 1 in 10 women is literate; on average, women
are poorer than men due to inequities in access to productive assets. Household, family
care and income generation responsibilities fell to women left behind in war-torn areas.
4.    Given this harsh environment, women in South Sudan find themselves trapped at
the center of a vicious cycle of extreme poverty and household vulnerability. Their
traditional role makes them responsible for providing food for their households, with no
control over, nor access to the resources needed. Yet they are expected to provide food,
water and health care for the family members. While women are the principal producers
in the field, they rarely control the output; and due to their time, poverty and other
1


﻿mobility constraints, they also find it difficult to access the few existing local market
opportunities or make decisions on how the money is spent.
5.    Agriculture comprises 67% of the economy, a mainstay of livelihood in the
country. Agriculture is subsistence in nature with low outputs. Production potential is
generally high, given the soil and climatic conditions. However, disruption brought about
by the war and lack of access to needed inputs, technology and tools, constrains
production, especially by women who depend mostly on agriculture and are responsible
for household food security. In this context, women, the major contributors of agriculture
production, are left deprived of the much needed technology and resources required to
improve cultivation practices and thus improve the well-being of the family.
6.    The CPA created high expectations for quick peace dividends among the people
of South Sudan to reverse the impact of the war. People displaced by the war and the
ones who chose to return added pressure for quick gains. With the urgent need for basic
services however, are enormous challenges of institutional capacity constraints in
government. The establishment of a new government, practically from scratch magnified
this challenge, potentially crowding out the equally important priorities for basic service
delivery. Among the newly created Ministries is the Ministry of Gender, Child and Social
Welfare (MGCSW); a representation of the commitment of GoSS to the continued
involvement of women in the task of rebuilding and a manifestation of the results of the
JAM that culminated in the Oslo Conference of 2005. MGCSW was essentially setup
with a skeletal, top heavy staff with no technical skills or experience to provide
leadership to its mandate and institutional structure, with no physical space and a limited
budget to function as a ministry.
7.    Progress at the national policy level in responding to the stark, gender-based
realities outlined above was modest, and mostly donor led. Gender specific development
responses and strategic interventions were diffused, fragmented and uncoordinated, with
little or no direct planning, monitoring or sector oversight by MGCSW. This reality was
compounded by the absence of a national gender policy and strategy, and a complete
absence of capacity for planning and implementation at the state and county levels that
could facilitate gender-sensitive planning and the roll out of gender programs in a
systematic and coordinated way.
8.    Since the CPA, GoSS, donor partners, UN agencies and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) have funded women's activities. GoSS has allocated
approximately US$0.4 million every year, from 2006 to 2008, to the 10 States for
women's activities and projects. Another US$120,000 was allocated yearly for dedicated
activities for women and children, such as women's month celebration and conferences.
In 2009, approximately US$600,000 was budgeted to support women's economic
empowerment activities. Donor and NGO support was made available for gender
mainstreaming activities and other stand-alone activities for women.
9.    These were however mostly in the form of one-off, stand-alone operations with
limited impact. In 2009, the MDTF-SS and World Bank agreed to support GoSS to
2


﻿develop a project to ensure the participation of women in the development of South
Sudan through GSDP. The project provides support to the Government in response to the
request for immediate peace dividends for women. The capacity needs of MGCSW were
also addressed through support to the development of gender policies, training program
and financing of the construction of office space for the newly established Ministry. The
preparation team, knowing full well, the unavailability of contractors in Juba, the lack of
expertise within MGCSW to supervise the civil works, the short time frame for project
completion and the rising cost of materials due to inflation, was hesitant to include a civil
works component in the project. The construction of the Ministry building was
reluctantly included in the project under pressure from the Minister of MGCSW and
donors.
10.   The project was prepared under OP/BP 8.00 directives using an Emergency
Recovery Grant instrument due to the post-conflict status of South Sudan and in keeping
with the need for speed, flexibility and simplicity.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
11.   The PDO is to achieve immediate peace dividends for targeted women in South
Sudan, through the provision of: (a) improvements in access to the existing economic
opportunities and (b) support to the Ministry of Gender to develop gender policies and
strategies. The key performance indicator is stated as: "% of target women who perceive
increase in income as a result of project interventions."
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
12.   The PDO was not changed throughout the duration of the project.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
13.   The project was expected to benefit women, women's groups and community-
based organizations (CBOs), originally in 5 States, but at the request of the Minister the
coverage was expanded to include all 10 States to follow GoSS' policy on equity despite
the severe implementation constraints at the States' level. Investments in capacity
building, training and research addressed needs of MWCSW, its staff and staff of the
Social Development (SD) Ministries in all 10 States.
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
14.   The project had three components: (i) Economic Empowerment of Women (US$4
million); (ii) Construction of a Building for the MGCSW (US$3.1 million); and (iii)
Institutional Development of MGCSW (US$2.9 million).
15.   Component 1: Economic Empowerment of Women (US$4 million), provided
assistance in empowering vulnerable women and improving their economic opportunities
through the implementation of income-generating sub-projects in the 10 States. Proposals
3


﻿from women's groups from the 10 States were funded based on a transparent procedure
and criteria developed and agreed at a stakeholder workshop during Appraisal and
reflected in the Operations Manual.
16.   Component 2: Construction of a Building for MGCSW    (US$3.1 million),
financed the construction of a building and the establishment of temporary prefabricated
facilities to house some MGCSW staff and project consultants.
17.   Component 3: Institutional Development of MGCSW      (US$2.9 million),
supported the strengthening of human and institutional capacity of MGCSW and of the
participating staff from the SD State Ministries to monitor and provide technical
assistance to sub-projects and develop a gender policy and strategy, with the following
three subcomponents:
* Subcomponent 3 (a). Studies. A Country Gender Assessment (CGA) was financed to
compile, review and analyze existing and on-going work by various agencies on the
economic, social, legal and traditional environment of women for policy
recommendations.
* Subcomponent 3 (b). Institutional Development of MGCSW and SD State Ministries.
A capacity assessment and training program was supported to address MGCSW's and
States' needs to prepare them to monitor CBO's sub-projects and to mainstream
gender activities and implement direct interventions for gender equality and women's
empowerment in the future. This subcomponent also included setting up of the Project
Coordination Unit in MGCSW, led by the Director General Finance Administration &
Planning (DG FA&P) as project coordinator and staffed with three international
experts: Financial Management Specialist (FMS), Procurement Specialist (PS), and
Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) Specialist to support the management of project
implementation.
* Subcomponent 3 (c). Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting. The establishment of an
M&E system within MGCSW and the preparation of regular evaluation reports were
supported under this subcomponent.
1.6 Revised Components
18.   No changes were made to the project Components throughout its duration.
1.7 Other significant changes
19.   A one year no-cost extension of the project Closing Date from June 29, 2011 to
June 29, 2012 was approved in June 2011 to: (i) complete transfers of funds to CBOs and
allow them sufficient time to undertake sub-project activities; and (ii) complete the
procurement of materials and equipment and construction of the building for the Ministry.
4


﻿20.   A second restructuring was carried out in June 2012 to extend the project Closing
Date and provide additional financing of US$546,795 for completion of the ongoing
activities under Component 2 (Construction of the Building). The need for restructuring
for additional financing and extension of Closing Date was in response to the escalating
costs of construction material due to inflation, miscalculation of funds required for
supervision consultants, and procurement delays. The six-month extension, from June 29,
2012 to December 31, 2012, brought the cumulative extension to 18 months and the total
project cost to US$10,546,795. The change in Component costs is presented in Annex 1.
21.   The results framework (RF) was revised during the project Mid-term Review to
take into account new knowledge of development problems and local conditions. A
beneficiary survey, complemented by information received from project monitoring staff
and MDTF Monitoring Agents generated significant data to revise the data and indicators
in the RF, presented in Annex 2.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
22.   Project Preparation. The Peace Accord raised expectations among the people of
South Sudan for immediate dividends. The limited economic opportunities, low capacity
and lack of infrastructure and services posed challenges in breaking the cycle of poverty
and inequity.
23.   Absence of capacity of a nascent Ministry. MGCSW is among the agencies
created following the CPA. At the time of preparation, it was still in the process of
recruiting staff and organizing itself. It had minimal or no expertise nor experience in
managing projects or developing policies and strategies. At the time of appraisal, it did
not have a physical space of its own; staff had a few offices within the Ministry of
Health.
24.   Given the absence of capacity, a smaller and limited coverage - not including the
construction Component - would have been a prudent decision. The ambitious coverage
of all 10 States and the inclusion of the building were however a result of strong
representation by Government, citing equity to allow all 10 States to benefit; and the
pressure from the Minister to provide office space to the Ministry staff. Although the
project aimed to involve State officials in implementation support and monitoring, and
included training of State officials in gender mainstreaming and project administration,
State involvement was limited to State focal points who were provided with monetary
incentives to undertake project-related activities. Local governments remained extremely
weak despite the capacity being built at the center and State levels. The extensive
coverage and the construction of the building stretched the already limited capacity of
MGCSW, including that of the Housing Ministry that was to have played a key role in
the building construction.
5


﻿25.   Absence of a national gender policy and capacity for implementation. The
JAM and the resulting Oslo Conference cited the need to improve the plight of women,
especially those affected by the war. The Government had submitted a draft National
Gender Policy for adoption by Parliament to address these aspirations in the JAM.
However, the policy was not adopted for lack of evidence-based strategies and
recommendations. Lack of coherence resulted in a number of stand-alone initiatives for
women, dispersed with ineffectual strategy and outcomes. Taking this into account, the
design included a Component to support the preparation of a comprehensive gender
assessment and to build the capacity of the Ministry in implementing gender programs.
26.   Limited opportunities and diversification of women's sources of household
incomes. Although data is lacking, anecdotal evidence suggests that women bore the
burden of providing for their families during the conflict (Section 1.1), relying mostly on
subsistence agriculture. Lack of capital, skills and mobility hampered their ability to
diversify sources of livelihood. The Government was keen to develop the economic
empowerment Component to address these gaps. A stakeholder workshop during
preparation confirmed the need and endorsed the Component. While initially focusing on
financing the expansion of ongoing agriculture activities, the workshop opened the
eligible activities to non-agricultural income generating projects and advised the project
team to allow for flexibility in the selection of sub-projects. In hindsight, it would have
been appropriate to only focus on ongoing agriculture activities where chances of success
are greater given the country context. An analysis of sub-projects indicates that non-
traditional and new activities tended to experience more difficulties in accessing
materials and in operating new technologies.
27.   Assurances from the Housing Ministry. Apprehensions regarding the lack of
capacity and experience with respect to the construction Component were allayed by
assurances from the Ministry of Housing that it would take an active role in the
construction and that designs were available for the building. Due to the Ministry of
Housing's high volume of construction and re-building projects in the country, the
participation of the Ministry was limited to design approval. Even this was delayed. The
project did not provide for an engineer to oversee this Component and had to rely on the
procurement specialist and the engineering consultants for oversight.
28.   Building on Recent Programs. Past donor and GoSS funded programs in the
country informed the design of Component 1. GoSS has been providing resources,
although small, for the economic empowerment of women to the 10 States from 2006 to
2008 (approximately $40,000 to each State) for livelihood projects. Various donors also
provided support targeting women and children.
29.   Risks and Mitigation. The risk assessment indicated that the project would face a
number of risks and classified the overall project risk as High. Risks identified included:
fiduciary risks, stability of the peace and insecurity, a nascent Ministry as implementer
with no expertise, newly established state governments with no experience further
exacerbated by increased demand for their time and skills by other projects, the lack of
experienced NGOs and CBOs, and poor access to markets and inaccessibility of markets
6


﻿due to lack of transport and roads. Fiduciary risks were addressed by putting in place a
framework for mitigation, including monitoring actual expenditures by a MDTF
Monitoring Agent (MA) and management of the accounting system by the Project
Financial Management Unit (PFMU) at the Finance Ministry. Capacity risks were to be
addressed through the institutional development Component of the project, hiring of
international specialists to assist the Ministry to manage the project, participation and
support of other more capable Ministries (e.g., Ministry of Housing) for the construction
Component, and the competitive selection of NGOs as sub-project grantees.
2.2 Implementation
30.   The project became effective on November 14, 2009. Despite capacity constraints
and delays, Components 1 and 3 commenced in a satisfactory manner. Component 2 on
the building construction, however, started slowly. As the operations progressed, a
number of factors affected project implementation: security concerns, inaccessibility of
sub-project sites and grantees, absence of banks to transfer funds, inability of CBOs to
produce documents and reports, and slow pace of monitoring and financial management
by the PCU despite the full time presence of international consultants. Meanwhile, the
participation of other donors and NGOs in the preparation of the CGA was a positive
contributing factor.
31.   The project faced challenges specific to a fragile and post-conflict State. Security
issues caused delays or failure in a number of sub-projects (23 out of 108) under
Component 1, and lack of security forced the relocation of a number of sub-project
activities. Pilfering of sub-project inputs (seedlings, tools and fencing materials) was also
a problem. These constraints also affected the ability of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to undertake monitoring and technical assistance visits. The lack of banking
infrastructure delayed fund transfers to grantees for sub-project activities. Most banks
operated from Kenya and this delayed the remittance of funds. The remoteness and lack
of access to some sub-project sites hindered monitoring and reporting. Experience and
good leadership among implementing CBOs, on the other hand, contributed to good
performance. Interviews and surveys by the PCU confirmed that CBOs with dedicated
leaders and prior grant experience or those assisted by NGOs with experience working on
similar projects tended to perform better.
32.   A major concern during implementation was the delay in disbursing funds and the
submission of accountability documents by CBO grantees, which was a trigger for
release of second and third tranches of funds. The profile of a sample of CBOs who did
not submit timely accountability reports indicated that contrary to the sub-project
selection criteria of a functional and registered CBO, some of these were recently formed,
did not have full-time leadership and activities selected were new types of activities and
not expansion of ongoing ones. Lack of security and ability in preparing reports and
bookkeeping were also cited in interviews as among the likely causes of non-submission
of reports. To ease the difficulty of reporting back to the CBOs, the Bank recommended
to the PCU to equip the focal persons in the SD Ministries with motor bikes, laptops and
mobile phones, but it failed on many occasions to implement that recommendation. The
lack of security and difficulty of access to many of the sub-projects due to remoteness,
7


﻿and the reluctance of the FM consultant to travel for supervision resulted in the limited
monitoring of the sub-projects and delays in release of funds.
33.   At the MTR in May 2011, concerns were raised on the slow progress in the
submission of financial accountability reports by grantees and delays experienced in three
major activities, namely the preparation of the CGA, the construction of the MGCSW
building and the supervision of construction. Delays in procurement of the three packages
were caused by capacity constraints in managing procurement activities and in the
preparation and approval of bidding documents. The approval of bidding documents
prepared by the authorities that oversee construction of public offices in South Sudan
took six weeks.
34.   The preparation of the CGA was under the responsibility of the DG, Gender of
MGCSW. However, she was disengaged and unable to provide guidance to this activity,
causing the delay in its commencement. The Bank had requested that the DG play a more
active role or that the CGA preparation be placed under another Ministry official. As a
result, the activity was transferred to the DG FA&P, which speeded up the preparation of
the CGA.
35.   To address the delays in the construction Component, a revised timetable was
agreed on the procurement activities and the project was extended. The Ministry in the
meantime was provided an international engineering consultant funded by the Joint
Donor Team to provide technical advice to the Ministry on construction matters. The
engineer observed that the existing scope of works for the building was for two floors
(ground and first) and shell for the third level. According to the Government, the actual
cost of current scope of works was US$5.7 million instead of the bid price of US$2.9
million. This bid price was based on an underestimated bill of quantities.
36.   Revisiting the Results Framework (RF). An effort to reach out to beneficiaries
and to create an information database was undertaken by the PCU prior to the MTR.
This sought to address the absence of baseline data during project preparation. The
information gathered as well as the results of monitoring provided relevant information to
revisit and revise the RF. This is presented in Annex 2.
2.3 M&E Design, Implementation and Utilization
37.   M&E Design. The design for the M&E system and the self-reporting baseline
questionnaires had a very slow start due to poor performance of the M&E specialist who
was eventually removed. Her replacement took time and the M&E system, based on the
RF, was finally established in the second year for the project. Implementing CBOs were
required to include detailed benchmarks and provide information on baselines, against
which project progress would be measured. The M&E Specialist led monitoring of
Component I while those of the other two Components were under the responsibility of
the DG FA&P and concurrently the Project Coordinator.
38.   M&E Implementation. From its inception, the M&E system of the project was
inadequate, the international consultant hired by the PCU was not up to the task, she was
8


﻿eventually removed and replaced by a relatively competent consultant. Information on
sub-project grantees for a baseline was not available until the MTR. The self-reporting
survey questionnaire of beneficiaries to gather data and assess the performance of the
project was designed just before the MTR. Information was collected using self-
assessment forms, cross-checked by interviews and site visits. State Focal Persons (FPs),
who were provided with logistical and financial support, were tapped to undertake
monitoring and reporting. Data generated was used to revise the RF.
39.    Data verification for Component I was extremely challenging. Data collected
from different sources suffered from discrepancies making it difficult to determine the
actual impact of the sub-projects. These discrepancies were likely due to lack of
information by some of the survey respondents. To compensate for the lack of data,
verification of information was done using in-depth interviews with FPs, chairpersons
and beneficiaries. Site verification visits supplemented these interviews. Data collected
remains incomplete and actual figures for each of the indicators for Component I cannot
be determined. Financial monitoring of CBOs was especially problematic due to their
lack of skill in preparing reports, sub-project site inaccessibility and the laissez-faire
attitude of the FMS in the PCU. However, the information collected, as verified appears
to be a good representation of the project's outputs and outcomes.
40.    M&E Utilization. The M&E system became the basis of the project performance
report, allowing the PCU to review sub-project status and take corrective or follow-
through action. The reports generated also became the basis for providing additional
support to performing CBOs. The M&E system is still being utilized by the Ministry but
in a limited way after project completion. The data gathering and performance
monitoring have largely been left to the DG FA&P and one Ministry staff who are
saddled with other tasks. With the project's closing, support to FPs also ceased, making
them less likely to do any monitoring work.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
41.    Environmental and Social Safeguards. The project is classified as Category B
under the Bank's OP4.01 Environmental Assessment. Sub-projects have been very small
and did not trigger any safeguards policies. The project had a negative menu, which did
not permit sub-projects with negative environmental impacts to be implemented.
42.    The project triggered no social safeguards policies. Project grantees were already
engaged in productive activities and any expansion covered donated government lands.
For the building construction, unoccupied land was procured by MGCSW and legal
requirements and consultations were undertaken prior to design.
43.    Procurement. Overall procurement risk was rated High. An international PS was
hired to assist the PCU build the capacity of the Ministry by pairing up with its
procurement staff. The PS, with the two other international specialists in the PCU, was
responsible for the procurement of works, goods and services. There were significant
delays in the procurement process of goods and services, especially in undertaking the
9


﻿CGA and in the implementation of Component 2. The slow progress of construction and
the quality of supervision raised concerns during the donor Oversight Committee
meetings. At project closing, the construction of the building was only 31% complete
with a shortage of funds of US$4.2 million to complete the building due to poor analysis
of the scope of works by the supervision consultants and inability of the PS to provide
them with timely and appropriate guidance.
44.   Financial Management. FM and institutional systems were assessed as weak.
Overall FM risk is rated as high but moderate in reality because of the mitigating
measures that were put in place, which included: (i) monitoring the actual expenditures
by a Monitoring Agent; (ii) assigning the responsibility over accounting systems to the
Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) established for the MDTF-SS, under the
MoFEP; and (iii) selecting an External Audit Agent (EAA) to provide independent
assessment of financial statements. All Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) and the audit
report for the Financial Years 2010 and 2011 were prepared and submitted on time.
Mitigating measures were implemented and contributed to the moderately satisfactory
rating of the FM aspect of the project.
45.   A FMS was engaged by the PCU with the responsibility to carry out basic
accounting and financial monitoring of the three Components. The FMS's most important
task was the monitoring of the accounts of 108 CBO grantees. This was most challenging
given his reluctance to travel to the States until the very end. Of the 108 sub-projects,
four were found to have misused the first tranche release. As a result, all subsequent
tranches were reallocated to better-performing sub-projects and the four grantees were
required to account for the funds.
46.   The project's FM is Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, the FM system in place
is adequate. Out of the allocated amount of US$10,546,795, total disbursement stood at
$8,999,899 (85%) at closing. There are still concerns regarding accountability of the
grants to CBOs. The first tranche for 95 of the 108 beneficiaries and the second tranche
for 47 have been accounted for. Out of the total of US$3,860,408 for sub-grants released
to beneficiaries, US$579,966 (15%) remains to be accounted for. The Bank issued a
memo in April 2013 to MGCSW requesting documentation for the missing funds.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
47.   The project is not expected to continue into a next phase. However, it has
contributed immensely in: (i) creating and training a pool of women CBOs that have the
potential of becoming partners or conduits of future development assistance; (ii)
developing experienced State-level actors at the Ministry of Social Development and
staff at the National level to continuously play a role in providing technical assistance and
support to CBOs; and (iii) an improved policy environment to advance the status of
women.
48.   Several development partners and commercial banks are expressing interest in
continuing to support well-performing CBOs. These include a planned project from the
10


﻿Government of the Netherlands for continued support to agriculture-based livelihood
projects in Jonglei State, among others, as well as the provision of credit by a number of
banks to women CBOs. A sizeable number of CBOs (44) are also continuing their
operations and expanding them with revenues generated from the grants.
Table 1. Project inputs and functional sub-projects
Item       No. ofprojects     Quantity  functional  Percentage
Beehives                 5             345          275        80%
Fishponds                2              2            0          0%
Goats                    2             210          195        93%
Grinding machines        8              19           12        63%
Hand-dug wells           5              11           10        91%
Ovens                    2              8            8         100%
Sewing machines          8             104           79        76%
Water pumps              25             41           32        78%
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
49.    Project objectives, design and implementation remain highly relevant to the
development priorities of GoSS, and priorities under the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) of
the Bank. Addressing gender imbalances is among the priorities of the ISN. The design of
the project provided support in the analysis of gender issues in the country and helped the
Government develop and implement policies and programs through sub-projects and
analytical work. Despite perceived improvements in the economic situation of women
and increased capacity for policy formulation and implementation by MGCSW, much
still needs to be done to address gender inequalities. Recent data released by the National
Bureau of Statistics (2009) show that more than half of the country continues to live
below the poverty line. There are significantly more women than men who are poor. The
literacy rate for women is 28%, compared to 55% for men. MGCSW is a new
government institution with limited capacity to effectively discharge its responsibilities; it
will require continued support to deliver on its mandate.
50.    The design of the project remains relevant, given the need to continuously provide
support to sub-projects and strengthen institutions. The project sought to provide
immediate peace dividends to vulnerable women and pursued longer-term impacts by
building the capacity of the Ministry, thereby allowing it to deliver on its mandate. The
dual objectives of the project were achieved using the most reasonable means of doing so,
in spite of the weak institutional capacity and challenges of a post-conflict environment.
Four factors influenced the project design: (i) the project built on the experience of
MGCSW in providing similar economic empowerment programs; although limited and
small in comparison to the project, the former economic empowerment project was the
only program that provided similar services to conflict-affected women; (ii) the project
utilized MGCSW's ties, i.e., its proximity to women's networks, as channels for
delivering grants and training and ensuring sub-project implementation; (iii) the project
11


﻿sought to build the capacity of the Ministry that will most likely support other similar
future activities; and (iv) the project used existing mechanisms and structures at the
Ministry and State level (focal persons) instead of establishing parallel delivery systems.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
51.    The project development objective "to achieve immediate peace dividends for
targeted women in South Sudan " was surpassed. The target was set at "20% of target
women perceiving an increase in income." As of the closing of the project, 40% of target
perceived an increase in income. The choice of perception to measure achievement over
other indicators was due to the absence of data and the difficulty of collecting them. All
intermediate outcome indicators were either met or surpassed (Annex 2). Indicators were
measured based on beneficiary surveys, supplemented and verified by site visits and
interviews with focal persons, chairpersons and project staff.
52.   Improved access to economic opportunities. The infusion of resources and
training expanded economic activities for women beneficiaries. Under Component 1, 108
sub-projects from the 10 States were financed, benefiting some 7,134 women. Half of the
sub-projects (54) funded agricultural activities of clearing fields and planting produce for
consumption by members and/or sale to the markets, and 2,366 women reported increase
in yields or harvests. Another 54 sub-projects engaged in non-agricultural activities such
as tailoring, livestock-raising and business start-up, expanding the skills and opportunities
of beneficiaries to non-traditional income-generating activities. All sub-projects involved
some kind of training in agricultural technology or non-farm skills. More than 3,000
women participated in agricultural and non-farm sub-project training, providing them
with the skills to engage in expansion or future projects. Table 2 presents a breakdown of
sub-projects.
Table 2. Projects, by type of primary activity
Sector                        Activities                  Number of projects
Agriculture        Purchase of tools, seeds, water pumps and           54
provision of training
Tailoring          Extensive training and member assistance in          9
establishing markets
Livestock          Goat rearing, poultry raising and fish farming       9
Business start-up  Start- up of small-scale businesses                  7
Trading            Retail activities, including clothes boutiques and   6
grocery store
Grinding machine   Provision of portable machines or large machines     6
at a central location
Bricks             Brick making, typically mud stacked and burned       4
using firewood.
Hotel              Establishing a hotel                                 4
Variety            Projects with more than one primary activity         4
Beekeeping         Installation of honey bee hives to collect honey     3
Processing         Processing lulu nuts bought from the community to    2
make oil and soap especially
12


﻿Total                                                            108
53.   Supporting the development of gender policy. MGCSW   was supported in
developing a National Gender Policy and strategies. Under Component 3, the project
finalized the CGA. The CGA was critical in enhancing the gender framework initially
presented by MGCSW to the Council of Ministers and the Legislative Assembly in 2008.
Final approval of the 2008 Gender Policy was delayed due to lack of evidence-based
recommendations, but the findings and recommendations of the CGA provided the basis
for updating the existing Gender Policy Framework draft into a National Gender Policy
for approval by the Legislature.
54.   The project's contribution to the improvement of the policy environment and
institutional capacity of MGCSW has been well received. The capacity building training
was completed for 45 officials. MGCSW has adopted the three modules of training
manuals as its standard training material for all future training on gender mainstreaming.
The training program also provided a strong foundation for follow up trainings that were
provided to the Ministry staff at the National and States levels. The training manuals are
currently being used by the States to conduct training for other staff on various
administrative and gender mainstreaming themes.
55.   Under Component 2, interim office spaces and furniture were provided. This
allowed the Ministry to function during the project while the building is under
construction. Interim office spaces remain usable and still serve as temporary offices of
the Ministry.
56.   The Ministry building remains incomplete upon project closing due to delays in
procurement. The work progressed very slowly, although an international civil engineer
was appointed to monitor work progress on September 27, 2012. The response of the
contractors to suggestions made has been slow. MGCSW observed that the performance
of the Supervising Engineer had been unsatisfactory for a number of reasons: (i)
inaccurate bill of quantities, (ii) incomplete design - absence of mechanical drawings;
and (iii) lack of information to the client on quantities of materials based on actual
measurement.
3.3 Efficiency
57.   Given the emergency nature of the operation and the absence of data and
information, no detailed economic analysis was conducted during preparation. However,
the MDTF-SS Monitoring Agent carried out a value for money assessment in October
2012 on a number of activities to determine whether they meet the three measures of
economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
58.   Value for Money (VfM) Assessment. Activities assessed were the construction
of the Ministry building and the purchase of motorcycles for the 10 State Focal Persons.
The assessment concluded that the overall VfM performance for the construction is
partially achieved but fully achieved for the purchase of motorcycles. The VfM assessed
13


﻿both financial management and procurement arrangements as good. However, the study
raised issues about the failure of the Ministry to provide adequate counterpart staff to be
trained in FM and procurement to ensure transfer of skills. The conclusions of the VfM
study are presented in Annex 3.
59.   The contribution in improving livelihoods, increasing incomes and strengthening
capacities of women CBOs has served to catalyze support from other donors and the
private sector. Commercial banks (Equity Bank and the Kenya Commercial Bank) are
looking into providing credit to women CBOs; bilateral and multilateral donors and the
Ministry of Agriculture are targeting the provision of agricultural inputs to three CBOs in
Jonglei State. Building on the gains from the project, ensuring better linkages and
systematizing learning and feedback with other agencies can further maximize impacts.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.
60.   The project was successful in achieving its PDO the way it was stated "...
provision of: (a) improvements in the existing economic opportunities and (b) support to
the Ministry of Gender to develop gender policies and strategies." However, the second
Component, which was not reflected in the PDO, was not completed and hence the
overall rating as MU. The contributions in terms of livelihoods, perceived increase in
incomes and improved capacities of women CBOs and the Ministry, have served to
catalyze support from other donors and the private sector. Other activities under
Component 2 such as the provision of interim office space and equipment were achieved
in a satisfactory manner. The VfM has assessed the project as partially efficient for
reasons already stated above.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
61.   The project provided support to 7,134 poor women in 108 CBOs, training them in
income generating skills and further enhancing the likelihood of improving their incomes.
Sub-projects generated revenues, which were either reinvested or distributed to members.
Interviews with beneficiaries indicated that the project increased household food security,
contributed to time savings in fetching water, and increased household incomes to
improve school participation, improved shelter and household health.
62.   Gender Aspects. The project focused on the provision of assistance to women's
organizations and CBOs. The project also contributed to the development of a national
gender policy that will be translated into an action plan to reduce gender inequalities and
improve opportunities for women.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
63.   The project contributed significantly to the policy environment and building of
the capacity of MGCSW and women CBOs. Forty-five officials from the National and
State level Ministries were trained in gender mainstreaming and project management.
14


﻿Three modules of training manuals were developed, providing materials for future
follow-on training. The CGA and various institutional capacity building activities have
become anchors of the Ministry's reorganization effort, strategy and program
development. Policy support has also contributed to the growing number of analytical
work to support gender policies and programs in the country.
64.   Component 1 resulted in 3,300 women receiving training in agriculture and non-
farm skills and technologies. Hands-on experience in managing small projects also
created a pool of women CBOs where future support can be channeled.
65.   The project fielded specialists in FM, procurement and M&E to support project
implementation and provide a learning opportunity for MGCSW staff. To make this
happen, a twinning arrangement where Ministry staff would be paired with the specialists
was agreed to but not realized. Only one M&E staff remains active in the project.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
66.   A number of sub-projects have gone beyond intended outcomes: vegetables
produced from farms in Unity State are being transported to the markets of Warrap;
revenues from renting out stalls are being used as social assistance grants by a CBO
engaged in assisting vision-impaired women; the same CBO was able to set up a health
clinic for its members from proceeds of the grant; a tailoring project secured a supply
contract from local schools. The Ministry has developed a Social Protection Policy as an
outcome of the CGA. These outcomes point to the establishment of a pool of women
CBOs that are more self-reliant and capable of handling future projects.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
67.   During Appraisal (March 10-11, 2009), MGCSW, in collaboration with UNIFEM,
organized a multi-stakeholder workshop in Juba to finalize the design of the Economic
Empowerment for Women Component of GSDP. The objective was to identify key
criteria to guide the development and design of sub-projects to be financed under this
Component. Key topics included clarification of the criteria for sub-project activities,
targeted localities, and intended beneficiaries; criteria for potential implementing
partners; mechanisms for soliciting proposals; composition and responsibilities of the
selection committee, and the responsibilities of State and National level Ministries.
Working groups and associated subtopics were divided into the following three groups:
* Group 1 - Implementing agency criteria and capacity needs
* Group 2 - Identification of target localities and the role of the Ministry of Gender
* Group 3 - Sub-project criteria and sub-project selection processes.
Final results presented by each working group signify a collective body of
recommendations and informed the final design of Component 1 and the development of
GSDP Operations Manual.
15


﻿4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
68.   Continuing security risks, lack of skilled personnel and the recent austerity
measures threaten the sustainability of development outcomes. The country level risk is
expected to remain high as the security situation worsened, due to rising criminality,
conflict in the border areas among ethnic groups. This affects the ability of CBOs to
continue sub-project operations and of MGCSW to monitor and provide technical support.
The recent austerity measures adopted by GoSS caused significant budget cuts for all
agencies. MGCSW operates on a budget that can support only personnel and mandatory
expenditures for maintenance. Without program or project funds, the Ministry will rely
on other government agencies and donors as potential sources of funds. Capacity and
personnel constraints continue to be a risk for sustaining gains. While the foundations of
a stronger agency have been set in place, much needs to be done to translate interventions
into a robust policy environment for women's empowerment.
69.   Strong ownership of the outcome of the project by MGCSW and the existence of
better equipped and experienced women CBOs and network are expected to temper the
risks. The CGA contains a substantial body of information on key development issues on
gender. There is reasonable expectation that the leadership of the Ministry will move this
work forward, given the ongoing revision of the national framework and continued
engagement of National and State Agencies in gender mainstreaming initiatives.
Successful and mature CBOs have increased demand for similar government programs to
support women in economic empowerment. The interest of other donors and Government
agencies in a number of these CBOs is an indication of the improved number of qualified
women's groups, capable of undertaking similar projects.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
70.   The project design was appropriate given the situation and development priorities
of GoSS at Appraisal. Response to the women's dire economic situation was among
GoSS' key priorities. The role forced upon women by the conflict, as key providers in a
high potential but low developed agricultural sector, dictated the provision of economic
opportunities to poor women CBOs. The absence of information to address gender
concerns and the overall weak capacity in the country informed the institutional building
Component.
71.   The design provided arrangements to ensure fiduciary compliance during
implementation. Assistance provided by international consultants ensured that the
project's financial, procurement and M&E systems were adequate. Assurances from the
Ministry of Housing were relied on in moving forward with the construction Component.
16


﻿All activities under the project, except for the building construction, were completed. The
project extensions secured were primarily to complete the construction activity. The
project, however, took advantage of these extensions to provide additional funds to best
performing CBOs for expansion of ongoing sub-projects.
72.   A shortcoming at project preparation was the short period within which the
construction Component was to be completed (10 months, shortened to 7 due to
procurement delays). In addition, constraints in constructing any type of physical
structures in South Sudan (i.e., low public sector capacity, lack of private sector
construction capacity, procurement and other fiduciary issues) affected cost escalations.
Despite assurances from the Ministry of Housing and internal and external pressure, the
situation on the ground was sufficient basis for removing the construction Component or
assigning the same to another agency. The extensive geographic coverage is also a
shortcoming and could have been phased in, overstretching the ability of a nascent
Ministry with no capacity.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
73.   Regular supervision was done by the Team Leader supported by a country-based
task team. The team provided hands-on support to the PCU during project
implementation. It also provided significant support to the project on all Components
with particular attention to Component 1 and the procurement of studies and contractors
for the building construction. Aide-memoires from Bank supervision highlighted key
accomplishments and called the attention of the Ministry and Bank management to key
issues and follow-up actions by both the Client and the Bank. Among these issues were
the challenges in undertaking monitoring and reporting of sub-project grants; delays in
the procurement of CGA studies; and delays in procurement and supervision by the
building contractor.
74.   The Bank team played a particularly critical role during the MTR by reviewing
and revising the RF, together with the Government and putting in place corrective actions
to support the reporting of CBOs. While Component I was progressing well at the time
of the MTR, intensive monitoring and additional site visits were agreed with the PCU to
provide assistance to CBOs in completing key documents and in linking them to other
Government agencies for additional support. The linkage with State agencies was to
serve as a mechanism for transitioning CBOs to more regular support from different
agencies. Among the agencies tapped for technical support to CBOs were the agriculture
and livestock agencies.
75.   Other relevant interventions by the Bank team led to the replacement of the
Government's lead for the CGA and the development of an M&E framework with the
new M&E consultant.
76.   The project was extended twice to complete all activities, especially for
Component 2. Additional financing was provided under the second restructuring for the
added costs incurred for the building construction brought about by inflation, inaccurate
17


﻿bill of quantities and delays in the work of contractors. The issue of non-completion of
the Ministry building was brought to the attention of Bank management and MGCSW
during the MTR and in the last ISR, advising the Ministry to seek additional sources of
funds to complete the building.
(c) Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
77.   Government's commitment to the project is a reflection of its commitment to the
JAM and its priorities, one of which is to address the dismal status of women through
policy action and directed programs for economic empowerment. The PCU was
established and staffed by a project coordinator, office assistant and three international
consultants. While MGCSW was tasked to implement the project, other government
agencies, such as the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Housing provided support.
78.   The Government established a PFMU in the Ministry of Finance to handle the
financial aspects of the project, including the filing of withdrawal applications,
reimbursements and financial reporting. PFMU has, by and large, performed this function
well. Other line Ministries (Agriculture, Animal Resources) provided technical support to
CBOs to maximize their production and income generating potential. States also provided
support through the Ministries of Social Development, whose staff acted as focal persons
for the project. States' involvement was however limited to the focal persons. The
Ministry of Housing played a key role in the construction Component. Delays in the
approval of the design and bid documents however became the major cause for the non-
completion of the building.
(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
79.   MGCSW (through the PCU) implemented the project. It appointed counterpart
staff to the project and named two of its Directors-General (DG FA&P as coordinator,
and DG Gender) to lead the implementation and closely collaborate with the Bank in the
implementation of the project. The DG FA&P was actively involved in the day-to-day
operations of the project and was highly committed. The DG Gender was however less
engaged, resulting in a request in the second supervision mission to name a replacement,
given that CGA was a critical aspect of the project. The replacement was effective before
the MTR.
80.   Overdependence on External Consultants. While a number of staff were assigned
to work with counterpart specialists in a twinning arrangement, their involvement was
unsatisfactory. The exception to this is the project officer assigned to undertake M&E.
The capacity build-up expected from the twinning arrangement between specialists and
MGCSW staff did not take place and the transfer of knowledge, particularly on FM,
18


﻿procurement and training was negligible. Tasks on monitoring the financial compliance
of CBOs and their performance have now been left to the DG FA&P and one project
officer. Staff assigned to the project have returned to their previous units with no ongoing
role in the project.
81.   Monitoring of sub-projects and management of contracts have been challenging
from the start. Information was generated through interviews, phone calls and monitoring
visits. However, after the closing, with financial reports still pending, and consultancies
already terminated, collection of information and submission of key reports has slowed
down.
82.   CBOs played an important role in implementing Component 1. At least one-half
of CBOs performed well, distributing revenues to their members and providing training
to women's groups. They have also been channels for capacity building activities for
members and their communities.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
83.   The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.
The limited role played by the States and the failure to provide oversight to the
construction Component and meet reporting requirements for the sub-projects diminished
the good performance by the Ministry of Finance in managing the financial aspect of the
project. The failure of MGCSW to provide competent and responsive staff and
counterpart officials necessitated a replacement at project mid-term. While a good
number of CBOs performed adequately, a number of them still have to comply with
reporting requirements, especially for the funds received.
6. Lessons Learned
84.   In a setting such as South Sudan, with extremely weak institutional capacity,
continuing post-conflict insecurity and serious accessibility challenges due to the lack
of infrastructure, project teams and Bank management should resist government
pressures to provide nationwide coverage. This is not easy to do since governments will
often feel it is a nation-building imperative to reach all States, but teams should insist on
a smaller scale and more focused set of project activities, which can better draw lessons
for future expansion of coverage and scope. In some cases, and where there are good
prospects for follow-on projects, teams should argue for a phased approach which can
start small and allow the line Ministry and implementing partners to gain experience,
before scaling up in subsequent phases. Where there are uncertain prospects for
additional project phases, an option would be to engage early on in project design with
donors who would be interested in scaling up the project approach once the Bank project
ends.
19


﻿85.   Ensuring the buy-in of state authorities is a challenge when they are
considerably weaker than central institutions and the project or parallel donor
activities do not include tangible incentives for their participation and leadership.
Although the project aimed to involve State officials in implementation support and
monitoring, and included training officials in gender mainstreaming and project
administration, State involvement was limited to State focal points who were provided
with monetary incentives to undertake project-related activities. In a typical fragile and
post-conflict setting, where there is an urgent need to build the state from scratch, local
governments will be extremely weak, far more than whatever incipient capacity is being
built at the center. Although aiming for local-level involvement and ownership of a
project is a laudable objective, project design needs to recognize that this may be
unrealistic unless administrations at the state level are provided direct incentives to take
an active role.
86.   In such a low-capacity environment as South Sudan, Bank management should
not give in to pressure to meet completely unrealistic physical construction timetables.
In the case of this project, despite strong reservations by the Task Team, Management
agreed to pressure from the Government and donors to include construction of the
Ministry building over a 10-month period. At the time the project was prepared the Bank
and donors should have been well aware of the country constraints in constructing any
type of physical structures (i.e., low public sector capacity, lack of private sector
construction capacity, procurement and other fiduciary issues) and the effect these
constraints had on cost escalations. As it happened, procurement delays further reduced
the already unrealistic construction schedule to 7.5 months. Although it may have been
expedient in the short-run for the Bank to bend to donor and government pressure to
accept inclusion of the Ministry building Component-in a project which should have
been focused above all in women's empowerment and livelihoods-and at the same time
accept an unrealistic construction schedule, the almost inevitable delay which led to an
unfinished building by project end, resulted in a heavy longer-term reputational cost for
the Bank.
87.   Capacity cannot be built with one three-year project-in any setting, but
especially in a new country such as South Sudan where donors are starting almost
from scratch and capacity needs to be cross-sectoral and imbedded in a new Ministry.
Although availability of MDTF funding constrained the ability of the Bank to design a
longer-term effort to build gender capacity in the new country and to continue to support
effective women's groups, as a minimum the Bank should have sought partnerships with
other donors that could have committed to support the project's early capacity building
efforts over a longer time horizon. To the extent possible, and given that donors (who
funded the MDTF) wanted the Ministry building included, Bank management could have
made agreement to take on this project contingent on a structured partnership with a
donor(s) already, or planning to be, active in supporting longer-term gender efforts in
South Sudan.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
20


﻿(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
N/A
(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g., NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A
21


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Components           Original Cost    Revised Cost      Difference
(USD millions)  (USD millions)
Component 1: Economic
4.04.00                      0.00
Empowerment of Women
Component 2: Construction of           310             3.646           0.546
Ministry Building
Component 3: Institutional             2.90             2.90            0.00
Development
Total Project Costs          10.00          10.546            0.546
(b) Financing
Appraisal Actual/Latest
Type of    Estimate    Estimate  Percentage of
Cofinancing   (USD        (USD      Appraisal
millions)   millions)
Trust Funds                              0.00        0.00
Multi-donor Trust Fund for South          10.00      0.00        00
Sudan
22


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Project Development       Project              Baseline                        Target                 Actual            ICR Remarks
Objective          Outcome                                                                      Output
Indicators        At         Revised at     At Appraisal    Revised at
Appraisal         MTR                            MTR
Achieve immediate peace  %       of tat  N/A         7,634           N / A          20%(1,527)      40% of 7,134   Final number of women
dividends for targeted                                                                              or 2,854       benefitting from the project is
women who7,3
women in Southern                                                                                                  7,134
Sudan, through the       perceive an
mecrease mn
provision of: (a)       increas i
improvements in access to  ie   aa
economic   result of
the existing economic    project
opportunities and (b)    iret
support to the Ministry of
Gender to develop gender
policies and strategies.
23


﻿Component 1: Economic Empowerment of Women
Baseline                Target
Intermediate Results   Intermediate Results Indicators      At       Revised        At       Revised   Actual Output     ICR Remarks
Appraisal    at MTR    Appraisal    at MTR
Perceived improvements  1.    20% of target women       N / A        7,634      N / A        1,527     40% of 7,134 or  Final number of
in income status of    perceive an increase in income as a                                             (2,854)          women benefitting
targeted women        result of project interventions                                                                   from the project is
Improved access to and  2.    20% of target women       N/A          7,364      N/A          1,527     18% of 7,134     7,134 based on
knowledge of non-farm  receiving training in non-farm                                                  (1,267)          proposals submitted,
activities and        income generating activities                                                                      interviews with
technologies                                                                                                            CBOs, focal persons
Enhanced access to and  3.    30% of target women       N / A        7,364      N / A        2,290     29% of 7,134    and chairpersons of
knowledge of           receiving training in agricultural                                              (2,037)          women's
agricultural inputs and  production activities                                                                          organizations and
technologies           4. 30% of target women utilizing at  N / A    7,364      N / A        2,290     29% of 7,134     monitoring visits
least one new agricultural production                                           (2,037)
technology or practice due to project
interventions
5. 20% of target women who       N/A           7,364     N/A          1,527     33% of 7,134
perceive an increase in crop yields or                                          (2,366)
harvests due to project interventions
Sub-projects are       6. 10% of sub-projects that will  N / A        108      N / A         11        40% of 108 (44)  Number of sub-
sustainable            continue post project closure                                                                    projects only known
activities                                                                                       after approval by the
MGCSW
Increase in collective  7. 10% of women joining         N / A        7,364      N / A        713       28% of 7,134
action in project areas  associations                                                                  (2,000)
8. 10% of collective action among  N / A       No data   N / A        10        500% or 520      Assumes no
women in project sites                                                                           collective action
prior to project for
lack of data
Component 2: Construction of Ministry Building
24


﻿Intermediate        Intermediate Results                Baseline                        Target               Actual      ICR Remarks
Results               Indicators          At Appraisal       Revised at    At Appraisal      Revised      Output
MTR                           at MTR
Improved facilities  9. Interim prefabricated        No            No change          Yes         No change  Installation
for Ministry        buildings, furniture and                                                                  complete
directorates        equipment installed                                                                       and
Ministry
fully
functional
Additional
office
space
rented  to
house other
directorates
10. Construction of new          No           No change           Yes         No change  31%
Ministry building completed                                                               complete
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
Intermediate        Intermediate Results                Baseline                        Target               Actual      ICR Remarks
Results               Indicators          At Appraisal       Revised at    At Appraisal      Revised      Output
MTR                           at MTR
Improved data to    11. Country gender               No            No change     CGA completed    No change   CGA
inform gender       assessment completed                                                                      completed
policies and
strategies
Improved capacity of  12. Completion of capacity     No            No change          Yes         No change   Training
GoSS, State ministry  building training program                                                               completed
staff and CBOs to   13. Number of GoSS and           52            No change           52         No change   41    staff
carry out their     state ministry staff receiving                                                           trained
mandate             training
14. Number of CBO               N / A         No change          N / A        No change  3,304        Sub-project training
participants in project                                                                   participants  are provided by
25


﻿Intermediate       Intermediate Results                Baseline                       Target              Actual      ICR Remarks
Results               Indicators         At Appraisal      Revised at    At Appraisal      Revised     Output
MTR                          at MTR
training                                                                               in agri and  external agencies
non-farm
sub-project
training and
91
participants
in project-
conducted
training
Improved monitoring  15. Number of monitoring      N / A         No change          N / A       No change  8 out of 10  Quarterly reports
of sub-project     reports submitted by                                                                    focal       from CBOs were
implementation      approved sub-projects                                                                  person      replaced by
reports     monitoring reports
submit      from focal persons
quarterly   because of reporting
reports     challenges.
16. Number of supervision      N / A         No change          N / A       No change  PCU         Outbreak       of
visits to approved project                                                             visited  83  violence in some
sites                                                                                  of the 108  states   prevented
sub-        supervision visits.
projects,
some    of
them more
than once.
Effective oversight  17. Number of project staff    0            No change           7          No change  100%    on
of overall project  onboard within 6 months of                                                             board
implementation      effectiveness                                                                          within   6
months
Number of sub-projects         N / A         No change          N / A          94          94      Grants for 14 of the
receiving full disbursement                                                                         108 CBO were
of grants                                                                                          cancelled due to
non-performance.
26


﻿Intermediate       Intermediate Results               Baseline                       Target              Actual      ICR Remarks
Results              Indicators         At Appraisal      Revised at     At Appraisal     Revised     Output
MTR                          at MTR
Number of sub-projects         N / A         No change         N / A          94          94      Based on interviews
complete by 2012                                                                                  with PCU staff
27


﻿Annex 3. Efficiency Related Analyses
VfM performance of the two sampled project activities is presented in Table 2.21.
Activity         VfM             Assessment finding                       VfM
assessment                                               performance
parameter                                                rating
Construction of  Economy         The contract is negligibly beyond the    to
the Ministry                     approved budgeted amount and payments
HQs Building                     made were consistent with contract
provisions. Procurement process was
transparent and competitive.
Efficiency      Activity budgeted for, included in the   2.0
procurement plan but there was delayed
implementation of the activity to achieve
expected outputs
Effectiveness   Activity still on-going and had not      3.o
contributed to achievement of project
objectives and impact to beneficiaries.
Overall VfM performance                  2.0
Senke Bike       Economy         The contract is within the approved budgeted  1.o
150cc 4" Stroke                  amount, and payments consistent with
Motor                            contract provisions. Procurement process was
transparent and competitive.
Efficiency       Activity budgeted for, included in the  2.0
procurement plan, actual outputs matched
expected outputs. However, there were delays
in the distribution of the motorcycles to state
focal persons.
Effectiveness    Activity contributed to achievement of project  .o
objective; activity outputs used for intended
purpose; and impact of the project activity is
improved communication and mobility for
monitoring the activities project beneficiaries
at the state level.
Overall VfM performance                  1.3
1= full achievement, 2= partial achievement, 3=non-achievement
28


﻿Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Unit    Responsibility/
Specialty
[Lending/Grant Preparation
Supervision/ICR
Yasmin Tayyab             Sr. Social Development Specialist AFTCS  Team Leader
Evarist F. Baimu          Senior Counsel                LEGAM Legal
Museme Munira Issa        Gender Specialist             AFTP2    Gender
Akwii Anne Kennox         Team Assistant                AFMJB    Admin Support
Prosper Nindorera         Senior Procurement Specialist  LCSPT   Procurement
Verena Phipps-Ebeler      Social Development Specialist  AFTCS   Social Development
Frederick Yankey          Sr. Financial Management Spec  AFTMW FMS
Helen Mbao Chilupe        Sr. Operations Officer        AFMJB    Operations
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola  Sr. Financial Management Spec  AFTME FMS
Anjani Kumar              Sr. Procurement Specialist    AFTPE    Procurement
Joseph Ellong             Sr. Program Assistant         AFTCS    ICR review
(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (MDTF-SS Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
No. o  a    etravel and consultant costs)
Lending                         ______________________
Total:           32.83                106,518.00
Supervision/ICR
Total:          106.29                370,687.00
29


﻿Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
1.    A stakeholder workshop was conducted in March 2009 in Juba to solicit inputs
for the design of the Economic Empowerment for Women Component of GSDP. The
workshop agenda included: (i) criteria for sub-project selection; (ii) target localities and
beneficiaries; (iii) mechanism for soliciting proposals; and (iv) role of State and GoSS-
level Ministries. GoSS National and State level Ministry representatives (Ministries of
Gender Children and Social Welfare, Animal Resources and Fisheries, Water Resources,
Agriculture and Forestry, Cooperative and Rural Development and Finance) attended the
workshop. The results of the workshop were incorporated in the final Operations Manual
of the project.
2.  Criteria for Beneficiary Selection. Participants suggested several criteria for
selection of grantees, including: registration with local or State authorities; functioning
governance structure and sufficient number of staff; absence of potential conflict of
interest; experience working in post-conflict environments; physical presence in the
selected localities; existence and maintenance of a bank account. The suggested criteria
were however relaxed and made flexible owing to the low capacity of CBOs in the
country, allowing applicants to form associations that collectively may maintain the
governance and institutional capacity required to implement sub-projects.
3.     Sub-project Selection. Key activities for funding included existing or on-going
production activities (e.g., cultivation of crops such as ground nuts, sorghum and assorted
vegetables). Considerations for selection included market accessibility, road accessibility,
market demand, availability of resources (such as livestock), technology and
infrastructure, availability of arable land and the ability of community groups and
implementing partners to manage risks at county, Payam and Boma levels.
4.     Target Areas. Workshop participants recommended that projects be implemented
at the Payam level, with final selection of localities to be determined through consultative
processes involving Payam and Boma representatives, to ensure that stakeholders and
beneficiaries are involved in decision-making and planning at all levels of the program.
5.     Role of MGCSW. The Ministry shall be responsible for policy guidance and will
have oversight responsibilities for sub-project implementation. States shall be free to run
their own affairs. The Ministry needs to hire a number of new staff, including a GoSS-
level project officer to be responsible for overall supervision of sub-project
implementation, inspection officers, and state-level project officers was also
recommended.
6.     Application and Selection Process. Calls for proposals will be issued by
MGCSW and disseminated through multiple channels including: electronic and print
media at the local and national levels, NGOs and CBOs and associated networks, and
women's groups and associations. A selection committee tasked to accept, reject or
shortlist proposals, shall comprise state-level representatives, GoSS-level representatives
or a combination of the two.
30


﻿Annex 6. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
The Government of South Sudan, through the Ministry of Gender, Children and Welfare
assessed the overall outcome of the project as successful. Despite the non-completion of
the Ministry building, the project generated positive impacts that were deemed to
contribute to the longer-term agenda of women's empowerment.
Component 1, Economic Empowerment of Women, has successfully improved the
economic status of a considerable number of targeted women. It provided beneficiaries
with increased income, training, opportunities to use new agriculture technologies in their
day-to-day livelihood activities, and increased crop yield. These gains have, in turn,
provided financial cushion that resulted in improved household resilience to external
shocks, increased food security, improved health and education.
Component 2, Construction of the Ministry Building, suffered major setbacks and was
not completed. The Government attributed the failure to the unrealistic work plan, failure
to conduct rigorous and regular supervision by the construction supervision contractor
and delays in addressing issues timely and adequately by the contractors.
Component 3, Institutional Capacity Development, was assessed as largely successful.
The Comprehensive Country Gender Assessment (CGA) presented a formidable body of
statistics and data on key development issues that affect gender equality in South Sudan.
It provided focused strategies to the Ministry of Gender for gender mainstreaming. It also
showcased several comparative best practices for coping with these issues.
While policies and strategies for women still remain incomplete, pending a review by the
legislature, the CGA represents a successful first step towards creating focused strategies
for successful gender mainstreaming in South Sudan. The training provided under the
project improved the capacity of the ministry in delivering services to its constituencies
and leading in the mainstreaming of gender concerns in other agencies of government.
The ministry has coordinated project management effectively, and staff have been
assigned to manage the day-to-day activities under the project.
Key Lessons Learned and Implementation Challenges
The government has identified a number of learning from the implementation of the
project that can improve its management of similar projects in the future:
1. Smaller scale and focused coverage. A smaller scale start, scaling up to all the 10
States, upon proof of success, would be a better pacing, given the limited capacity to
implement and monitor 108 sub-projects throughout the entire project cycle.
2. Simpler and more limited sub-projects, or those where target groups already have
some experience, such as agriculture activities could have resulted in better returns, by
31


﻿not straining the capacity of the intended beneficiaries and markets for raw materials and
produce.
3. A longer project completion period is needed for a low capacity environment, to allow
for a slower build-up of capacity. For the economic empowerment component, longer
duration can allow for learning from previous sub-projects to feed into succeeding ones.
The compression of the construction period dramatically reduced the probability that the
headquarters would be completed.
4. Stronger provisions in MOU with beneficiaries can help ensure compliance. The
MOU does not clearly specify the obligations of beneficiaries and sanctions for non-
compliance. Strengthening this can increase the accountability for sub-project funds.
5. Simplifying the Operations Manual for Component I can increase understanding of
beneficiaries and empower them more.
32


﻿28°                         30°                         32TE   To                  34E
This map -as produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                        Khrto
The houndaries, colors, denominfions and ony other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, noy judgment on the legal status of noy territory, or ony
endorsement or occeptance of such boundaries.                                                                                  Renk
SUDAN
0     50    100   150 Kilometers
_______________TO                                                                                                TO
K-dugh                                          lEd Dorzin
0         50        100       150 Miles
SOUTH
To              TO                                                                                             SUDAN
Nyala          Babanusa
Paloich
Bahr el TArab
0N   Nycka                                                                                                             UPPE R NILE                                          1
...y |       ABYE1                               .-               o k
NORTH HRN                                      rGaa               Malakal
B HR ELB-
GHÅZAL
.jAr                       UNITY                                                                  ETHIOPIA
Nasser
RagaMeha
WSTtERN Warrap Waat
8e                       BAHR El'GHAZAL                                 WARRA                                                                                                     8*N
WauAoo
JONGLEI
CENtRAL                               ILAKES                                                    Shamb6e~
AFR1CAN                                                                         R
REPOUBLIC
'Bor
6-N
SOUTH SUDAN                                                                                                  CENTRAL
Djema  LYuu                  WESTERNEATR
EQUATORIA                           EQUATORIA                  EQUATORIA
o    CITIES AND TOWNS5N
e    STATE CAPITALS                                                .           Maridi                         JUBA                        Kapoeta
®     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                    Torit
0 i t o                                 9
RIVERS                                                                                                                                                  KENYA
D.R. OF CONGO                                                               Kinyeti
MAIN ROADS                                                                         N.     Ybi                       (3787 m) A                                           4N
RAILROADS                                                                                        - .                  . ..-    .
STATE BOUNDARIES                                     Nr                                                            UGo
n ) 0
- - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
230                                                      32°


