Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/v -, CE/5 - CR
Report No. P-3985-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 3.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
March 5, 19&5
r This document !xas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Colon (C)
About 1 percent of transactions are conducted at the official excharge rate of
Colon 20 per US$1.00. All other transactions are conducted at the interbank
rate which was Colon 48.70 per US$1.00, as of March 1, 1985.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCCR    -  Banco Central de Costa Rica
(Central Bank of Costa Rica)
CACM    -  Central American Common Market
CAT     -  Certificado de Abono Tributario
(Export Tax Credit Certificate)
CCSS    -  Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social
(Costa Rican Social Security Fund)
CENPRO  -  Centro para la Promocion de las Exportaciones y de las Inversiones
(Export and Investment Promotion Center)
CIEX    -  Certificado de Incremento de las Exportaciones
(Certificate of Increase in Exports)
CINDE   -  Coalicion Costarricense de Iniciativas de Desarrollo
(Costa Rican Coalition for Development Initiatives)
CNP     -  Consejo Nacional de Produccion (National Production Council)
CODESA  -  Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollc
(Costa Rican Development Corporation)
FECOSA  -  Ferrocarriles de Costa Rica (Costa Rican Railways)
FOPEX   -  Fondo para el Financiamiento de las Exportaciones
(Export Financirg Fund)
ICAA    -  Instituto Costarricense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
(Costa Rican Institute for Water and Sewerage)
ICE     -  Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad
(Costa Rican Electricity Institute)
INS     -  Instituto Nacional de Seguros
(National Institute of Insurance)
OPE     -  Office of Project Execution (UNDP)
RECOPE  -  Refineria Costarricense de Petroleo
(State Refinery)
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development



OR OMCAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Costa Rica.
Loan Amount:        lUSS 3.5 million eauivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Description:         The proposed loan would support the proposed Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) to Costa Rica, which is being
submitted concurrentlv. Its purpose is to assist the
Government in implementing the Structural Adlustment Program
by providing essential information and analysis for
decision-making in key areas, and helping prepare specific
action programs to achieve program objectives In key areas
of the economy.  Specifically, the Droposed loan would
finance about 230 man-months of consttltant services to
prepare studies or provide institutional support in the
following areas: (a) improvement of budget preparation 'nd
management; (b) reshaping of CODESA's activities; (c)
strengthening of public sector investment planning and
macro-econorqic analysis; (d) analysis of social security and
health financing; (e) strengthening of the policy framework
in agriculture; (f) modernization of the national banking
system; (g) strengthening tax and ctstoms administration;
(h) improving the cost-effectiveness of education
expenditures; (i) analvsis of salarv structure and
incentives in the public sector; and (1) analysis of tariff
reform impact on industrial sub-sectors.
Renefits
and Risks:         The technical assistance to he provided is designed to
support imaplementation of the Government's Structural
Adjustment Progran, both in carrying out policy actions and
programs already agreed, as well as in preparing the way for
additional reforms in key areas.
The princinal risks derive from possible delays in the
appointment of consultants which could jeopardize timely
implementation. To minimize this risk, agreement has been
reached on specific steps to accelerate appointment of
consultants, including appointment of a contracting agent.
There is also a risk that the recommendations of the studies
may not be implemented fully or in a timely fashion, given
the political nature of some of the issues being addressed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance or
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
However, satisfactory progress in carrying out the technical
assistance progrsm would be a condition for release of the
second tranche of the proposed SAL. Moreover,
implementation of recommendations and specific action
programs would be closely monitored in continuing policy
discussions between the Bank and the Government in the
context of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program.
Estimated Costs:                                        Local   Foreign   Total 1/
(US$ Thousand) -
Budget Preparation
and Administration               90        300       390
CODESA                              75       250       325
Investment Planning                 30       110       140
Social Security and Health         105       350       455
Agriculture Pricing
and Export Development           165       550       715
Banking System Modernization        60       200       260
Tax and Customs Administration    36         120       156
Cost-Effectiveness in Education  90          300       390
Public Sector Compensation          20        60        80
Analysis of Tariff Reform           20         80      100
Project Management                 250       530       780
Equipment and Supplies              45       150       195
Further Technical Assistance
Related to the Structural
Adjustment Program                75       250       325
Subtotal                   1,061      3,250    4,311
Price Contingencies           80        250       330
TOTAL                      1,141      3,500    4,641
1/ The project would be exempt from taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                         Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ Million) --
Bank                                         3.5        3.5
Government                          1.1       -         1.1
TOTAL                         1.1       3.5        4.6
Estimated
Disbursements:
--  (USS Million) --
Bank Fiscal Year                     1985     1986    1987
Annual                              .5      2.2      0.8
Cumulative                          .5      2.7      3.5
Rate of Return:      n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:
None.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Technical Assistance Loan to the Republic of Costa Rica for the equivalent of
US$3.5 million, in support of its Structural Adjustment Program. The loan would
have a tenr of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
I. THE ECONOMY1/
2.        An economic report entitled, "Costa Rica--Current Economic Position
and Prospects" (No. 3193-CR) and a special report entitled "Costa Rica: Trade
Incentives and Export Diversification" (No. 3195-CR) were distributed to the
Executive Directors on November 3 and 5, 1980, respectively. Since then, Bank
missions have visited Costa Rica frequently, and detailed economic work has been
undertaken in connection with preparation of the proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan. The main findings of these missions are summarized below.  Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
A. Background
3.        Costa Rica's economy relies largely on exports of agricultural
commodities (about two-thirds of total exports), and is heavily dependent on
imports of intermediate and capital goods, as well as some essential food items
(especially wheat). This dependence on commodity exports makes the economy
vulnerable to sharp fluctuations in the terms of trade. As a result, GDP
growth, the balance of payments, and the country's fiscal position are subject
to frequent crises. Despite this, the long-term growth performance has been
satisfactory, with Costa Rica enjoying growth rates of close to 6 percent a year
during the 609 and 70s. Both agriculture and industry played important roles in
this expansion, with agriculture growing at an average 4.2 percent per annum and
industry at 8.8 percent per annum. Coffee, the main export crop, benefitted
from a substantial productivity increase; banana production trebled between 1967
and 1973 and became the second export crop. Manufacturing, in particular,
ex-snded from a small base to become one of the largest sectors in the economy
with the strong boost provided by the Central American Common Market (CACM).
4.        Although the country suffered periodic downturns in export prices
during the 1960s and 1970s, these were usually offset by monttary and fiscal
actions focused on temporarily maintaining employment and incomes. Major
devaluations and the application of more careful demand management policies to
restore equilibrium to the balance of payments were in large part avoided
because export prices usually recovered in time.
1/ Parts I and II are essentially the same as Parts I and II in the President's
Report for the Costa Rica Structural Adjustment Loan.



5.        As private sector activities expanded rapidly, the Goverment of this
small (2.4 million population), middle-income country focused mainly on
providing infrastructure and meeting social needs. Economic growth was
accompanied by substantial progress in the health and social sectors; for
example, waterborne diseases were controlled and extensive social welfare
programs and medical care facilities were established, with widespread social
security coverage. The education system also expanded rapidly, with enrollment
ratios reaching about 100 percent for primary education, over 40 percent for
secondary education, and about 20 percent for universities. Consequently, the
country now possesses one of the best educated work forces and most equitable
income distributions in Latin America. These social and economic achievements,
coupled with Costa Rica's strong democratic tradition, have been key factors in
the country's ability to maintain social and political stability, despite the
serious deterioration in the economy and in the overall standard of living that
has taken place since 1980.
B. Economic Developments in the E&rly 1980's
6.        During 1980-82, the Costa Rican economy and finances deteriorated
sharply. GDP grew only 0.8 percent in 1980, and declined by about 2.3 percent
and 7.5 percent in 1981 and 1982, respectively, with real per capita GNP falling
from about US$1,560 in 1979 to about US$1,280 in 1982.2/ Inflation, as
measured by the consumer price index, speeded up from T8 percent in 1980 to
37 percent in 1981, and to 90 percent in 1982. Real average wages declined by
about 30 percent during 1980-82, to less than the 1976 level. Open unemployment
increased from 6 percent in 1980 to 9 percent in 1982.
7.        The slowdown in economic activity resulted in part from the
deterioration in Costa Rica's terms of trade-which began when coffee prices
fell in 1978 and continued when petroleum prices increased in 1979-coupled with
diminishing demand for its exports, particularly in the CACM. However, the main
cause of the crisis was heavy reliance on expansionary demand management
policies. Faced with losses in real income, the Goverrnent initially responded
by expanding public expenditures. The overall deficit of the non-financial
public sector averaged 13 percent of GDP durirg 1979-81, with close to one-half
of this originating with the public enterprises. The Government absorbed
increasing proportions of domestic credit and borrowed heavily abroad to cover
both the fiscal and balance of payments deficits. The debt service burden
climbed accordingly. At the same time as international inflation slowed in
1980-81, domestic prices rose sharply, and the Colon became overvalued. The
Colon exchange rate, fixed at Colon 8.6 per US$1.00 for many years, was finally
allowed to float late in 1980.  Capital flight was massive and a black market
2/ World Bank Atlas Methodology; base 1980-82.



- 3 -
emerged. Both imports and exports contracted and arrears on private payments
grew significantly. A rapid devaluation followed during 1981, and by 1982 the
average rate was Colon 38.5 per US$1.00, a devaluation of about 350 percent.3/
Despite the seriousness of the situation, the Government failed three times
(between March 1980 and December 1981 ) to reach a lasting agreement with the
IMF, mainly because of its inability to control public expenditures.
8.        Costa Rica's public and publicly guaranteed, external medium- and
lotg-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, and repayable in foreign currency,
increased sharply from about US$1 billion in 1978 to US$2.5 billion in 1982,
includirg foreign commercial bank debt, which increased from US$388 million in
1978 to US$1.3 billion at the end of 1982. As a consequence, the public debt
service ratio, which averaged 10 percent of exports of goods and services during
1970-77, increased to about 23 percent in 1979, ard to 32 percent in 1980. The
cost of servicirg this debt became unmanageable, and Costa Rica accumulated
arrears in 1980 and early 1981, until it suspended most of its principal and
interest payments to other than multilateral institutiors in August 1981. Bhy
end-1981 arrears totaled US$359 million. Actual debt payments reached only 21
percent and 15 percent of total exports of goods and services in 1981 and 1982.
These would have been 51 and 54 percent, respectively, if payments had remained
current. Net international reserves declined by US$470 million in 1981, similar
to the loss experienced in 1980.
C. Adjustment Efforts and Current Economic Trends
Initial Stabilization Efforts, 1982-83
9.        Confronted with the coiuntry's worst economic crisis since the 1930s,
the Morge administration, which took office in May 1982, undertook a series
of fiscal and other measures needed to stabilize the economy, with the overall
objectives of containing inflationary pressures and resuming foreign public debt
service payments. As a major part of this effort, the Government introduced new
taxes, adopted a flexible exchange rate policy, raised tariffs for public
utilities substantially and increased the price of petroleum derivatives. The
Government also confirmed its commitment to honor its foreign debt, and partial
payments of interest on its commercial debt were resumed in July 1982. Based
largely on these initiatives, the IMF approved a one-year Stand-by on December
20, 1982 in the amount of SDR9 2.25 million.
10.       In addition to embarkirg on a short-term  stabilization and austerity
program, the Govermnent also reached agreement with both its commercial and
bilateral creditors in an initial round of debt reschedulings. With regard to
3/ In November 1983, the interbank rate, determined by the Central Bank, and
the free market rate, which applies mainly to tourism and non-priority
imports, were unified at the level of the free market rate, which stood at
Colon 48.70 per US$1.00, as of March 1, 1985.



-4-
bilateral debt, the Paris Club agreed in January 1983 to reschedule on favorable
terms 85 percent of arrears plus payment of interest and principal through 1983,
with about US$120 million of the total bilateral debt eligible for
restructuring. An agreement with commercial bank creditors Was reached in
September 1983. It provides for a rescheduling of US$573 million, consisting of
all principal falling due in 1983 and 1984, plus arrears on amortization and
interest, with the banks extending new trade credits (to be utilized over a
three-year period) equal to 50 percent of the interest in arrears (US$390
million). Largely as a result of these arrangements, almost all external debt
arrears were eliminated by the end of 1983.
11.       An improvement in the economic situation took place during 1983,
reflecting the corrective measures initiated by the Government. GDP grew by 2.4
percent, compared with a drop of 7.5 percent in 1982. Inflation was reduced to
about 33 percent, compared with 90 percent in 1982. The free market and banklng
rates were unified by the end of 1983 at the higher free market rate; the
foreign trade balance improved substantially (from a negative US$527 million in
1980 to a negative US$25 million in 1982, although worsening to a negative
US$121 million in 1983); and the overall deficit of the non-financial public
sector fell from 14.3 percent of GDP in 1981 to 9.0 percent in 1982, and to
3.4 percent in 1983. In addition, there was some repatriation of private
capital from abroad and the net international reserves position of the Central
Bank improved.
12.       Despite the progress made during 1983, serious problems persisted.
Open unemployment remained at about 9 percent; exports remained stagnant; the
current account of the balance of payments weakened with respect to 1982;
domestic credit to the public sector was higher than targeted; and power tariff
increases were partially rescinded in June 1983, as a result of internse popular
pressures. Furthermore, the Central Bank accumulated heavy losses from paying
most of the expenses originating in the direct interest costs and exchange
losses associated with the rescheduling agreement with foreign commercial banks,
particularly since public sector agencies aid not fully provide the counterpart
in Colones needed to service their debt obligations. Central Bank losses
equalled about 5.6 percent of GDP in 1982 and 4.6 percent in 1983. This, in
fact, represented additional Central Bank credit to the public sector, which
delayed the necessary adjustment of the economy to a level of domestic demand
more consistent with the country's reduced national income.
Performance in 1984
13.       Although export earnings rose slightly, mainly because of higher
coffee prices, Costa Rica's overall fiscal, monetary and balance of payments
performance deteriorated in the first half of 1984. This reflected: (i) a
rapid expansion of bank credit to the private sector without the necessary
growth in deposits; (ii) a more expansionary fiscal policy marked by a one-third
increase (at ^arrent prices) in Central Govermnent expenditures; and
(iii) delays in obtaining additional external assistance owing mainly to
difficulties in securing rapid legislative approval of key measures needed to
trigger such assistance. As a consequence, the country's already limited net



international reserves declined sharply, and a foreign exchange liquidity crisis
developed in mid-19 84. These developments also made inoperable a stabilization
program prepared in March 1984. The immediate crisis was temporarily resolved
through a standstill arrangement with foreign commercial banks reached in
mid-June and disbursement of additional U.S. bilateral assistance during July
and August 1984.
14.       In view of these difficulties, the Government took additional fiscal
and balance of payment actions in mid-1984. These included new tax measures
comprising increases in the rates of selective consumption taxes, a 10 percent
tax on imports previously exempted from import duties, a modification of the
corporate income tax, and a 0.5 percent administration charge on tax revenues
collected by the Goverruent on behalf of other public entities. As a result of
this tax package and other measures introduced earlier in 1984, tax revenues are
expected to increase from 17.3 percent of GDP in 1983 to 20.5 percent in 1985.
The Central Bank also raised the basic deposit rate applied to six-month time
deposits from 18 to 20 percent; increased reserve requirements through the
establishment of a marginal reserve requirement of 50 percent; and raised local
currency deposit requirements for all requests for foreign exchange from 50 to
100 percent. As a result of these measures, some improvement in performance
took place during the second half of 1984. GDP growth is expected to be about
3.4 percent, and inflation about 13 percent. Exports increased significantly,
mostly owing to better coffee prices and some improvement in nonrtraditional
exports. Private investment also showed some signs of recovery.
Stabilization Program for 1985
15.       Based in part on the above actions, the Govertment reached agreement
with the IMF in January 1985 on a 13-month Stand-by arrangement (from March 1985
through March 1986) in an amount equivalent to SDR54 million. This package is
expected to be approved by the IMF Board in March 1985. The main objective of
the program is to bring about a significant reduction in the current account
balance of payments deficit and a replenishment of the foreign exchange reserves
of the Central Bank.  The targets for 1985 are:  (i) a reduction of the annual
average inflation rate to 11 percent; (ii) a reduction of the current account
balance of payments deficit (excluding official transfers) to 9.0 percent of
GDP; and (iii) a nonr-financial public sector savings of 6.5 percent of GDP and
reduction of the overall deficit to 1.5 percent of GDP. Net losses of the
Central Bank are being reduced to 4.5 percent of GDP. The overall public sector
deficit, includi-g Central Bank losses, would be reduced from 8.0 percent of GDP
in 1983 to 5.8 percent in 1985.
16.       To support its stabilization and structural adjustment efforts, the
Government has secured substantial additional external financing, most of which
is expected to be disbursed during 1985. This includes US$75.0 million from
foreign commercial banks (coupled with a rescheduling of 1985 and 1986
maturities, see para.18), and US$190 million in further USAID assistance. These
inflows, together with the IMF program and the proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan would bring the total financial package to about US$400 million.



- 6-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
17.        Costa Rica's medium- and long-term external public debt (outstanding
and disbursed) repayable In foreign currency as of December 31, 1983 was US$3.3
billion, US$4.2 billion if undisbursed commitments are included.  The Bank Group
held 6.3 percent of the outstandirg and disbursed debt repayable in foreign
currency. Of the other major lenders, IDB held 7.5 percent; CABEI, 2.7 percent;
Venezuela, 7.8 percent; the U.S. Government, 9.2 percent; and suppliers, bond
holders and private banks, 56.7 percent. Other bilateral debt made up the
balance.
18.       As a result of the reschedulings agreed in 1983, Costa Rica's debt
servicing difficulties eased temporarily. However, as analyzed in Part III,
further debt relief is essential if the debt situation is to become manageable.
On the assumption that the ecoommy will perform as projected, Costa Rica needs,
as a minimum, to roll over commercial bank and bilateral amortizations averaging
about US$300 million per annum during 1985-90, with longer grace and maturities
that previously received. As a first step towards this objective, Costa Rica
reached agreement in January 1985 with its commercial bank creditors on a
rescheduling of maturities falling due in 1985 and 1986. This agreement, which
the banks have linked to satisfactory progress under the IHF Program and
Structural Adjustment Program, provides for longer maturities and lower interest
rates than previously agreed, with a term of 10 years, including 3 grace, and
interest payable at 1 5/8 over LIBOR or over an adjusted US domestic CD rate.
With respect to bilateral debt, the Govermnent intends to return to the Paris
Club in 1985, once the Stand-by arrangement has been approved by the IMF Board.
19.       Taking into account the rescheduling arrangements already agreed, and
assuming continued rollovers of amortization payments with commercial banks and
bilateral donors throughout the rest of the decade, Costa Rica's debt service
would be sustainable at about 37 percent of exports of goods and services in
1985 and 29 percent in 1990, provided that the country continues to receive
significant bilateral assistance on concessional terms. Substantial capital
inflows from donor countries and international financial institutions are also
needed during the 1980s to support the balance of payments and ensure adequate
resources for renewed growth. Assuming implementation of the Structural
Adjustment Program, gross capital inflows for the 1985-90 period from official
lenders, are expected to average US$330 million a year, including transfers
(grants) averaging US$100 million a year. On a net basis, official lending
would average US$200 million per annum, with an estimated US$100 million coming
from bilateral sources, largely the United States. This compares with an
average net official lending of US$154 million per year during 1982-83, with
grants averaging US$24 million per year for the same period.  Additional capital
requirements would be met largely through direct private investment, which is
expected to average US$48 million per year for the 1985-90 period (See Annex I,
page 5). Costa Rica would also be expected to maintain an active IMF program.



D. Principal Constraints on Growth
20.       Although Costa Rica's economic difficulties result in part from
external factors beyond the country's control, as noted earlier, the principal
impediments to restoring renewed growth are found in several key areas of public
policy. First, the anti-export bias of the trade regime has promoted high cost
import substitution manufacturing activities for the regional and domestic
markets at the expense of fostering exports to markets outside the region. This
has created an industrial sector which is highly import-intensive, and one which
is poorly equipped to compete effectively in international markets.
Furthermore, the limited managerial skills and marketing experience of local
firms also constrains the ability of the industrial sector to rapidly expand
production for new markets. Second, the extensive size of the pui-lic sector and
lack of effective control over public expenditures has adversely affected
private savings, t-nd increasingly restricted the resources available to the
private sector to expand production and develop new sources of growth. Third,
the country's extremely high debt service requirements will absorb a substantial
share of domestic savings in the years to come, thus further limiting the
resources available for new production and growth. These principal constraints
on growth are compounded by an inefficient public banking system which further
limits the availability of resources for private productive activities.  In
addition, the performance of agriculture, which remains a key productive sector
and an essential element for any successful export drive, has been
unsatisfactory during che last few years. This results largely from the policy
and incentive framework embodied in the trade regime, as well as from a complex
system of state subsidies and controls on agricultural production, which has
hampered its growth as well as productivity increases.
211.      Trade Regime.  Prospects for sustained economic recovery are closely
linked to the adequacy of the trade regime and policies to promote export
growth. Since traditional export agriculture and manufacturing exports to the
CACM can no longer provide a sufficient stiTulus tc, growth, future growth and a
healthier balance of payments will depend largely on the country's ability to
increase exports of non-traditional goods to markets outside the region, while
ensuring that the share of traditional exports in export markets is at least
maintained, if not expanded, depending on market conditions.
22.       In order to achieve this objective, Costa Rica needs to:  (i) shift
the orientation of its trade and incentive regime-currently heavily biased in
favor of the domestic and regional markets--so that it no longer encourages
production for these warkets at the expense of exporting to third markets
outside the region, including actions to reduce the existing high effective
protection provided by the CACK framework, and better utilize the exchange rate
as an instrument for export promotion; (ii) minimize the negative impact of
other public policies which have tended to reduce the profitability and
competitiveness of the export sector, such as high export and payroll taxes;
(iii) assist industries to modernize and upgrade their managerial capacity,
improve the quality of export products, and strengthen their marketing know-how;
and (iv) attract foreign investment in export industries. All of these elements



-8.-
require close attention if Costa Rica is to improve the profitability of the
export sector, stimulate local ani foreign entrepreneurs, and expand exports of
non-traditional goods to third markets.
23.       Public Sector Role in the Economy.  The secori major constraint on
renewed growth arises from the large size of the public sector, which absorbs a
significant share of the country's limited resources. Over the past 30 years,
Costs Rica has created a complex array of public sector institutions and
programs, with public sector employment expanding from 13 percent of the labor
force in 1963 to about 19 percent in the early 1980s. These efforts have
produced a commendable level of public services, including a well developed
physical and social infrastructure, but have resulted in an administrative and
bureaucratic structure which is now far beyond the capacity of the country to
finance-especially given its large debt service needs--or manage in a
cost-effective manner, given existirg managerial capacity and control
mechanisms. Extensive earmarking of revenues has contributed to the problem of
controlling public expenditures. Overall general goverrment expenditures now
account for 31 percent of GDP, excluding public enterprises and financial
institutions.  'he public sector's disproportionate use of resources in the
economy severely constrains efforts to revitalize the private sector and
increase production and exports.
24.                                       .  The third major corutraint is the
country's high debt service requirements, with debt service ratios as a share of
domestic savings and exports remainirg high during the comirg decade, given the
size and maturity structure of the public external debt. Servicing of this debt
will require a large share of domestic savings, which will act as a major
constraint on growth. To alleviate this constraint, the country will need
additional reschedulings and the continued inflow of substantial external
resources on concessional terms.
25.       Access to Credit.  Costa Rica's growth potential has been further
constrained by the use of monetary and credit policies to accommodate the
expansion of the public sector through virtually unrestricted access to domestic
credit, to the detriment of private sector activities. This problem has become
more acute since 1981, given the substantial losses accumulated by the Central
Bank (see para. 12). While credit to the private sector represented about
two-thirds of net domestic assets of the banking system in 1978, this fell to
about one-fifth in 1984. Not much change is foreseen for 1985, even though
Improved access to credit by the private sector is essential to the reactivation
of productive activities and export growth. This, combined with the inefficient
and cumbersome bankirg practices followed by the public banks, further Impedes
private sector access to timely and adequate credit. Moreover, the public banks
face serious arrear-ge problems brought on largely by inadequate collection
policies, which severely limits the availability of new credit, particularly to
new producers. Since the small, often family-oriented local entrepreneur, has
in the past been accustomed to obtaining credit from the public banks on a
subsidized basis, with minimal penalties for nDr-payment, the entrepreneur has
been, and is reluctant, to risk his own capital resources. Credit scarcity
therefore becomes a more important impediment to growth.



- 9 -
26.       Agriculture Incentives.  The incentive system as applied up to now has
favored manufacturing over agriculture. This discrimination favored a
transfer of productive resources from agriculture to manufacturing and forced
the Government to intervene in domestic markets for agricultural commodities and
factors of production. Investment in agriculture declined. Beef, sugar and
cacao production showed marked inefficiencies. Price setting for basic
commodities in order to provide cheap food to consumors and remunerate farmers
adequately, resulted in high administrative costs and fiscal losses. In this
context, the basic problem in agriculture is one of undoing the negative effects
of the incentive system and Government interventions in the market place. This,
together with increased credit and more adequate extension and research, is
essential to promote new agricultural exports, an area in which the country has
a particular comparative advantage.
II. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSThENT PROGRAM
A. Structural Adjustment Strategy and Key Objectives
27.       Strategy and Objectives.  As indicated by the constraints noted above,
economic growth in Costa Rica has faltered because its traditional growth model
hzis lost its momentum, and because further expansionary public policies would
only aggravate existing financial and balance of payments imbalances. The
current situation is therefore not a repetition of previous cycles in the
economy, but a deeper crisis which calls for major changes in approach and
innovative solutions requiring difficult political decisions.
28.       Recognizing that the country's continued heavy reliance on its
traditional commodity exports, as well as growth of manufacturing within the
CACM framework, is no longer sufficient to sustain a satisfactory rate of
growth, and that new public sector programs can no lorger be utilized to
stimulate the economy and ease economic difficulties, the Government has
designed a new development Qtrategy oriented towards: (i) developing new
exports of agricultural and manufactured products, with emphasis on products
with higher domestic value added; (ii) strergthening private sector initiatives
and entrepreneurial capacity to increase domestic production; and (iii)
achieving a reduction in the relative size of the public sector and a better
balance in the use of resources between the public and private sectors. Given
its reliance on private sector activities, implementation of this strategy
requires the establishment of a satisfactory incentive framework through lowered
tariff protection, strengthened export incentives for manufactured and
agricultural products and an improved banking system to better allocate
resources between the public and private sectors and within productive sectors.
It also requires an intensified effort to curtail growth in public expenditures
and i-mprove the cost effectiveness of public institutions and programs.



- 10 -
29.       While export-oriented growth is not new, the effort to expand exports
that is now required must be considerably more intensive than in the past if the
economy is to be set on a path towards recovery, thus enabling import capacity
to be expanded, and the severe constraints imposed by the high external debt
service burden to be gradually eased. In addition to establishing the correct
policy framework, the effort must also be accompanied by an equally strong
effort on the part of private entrepreneurs, with Government support, to find
and open up new markets, develop or improve products, modernize and restructure
plant and equipment, and improve management and operations.
30.        Length of Recovery Period.  Given the severity of the crisis, the
recovery process will initially be slow, especially taking into account the
time needed to make firms more competitive and outward-oriented, as well as the
difficulties associated with penetrating into and expanding export markets, and
the high debt service burden. The process of change will also take place in the
context of Costa Rica's democratic political system, which, given the open
nature of society and the importance of consensus politics, may slow down the
speed with which changes can be introduced, especially if social costs are to be
kept within reasonable bounds. As a consequence, even with the extensive policy
and institutional changes to be introduced, and the active participation of the
private sector in expanding productive activities, only a modest recovery can be
expected in the initial years of the Structural Adjustment Program. More
substantive results should not be expected until the late 1980s, when the new
economic structure is firmly in place. During this transition period, Costa
Rica will continue to need substantial external support, including further
rescheduling of its external debt on reasonable terms (see para. 18). Without
this support and a determined and timely effort on the part of Costa Rica to
remove the key constraints to growth detailed earlier (paras. 20-26), the
recovery process will take much longer.
31.       Phiasing and Timing.  To carry out the strategy summarized above, the
Government has prepared a Structural Adjustment Program, as set forth in the
Statement of Development Policy attached as Annex IV to this report. The
Structural Adjustment Program program constitutes a major departure from the
strategies and policies pursued by Costa Rican governments over the past 30
years. As such, it addresses a broad range of policy issues and key constraints
on growth, which the Government is committed to resolving through the execution
of a phased program of reform over the medium term.
32.       The first phase of the Structural Adjustment Program, being supported
by the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I), concentrates primarily on
actions in three key areas. First, the measures necessary to establish an
incentive system favoring exports and to eliminate constraints impeding their
more rapid growth. Second, the steps needed to control the size of the public
sector, improve its efficiency and gradually reduce its claim on the country's
limited resources. These actions are essential if the private sector is to
receive the resources needed for stimulating renewed growth and exports on a
continuing basis. Third, taking the actions needed to ensure a continuing
inflow of external resources to support the Structural Adjustment Program,
including compliance with agreements already reached for bilateral, commercial
bank and multilateral support during 1985.



- 11 -
33.       The second and following phases of the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program, which it hopes will be supported by subsequent Bank SALs,
will concentrate on three other areas of malor concern, namely the banking
system, the policy framework in agriculture, and the cost-effectiveness of
social security, health and education programs, while continuing actions
initiated under Phase I. In these areas, the Government has already taken some
limited action hut it needs more time to develop specific measures and
programs. The proposed Technical Assistance Loan, being submitted concurrently
with the proposed SAL, will provide additional support to the Government in
preparing specific measures and further analysis for this purpose.
34.       The details of the Structural Adjustment Program being implemented
under the proposed SAL are given below in Part B. Part C describes the
additional actions needed and being Prepared for subsequent phases of the
Structural Adjustment Program. Part D outlines the technical assistance being
provided to support the program, and Part E provides a summary of the Structural
Adjustment Program.
B. The Government's Structural Adjustment Program Under SAL I
35.       Within the three key areas noted above (para. 32), the proposed SAL I
would concentrate on supporting essential Government actions with respect to:
(i) export promotion, competitiveness of the export sector, import tariff and
industrial sector policies; (ii) controlling the size and improving management
of the public sector, including better programming of public sector investments
and increased mobilization of resources; and (iii) improved external debt
management and creditworthiness. While implementing these actions, the
Government is also committed to minimizing the economic and social impact of key
adjustment measures through the development of specific orograms to ease the
transition, including assistance in restructuring the industrial sector and
retraining of workers.
I. The Export Sector: Markets, Prospects and Trade Policies
36.       The first phase of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program in
the trade sector, concentrates on revamping the trade policy framework in order
to shift the bias of the trade regime away from the domestic and regional
context and encourage growth of exports outside the region. Background on Costa
Rica's agricultural and manufacturing exPorts is provided in paras. 37 to 44
below, with the principal impediments to export growth indicated in para. 45.
The main elements of the adjustment effort in the Export Sector are given in
paras. 46 to 62 below.
37.       Agriculture Exports.  Exports of goods and services in 1983 accounted
for about two-fifths of GDP. The bulk of this trade continues to be based on
agricultural exports, which make up about two-thirds of total exports, with
bananas and coffee contributing over one-half of exports. The remaining
agriculture exports consist of other traditional exports-beef, sugar and cacao,
accounting for 6 percent of exports--followed bv a variety of non-traditional
agricultural exports, including rice, flowers, macadamia nuts, and a variety of



- 12 -
fruits and vegetables, as well as fish and seafood, which account for another 6
percent of exports. The principal markets for Costa Rica's major primary
co uodlties are almost entirely In the United States and Europe, wlth the bulk
of coffee exports going to Europe, especially Germany and the bulk of banana
exports and much smaller, beef, sugar, and cacao exports, going to the United
States. The market for nonr-traditional agricultural exports, mainly fruits and
vegetables, flowers, and seafood items, is also primarily the United States,
with some exports going to Europe as well.
38.       Exports of traditional agriculttral commodities will continue to
constitute the bulk of Costa Rican exports, although their grovth prospects in
the next few years are limited, owing mainly to international market constraints
and increasing alternative sources of supply, as well as difficulties, in some
cases, in rapidly increasirg production. For coffee, the main concern is
surplus production, given high yields and limitations on sales under
international quota arrangements. For bananas, only limited growth can be
expected dependIng on market cooditions.  Prospects for sugar and beef exports
are also limited. For sugar, Costa Rica should be able to continue filling the
United States quota and exporting to the world market, as it did in 1983, but
low world prices will likely discourage any further increase in production. For
beef, US prices are now lower than Costa Rican internal prices, but production
can be expanded; this depends on adequate credit to expand herds and efforts to
fIprove herd and pasture management. For cacao, increased production and
exports depend mainly on progress in disease control, coupled with
iuplementation of a program to rehabilitate and expand existing plantations.
39.       With respect to non-traditional agricultural exports, important
increases have occurred in recent years in exporting various seafood items,
vegetables and fruits to the United States and Europe.  In particular, macadamia
muto, citrus fruit, pineapple, yucca, flowers/plants and chayote are already
important while uelons, papaya, palm hearts and tomatoes offer good export
possibilities. Future growth will require substantial improvement in
organization and management, perhaps with the involvement of foreign investors,
as well as further improvements in quality control and marketing. Although
prospects for these commodities are reasonably good, their contribution to total
export earnings will remain small for some time, given their present limited
base and the time needed to bring some of the tree crops iato full production.
40.       Manufactured Exports.  The Costa Rican economy underwent a fundamental
structural change during the last two decades, as manufacturing became the
largest productive sector. When Costa Rica joined the CACH in 1963, there was
little production in many industries. By 1980, however, imports were only
supplying about 10-15 percent of total domestic needs for the following: food
products, beverages, tobacco, clothing, wood products and furniture, with little
scope for further import substitution. The structure of production has also
changed considerably. While food products, beverages, and tobacco, together
with textiles, leather, and wood products, accounted for over four-fifths of
total manufacturing production in 1960, they accounted for only about two-thirds
in 1982. The sectors that expanded the most were chemicals, rubber and plastics
products and metal-mechanic industries, which accounted for one-fifth of total



- 13 -
manufacturing production by 1982. Growth of these industries increased the
average import intensity of manufacturing and introduced greater rigidity in the
balance of payments. As a consequence, compressirg imports entails depressing
the level of manufacturing activity and employment.
41.       Manufacturirg production is oriented basically for the domestic Costa
Rican market, which now absorbs about four-fifths of the gross value of
production. About one-fifth is exported, accounting for about one-third of
total exports. These exports, including both industrial and processed
agricultural goods, have grown at a high rate during the last 20 years,
averaging 20 percent per annum in real terms during 1962-1982. Their
participation in total exports jumped from less than 5 percent during the early
1960s to 22 percent at the end of the decade, reaching US$342 million in 1981.
42.       Although manufactured exports (excluding sugar and beef) were about
equally divided between Central America and the rest of the world in 1983,
Central America remains the major single market for manufactured exports.
Chemicals are the most important export to CACM countries, followed by machinery
aid equipment, textiles, garments and leather. The total value of manufactured
exports to the CACM reached US$270 million in 1980. Since then, however, the
total value of this trade has declined, totalling only about US$187 million in
1983. This reflects the increasing economic difficulties and payment
constraints in the region. In this context, prospects for regional trade are
likely to remain limited over the medium term.
43.       Manufactured exports to third countries remained small, through the
1960s and 1970s. Recently, however, development of these exports has
accelerated, reaching an estimated US$130 million in 1983. Chemicals, garments
aind leather goods, and food products dominate this market. On the basis of the
Structural Adjustment Program, total manufactured exports to third countries are
expected to reach about US$270 million at current prices by 1990. This assumes
a well coordinated and consistent effort by Costa Rican entrepreneurs to develop
new products and open up new markets, the availability of adequate levels of
financing both in foreign and local currency, and the maintenance of a
satisfactory package of incentives, including a realistic exchange rate and a
significant reduction of effective protection.
44.       Costa Rica's manufactured exports are concentrated in a few key
sectors rather than being spread over a variety of industries (See Table I
below). The main exporting groups are: (i) foodstuffs, beverages, and tobacco
(27 percent of manufactured exports); (ii) chemical, rubber, and plastic
products (24 percent): (iii) metal mechanic products (16 percent); and (iv)
textiles, clothing, and leather goods (12 percent). These sectors are expected
to provide the bulk of new exports for new markets, partially through a
reorientation of existing plants and partially through new investments, both
local and foreign, particularly in agro-industries.



- 14 -
Table 1: COSTA RICA: M" IFACTURED EXPORTS BY DESTINATION, 1982
(Percentage Distribution)
CENTRAL     REST OF THE
AMERICA        WORLD        TOTAL
Foodstuffs, beverages, and tobacco                 7            46          27
Textiles, clothing, leather goods                 17             8          12
Wood and furniture                                 3             4            3
Paper and printing                                 7            2            4
Chemicals, rubber and plastics                    33            14          24
Non-metallic minerals                              3             4           4
Basic metals                                       1             1            1
Metallic products, machinery and equipment        19            13           16
Other                                             10             8           9
Total                                 100           ]00          100
45.       Principal Impediments to Export Growth.  The main obstacles impeding
the rapid development of new exports to third markets include: Ci) a policy
framework which biases the incentive system (exchange rate, tariff regime,
export taxes, etc.), towards regional import substitution, where markets are
better known and quality controls are less stringent; (ii) the small size of
locally owned industries, which are mainly operated by family oriented
entrepreneurs who tend to avoid riskirg their own funds and have limited
marketing skills for a successful export drive; (iii) the fact that many large
firms have significant transnational participation, which may cause difficulties
in exporting outside the region, depending on the policies of the parent
corporation and the existence of sister plants in the importing countries;
(iv) the weak financial position of firms affected by the traumatic events of
1980-82; and (v) the higher freight costs and delivery delays associated with
the lack of direct sea freight services to markets outside the region.
46.       The actions being taken under the Structural Adjustment Program in the
trade sector focus on the following key areas: (i) the-exchange rate; (ii) the
tariff regime; (iii) export taxation; and (iv) other incentives and export
promotion mgasures. The country has no quantitative restrictions on imports,
and the Government has confirmed that it has nD intention of introducing any
such restrictions in the future. The first phase of the Structural Adjustment
Program also initiates actions to promote investment in, and growth of small and
medium size firms which have potential for export development, mainly through
the provision of assistance in improving managerial skills, market development
and upgrading technology, coupled with adequate financial support. This effort



- 15 -
is essential in order to begin addressing the much more difficult and long-term
problems associated with transforming Costa Rica's private sector firms into
successful exporters outside the region. It will need to be continued under
subsequent phases of the Structural Adjustment Program. The Structural
Adjustment Program makes no special effort to assist the large, transnational
firms, except to the extent they would benefit from the revised incentive
framework. With respect to high transport costs for export of nonrtraditional
products to third markets, there is little that can be done initially, until
larger export volumes open the way for developing less costly and more direct
transport links.
(a) Exchange Rate Policy
47.       Traditio.xally, Costa Rica has not utilized the exchange rate as an
instrument for export promotion. Devaluations took place only under the
pressure of grave balance of payments problems and financial difficulties, as
was the case during 1981 and 1982. However, the present Government has
committed itself, with the IMF, to a flexible exchange rate policy which will
help to ensure export competitiveness. Such a policy is also essential to
carrying out a program to reduce domestic consumption expenditures and imports.
Action Program
48.       As part of its Structural Adjustment Program, the Goverment will
maintain its flexible exchange rate policy, with the Colon being adjusted as
needed to achieve the objective of improving export competitiveness. Periodic
adjustments of the Colon took place during 1984 and early 1985. Further
adjustments are called for in 1985 in the context of the IMF Stand-by program.
The Bank will also monitor the competitiveness of exports.
(b)  Tariff Regime
49.       The tariff regime and the agreement on fiscal incentives of the
CACM are the most important instruments providing protection to domestic and
regional manufacturing, and therefore the principal elements fostering an
inward-looking orientation to the pattern of production. The cariff regime
consists of: (i) the common external tariff (CET) of the CACH, which was
formally accepted by Costa Rica after it joined the Common Market in July 1962,
and which includes specific and ad valorem elements for each individual tariff;
(ii) the 30 percent surcharge on the CET imposed by the 1968 San Jose Protocol,
initially to correct temporary balance of payments problems; and (iii) ad
valorem import surcharges based on the CIF value of imports, which are mainly
applied to a variety of consumer goods.  At the same time, the system exempts
most imported intermediates, raw materials, and capital goods used in domestic
production.  Three-fourths of total imports in 1982 were exempted, with tariff
revenues only reaching 3 percent of the CIF import value. With tariff rates on
competing final goods ranging from about 40 percent to 220 percent, and imported
inputs exempted from almost all duties, the level of effective protection for
domestically produced finished consumer goods is extremely high, reaching in
some cases a rate of 1,600 percent on the basis of tariffs actually paid. In



- 16 -
view of this, the existing trade regime encourages high import intensity of
production, and, in general, the promotion of high cost, inefficient industries,
and regional or domestic import substitution at the expense of exporting to
non-regional markets. In addition to exemptions from import duties, other
investment incentives are granted, such as exemption of income and net worth
taxes, both for initial periods of up to ten years. All of these benefits have
been extended several times, with some firms benefitting for up to 20 years,
thus undermining any justification based on the "infant industry" argument.
Action Program
50.       Rationalization of the system of protection is essential to reduce the
strong regional market bias and encourage local producers to become more
competitive and increase exports to third markets. With respect to import
tariffs, the Costa Rican Government has taken the lead in persuading the other
CACM members to reform the tariff regime. Largely as a result of these efforts,
a new regional tariff and customs treaty agreement was signed on December 14,
1984. It was ratified by Guatemala, Nicaragua and El Salvador in January 1985,
and is expected to be approved by the Costa Rican Legislative Assembly during
March 1985. This treaty abrogates the existing regime and all additional
protocols and provides the legal framework for a new trade regime to be put into
effect by no later than October 1, 1985.  In accordance with this regional
agreement, the principal elements of the new trade regime comprise: (i) the
introduction of the Brussels nomenclature and transformation of the system to an
ad valorem basis; (ii) the elimination of all exonerations on raw materials,
intermediates and capital goods; (iii) the abrogation of existing regional
investment incentives; (iv) the creation of a Central American Council for
Tariffs and Customs, with authority to establish and modify import tariffs
without the need for legislative action by individual member countries; and
(v) _ commitment to expedite the negotiation of: (a) new tariffs for
intermediates, raw materials, and capital goods, with the objective of having
them in place preferably by July 1, 1985, but, in any case, by no later than
October 1, 1985; and (b) new tariffs fcr final consumer goods in order to put
them into effect by October 1, 1985.
51.       With respect to establishing new tariff levels for intermediates, raw
materials and capital goods, an agreement has been reached on the following
parameters at the regional level: (i) tariff levels of 20 and 30 percent for
intermediates produced in the CACK (competing), depending on the degree of
processing; and (ii) tariff levels of 5 and 10 percent on intermediates, raw
materials and capital goods produced outside the CACM (nor-competing). In
addition to the above, the Government has agreed to a further increase in tariff
levels for all inputs (intermediates and raw materials) and capital goods
produced outside the region (non-competing), raising them to a level of 10
percent on inputs, and 20 percent on capital goods. To the extent necessary,
these higher levels would be achieved through the imposition of additional
charges at the national level.



- 17 -
52.       Regarding tariff levels on final goods, agreement has been reached in
the region on levels of 5 and 10 nercent for all finished consumer goods
produced outside the CACM (non-competing), with the lower level applied to a
limited number of goods considered essential. With respect to tariff levels on
final goods produced in the CACH (competing), the Government has agreed to
reduce the existing high nominal rates on competirg final goods from a range of
40-220 percent to a range of 35 to a maximum of 70 percent, with a few
exceptions for fiscal and balance of payments purposes, principally liquor,
tobacco, and cars, including their main components.
53.       In order to implement the new tariff regime, the Goverrnment has agreed
to the following steps, as part of its Structural Adjustment Program: First, it
will continue negotiating at the regional level the specific tariffs on final
goods on a product by product basis, with the intention of completing these
technical negotiations by July 1, 1985 or at the latest by September 1985, in
order to put the agreed tariffs into effect by no later than October 1, 1985.
Second, as of July 1, 1985, the Government will: (i) put into effect the
changes in nomenclature and in the ad valorem base; and (ii) introduce new
tariffs on raw materials and capital goods using Central Bank surcharges to
bring them to the levels referred to in para. 51 above. Third, by no later than
October 1, 1985, the Govermnent will put into effect the complete new trade
regime, including the detailed tariff schedule on final goods, and eliminate all
exonerations on imported inputs and capital goods. Completion of these actions
would be a condition for the release of the second tranche.
54.       The proposed changes are significant, particularly since they
constitute the first concrete effort to reform the CACM structure since the
Market was established over twenty years ago. The revised trade regime will
result in a substantial reduction in the level and dispersion of effective
protection rates. In this respect, and given the difficulty of reaching
agreement in the regional context, Costa Rica's successful effort to persuade
the other CACM members to modernize the tariff regime on an accelerated basis
constitutes a major achievement. Nevertheless, the Government recognizes that
the reform is only a first step in its efforts to reduce effective protection as
part of its Structural Adjustment Program. It has therefore agreed to take
additional steps within the regional framework, with the objective of further
reducing effective protection to a maximum level of 120 percent by 1990. The
Government expects that the new mechanism enabling tariff adjustments to be
agreed through joint executive action at the regional level, will facilitate
further tariff adjustments.   In addition, the Government has agreed, with
support under the proposed Technical Assistance Loan, to carry out a detailed
analysis of the impact of the new regime, which would also help lay the basis
for future changes. The only exception to further reductions in nominal rates
on final goods would be in cases where higher tariffs are needed to discourage
consumption of luxury goods.



- 18 -
Table 2: COSTA RICA: COMPARISON OF TARIFF RATES
PRESENT                NEW REGIME
TARIFF REGIMENERG]E
Competing Final Goods             40-220%           35% to 70% 1/
Non-Competing Final Goods           0-80%           Essential goods, 5% 2/
Non-essential goods, 10%
Imported Intermediates             30-60% 3/        10% for nonrcompeting, and
20-30% for competing,
depending on degree of
processing.
Imported Raw Materials               2.5% 3/        10%
Imported Capital Goods               2.5% 3/        20%
1/   Liquor, tobacco, cars, including their main components, would have higher
duties for fiscal and balance of payments purposes.
2/   This rate applies to a limited number of goods corsidered essential, such
as basic food commodities.
3/   Rates actually applied are virtually zero because of exemptions applied to
most imported inputs. Under the proposed new regime, there will be no
exemptions and, hence, the prospects of the tariff not being paid, as is
currently the case, will no longer exist.
(c) Export Taxes
55.       Costa Rica has traditionally relied heavily on export taxes to provide
a substantial portion of Government revenues. Such taxes contributed about
18 percent of Central Government revenues in 1978, increasing to about
36 percent of Central Government revenues in 1983. The highest taxes have been
placed on major traditional agricultural commodities. In 1983, export taxes
included a progressive 4-18 percent tax on the FOB value of coffee, depending on
world prices; a 1 percent tax on bananas, plus a flat tax of US$1.00 per box
exported; and a 1 percent tax on sugar and cacao. All other exports were
subjected to a 4 percent tax. In addition, an export tax based on the
differential between the official exchange rate (Colon 20 per US$1.00) and the
banking rate (averaging Colon 43 per US$1.00 during 1983) was applied until
end-1983, at variable rates ranging from 10 percent on coffee anm bananas to
1 to 5 percent on non-traditional export's to third markets.



- 19 -
Action Program
56.       Recognizing that taxes of this magnitude constituted a major
disincentive to exporters and ran counter to the Government's efforts to
increase exports, the Goverment took steps during 1983 and 1984 to eliminate
all taxes on non-traditional exports to third markets, including the tax on the
exchange rate differential which expired as of end-1983. In addition, the
Govermnent reduced the flat rate tax on banana exports from US$1.00 to US$0.75
per box, and the tax on beef exports from 4 to 1 percent. The Government does
not plan to introduce new export taxes on non-traditional exports to third
markets.
(d) Export Incentives to Markets Outside the CACM
57.       During the 1970s, Costa Rica established three export incentive
instruments for trade outside the CACM. Two are compensating export subsidies:
the CAT, a tax credit of 15 percent of the FOB export value and the CIEX
(Certificados de Incremento de las Exportaciones), a tax credit based upon
export growth. Both are granted for oon-traditional exports outside the CACM.
The third incentive is a duty-free import provision involving an export drawback
system. Of the three measures, the CAT has been the most important. Its use
has grown from Colon 4 million in 1973-74 to Colon 276 million in 1981-82, with
processed and nonr-traditional agricultural products the main beneficiaries.
With respect to the CIEX, it has proved to be relatively unimportant as an
export incentive, particularly since its availability depends in large part on
whether or not the Central Bank has sufficient funds to finance the program.
The existing drawback scheme has had only limited use up to now because the CACM
incentive scheme was easier to apply, with only a small reduction in benefits.
This is expected to change once the tariff exonerations under the existing CACM
incentive scheme are eliminated.
Action Program
58.       In order to strengthen efforts to expand nonr-traditional exports to
third markets, the Goverment has put into operation an improved export
incentive program which the Assembly approved in February 1984. This scheme
includes: (i) a 100 percent income tax exemption on profits generated by
non-traditional exports, which is equivalent to a subsidy of up to 10 percent of
the FOB export value; (ii) exemptions from all import taxes on imported raw
materials, intermediates and packaging materials used in the production of
non-traditional goods for export to third market countries; and (iii) the
provision of a coordinated package of benefits under an export contract with
individual exporters, who in return for a written agreement to achieve a
specified level of exports, would be entitled to special port tariffs,
simplified export procedures, preferential access to bank credit, accelerated
depreciation, and CATs on the basis of products and markets.
59.       Within the framework of this law, the Goverment has taken a number of
steps to expedite the provision of benefits to exporters, especially in regard



- 20 -
to the CAT scheme and drawback mechanism. With respect to the latter, any
company e-xporting to third markets and meetirg certain minimal crieria,
principally to ensure that it is a bonafide exporter of nonrtraditional goods
outside the Region, would be eligible to receive imported goods duty free If
required for production for export. Since no duty would be paid, no special
rebate system is needed to accelerate reimbursement of duties paid, and the
scheme should operate efficiently, except for some delays in processing goods
through customs. The proposed Technical Assistance Loan includes support to
assist in improving the operation and management of customs.
60.       With regard to the CAT scheme, the Government expects to issue new
regulations in the near future with the objective of streamlining the
administration and issuance of CATs. The Government has also agreed to make the
utilization of the CATs more automatic by gradually eliminating the current 12
month waiting period before the tax credit can be utilized. Since an 1mimmediate
reduction of the waiting period would mean redeeming the 1984 and 1985 CATs at
the same time, and require budget outlays beyond those programmed for 1985, the
Government has agreed to reduce the waiting period by three months each semester
beginning January 1986 until the waiting period is fully eliminated.
(e) Modernization of the Industrial Sector
61.       As noted earlier, many of Costa Rica's locally owned industrial firms
are unable to compete effectively in third markets owing to their weak capital
structure and financial position, limited marketing and managerial capabilities,
and the need to upgrade product quality and production facilities. These
difficulties reflect underlying problems which must be resolved over the
longer-term, if Costa Rica's private sector firms are to be transformed into
successful exporters oi.tside the region.
Action Program
62.       In order to begin addressing these difficulties, the Government, with
the direct involvement of private sector organizations, is preparing specific
programs to assist industries to modernize, obtain the market and other
information needed to break into new markets abroad, and strengthen marketing
arrangements and facilities. Technical assistance to support this effort is
already being provided under the Bank's Export Development Loan (Loan 2274-CR)
and by other donors, especially USAID. Completion of a detailed program of
assistance to industries, includirg training of personnel, is proposed as a
condition for release of the second tranche. A special working group is being
established to address industrial sector issues and prepare the program of
assistance. The Government is also seeking external financing to help expand
credit to the industrial sector for both working capital and rehabilitation and
modernization of plants. Possible support for this effort could come through a
follow-up Bank operation, now that the onr-going Bank financed Industrial Credit
Project (Loan 1599-CR) is fully committed. In addition, the Government is
making a determined effort to attract foreign investors, particularly in



- 21 -
connection with the Caribbean Basin Initiative and through development of free
zones. The Government is also undertakirg a promotional campaign, with external
technical assistance and financial support.
II. Improved Management of the Public Sector and Control of Public SpendinR
63.       Public Sector Size and Control.  Despite the contribution that public
sector expenditures have made to the country's social and economic development,
the public sector's size, its inefficiency and the share of resources that it
consumes, all constitute a major impediment to growth. Actions to limit the
growth of the public sector, reorient programs to meet new priorities, and
improve cost effectiveness are therefore critical to the success of the
adjustment program, if more resources are to be made available over time for
productive purposes, including private sector efforts to increase exports. In
this context, although austerity measures during 1982-83 attempted to reduce
expenditures, they did not significantly affect the number of personnel or
programs. Further actions are therefore needed, some politically difficult, to
curtail current expenditures and ensure effective use of limited resources,
while reducing over time the relative size of the public sector and the number
of personnel.
64.       The Executive's authority to properly monitor and control budgets and
programs, and ensure efficient use of resources, has been limited. These
control problems have been brought about by: (i) a comprehensive system of
revenue earmarking and compulsory expenditures which limits the discretionary
power of the Goverrment; (ii) the rapid growth of the public sector and the
large number of constitutionally mandated programs, some operating on a
virtually autonomous basis; (iii) the lack of adequate administrative systems to
prepare and control public sector budgets in a comprehensive and coordinated
fashion; and (iv) the ease with which Government agencies have been able to
borrow unilaterally for investment as well as current expenditures, including
external borrowing, without taking into account overall Goverrment priorities
and resource constraints.
65.       Actions to Limit Growth and Improve Efficiency.  To address these
issues, the first phase of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program aims
to: limit the further growth of the public sector, includirg curtailirg public
sector investments and restructuring or controlling access to credit, including
external borrowing; strengthen budget preparation, coutrol and monitoring; and
initiate actions to improve the cost effectiveness of key loss making
institutions, especially CNP and CODESA. In addition, to reduce the overall
public sector deficit, as part of its stabilization program, the Government has
substantially increased its mobilization of resources. The Structural
Adjustment Program focuses on the following main areas: Ci) limiting public
employment and wages; (ii) budgetary administration and control;
(iii) restructuring CODESA; (iv) reducing CNP's losses; (v) public sector
investment planning; (vi) public resource mobilization; and (vii) external
public debt management and improved creditworthiness.



- 22 -
(a) Public Employment and Wages
66.        In order to reduce current expenditures, the Structural Adjustment
Program aims at lowering public sector employment from about 19 percent of the
labor force in 1983 to about 17 percent over a five-year period, thus restorirg
the level of the mid-1970a.  In addition, it aims at reducing the non-financial
public sector wage bill share of current expenditures.
Acti.on Program
67.       As provided for in the Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public
Sector approved In February 1984, the Government has: (i) imposed a freeze on
public sector employment levels for three years (1984-86) effective March 2,
1984; (ii) retired all Central Goveriment officiale 65 years or older;
(iii) authorized public institutions to pay accrued benefits to employees as a
bonus to encourage relocation to the private sector; and (iv) restricted further
wage increases to absolute changes in the cost of a basic basket of goods and
services, which will have the effect of holding wage increases below the rate of
inflation. Public sector employment levels are being monitored by the Budget
Authority aid the Contraloria. The Contraloria has a register of all posts as
of March 2, 1984 when the freeze went into effect and is responsible for
controlling any new appointments to ensure that they are consistent with the Law
for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public Sector. The Government has also
agreed to strengthen the statistical and administrative mechanisms needed to
monitor public sector employment levels. Technical assistance for this purpose
is being provided to the Budget Authority, with support under the proposed
Technical Assistance Loan. In addition, the Govermnent is preparing a apecial
program to assist in training former public employees to help them relocate to
the private sector. Implementation of the freeze on employment levels will be
reviewed prior to the release of the second tranche.
(b) Budgetary Administration and Control
68.       Efforts to improve the efficiency of public sector resource use have
been handicapped by the lack of adequate budget preparation and control
mechanisms and by the excessive fragmentation of the public sector and
overlapping institutional functions, which make it difficult to measure progress
or maintain control. The decentralized entities also have their own budgeting
systems. Control of public expenditures is further handicapped by the extensive
system of earmarking, with about half of total current revenues earmarked for
specific purposes, including social security contributions (about one-half of
earmarked revenues). In addition to revenue earmarking, some expenditures are
required by law or cotstitutional provision, including expenditures for the
CCSS, the judiciary, higher education and the Controllers Office. Although some
earmarking of revenues is traditional (for example, social security), the system
as practiced in Costa Rica is excessive, and has contributed to growing
inflexibility in the budgeting process and in the establishment of expenditure
priorities.



- 23 -
Action Program
69.       In order to strengthen control over budget preparation and
implementation, the Government established a Budget Authority, by law, in late
1982, with the task of setting uniform budget preparation and expenditure
guidelines, and supervising the preparation and implementation of the public
sector budget. Further actions were taken in early 1984 with the approval of a
Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public Sector. This legislation
contains specific provisions to help ensure preparation of a balanced budget,
including Controller General authority to reduce non-priority budget items and
limit Central Government access to credit from the National Banking System to 5
percent of total actual expenditures in the previous year.
70.       The above noted law also establishes a high level commission (the
Commission on Public Finance), chaired by the Controller General, to prepare
draft legislation needed to restructure public finances and the tax system,
including the replacement of revenue earmarking as appropriate with direct
transfers, reinforce program-based budgeting, and better ensure that
expenditures are in line with the country's development plans and priorities.
The Government expects that a technical working group will complete most of its
work by October 1985, which would enable the full commission to present its
report in early 1986. The Government's obiective is to have tax reform
proposals submitted to the Legislative Assembly in mid-1986, with further
modifications of earmarking included in the 1987 Budget. Technical assistance
:o support the work of the technical working group is included in the proposed
Technical Assistance Loan.
71.       In addition to the above, the Government is requesting specific
techni.sl assistance to strengthen the Budget Authority and the budget
preparation process. This support concentrates in particular on the development
of procedures for (i) the control of budget execution and budget revisions,
including monitoring financial and physical progress of programs and projects;
and (ii) the analysis of overall budget performance to identify issues requiring
attention in subsequent budget years. In addition, an analysis of the legal and
administrative framework in which budget and expenditures matters are handled
will be carried out to determine the need for legal and other changes to furtner
enhance the effectiveness of the Budget Authority. Support for the Budget
Authority is included in the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.
72.       Pending completion of the report of the Commission on Public Finances
and Legislative Assembly approval of the recommended reforms, the Government is
taking interim actions to improve Cantral Government control over the use of
earmarked revenue. As part of this effort, the Government reduced some
earmarking through the 1984 Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public
Sector. These reductions have been extended to the 1985 budget. The
Government, in its Statement of Development Policy, has also confirmed that it
will not propose new earmarkings nor approve any legislation incorporating new
earmarking.



- 24 -
tc) Restructuring the Costa Rican Developmenc Corporation (CODESA)
73.        Established in 1972, CODESA was designed to support the development of
large enterprises which could not be developed entirely by the private sector.
Although originally expected to provide only partial financing, CODESA in fact
developed into a holdirg company with full or part ownership of a large number
of industries. As a result of poor management, lack of working capital and poor
capital structure, and often poor market and feasibility analysis, most of
CODESA's enterprises have operated with substantial losses, with the operations
largely financed through CODESA's easy access to Central Bank resources. Five
major subsidiaries, namely ALUNASA (aluminum), FERTICA (fertilizer), CATSA
(sugar), Cementos Del Pacifico and Cementos Del Valle (cement) make up close to
80 percent of CODESA's portfolio, and have sustained the bulk of the losses.
CODESA's operations have constituted a major drain on the public finances with
its operating deficits equalling as much as 20 percent of the total public
sector deficit in some years. In 1983, CODESA absorbed about one fifth of total
credit and about one-half of the banking system's credit to the public sector.
This is completely out of proportion with its contribution to production and
employment in the economy.
Action Program
74.       Given the above difficulties, the Government has initiated efforts to
sell CODESA's enterprises to the private or cooperative sectors, within the
framework of the 1984 Law for the Financial Equilibrium of the Public Sector,
which authorizes the Executive Branch to sell all or a portion of CODESA's
shares in its enterprises. Within this framework, CODESA is moving forward with
its divestiture and restructurirg efforts. It has closed down DAISA--an
agro-industrial company--whose equipment will be sold, and two other small
enterprises--MARICULTURA and ACUACULTURA. In addition, it has sold its shares
in Sub-productos del Cafe and increased the participation of the private sector
in STABAPARI. To expedite the divestiture process, the Government is
establishing a Trust Fund in colones in the Central Bank, with financing
provided from counterpart funds generated from bilateral assistance, up to
US$140 million equivalent. This Trust Fund would i) pay off CODESA's debts and
ii) purchase all of CODESA's remaining enterprises at sale prices established by
the Contraloria, with technical assistance for establishing such prices also
being provided by bilateral donors. The enterprises would then be sold at a
public auction or their assets liquidated if no buyer is found. The Government
is presently preparing a -7ork program for carrying out the above. Completion of
this plan of action, including a timetable for the divestiture of CODESA's
enterprises during 1985, would be a condition for release of the second
tranche. CJDESA's financial statements will be revised to reflect the charges
in its enterprises and the restructuring or liquidation of its debt with the
Central Bank and the Central Government.   CODESA and the Central Bank's
accounts would be adjusted accordingly. CODESA is also taking a number of
actions to strengthen operational and administrative practices in the two
enterprises that will remain under its control; namely, FERTICA and Cementos Del
Pacifico, with a maximum 60 percent share. For this purpose, the Government is
prepared to enter into 10-year management contracts with firms purchasing the 40
percent minority share in these enterprises.



- 25 -
75.       In addition to takirg actions regardirg its present portfolio, the
Goverment has agreed to reorient CODESA's objectives and work program in order
to avoid a repetition of similar problems. In this context, CODESA will:
(a) limit its promotion and financirg from its own resources to small
agro-industrial projects in the private sector which promote rural development,
generate foreign exchange, and are labor intensive; (b) promote investments in
other projects which will export to third markets, with financirg to be provided
by foreign and private sources; and (c) adapt or reorganize its administrative
and personnel structure to fit its scaled down work program and financial
situation.   CODESA's participation in any new project would be limited to no
more than 30 percent of total capital, and it would not provide any loans or
other financirg for any new project, with the exception of the small
agro-industrial projects referred to in (a) above. CODESA would also be
prohibited from operatirg any of the enterprises in which it has a capital
participation of 30 percent or less. In addition, CODESA would ensure that any
new project is based on strict criteria for determinirg financial and economic
feasibility. CODESA would have no access to new Central Bank credit.
76.       The proposed Technical Assistance Loan includes support to CODESA to
assist in reorientirg its activities and in strengthenirg the management and
operations of FERTICA, as well as CATSA, to facilitate the latter's sale to the
cooperative sector.
(d) National Production Council (CNP)
77.       CNP, an autonomous government organization, sets producer prices for
rice, beans, corn and sorghum. It is also the sole importer of wheat, beans,
corn and sorghum and the sole exporter of rice. CNP sets the beef retention
quota for the domestic market, and also intervenes in wholesale and retail
markets by operatirg a chain of retail shops sellirg grains, other basic
consumption items and agricultural inputs at cost. CNP is also involved in a
wide variety of other activities, includirg the national liquor monopoly,
procurement and distribution of farm inputs and provision of equipment and farm
supplies. CNP has accumulated large losses, mainly as a result of its price
support and sellirg practices. These losses, which represented about 40 percent
of the non-financial public sector deficit in 1984, create serious financial
problems a- require Central Bank financing, thus contributing to the Central
Bank's own losses.
Action Program
78.       In order to eliminate this continuing drain on public finances and
Central Bank resources, the Govermnent has agreed to a phased program under
which CNP's losses would be reduced by 50 percent each year beginnirg in 1985
through appropriate policy and price adjustments. To achieve the objective of
reducing ClP's 1984 deficit of about 1.3 billion colones by one-half in 1985,
the Goverment has, as a first step, taken action to: (i) increase consumer
prices for corn and beans while keeping support prices uncharged; and
(ii) eliminate losses from surplus rice production by restricting land under
rice cultivation, the availability of credit, and maintaining support prices



- 26 -
unchanged. Additional actions are planned to strengthen CNP's administrative
and budget practices and improve the profitability of some of its other
operations. Compliance with the goal of reducing losses by 50 percent in 1905
compared with 1984, will be reviewed as a condition for the release of the
second tranche. In addition, the proposed Technical Assistance Loan will
provide support for reviewing CNP's pricing system, subsidies, and scope of
operations.
(e) Public Sector Investment Planning
79.       In addition to inadequate budget and expenditure controls, management
of the public sector has been further handicapped by a lack of adequate
investment planning and coordination. Although Costa Rica possesses a rather
extensive planning system, headed by a Ministry of Planning and complemented by
a system of regional and sectoral units, the Planning Ministry has, until
recently, acted mainly as a compiler of project-related information. As a
result, public investment has materialized more as a product of interaction
between individual public entities and external lenders, and less as the outcome
of a coordinated overall program. Planning is often undertaken by sectoral
agencies at the request of external lenders. In view of these difficulties,
Bank staff undertook a detailed review of the 1984-86 investment program, with
the objective of helping the Planning Ministry prepare a sound program
consistent with resource constraints and other limitations, with appropriate
focus on key sectoral priorities, while also taking into account the country's
generally well-developed social and physical infrastructure. Given the
objective of reducing the size of the public sector and making better use of the
country's limited investment resources, careful monitoring of the public sector
investment program is essential.
Action Program
80.       Agreement was reached between the Bank and the Government on a revised
public sector investment program for 1984-86, consistent with the Government's
structural adjustment efforts and financial capabilities. The program covers
fixed capital investment of the Central Government and all key public sector
entities, namely RECOPE, CCSS, ICE, CNP, ICAA, and FECOSA. Under the program,
priority is being given to agricultural and industrial activities in the private
sector, with the Government limited to providing adequate credit and other
incentives. Although essential infrastructure development will continue under
the program, new infrastructure investments are being severely curtailed, with
yearly public investment expenditures limited to a maximum of C 9.4 billion, C
11.1 billion, and C 12.4 billion in 1984, 1985, and 1986 respectively, or about
6.5 percent of GDP, to ensure that the level of investment is compatible with
available resources. Implementation of the program will be monitored during
SAL I, and the Government would consult with the Bank with respect to any major
revision in the investment program. Satisfactory compliance with the investment
targets for 1985 would be a condition for release of the second tranche.
81.       There is also a clear need to strengthen the planning process through
the provision of technical assistance and training for the Planning Mlnistry, a
reorganization of the Ministry itself to strengthen its investment programming,



- 27 -
and project and macroeconomic analysis capability, and the establishment of
specific guidelines for the preparation ard evaluation of new projects being
prepared by outside agencies. The proposed Technical Assistance Loan includes
support to the Planning Ministry in these areas.
(f) Public Resource Mobilization
82.       In view of the serious fiscal imbalances, and as part of its
stabilization efforts, the Governnent has substantially increased revenue
generation through additional taxation and increases in public sector prices and
tariffs. In addition, the Government's Structural Adjustment Program calls for
further improvements in tax collection, while also undertaking a major
restructuring of the tax regime to reduce the negative impact on productivity
arid employment of unduly heavy taxation in certain sectors. With respect to
public enterprises, the principal objective is to ensure that tariff levels are
periodically adjusted to cover debt service requirements and operational
expenditures. The financial objectives for the Central Govermnent and key
enterprises are shown in Table 3 below. Achievement of these objectives will be
very important to ensure sound financing of the public sector and avoid
undermining the stabilization efforts, without which the Structural Adjustment
Program cannot succeed.
Table 3: COSTA RICA: CONSOLIDATED FINANCES OF KEY PUBLIC SECTOR ENTITIES i/
(as share of GDP)
Preliminary        Program
1984        1985   1986
Current Savings                           4.5          6.5    6.9
Capital Revenues                          0.2          0.1    0.1
Fixed Investment                          6.5          6.5    6.5
Other Expenditures
and Net Lending                         0.5          1.2    0.7
Overall Deficit (- - Deficit)            -2.3         -1.1   -0.2
External Financing, Net                   3.2          2.2    1.0
Internal Financing, Net                  -0.9         -1.1   -0.8
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1
I/  Includes only the Central Govermeent and all key enterprises, namely RECOPE,
CCSS, ICE, CNP, ICAA and FECOSA
Source: Ministry of Finance, IMF, Bank Staff Estimates.



- 28 -
(i) Tax System and Administration
83.       Costa Rica's tax structure has been developed on a largely ad hoc
basis over the years. The principal structural problem has been a heavy
reliance on export taxes. Tax administration and controls are also inadequate,
with tax evasion as high as 60 percent in some cases.
84.       Action Program.  Durirg its first 18 months in office, the Central
Government raised its taxes by about 4 percentage points of GDP, thus increasing
its revenue/GDP ratio to 17 percent in 1983. These tax reforms have included a
modification of the property tax, increases in sales and selective consumption
taxes, approval of a temporary income tax surcharge pendlig approval of a new
income tax law, and a 10 percent reduction of exonerations on import, sales, and
direct taxes. At the same time, the Government has eliminated taxes on
non-traditional exports to third markets. Additional tax measures were
introduced in 1984 which will raise Central Government revenues to 20.5 percent
of GDP in 1985. These measures include increases in selective consumption
duties, a modification of the corporate income tax, and a reduction in import
duty exemptions. The Government has also committed itself to a major revision
of the tax system and a specific proposal for tax reforms will be included in
the recommendations of the Commission on Public Finances. In addition to the
revenue actions noted above, the Finance Ministry is also undertaking a major
effort to improve tax collection, including the development of a computerized
tax registry. Since tax revenues as a percent of GDP are now quite high,
further actions in the tax area should concentrate on better collection of
existirz taxes and improvitg the overall tax system, rather than resortirg to
additional new taxes or rate increases to raise additional revenues.
Technical assistance to support this effort is included in the proposed
Technical Assistance Loan.
(ii) Public Sector Prices and Tariffs
85.       The failure of public sector enterprises to adjust prices and tariffs
to cover sharply increased expenditures resultirg from the heavy devaluation
which took place in 1981 and 1982, was largely responsible for the significant
deterioration in public finances which took place in these years. In
particular, both the power company (ICE) and the oil company (RECOPE) suffered
major problems, with their combined deficits for 1981 equalling 40 percent of
the overall deficit for the non-financial public sector for that year. Since a
reduction of the public sector deficit was critical to the country's
stabilization efforts, the Government, since taking office in May 1982, has made
a concerted effort to restore and maintain the financial viability of public
sector enterprises.



- 29 -
Action Program
86.        In June 1982, domestic prices of oil derivatives were increased 66
percent, water rates 95 percent, and electricity rates 70 percent, with an
additional 20 percent towards the end of the year. Further tariff increases of
9 percent for power, and 70 percent for water and telephone, respectlvely, took
place in 1984, to further strengthen the financial position of these
enterprises. Power rates were increased by an additional 12 percent in early
1985. The Government's policy is to maintain tariffs and prices of public
enterprises at a level sufficient to cover operational expenditures, debt
service requirements and a reasonable share of investment expenditures. With
respect to domestic prices for petroleum derivatives, these are currently above
international prices and would be further adjusted if necessary to reflect any
increases in the cost of petroleum imports.
III. External Debt Management and Improved Creditworthiness
87.        The rapid growth of external public debt (see para. 8) from 1978 to
early 1981 and subsequent creditworthiness problems resulted in large part from
the Goveroment's overall macro-econcuic policies designed to maintain growth and
employment, together with lax controls on external borrowing. As a consequence,
public sector entities contracted new debt with virtually no restrictions and
without a concerted effort by the Government to review the impact of such
borrowing on the country's overall debt service or future debt service of the
entity concerned. Furthermore, the country's debt recording and monitoring
system was limited in scope and unable to keep track of the growing
indebtedness. In these circumstances, the Structural Adjustment Program puts
emphasis on the restoration of the country's creditworthiness and on creating
the conditions needed to help mobilize substantial and continuing inflows of
foreign financing, as well as restructure on better terms the existing public
debt with foreign commercial banks.
Action Program
88.        One of the Government's main objectives under the Structural
Adjustment Program is to reduce the rate of accumulation of external public
debt, while improving its maturity and reducing the cost of servicing it. This
effort involves further rescheduling of the country's bilateral and commercial
bank debt as well as maximizing the amount of new debt contracted on
concessional terms. As a further step towards this objective, the Government
has reached agreement on a rescheduling of its foreign commercial bank debt
covering maturities falling due in 1985 and 1986 (see para. 18), and expects to
reach agreement with the Paris Club durirg the first half of 1985 for a further
rescheduling of bilateral debt. In addition, based on the Structural Adjustment
Program, the Government has obtained new financing in 1985 totaling US$75.0
million from the private commercial banks. It has also mobilized substantial
additional financing (US$190.0 million in 1985) on concessional terms from the
United States, in addition to multilateral support under the IMF Program and the



- 30 -
proposed SAL. To better control new borrowing by public sector entities, the
Government is requiring prior approval of new borrowings by the Budget
Authority, the Planning Ministry, and the Controller General, such approval to
be based on an evaluation by the Budget Authority Secretariat of the debt
service implications of such new borrowings. In addition, to provide adequate
and timely data on the total debt outstanding and detailed accounting of debt
service payments, the Governsent has established a computerized accounting
system in the Central Bank. This system enables the Central Bank to keep track
of debt service payments falling due and make provision for timely foreign
exchange allocations for this purpose. When fully operational, the system will
also have the capacity to project future debt service needs, and provide data
for rescheduling discussions.
C. Second Phase of the Structural Adjustment Program
89.       During the second and subsequent phases of its Structural Adjustment
Program, the Goverment intends to focus more heavily on actions in the areas
of:  (i) agriculture production and exports, including further policy changes to
increase productivity, while reducing subsidies; and (ii) banking and financial
services in order to improve the access of the productive sectors to timely and
adequate credit and financial services. At the same time the program would
continue efforts to rationalize and improve the efficiency of the public sector,
with specific emphasis on improving the cost-effectiveness of education, and
health and social security expenditures, as well as taking further steps to
strengthen the export sector.
Increasing Agriculture Production
90.       Agriculture contributes about 20 percent of GDP and about 60-70
percent of the total value of exports, while employing about 29 percent of the
labor force. Given its importance, the Goveriment's Structural Adjustment
Program includes, as one of its principal objectives, the continued revision of
the agriculture incentive system to foster increased production of export crops
through a gradual dismantling of price controls and subsidies and the provision
of better support and marketing services. Overall, the program would help to
increase production for export by: (i) supporting the rehabilitation of
traditional export crops (beef, cacao, sugar) which stagnated or declined in
recent years; (ii) promoting new agricultural exports, such as coconut oil,
citrus juices, macadamia and cashew nuts, and pineapple. In addition, the
Structural Adjustment Program also aims at increasing productivity in
agriculture, especially basic grains, with a view to reducing subsidies and
minimizing imports. This will require specific actions to expand credit
to agriculture; reduce input subsidies, especially in respect to credit,
fertilizer and crop insurance; improve extension with special emphasis on small-
and medium-size farms to raise productivity; and reorient research to support
new crops.



- 31 -
Banking and Financial Services
91.       Costa Rica's financial system is dominated by four nationalized
commercial banks, since only these institutions can receive demand deposits and
offer tax free savings accounts. The public banks' isolation from mark-of6forces
and the insufficient attention paid to their operating efficiency, portfolio
recovery, and profitability, have seriously undermined the effectiveness of the
financial system. More important, as the macroeconomic situation worsened,
especially given the impact of inflation and the massive devaluation, the
financial position of the four banks further deteriorated, as indicated by
growing arrears (equal to over 50 percent of their portfolio) and large foreign
exchange losses.
92.       Given this background, the Government recognizes the need to modernize
the operations of the public banks and make the entire financial system more
flexible to provide adequate and timely financing to increase production in
agriculture and industry, so that these sectors can more effectively expand
exports to third markets. The principal medium-term objective of the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program in the banking sector is to restore
the financial viability of the public banks; reduce their costs and increase the
efficiency of their operations; and ensure that both public and private banks
can operate effectively as part of the country's mixed banking system. In
addition, under the Structural Adjustment Program steps will be taken to
strengthen Central Bank finances and reduce its losses arising from the heavy
external debt burden, which results in large part from the rescheduling
agreement with foreign commercial banks. These losses have further reduced the
availability of credit to the private sector (See paras. 12 and 25).
93.       As an initial step in efforts to improve the operations of the
financial system, the Government has put in place two significant changes
through amendments to the Central Bank and Money Laws, which were approved by
the Assembly in late August 1984. One of the changes will enable lending in
dollars to take place for the first time by modifying a provision in the Money
Law that previously allowed borrowers to repay foreign currency transactions in
local currency at the official rate (C 20 per US$1.00, compared to a banking
rate of C 48), thus making impossible lending in foreign currencies. The other
change, an amendment to the Central Bank Law, gives private banks access to
foreign resources made available to the Central Bank. These changes will
increase the flexibility of the banking system by creating a new source of funds
for the private banks, and removing a major obstacle to foreign lending for
commercial transactions, thus increasing the access of Costa Rican firms to new
credit, which is essential to promote private productive activities.
94.       The Government has also taken a further step towards improving the
flexibility of the financial system by eliminating the multitude of specific
sub-sectoral allocations included in the Central Bank's annual credit program.
The credit program now establishes only global limits on total credit as
required under the Stand-by program. For new credit, the only proviso is that a
minimum of 60 percent of new loans be allocated to agriculture, livestock,
industry, housing and construction, with a maximum of 40 percent provided for
commerce, services and personal credit.



- 32 -
95.       Interest rates have traditionally been used as an incentive mechanism
for promotirg agriculture and industry, rather than as a tool for resource
mobilization. Preferential and subsidized interest rates for various activities
were also maintained. Furthermore, during 1981 and 1982, interest rates became
highly negative as Inflation speeded up to 37 percent in 1981 and 90 percent in
1982. Recognizing the need to provide adequate encouragement to domestic
financial savings and the channelirg of these resources into domestic
activities, the Govermuent took initial steps under its IPF supported
stabilization program to address this issue. In this context, the Govermnent
increased the basic deposit rate to which most deposit and loan rates are tied.
It also raised preferential rates in agriculture to the level of the basic
deposit rate, leaving only credit to CNP and a very small volume of credit,
mainly for small farmers and cooperatives, at less than the rate of inflation.
Since domestic inflation has averaged about 12 percent (on an annualized basis)
starting in mid-1983, interest rates at over 20 percent, are currently positive
in real terms.
96.       The Government's Structural Adjustment Program includes a commitment
from the Central Bank to maintain the minimum rates on deposits above expected
inflation, provided these adjustments take into account interest rates on the
international market. With regard to preferential rates, the Govermnent intends
to gradually reduce the amount of credit available to small farmers at these
rates, and drastically cut down CNP'a and CODESA's domestic credit needs (see
paras. 74 and 77).
Cost Effectiveness of Social Security, Health and Educational Programs
97.       The cost of social security and health care programs is substantial,
with social security and health expenditures increasing almost fivefold since
1960 and education requirirg about 30 percent of goverment expenditures in the
late 1970s. In view of the need tc reduce the relative size of the public
sector, while still meetirg future increases in demand for these services, there
is an urgent need to make these programs more cost effective, given current anm
projected fiscal constraints.
98.       With regard to Social Security, CCSS has already taken steps to
improve its finances anm reduce costs. Other actions are underway to further
improve cost effectiveness, includirg preparation of plans to integrate CCSS and
Health Ministry services; and steps to emphasize le8s expensive preventive
medicine over curative schemes. To assist CCSS in analyzirg its future needs,
and prepare the way for further actions under the second phase of the
Structural Adjustment Program, the proposed Technical Assistance Loan would
finance a study of the current and future costs of social security programs,
with particular emphasis on health services, to recommend how the system can be
managed ard financed at the lowest possible cost.
99.       In the broad area of education management, improvements cannot be
considered without considerable preparatory work, not only to provide the
technical basis, but also to help the Goverunent develop the political support
for proposed changes. The Government has therefore requested support for



- 33 -
carrying out several studies.  First, a stidy of education management and
administration, with a view to recommending specific cost-effectiveness measures
and preparing a plan of action to control education expenditures, as well as to
generate new revenues ard fees. Second, a detailed study of university
operations to review the effectiveness of programs and administration, and
propose specific actions to improve cost effectiveness and ensure course
offerings cornistent with projected manpower requirements. These two studies
would be carried out with support under the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.
The proposed Technical Assistance Loan would also support preparation of
training programs to help retrain employees of the private and public sectors,
in accordance with the revised priorities and needs of the Structural Adjustment
Program.
9



- 34 -
D. asm' w wtumes smciu. mmusrA  PUla
First Phua  of Structural Adjushent Progr_
luus sa  Objotlvee                             Actione Already Taen                            Actions to be Token
I. _  _m  _ L
PUe5
A. ECOWOE WTE POlICt                    Masive dvaluatlion In 1981-42. folowd          Periodic adjutbnt of echenge rot beod
by periodic 6welu tlon, aid comitbunt          on aWoed criteria.
to a flexiblI  achenge re t polIcy with
the 1W to help unsure aport
CexetI tiVnesa.
L  REO   OF IW          TARIFFS         RegionI a*grent atobilahlng prlnclple          Introduae rewlved numncltiara and ad
and tiiitabb for putting Into efftet CUM       'mIcram bse, and apply new taritf en
tariff reform sign d In Deceer 194.            non-ocaeting Intbrmdlote  and rw
The  efoam would hb laplo ed In pert by        suterlals (10K) and cpltl b  goods (MI)
July 1, 1985 and In full by no lster thm       effective July 1, 1985.
October 1, 1985. Now agrenm t r tifIed
by El Salveodr, Out_bla and Nicragiu  In       Coaqlti.n of regional technical
Jamory 1985 and In being c*nlbdred by          diacemalcm  on Individuel torlff It. ad
Coats Alcon Legislative Asmbly In              loplmint rmlning  elnnts of nw ter!Jt
March 1985.                                    ra glm  by no obtr thln October I  195.
To be reviewed as condition of scond
tradw.
Undertake awlyale of Inpct of tarIff
reform - Lt Ricen Industry and need foe
further tariff adjusbunts. Study inciudud
In Tecluicl Aeslatme  Len.
Take etepa to further reduce effective
protection with tb oeectlw  of reducing
It to a nuximm level of 120 percent by
i990.
C. ari  TPXES                           All export taxes on nontraditlonmi
eortb to third nurkeob elIminated.
Goverumt cumitowt not to Introdu  new
tons on ontrtdItlonel exports ha third
nurkets.
Tax on Exchnge Rate DOiffrential Cbesten
official and Interbenk roeb) e Imlnatod.
Flat rate tax on bsnam  eprts reduad.
fran USSI to USJ.75 per box.
Export tex on bef reducd fran 4 peront
to 1 perce nt.
D. EXF INCfNTIVES TO WAMIS              Ase.ly approved additlnsl Incentls             Isue rw regulations to stremnllne the
OUTSIDE lI     l                    for nmtraditil exports ha third               seblnlatation end granting of CArs.
urkets, lnorpontings  (a) tax
deductions on proflta  (b)  ptfon fra          Ellminate 122anthwelting period for
isport dutles for el I ported rw               utilizaticn of CATs with weIting perlod to
n briala, Inputs and pecheging not             be nduced by tireo mnthe eah c    sb  Or
produced In coutry. which are used o           beginning Jnuary 19386.
produce netradi tlonl  ports ID thIrd
urkatal Cc) provlslcn of a ceordfhted
peckop eof benef It  te aportrs,
Includlg preferential bonk credit
aceerated depreciatim; CAtS on tin
tbals of product and wrkets turough the
nocbl n of an xport contract;
(d) *etlbi lunnt of a  ationa  Invnbutnt
Councll I hepprove  ort amtractn; and
(e) lpiovmnt of the ew1r_k I,wdnln.



- 35 -
lame and Objectives                            Actlo  Already Ta n                                       Actlins to ba Tahn
E. IElIZ%TION IF                          Cov.rmnt, with  Xpport of priub   ctor            Estallsh  pecl working rap b apedist
IMIUTIML SECII                        orpgnlatlm  and externI tecluilel                c isetlo. of coordinated progr  of
asletaae, la preparing programs b                ass*stnb t      Industry.  Completion of
assist Inbstrlsle fs  mdernize, Including        progr. Including propoal. for training
stremthlenng tbnir abillty lb obtaln ft          of prnl, Is a conditbla for reles  of
lrketleg and twMologloal lforntlon                the   PIod   trnche.
neded to  retr Into nw narlets.
Oovrmnt lo also developing strbtgy and           C   pleb  program and Init.tat
progrm  b attrat forelgz  lnvbre,               Iiplinntatlon.
Aso with ae nrwl tchilcel  bssltanos.
11. l_E UE FFICmU  w PUNA
wI__i mm,  0~
U. IV _nc   m
A.   LIC BftWUf AM  WMD                   Publle eecti   pla3snt levels frog.. for          Cotlnued  mlbring of public   elDr
(Prlncipsl objective to to            tino yearsor. wginning lureh 2, 19dl. Now        mnploynt lents by tb. Budpt Authrl ty
redu   public aecbr's r tlts          ap lnpso nta  Iultad to specIal come             and Contrlwrla.  lyJlinntatl   of frcaa
slure In  eoeq. Progra  1mi           approved by Contralwle, an  not to exed           an eploymet levels ID la rsvisued prior
alms at reducifg slurs of etgs        Uqaio_nt OeOrn1T      Utur step  take  to         to robi"   of seond tranclh.
In attent apedibre of                 elimIate vaant puts, acuiesrai
g--el gnermnt.)                       rotiranente, and encourage tranmfrs to           Ibn ier l lunetatlut of _pga pollcli.
privab sector.
carry out study of publIle sctor alary and
Future public sector sgs leerae                  Incentive pollcies with sipport wndr
retrlcted fD abeolute chlngeB In thb cost        T eile l Asslebfee Loan
of a basic bcoket of goWs and ervices.
L     1AW    NINIST HISN All)
CUML AS   MMlZATINi W
PULIC FININCES
1.  Reenlztlon of                     Hlgi,-levl Conbulelu  estabishld by              Caiplotu sady of public flaneous  d key
NEMV1lTiPFlAesribmyb isn     rsc_mndetlonm ad                                      raecmndetions by early 1986, with
prepare draft legislatlon tD reorder             objectlv  of aibaitting tx reorm
pubile finane. and tax qste                     proposal, Ircluding clunge  In *aorking
to LegIslativ Assubly by mid1986.
L_A for the FinncIal Equllibrim  of the
Public Sector ilumitt (I) Central
Covenmat aces to endit from NatloalI
8auking SystA  (IN) to 5 percet of total
budgeted   pndi bres for prevous yearl
and I 1) forbide dxcentra lIzed
Institat lona  froa obtaining external
eredit to eovr current Weratlonal ante.
2. B!dget Authority and               Extabilismnt of Budget Authority and             Inpro  overall budget process tiroughs
Budget Proe                       prsprtlon of anal guuideline  for                develormnt of procduire  for lWperd
budget preparation,                              budget executlon and centrol, Including
nuit is. -g of physical and fInamial
La  for ti  Flncial Equiliibriw  of the         progns  of projects, and analysis of peut
Pubilc Sector * tmbilsis nw cr1 trie for         budget purfoanca to aid In preparation of
budget preparatlon   All eatinted               fubre budget. Tectmlcul assistane being
expndlituree wt b  tied to a. equiwiont          provided undr th. Tachbicel Aasista
lvel of revenn    as certifled by the            Lon.
Controller Cenral. All current
exp ndituorso mt be financed with current        Initiate review and revision of egel
rmas.  Non-priority budget lt of                 fraewok aud adeinlstretive stJbs of
Jentrilzed Inetitutlons c   be                   Tec luami Scretbriat tr Iprove
eliminted one rnecmatlon of Budpt                coordinatln In prearlng, loplewnting end
Authri ty and approval of Contralorwa.           controlling pulic sectr budgets.
Technical assistatn   being prowlded unbr
Techilcel Auistanco Loan.



- 36 -
muss ud Objsetiva                           Actions Already Taia                                   Aotilow t be Tabk
3. CO itrol of b^rkrhd Toun        Eamarklng of cortain btas for -elolic          Oermnt tb IMcit refoms of cachilng
e  Cmulsory Epnedltre           purposa rtdued In `194 and t1S budgets.      sy*s  to Legisla ba  by mid-196.
Erkling expected to to cilllmnatd, as
Pamlng Amftly approval of rcfm of           raplac  by s*tY   of direct transfers tO
earwarking eysbn, Govrimnt wIIi not           extent apprepriab.
proper nr approe may legislati
Incorporatlg now eureking.
C. SZATmIzaIC   F U0ESA  S
II1CIURIUI  U ITSPIFLIo
1. Divemtibre of Portfollo         Asmbdely epproval of legiiautbon               Coqmiebte esft lhunt of Trust Fad aid
utherlr Iing Excutlwe Branch to sel a ell      detl led Pln of Action and Tlhta b.
of 0DEWs sihres In Its entrprim,              Compuetion of Plan of Actbn a*d tltbb
with exe ptim of 60 prcent aership of          id  be a cndtlem for raleam of tbe
FERICA and C_ntos del Pelfleo.                 seeond trrchi.
WIthin thsl frasmork, OEOM   Pus  cloud       Prepration of action pogrmam to prove
OAISA and Cunteo del Val e, wAo                ti engmnt and marheting of RlTICA and
equipent Is being moled  sld Maricultue,      stenjthinumnagn-t of CU. To be
Acuacuitura, and Its shore  In                carried out under T  bcnle l Assstnce
S-'-producto  del Cafel and increased         Len.
private partlclpation In STAIWAJ.
Goveramnt Is etablishing a Trust Faud
with fors go f1Ineaing to expedib
divestikare.
2. latituatli uS                   Agreant reachd o           polley objectlves   Complab a program of reergnization ad
Policy inrovnts                 and ln titutlonl gudelilnes for MESA,         policy lsqrovents under nm guldidlines.
to reorient lb actlvl ties tb prest           To be erried out with  cleulcel assistance
ml I aroldubtry prejectB and  xport           provided udr th. Technical Assistance
projects outside  a CAO. CMDESA's             Loan.
perticipatle Ilnlmited to 30 percent of
totl epI  bi need. No lean Or
guerantem or enderseents would be MD,
except for owl agrorindttry prjects.
All projects subject to strict econmic
and finnneiel feibility guideline.
0. NATIONAL PDUCTION COICIL            Ageent to rute OW  s lexsse  by SO             bqplent agreed steps to r_d  Ce   loes
Cap)                               percent ecih yer toginnilng In 115            by SO parent In 1915. Progreas b h
tbrough aprrate price and peIlcy              reviewe es condltlon of releam  of scod
adjustmnts. Actlen  te reduc  iosn            tranch.
fron corn, beuns and rice already tabln.
Carry out sbdy of price sa  srketing
polIcles, Including orgeniutlonl
tructure of OF, to defin  pollcy option
for reduclrg custs of exEring frm hrk
anid provide aure effective inen wve Cto
be srried under the Tecluicel AssIsona
Loan).
- E. RELIC SECM  IIWEEDU                 Aseent on public Invesbent eillIng of          Prepare and Ilaeunt a pi hof ectiom to
P l5                              J6.S percent of GM, for Central Cornmst         strengthen the pianning premeas, Iniling
and ula public entitle during 1984-6.         the strengtiunlng of project prearatio
as evlitien ed training In tie
Apmeant rnohed ds  revised tres-yewr          ororm_lng of Invesutnts. To tb  erried
Invesbnt progr  (191466) oqtibble             out umdr Taehnleol Aselabses Losn.
with tU  axpected availability of dstle
ruourese, finnciel posItIon of publc          initor eaip lanc with public uvings aid
entarprmmB concrned, ard debt narvic          lnvant tbrgets J wel a  mtlefectory
constraints.                                  Implimentatimn of lmnesnt presr
Coqmlance with Invetunt to rgts will be
reviwed  s a cdItion for rlcb_e of th
swwri tru.



- 37 -
lama mi Olblaotivs                         Mtlm  lwEady Tost M Is Iaha Tahm
A. TAX WUE                            Stim  thig ottfl  GOenlre  in mimi            iltrais  ad lqbamt mmau   b bWis
Cantral Gourmet rewvees by about 7.          tax ebhmiabatli ad rake ewale,
parmetag pol.tu of OW. tilrauh               1mluilag lwpra  oaterl proad_rm  ud
*pileftlm  of -   uma ad raiiw   of el    e      t epriatlam  b ran aelieootl.
ousting ton retob.                           Taoleoal Aed1m Lee prwlaS   appart
far tale pupae.
L  FINICII or AUOFS                   sI p1itlaot prim ad tariff Inerim  Cat       Tariff lels d ofbl pso atarprias to bha
PUILIC JC1011  ITITES A0           poe. ct r, 1blao      lutloa,                adjuwd prladlul ly b a awl mffielest
NCWINMICIL ER1lUS                  pobsum prduoa and irk  tranport put          b  sewr aprttml upditmu,  hbt
Into ofbit aim  I9S.                         mrvlea, ai a    _measb  a     dlrsof
Inwmubt.
W. iniot W                                Diractiws lamed requiring estreatiag of       Iquwo  aratim V dbt rpartiag alsfl
_uirM.m                              s rexharfil Sbt to b aprovd by              ad Intltal spalt, ha badbil   bt srim
Plinl Ng.q ths Oudpt Autority  uS  thi       proJatlso.
Control lr'a Offife.
Debt rapttiug and enihwing gyfte
lmbl lad In Cnral au.
Domntraliaed agencies must etbhi
extarml cerit ha finarne currnt
supmdI tun.



- 38 -
NOa nat o SIWIum. AJurTw PRuomW
aeues anm Objeatiwam                       Aotlomw Airdy Taht                                     Actions to lo Talb.
1.  ISP   SU s                            blelan of oawvl I Imntliv  sytm              Promed with iqpiewntatlon d mw regiomal
" iMMia -                              farays bicludinrg ntim to adjuat              projacta foamd on mports In bt  Atltant
*obqp Fe  aid rof am  lort  riffqo           Raglon oa  Coto 5r In tie Sutt.
oi1minato expart toxes -  e m traittlona
to third arhatog ad  redee    i  on beaf     Prepare program to davlop nartradiltoml
apertl                                        agricultural ouporto. (To ha crrid out
uSer TacclcosI Aaian oa Len.)
ii. -m su
A. aUDIT AO INTlUS  RARE PtiCW         Eatabilolmnt of positive rt Interast          Monitor Inbrort rate policy parfonfro
ra m  Oovnrmnt eiltbnt b                     and edjut -  appopriate.
wintaln dpoit rate osto  axpectad
latiton.                                     Further rodue oust of erodit prawdid at
lee then deapclt rat conaIatant with
pvermint cmlbunt.
3. IN6TIIUTJW . Rlt                    Shady of National Sanking Syla   by           Prperatlol of action progrm to tprovo
higirlaval eauimimmm    ulistad Montor        parfoenu   of publlc bkt, Including plan
196                                           to rd    aroai oattllomint of
parfmem1  celotris regrding srrenrs,
AwnSmnt of Ms Law to perlt aidIng            cab of oparatlon, us halw qwprol
In fornigp axchnap and tramfar of ths        pro qaing tim. (Support  ilng provided
foreign azlmeg  risk to U ultimlase uer Tacel cl AI utAtonm  Lon).
1srmr; end aprwal of mendent  to
Centl lank Law to Vomit direct prlwIs         Prpsre wtion program In srlngtrq n
beod  moomma to OC  redl mount fact li ti,    finane  of Contral Ba*.
financad with fcelp foda.
Eltuln tlon of cradit al locotlon ofsbm by
mab-sac tors.
IIII. iwmM uni" nu or
IVr twlmn  Ma 
A. S1SEN1a TlE FINiCINO MD
MASEMBIT (IF  CdCI. SOITl          Social Sacurity CCS) Mo Inbplmatad on         Carry out cairaelmiwa atudy of feturo
MO  EALTH PlAM.                    actln plan to ancra  rewuem and              noda aid financing roquirants focuaing
raduo ento, Including parasnnal              an  C!) current aid futsra cat of moial
reductious.  CSS budget for 198U ohowd        eacurlty program,  eapcielly haectla Ill)
aerplew.                                     aitornutlv  finsning ucenlum  ad
eourca aid  iii) ingrowlng
cost-efhctivenes o.f basitb  rvte. To
to nwretd out undEr Taehnical Asaatnlom
Loan.
S.  Iwmv  WSTrFECIVPS  OF              Tascbr's sqlmont eval froen for               Caatesto etudies of eduotIon imnan   t
IUCATtflH PltAS, iCJINC            1984-6 (as pert of overatl free on            with support undEr Technical Aaslsflnca
lWUtVIP  OiULiY AG FOGs WF         piellc motor  lopent).                        Loan with objectlw  of:
UMATIWi WNSiSlT  WiTH
QJRI   IEEDS                                                                     () preparing an action progra, to ipowre
eduatlion anagmnt aid  dblniatratlto,
Including pclflc cut-ofectivaees
nuaeuree and pseibI waya to gmnrto new
rab   ad flag
(i) undertaking a atudyof unlwlr ot
oparationa to review thr cost-ffactiunmas
of pogreaq   ai Al ainlsofrtlon wd prsro
pian of action to addro lay mmmcn   ai
liII) preparing training progrm to
facilitak trentomr of publi c ule . ID
privat  oector and providE fills for
ratructurd Induatrial motor.



- 39 -
III. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 4/
100.      Costa Rica has to date received 28 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totalling US$411.5 million net of cancellations. Of these, six were for power,
five each for telecommunications, industry and highways, three for agriculture
and one each for education, water supply, urban transport, technical assistance
for petroleum exploration, and export development. Performance audit reports
have been issued for two highways, three telecommunication projects, one
agriculture, and one power project. These reports indicate that project
objectives were generally achieved in highways, telecommunications and power,
with somewhat less success in agriculture where appraisal targets for crop
production and exports were missed, partly due to shifts in markets and
incentives, and difficulties in introducing more satisfactory investment
analysis methods into the banking system.
101.      Of the eight projects currently under execution, project start-up has
generally been slowed by delays in loan effectiveness due mainly to legislative
ratification delays. Implementation has also been delayed by local financing
constraints, although these have now been eased by reducing project scope in
some cases and adjusting implementation arrangements in others to accelerate
disbursements. As a consequence, implementation of most projects is now
generally satisfactory, with the exception of the San Jose Water Supply Project,
which encountered procurement difficulties that have only recently been
resolved. Implementation of the Export Development Loan has also been slower
than anticipated. However the Export Fund (FOPEX) has recently introduced new
procedures permitting cash sales of foreign exchange, which is expected to
improve performance. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credit and IFC investments as of September 30, 1984.
102.      Bank lending to Costa Rica has concentrated primarily on developing
basic infrastructure, mainly power, telecommunications and highways, with more
limited assistance being made available to support development of agriculture
and industry. In response to the growing economic crisis in the early 1980's,
the Bank's lending program was redesigned, with priority given to helping
relieve the country's pressing balance of payments problems, improve its export
performance, and strengthen creditworthiness. The Export Development Loan
(US$25.2 million), approved in FY1983, constituted a first step in Bank support
of Government economic recovery efforts. It established a revolving export
financing fund to help finance the import requirements of export industries.
The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan of US$80 million, and accompanying
Technical Assistance Loan of US$3.5 million, continue support of the country's
economic recovery and adjustment effort. Both take into account the long-term
nature of the Costan Rican economic crisis and the importance of providing
support in the context of a phased Structural Adjustment Program.
103.      Future Bank lending is expected to be directed at: (i) continuing
support for the Structural Adjustment Program; (ii) promoting private sector
efforts to develop exports in industry and agriculture; and (iii) ensuring
adequate maintenance of existing basi. infrastructure. In this context two
projects to support the Structural Adjustment Program and the productive sectors
4/ Part III is the same as Part V in the President's Report for the Costa Rica
Structural Adjustment Loan.



- 40 -
are under preparation, namely an export industries credit operation and a
project to develop export agriculture in the Atlantic region of the country.
Further support for highway maintenance is also being considered.
104.      IFC has been involved in four projects in Costa Rica.  Equity and loan
investments in Productos de Concreto have been sold and fully repeid. The
expansion project of Scott Paper Company de Costa Rica, financed by a loan in
1978, is now completed. Loan and equity investments in 1979 helped finance the
integration and expansion of Maricultura, S.A., a shrimp farm on the Pacific
coast. This project's financial and management difficulties have since forced
the shrimp farm to cease operations. In August 1982, a loan of US$4.0 million
to Matas de Costa Rica, S.A., was approved by IFC's Board of Directors to help
finance the development of a new plantation for indoor ornamental plants. IFC
is also exploring other financing possibilities in the country.
IV. THE PROJECT
105.      The project would support the proposed SAL to Costa Rica, which is
being submitted concurrently. The technical assistance needs were identified
during preparation of the SAL, and Bank financing was requested during appraisal
of the SAL. The project itself was appraised in September and October 1984,
with negotiations taking place in Washington, D.C., in late January and early
February, 1985. The Costa Rican delegation was headed by the Minister of
Planning, Juan Manuel Villasuso. Annex III contains a supplementary project
data sheet.
Project Objectives and Overall Technical Assistance Needs
106.      The proposed project will provide the Government with essential
information and analysis for decision making in priority areas, help prepare
specific action programs to achieve adjustment objectives, and provide technical
assistance to help implement key elements included in the Structural Adjustment
Program. The studies and technical assistance activities are designed to
address policy options, prepare medium-term strategies, and strengthen and
reorganize key public sector entities.
107.      The project components are listed below and described in more detail
in subsequent paragraphs:
(a)  Improvement of budget preparation and management through strengthening
of the Budget Authority;
(b)  Support for the reshaping of CODESA's activities;
(c)  Strengthening of public sector investment planning and macroeconomic
analysis;



- 41 -
(d) An analysis of social security and health programs to improve
cost-effectiveness and determine future financing needs and
alternatives;
(e)  A study of prices and subsidies in the agriculture sector, coupled
with preparation of a program for promotirg non-traditional
agricultural exports;
(f)  Support for the modernization of the National Banking System;
(g)  Strengthening of tax and customs administration;
(h)  Preparation of a program of action to address key issues In the
education sector, including steps to improve cost-effectivenesg and
reorient educational programs to better meet future challerges;
(i)  An analysis of salary structure and incentives in the public sector;
and
(j)  An analysis of tariff reform implementation and impact.
108.      The proposed technical assistance would complement assistance being
provided by other donors and international institutions. In particular, USAID
is channeling substantial support through CINDE, a private sector organization,
with the objective of strengthening private sector efforts to reactivate the
economy. Additional suppert is being provided by the Inter-American Development
Bank which has been working with the Planning and Finance Ministries to assist
in establishing a compu.erized planning and budgeting system. The Organization
of American States is providing advisory support for improving tax
administration and strengthening the Contraloria and has also assisted in
preparation of the tariff reform.
109.      While the above support from other donors will be of considerable help
in carrying out the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, financing for
the studies and institutional development included under the proposed loan is
not currently available from other sources. The UNDP budget for the next few
years is also fully committed. Given the existing constraints on the
Government's budget, the Government has, therefore, requested Bank support for
the technical assistance acttvities considered critical to the Structural
Adjustment Program.
Project Description
110.      Details of each technical assistance component are given below,
together with the estimated cost for consultant services.
(a) Budget Preparation and Administration
111.      Given the importance of improving the cost-effectiveness and use of
public sector reso'irces as a criti-al component of the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program, the Government is giving priority to strengthening the
Budget Authority and its technical secretariat. Established by law in



- 42 -
late 1982, the Budget Authority plays a key role in providing guidance and
control over the budget process to improve efficiency of resource use, and
ensure compliance with macroeconomic policy objectives covering principally
wages and salaries, debt, anid investments (see para. 69). Nevertheless, while
the Budget Authority and its Secretariat have made a positive contribution to
improvirg budget practices, additional support is needed to further strengthen
budget preparation and control procedures and to provide the technical
secretariat and Budget Authority with the statistical and analytical base
necessary to improve overall budget administration. The principal tasks to be
addressed include: (i) the development of procedures and a statistical basis
for the control of budget execution and budget revisions, including the
supervision of financial and physical progress of specific prograns and
projects; (ii) the development of procedures to analyze overall budget
performance in order to identify issues and problems requiring atcention in
subsequent budget years; (iii) the development of procedures for the control and
monitoring of employment levels in the public sector; and (iv) an analysis of
the legal and administrative framework in which the public sector operates in
respect to budget and public expenditure matters, in order to determine the need
for legal or other changes to ensure that the Budget Authority can function
effectively and fully carry out the tasks assigned to it by the Legislative
Assembly and the Executive Branch.
112.      In order to carry out the tasks outlined above, the proposed loan
%.uld finance experts to assist the technical secretariat in devising new
procedures and guidelines for budget administration, carry out a study of the
existing legal framework and constraints on improving uniformity of budget
preparation and control, and help establish an improved data base and
statistical arrangements for monitoring the budget. A total of about 30
man-months is expected to be required over a period of one and one-half years.
Cb) Costa Rican Development Corporation (CODESA)
113.      The reorientation of CODESA's activities and divestiture of its
enterprises are key elements in the Goverment's program to restore order to the
public sector (see paras. 74 and 75). Although the divestiture of the bulk of
CODESA's enterprises is beirg accelerated with the establishment of a Trust Fund
and its financing from bilateral donors, CODESA is required by law to maintain a
majority interest (60 percent) in two key enterprises, namely FERTICA and
Cementos del Pacifico. Given the continuing managerial, financial and
operational problems being experienced by FERTICA, CODESA has requested
consultant assistance to FERTICA to help prepare a program of action to improve
its marketing, production and cost control systems, and its information and
financial control methods and operating procedures. Consulting services would
also be provided to assist in strengthening the operations of CATSA, with
particular emphasis on improving the management of its sugar fields to attain
maximum yields and strengthen its distillery operation. Improvement of CATSA's
operations is needed to help ensure that it can be managed on a sound basis once
it is taken over by the cooperative sector, as required by the Legislative
Assembly. Additional support would be provided to CODESA itself to help in its
reorganization and to revise its activities towards the promotion of



- 43 -
new projects in the export sector, with only minimal financial participation
from CODESA (see para. 75).
114.      To provide the above support, about 27 man-months of consultant time
would be required. This includes about 10 man-months for assistance to FERTICA,
involving four different experts specializing in production, marketing, finance
and accounting/computing. Another five man-months would be needed to advise
CATSA, including one expert in sugar production and one in processing of sugar
and alcohol. The remaining 12 man-months would be required for a full-time
advisor to CODESA to assist in its restructuring.
(c) Invcstment Planning and Programming
115.      Since preparation of a public sector investment program consistent
with the country's financial resources and revised priorities is a critical
component of the Government's Structural Adjustment Prograi, the Milnistry of
Planning has requested technical assistance to strengthen its capacity to
analyze, program and monitor investments as well as its capacity to provide
guidance to other agencies in the preparation and evaluation of new investment
projects (see para. 81). The proposed loan would finance the provision of an
expert in public investment planning and programming, for a period of about six
man-months, to be attached directly to the Office of the Planning Minister, but
with responsibility for working directly with the Division of Investments. In
addition, the loan would finance special courses in investment programming and
project analysis. EDI would assist in the preparation and supervision of the
training courses to be organized for the Ministry of Planning, possibly in
collaboration with the Instituto Centroamericano de Administracion. US$50,000
is being provided out of the loan to finance training activities.
(d) Social Security and Health
116.      Although Costa Rica's social security and health care system is
currently operating on a satisfactory financial basis, CCSS is concerned that
the system lacks sufficient flexibility to handle the financial consequences of
increased demands for its services in the future (see para. 98). To assist the
CCSS in analyzing its future needs, the proposed loan would finance a
comprehensive study with the objective of: (i) reviewing the current and future
costs of social security programs, with particular emphasis on health services;
(ii) determining possible sources of financing and financing mechanisms required
to handle these programs; and (iii) exploring changes in the existing mechanisms
for providing health services which are more cost-effective. To carry out this
analysis an estimated 35 man-months of consultant time would be needed.
(e) Studies in the Agriculture Sector
117.      Exec-ation of the Govermnent's Structural Adjustment Program implies
the need for further changes in agriculture policy to orient the sector toward
higher productivity and growth (see para. 90). Of particular importance is the
need to review the costs and impact of the Govermnent's incentive system,
particularly pricing and marketing policies which in the past have attempted to
keep down food prices while stimulating agricultural production. The policies
have resulted in the provision of subsidies to both consumers and producers and
thus, heavy budget outlays and deficits, inefficient resource allocation among
different crops, lowered overall levels of domestic agriculture production, and



- 44 -
value added, and contributed to balance of payments pressures. While the
Government has taken some initial steps to rectify these problems, including
actions to reduce the substantial losses suffered by CNP-the agricultural
marketing agency-further progress in defining pollcy adjustments in agriculture
is handicapped by a lack of detalled knowledge on specific policy options and
their expected impact on producers. To assist the Government in defining an
action program in this area, the proposed loan would finance consultant services
to analyze the existing policy and institutional framework. In particular, the
study would: (i) review the cost-effectiveness and benefits (and identify the
beneficiaries) of existing price policies and subsidies in agriculture for
principal products including basic grains (rice, beans, and corn), and determine
the effects on production, income of small farmers, and costs to the Government;
and (ii) propose alternative price policies and marketing arrangements which
would encourage production in those areas where Costa Rica has the greatest
comparative advantage.
118.      In addition to the above, the Government has requested support in
preparation of a program to promote the developmer.t of non-traditional
agriculture exports. Promotion of these exports in a more coordinated and
systematic fashion is essential to the success of the Structural Adjustment
Program, since a substantial portion of projected export growth will have to
come from the nonrtraditional agriculture sector. In coordination with-the
analysis being undertaken with respect to pricing and subsidy policies, the
study would: (i) review the existing system of incentives, marketing
arrangements, technJcal assistance, and policies affecting land utilization;
(ii) recommend alternative policies and incentives; and (iii) prepare a plan of
action to promote the development of non-traditional agriculture exports.
Carrying out of both the pricing study and export promotion program preparation
are expected to require about 55 man-months of consultant time.
(f) National Banking System
119.      As indicated in its Structural Adjustment Program (see para. 92), the
Government recognizes the importance of improving the efficiency and flexibility
of the banking system in order to provide timely and effective financial
services required to achieve the increased production and exports needed to
restore sustained growth to the economy. With this objective in mind the
Government has carried out an initial study of the banking system to highlight
its key problems and constraints. Nevertheless, in order to obtain more
detailed recommendations on how to resolve the specific problems being
identified, as well as to prepare a plan of action and timetable for carrying
out remedial measures, the Government is requesting support under the proposed
loan. The principal objectives would be to assist the public banks to: (i)
prepare a plan of action to resolve the serious problems of arrears; and (ii)
draw up detailed recommendations to introduce more streamlined administrative
procedures, while reducing costs and improving profit margins. It is estimated
that this would require the services of specialized consultants for a total of
about 20 man-months.
(g) Tax and Customs Administration
120.      Tax administration is one of the weakest links in the public finance
system in Costa Rica, since the follow-up and control of tax payers is minimal
(see para. 83). Efforts have been underway for some time to establish a



- 45 -
unified, computerized record and take other steps to improve the administration
and collection of taxes. Nevertheless, overall progress has been slower than
expected, and the Ministry of Finance has requested support for reviewing the
status of on-going activities in this area ard preparing a work program to
accelerate modernization of the tax administration. In addition, the Govermnent
has requested assistance to support the work of the Technical Committee which is
preparing tax reform proposals for the Commission on Public Finances (see para.
70). The proposed loan would finance about six manr-months of consultant time to
cover the cost of specialized experts in tax control systems and tax
administration and reform matters.
121.      The Ministry of Finance has also requested technical -assistance to
advise the customs administration on preparation of a plan of action to
modernize the operations and management of customs to both accelerate customs
clearances and strergthen control procedures.  In addition, the customs service
requires assistance in adapting to changes in the 'mport tariff regime,
especially the change to the Brussels nomenclature and to an ad valorem basis.
Six man-months of consultant services would be financed out of the loan for this
purpose.
(h) Education
122.      Costa Rica's education system is well developed and provides extensive
coverage. Nevertheless, the Government recognizes the need to increase the
cost-effectiveness of the system, while ensuring that the system is able to
provide the kind of training and level of skills consistent with the future
requirements and direction of the economy (see para. 99). To assist the
Government in preparing the specific measures needed to achieve the objectives
set out in the Structural Adjustment Program, the proposed loan would finance
two broad studies with the objective of: (i) analyzing specific problems in
education management, with a view to preparing a plan of action to implement
specific cost-effectiveness measures, as well as suggest possible alternative
financing mechanisms designed to reduce the financial demands on the
Government's budget; and (ii) assisting the universities to review their own
operations, including costs and effect'veness of administration, appropriateness
of course offerings, and alternative methods of financing. In addition,
specialized consultant assistance would be provided to assist in preparing
training programs to facilitate the transfer of public sector employees to the
private sector and provide the skills needed to support restructuring of the
industrial sector.  Thirty man-months of consultant time are expected to be
needed to carry out the above studies.
(i) Public Sector Wage and Incentive Policies
123.      In view of the austerity measures taken by the Government as part of
its stabilization program, and the expectation that serious fiscal constraints
will continue for some time, the Government is increasingly concerned that it
will be unable to attract and hold an adequate number of skilled civil servants
needed to operate the public sector. It has, therefore, requested assistance in
carrying out an analysis of the Government's existing salary and incentive



- 46 -
policy, with the objective of making specific recommendations on improvements
and actions needed to hire and retain a satisfactory number of qualified
personnel. Six man-months of consultant time are expected to be required to
carry out this analysis.
(j) Analysis of Tariff Reform Implementation and Impact
124.      Since the development of exports is one of the key elements of the
Structural Adjustment Program, the Government is concerned with the impact that
the chatnges in the tariff regime will have on particular industrial subsectors,
such as textiles. To assist the Government in studying the impact of the tariff
reform, as well as determining what additional tariff adjustments or other
measures may be needed to further reduce effective Protection, the proposed loan
would finance eight man-months of consultant services.
Project Organization and Implementation
125.      The Ministry of Planning would have overall responsibility for
coordinating implementation of the technical assistance program through a
special office attached to the office of the Minister of Planning and beaded by
a Project Manager who would he financed out of the proposed loan. Appointment
of the Project Manager, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Rank, is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Draft Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01(b) and Schedule 4 (II). In view of the large number of
consultants needed, and to accelerate e-ployment arrangements and contracting,
the Ministry of Planning has agreed in principle to use the services of the
Office of Project Execution of the UNDP (OPE) to act as an agency of the
Government in the hiring of consultants and servicing of their contracts.
Appointment of such an agent is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (Draft Loan Agreement Sections 3.03 and 5.01(d)).
126.      The Project Manager would also assist in improving the Ministry of
Planning's capacity to better coordinate and monitor the wide variety of
technical assistance activities being carried out in Costa Rica in order to help
ensure more productive use of the assistance and studies that result.
Short-term experts could be financed out of the loan to support this effort, if
so required.
127.      Detailed terms of reference for the studies are under preparation by
the Government with the assistance of Bank staff. Broad terms of reference for
each of the studies were discussed and agreed during negotiations together with
a timetable for completing the detailed terms of reference. Completion of the
terms of reference is a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Draft Loan
Agreement Section 5.01(c)).  The consultants' contracts would include specific
timetables for each phase of their work. Implementation arrangements for each
studv, including the appointment of needed counterpart staff in the agency or
institution most directly concerned, would be reviewed by the Bank
prior to the appointment of the consultant or expert concerned. The bulk of the
studies are expected to be completed by the end of 1986, although completion of
some final reports and training would continue into 1987. The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1987. A detailed implementation schedule
is provided in Annex IV.



- 47 -
128.      The Ministry of Planning, with the assistance of the Project Manager
will send to the Bank quarterly progress reports. In addition, progress of the
studies will be monitored by the Bank during supervision of the Structural
Adjustment Loan. The Government will review with the Bank the findings and
recommendations of each study and prepare, when appropriate, plans of action,
satisfactory to the Bank (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). In addition, and
consistent with the Government's ct.mnaitment to its Structural Adjustment
Program, the Government intends to :onsult regularly on the progress of other
studies and technical assistance belng financed by other donors, especially
USAID and the Inter-American Developmient Bank, which are directly related to the
Structural Adjustment Program, and to communicate to the Bank their interim and
final reports. The Project Manager will play an active role in this regard as
part of his task of providing guidance in strengthening the overall coordination
of technical assistance and in the dissemination and application of key findings
and recommendations.
Project Cost and Financing
129.      Total cost of the technical assistance program, net of taxes and
duties, is estimated at US$4.6 million equivalent, including US$3.5 million
equivalent in foreign exchange and US$1.1 million equivalent in local currency.
The foreign exchange component includes an unallocated amount of US$250,000 to
meet unexpected additional demands which may materialize during the course of
implementation. Price contingencies have been calculated at a rate of 8 percent
in 1985 and 7.5 percent in 1986 and 1987. The project would be exempt from all
taxes and duties. It is expected that about 230 man-months of consultant time
would be required, not including the Project Manager. The beneficiary agencies
would provide about 200 man-months of counterpart staff time, which is included
in the cost of the project as part of the Govermnent's contibution.
130.      The proposed loan would finance 76 percent of total project cost,
representing the estimated foreign exchange component. The Government would
finance the US$1.1 million equivalent in local costs representing the estimated
cost of counterpart staff, office space, equipment and materials, and other
local support services. The proposed loan would also finance one vehicle to be
used by the Project Manager and one vehicle to be used by the Budget Authority,
as well as other office supplies and equipment needed by the Planning Ministry,
Budget Authority and Customs Administration to facilitate strengthening of their
respective operations.
Procurement and Disbursements
131.      Contracting of consultants would be carried out by the Ministry of
Planning, on behalf of the Government, in accordance with Bank guidelines (Draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 and Schedule IV). Procurement of goods, financed
out of the loan proceeds and estimated to cost US$150,000 for office equipment,
materials and vehicles would be carried out under local procedures on the basis
of quotations from at least three suppliers, in view of the small number of
items and amount involved. Disbursements would be made against 100 percent of
the total cost of corsultants and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
training, project management, equipment and vehicles, and 80 percent of local
expenditures for imported equipment and vehicles purchased locally.



- 48 -
132.      The Ministry of Planning would establish and mainmaln accounts for all
project expenditures under the proposed loan in a clearly identifiable
manner (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.01a). Such accounts and supporting
records would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and the audit reports submitted to the Bank within four months after the end of
the year (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.01b).
Benefits and Risks
133.      The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed loan is
designed to support implementation of the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program, both in carrying out policy actions and programs already agreed, as
well as in preparing the way for additional reforms in key areas.
134.      The principal risks of the project stem from possible delays in the
appointment of consultants which could jeopardize timely implementation. To
minimize this risk, agreement was reached during negotiations on specific steps
to accelerate appointment of consultants, including appointment of a contracting
agent. Satisfactory progress in carrying out the technical assistance program
would also be a condition for release of the second tranche of the proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan. There is also a risk that recommendations of the
studies will not be implemented as fully or in as timely a fashion as desired,
given the political nature of some of the issues being addressed. However,
implementation of recommendations and specific action programs would be closely
monitored as part of continuirg policy discussions between the Bank and the
Government in the context of the Structural Adjustment Program.
V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
135.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately.
Completion of terms of reference for studies and programs under the project, and
appointment of the Project Manager and contracting agent would be conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed Loan Agreement (paras. 125 and 127). Special
conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
136.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 49 -
VI. RECOMMENDATION
137.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
Pxesident
Attachments
March 5, 1985
Washington, DC



_ 50 -                                            ANNEX I
Pag-  0    of S
COITA RICA                tInIAL IIICATO3N DATA SHIET
COSTA RICA                             BZPRRIcI (SOUPg (URIONTRD AVIkEP Ej La
IMST                  (NOST UCilNT 3TINATKY) b
RlCENT        NICDLI INOIa             NIEIDDLt 1iGtE
9hUtub     1970       iST xlATk       LAT. AMERICA A CAM            EulRor
AM  (IWIMS  SQ. 1)
TOTAL                                 50.7         50.7        50.7
AaR ICULTURAL                        1t4.0       1H.b         25.3
r PR CAPITA (10)                        310.0        530.0      1260.0               2106.1                  2345.3
1umaov   mirmue  a  cAtnn
(KILOGRMS or OIL QUIVALCNT)         20B.0       379.0        591.0                995.5                  1122.h
POPULATIS Al VITAL STATI TICa
POPULATIOIIN.ID-YA  (THOUSANDS)     1254.0      2121.0       2324.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)        3l.5         39.7         43.1                 b6.S                    46.R
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
PopULArION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                                3.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                                  5.4
POPULATION  INKRTUH                                           1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER sq. ID.                         24.7        34.1         44.8                 35.1                    112.9
PER SQ. IN. AC11. LAUD              39.4        93.0         33.0                92.           1          5R.9
POPULATION ACE STRUCTUlRE (2)
0-14 YRS                           47.5        46.1         37.2                 39.g                    31.6
15-64 US                            49.5        50.7         59.b                50.0                     61.1
65 AND ABOVE                         3.0         3.2          3.8                  4.1                     7.1
POPULATLON GROWTH EIATE (1)
TOTAL                                3.3          3.2         2.5                  2.4                     1.6
URBAN                                4.b         6.0          3.2                  1.6                     3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          67.5        33.4         30.0                3I.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           5.0         6.7          3.9                  8.1                     a.n
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4          2.5         1.0                  2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TYOUS)             ..        19.0         20.4
USERS (6 OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..          ..         b5.0                40.3
FOOD -M SITRTION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         85.0       100.0        100.0                114.3                   114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)       105.0       108.0       1II.0                 110.6                   128.6
PrOTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)            37.0        59.0        62.0                 67.3                     89.7
OF W8ICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         31.0        32.0         33.0 Ic              34.1                    34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH bATE            8.0         6.0          1.0                  5.7                     5.2
-SATS
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         61.6        0b.9         73.5                 b4.7                    b7.4
INFANT IDRT. RATE (PER THOUS)         74.0        b2.0         18.0                00.0                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                               59.0 /d e   74.0         77.0 If              b5.4
URA                                 65.1 1td   98.0          9S.0 7?             7B.1
RURAL                               43*6  57 39.0            6Z.o 77             46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        52.0         93.0                 52.9
URBAN                                 *         66.0         94.07j              67.0
RURAL                                 ..        43.0         93.j0A              24.5
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN/           2740.0      1620.0       1460.0 /b            1917.7                  1065.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              720.0       480.0        450.0 7;7           815.8                    7b4.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              220.0       250.0        290.0 /h             367.2                   326.1
URBAN                                          170.0        190.0 77            411.5                    201.5
RURAL                                 ..      4290.0           ..              2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        28.1         33.1 /c              27.3                    20.0
laUInC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.8 /d       5.6
UR$N                                 5.4 7j        ..
RURAL                                6.0 7d        ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSURS/ROOM
TOTAL                                1.5 /d      1.3
URBAN                                i.37         ..
RURAL                                1.77         ...
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z oF DNELLINGS)
TOTAL                               55.0 /d       ..         59.0 jc,l
URIAN                               93.577        ..        87.0Ic
RURAL                               32.07i .d      .         37.07.



ANNEX I
-51 -                                           Page 2 of 5
19T                ((ST RECENT ESSIATE)
R1ECET        KIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE 4C
1960Lk     19704k      S1STIMAEL       AT.- AJIECA 6 CAR             *IuOrT
ADJUiTED INROLIJENT IATIOS
MIMUAI   TOTAL                       96.0       110.0        109.0               105.4                    104.1
MALE                     97.0        111.0       101.0                106.3                    105.5
FEALE                    35.0        0I9.o       107.0                104.3                    96.7
USCONDAI!. TOTAL                     21.0        21.0        45.0                 43 .2                    39.1
MALE                     20.0         27.0        44.0                 42.3                     66.9
FEALE                    21.0        29.0         51.0                44.5                     50.6
VOCATIONAL (C O 1*CONDRT)             19.1         9.1         22.9                33.6                     21.6
PUPZL-TEACNEI RATIO
PUNARY                               26.0        30.0         33.0                30.1                     25.1
SECONIRY                             20.0 L      17.0        19.0                 16.6                     20.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (t)                 U&.0 id      l. 4 Lk   90.0                 79.5                     75.6
PASIIENOR CAR/MOUAND FOP               12.1        22.1         33.6 .&             46.0                     54.7
RADIO RZCEIVERI/K0USAND POP            61.4        7.3          g0o2               225.6                    164.9
TV RZCEIVRI/TNOUSNU FoP                 2.4        57.9         72.2               107.2                    123.
MEIPAPE  (VDAILY GENEL
INTENIST') CIRCULATION
PER TrUIAND POPULATION               86.1       102.5         70.7 1h             63.5                     96.3
CIMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            .           ..           ,.                 2.6                      2.9
LAlNlL PORS
TOTaL ZA.O  FORCE (CTOUS)            361.0       525.0        621.0
FMALE (PnCECN)                       16.1        16.0        21.0                 23.2                     34.3
A!-ICULTUU (PERCENT)                 51. 2       42.1         29.0                31.5                     40.7
INDUSTRY (CPECENT)                   16.5        20.4        23. 0                23.3                     23.3
PARTICIFATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.4        30.4         35.3                32.2                     42.9
maLx                                             49.5         55.2                49.3                     54.7
rr ALE LL                               9        11.0         15.0                15.2                     31.0
ECoNOKiC DEPnIDENCy RATiO               1.7         1.6          1.2                 1.4                      0.9
iIla DhSRUDTIOU
ERCENT OP RIVATE iNC0RE
RECEIVED BT
31055? 52 oF HOUSEIOLDS              33.0
HICHUT 202 O1 ROUWSEMLDS             58.6        54.6
LOWIST 202 o0 HOWSERmLDS              5.7         3.3
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSHOLDS              13.0        12.0
-OVETY T      U R
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URlAN                                                                            U8.  2
RURAL                                  ..          ..           ..               164.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URNAN                                                                            522.8
RURAL                                                                            372.4
ESTIMATED POPr   BEL   ABSOLUTE
FOVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                                                                                        ,,
RURAL
NOr AVAILADLs
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
La   The group aver.ge. for each indicator are populatlon-wetghted arithtetic mans.  Coverage of countries among the
indIcatoro depends on ovallabtlity of date and is not uniform.
Lb   Urless otderuise noted, -Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most DecOt Estimate" between 1960 and 1982.
I/   1977; td 1963; It Percentqe of dwllings  with piped water; /f 1976; A 1975; /h 1!79; /1i Pe-centage of
subacribers; j  1962; A  1973.
JUNE. 1984



-od52-                                                                                                     ANKE  I
Page 3 of 5
I6.e. :,,6..l %-h66 f * de I.. .A.n  I--.   ---l-. *...1.6I   6.g4  6666    666661.6.   . -.6e66g.  6 *a.   e6.t    O.ed oh,..   6.....   6.4   .6...6.g
a":16h1   keg.dv,.               %, ;  66    .ee   "I"de,d6". I.1.1  .a        .a..p6.  ~.6   by 46.60Nu     %.t0g60I6  6. e.g.IIv    6.06.   16  066e.g  .e..666.66.gIet, alowsh 6e
.4 .P6. .6to..... to4 leede   646.6 rad,*0   le                             666   e6.   66....    g..   ..   le
0*3*6  el.6*66  eq   P.r"war. I. -  6   s.e.              r      P66  .%:6e   I6646    6*     66,6666 .. .-d .6441. ftgg, 6               .. 66v  kig ..  q6(6641g...                 ..
gi.0t.  g.   .  66666.6.6.6     lUte. -he r....           6e.d .tP 6.. 1   6tS-   666.1  6.to66    d..d. II., ...g eggS1.1166   64.              66. - 6' -q.- dd.6.4666.  dotg Ile  666
.jp    lt...e.l   q...I                                                                                Po~l ~ I...e.66.I'.d..- P,o6e6g.n... .4.4.. 046I..6pie  llv
ISe  .6 666  4.6..                                                                                                .i.e.jg                .          e6g.I.4.9,*.6                      .        ..
646.6 e.64   941 *tt66.                                                         !21r1 66 ~~~~~~~                                                            ~~I.M...?6.o0OA0  6  ."'  '..*   .!J      eeg  ..W6666
.e,.gee-eeI.. I . .I             a  .eooI..Mo              .g  66.IINt.:    6.6                                     ...61Z6.,.olg.                 . .61666660.0.6                     e..nI    66
6.66.  .6,,   e AIM6                                                                                                                    VA66k   6   6.10    666    T6..  e106.ee.  006.6.6   6.o6gI6   e6.1
6.1   66 .66-6e..        ee6 eg4e.6 g6...ep g.gt
IR).SESlJi.F.j                           .,e    ,os          .6.eo66    .m...                                          ei.6 -660   60   ..n.6                  ttg   66   ,66.g6gtgbe.4,e
t.. .... .  ~    ~                .. .60.6...   6..6.'.e466*                                  006
e..6p    on,I..   I0..640..  ".  66. 40.6                                                      g6 0 . 6 66  .gItg66....6(0..6
~~~~~..4   t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~. .......6..6e....ol ...6o....66600e
I.,    C.it. Z=46.od6**046666..0.60    6666                                      0                               yO0.06   6666            6,    61666   6.1....n-.66e..66606ol.  60
000666   60.o6.-6.~  seP066...6   ,6660    6....O..   66                                                       ,4   066
eq606  6..6   ..6                Oeje6              d:p6  6ee.*   6661gZ=                                                    I ~- 06660l*0 .  .......4   * 6.  6l,6l0  0e.4.e66   e    ...6g
6600j.ee.Oe. 1.6  66,660.66.  l..  be,. ik.r.  .666-.161   .66,..06 .666,
.6.:6 4-oP6-*60g666..6666                          g6gl...66.6
606.60.0 611I, 6606 ..  *o   .oo66y   .6.  e666g--d        46 -  60.*..Og                          6
II-ebIl6,6do6.e.0 .o6.6e660.066   66066.   . .W-6..p.e..64J.o4...6..6..
;iji6t1*.6.0.l00   -60,6   6.6t66~e.ge-yg.60e..g6g                                                   60..1.6.o.v.604e0.41.e1                             .     ..'-I6jgel
- *g.g  Ieg  .6o. .6.6.4....    Ile Iag.m6    _.6..     p.66gt..v.60g.g0164,e0.                                                      .         eg1.1   6 060.6e6.066..6



- 53 -
~ t1m"l  2.4 wlimn                                                                                                                    ANNEX  I
r Capitao (392).  31.211                                                                                                           Page  4  of  5
iMM mm:l Nmec uuu.1I1
(cmmetgnt price.)
-mo_                      _                                Amu_n   Croutt Rats (2)
(million US S
lindtctar                  -urrnt                   Actual             Prolintriory                       Proertetd
prico.)
9 31t3 3Q0                  l'H3            1IOU        3q98         3936        1q17        195          1959        399n
AL a rTWI's
.-a Domestic Product                   1.024                 0.x       2.4            3.4          3.n         3.n          .1.        4.0         4.2         4.'
Aarirlturp                            h2R                 40.5      4.2            2.1          2.n         3.n         1.4          .q        4*.n         4.n
Industry                              IU                   1.2       1.2            h.h         3.1          Ltl         1.          4.1        4.3          4.3
rlrvirce                             1.132                 n.9       2.4            2.1          3.0         3.n         3.3         4.n         4.2         4.S
.jxption                              2.41                 -3.9      -2.1            7.2          n.4         2.Q         3.2         3.7         3.1         4.n
Irom. lwnett_nt                         632                  4.9     Si.n           -9.7          1.0         1.n         4.1         4..         4.31         .I
Export". (.WN                          1.2 41                -2.%      o.n            s.n          4.4         J.n         3.4         4.2         4.7         1. 
leorta. (Wm                            I.143                -2.9       M.7            1.h        -2.0          2.9         1.3          3.5        4.3         4.4
Groan NationaI NHWInftt                  333                  4.1      4.3           36.h         Ih.h.        5.7        11.7         11.9       12.h        32.7
rN' teflator - Incal currency (3Q93  . 100)                 m.7    Inn.n
Extort Price Inurt (1933 * Inn)                            IIIJ)    Inn.n 00%.h                 IA.5        Il34C       122.0        124.7      131.2       J47.s
Import Price ld&x (1983 - Inn)                              14.1   3m.n             In3.7       in0.n       l10.1l       111.1       121.4      323.0        331.2
Tewr  of Trade lndwi (3Q91   IMn0)                          114.4   Inn.n           303.9       0n.3         ins.1 n      0.0 nn0.9             In7.9        In09.
Mare of CP Act Narket Price. (2)                                Aeraxe Anual Incrsie (7t)
(at current price.) */
Actual                        P__j__t_d
394.  =3ts7n      3971     395-      199(1    t99s            3400-71   1970-75   147S-1I 910-4   31-
Crms. Thb tic Prouhct                              100.0   Inn3n n03.0   I3n.n   3nn.0    3.n 0                       .5       4.4       1.4      -3.1        3.3
Agriculture                                       2h4n     22.1      2n.s    IR3.      2n.l    2n.2                5.7       1.4       1.R        1.9       3.)
Industry                                          19.7     24.2     24.3t    24.4      29.1     29.2               9.4       9.4       h.2      -3.3        4.1
Services                                          54.1     51.1      54.7     57.1    sn1.4    5n415               5.7       h.3 l      .2      -1.2        3.7
rlgn.tln                                           57.1     86.2    34h.2      83.7     R2.4     3.7                h.l       4.3       6.4.      -2.2       3.S
Croxs Invtwa nt                                     17.5      20.5     21.9    2t.h      17.5      17.9              7.1       6.1      30.5      -17.4       4.4
Exprte. GUYs                                        21.4     2R..    31n.1    26.5    3R.3         3t.9             10.1       8.2       5.4        O.R       4.2
Imports, (Ws                                        24.2     35.0      3R.5    36.9    3y.7       3R.S              In.0       1.2      33.0    -30.6         3.9
Croi Nationl sa    n                                12.9    13.n       inj.      q.5     30.1      11.4              4.1       4.1       2.3    -32.5        23.3
Am S of CDP                       lahxr Force in 1983            PIllisen         (2)
1390         I95     -  399
UO"N-FIAICIAL PUBLIC W.Cft P1NAM~
r.urrent Rteoune                                               21.0         25.9        29.9             Agritiulture                      2h4            31
Current Exptonditire                                          23.3          22.4        24.1             Industry                           349           19
Surplus (4) or duficit C-)                                    -2.3           3.5         4.7             Service% owl Ither                 390           44
Captttl PxPsndtture                                            33.3          6.9         7.2             Unuplayed                           sn            -
Owrall Public Sector Deficit 1-)                              -13.3         -3.4        -2.5
Foreitn Financitntt  net                                        4.7          1 .         2.4                  Total lIbor Force            R77           10O
Actual                               Projected
1975-3                               3Q05-90
OTNCR lUIIclSll
f3P Growth late (2)                                                        5.2                                    4.7
COP Per Capita Gronth RAte (2).                                            2.3                                    2.7
Pagnal Savings Rate (2)                                                    4.h                                   3h.8
Import Elsticitv                                                           2.1                                    I.n
).cojectaonx In constant 1992 Pric%.



- 54 -
Pr   s of -
IXISTA RICA:  We4aS nr rArNTS,         LA  CArrrAl. aM Mu
(MILLIONS F(  I3  AT QURRf PptoCs)
Acttal          Prolinary                                    Prolect.d
19R0        1943         1934         1935        19h6         3987         19           199         19
uuM (1 Pm
Exports af Goods and UPS                     1,225.9      1,144.9      1,23n.3     1.325.7       ,4"4.4      1584.9       1,751.9     1.947.9      2,17A.2
Goods, r.o.r.                             (10OO09)      (370.4)      (962.7)   (1,030.7)   (1,125.4)   (1,236.5)   (1,369.6)   (1.526.4)   (1,713.5)
Non-factor Servics                          (225.n)      (274.5)      (267.b)     (295.0)      (319.0)      (344.4)     (382.3)      (421.5)      (46k.7)
Iqports of Goods & NFY                       1,683.1      1,161.2      1,284.3      1,303.3     1,396.1      1,520.1      1,663.4     1,924.9      2,009.4
Goods. C.I.P.                             (1.527.5)      (991.2)   (1.099.6)   (1.104.4)   (11,31.9)   (1,28.5)   (1,412.03   (1.551.5)   (1.711.3)
Non-factor Srvitca                          (160.)       (170.0)      (tR4.7)     (198.9)      (214.2)      (231.6)     (251.4)      (273.4)      (299.3)
Host xports of Good. & UPS                    -462.2        -16.3       -136.9        22.4         4g.3         64.8        R8.5        123.0        168.8
Not Factor 1nco                               -216.2       -362.3       -348.2      -371.1       -397.n       404.3       -393.3        404.A       -406.9
of which:  Interest Pav_nts                (-173.3)    (-356.n)    (-363.2)    (-371.6)    (-389.0)    (-401.0)    (-403.31    (-4n4.9)    (401.9)
Net Current rransfor  and Official trant.        14.5        64.3        141.n        141.n       115.0        135.0        135.0       340.0        140.0
CWERVI ACCOIN'r SALANe                        -663.9       -113.8       -261.2      -207.7       -213.7       -204.5      -174.8       -141.9        -93.1
Net Direct Foreign Investment                   48.1          20.0        20.0         35.0        45.n         50.0         50.0        50s.         WA.0
Net !di.m  and Long-Ter                        197.3        327.3        338.2       289.5        175.4        140.A        151.3        96.4         3.2
Disbursmentn                                 472.5        413.1        251.2       435.1        366.5        363.5       322.4        310.8        272.9
Official Sources                           194.7        263.3        191.4       357.9        365.5        362.5       322.4        310.8        272.9
Private Sources                            277.8        154.Y         57.11       77.2          1.0          I..       -            -            -
AuortLzation Payswnts                          -75.2        -91.8        -81.0      -145.6       -Iq1.1       -222.7      -171.1       -214.4       -214.7
Other Capital I/                              -238.1        273.5         35.0        3P.2         46.1         66.7         36.0        46.n         56.0
tThngm in Reserves (- - incresa)               456.6       -306.0         18.0      -156.0        -52.3        -51.0       -62.5        -50.5        -56.1
aL CArmL a 
Debt Outntanding and Dislhreed               1.701.3      3,314.h      3.4R2.8     3,772.3      3,947.7      4.08S.5     4,239.8      4,336.2     4,174.4
Debt Service Payvnts                          2fl.5         447.8        446.2       517.2        580.1        625.7       574.4        619.3        636.06
Debt Service Payuentm r 2
of exports (GS'PS)                            20.7         39.1         36.3        39.n         40.1         39.5        32.8         31.8         29.2
Interest Paywnts a  2 of exports (GiNPS)        14.5         24.6         29.5        280.         26.9         25.4        23.0         20.8         18.5
leanran    Item
Amrtization Reschedule o-)                                (-155.0)    (-222.0)    (-238.0)    (-230.0)    (-325.0)    (-349.0)    (-284.0)    (-299.9)
Source:  fank Staff Estimtee
I/ Includes DIf transactions, qhort-tesrm capital ovQents and capital not elsewhere  Inc lded.



- 55 -
ANNEX I1
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA 1/
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS    (Net of cancellations)
(As of September 30, 1984)
Loan or
Credit   Year         Borrower              Purpose           Bank     IDA 2/  Undisbursed
No.                                                                   (USS millions)
Twenty loans and one credit fully disbursed.                 244.2     5.5
1410     1977   Gover ment                Agriculture Credit   18.0       -           0.7
1532     1978   ICE                       Telecommunications   10.6       -           0.5
1599     1978   Banco Central             Industrial Credit    15.0       -           4.4
1713     1979   ICE                       Power                 34.0      -           4.9
1845     1980   Government                Highways              30.0      -          20.7
1935     1981   AyA                      Water Supply           26.0      -          24.1
2019     1981   Government                Petroleum Technical   3.0       -           1.6
Assistance
2274     1983   Banco Centra,.            Export Developiunt   25.2       -          20.9
Total                                                406.0      5.5
of which has been repaid                          -102.0      1.0
Total now outstanding                                304.0      4.5
Amount sold                      11.1
of which has been repaid      11.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       304.0      4.5
...mm     mom
Total undisbursed                                     77.8       -         77.8
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Excluding exchange adjustments.



- 56 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
Be   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Year           Obligor               Type of Business    Loan  Equlty  Total
(US$ millions)
1963-76  Productos de Concreto,       Cement & construc-  0.38   0.21    0.59
S.A.                         tion material
1978     Scott Paper Company de       Pulp & paper          2.50    -       2.50
Costa Rica, S.A.             products
1979     Maricultura, S.A.            Food & food           1.40-  0.70    2.10
processlng
1982     Matas de Costa Rica, S.A.  Ornamental plants   1.52    -           1.52
_mm.. m =       mon..o
Total gross commitments                                     5.80   0.91    6.71
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                      3.28   0.91      -
Total commitrants now held by IFC                           2.52    -       2.52
.... un disbursed
Total- undisbursed



- 57 -
ANNEX III
COSTA RICA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation
(1) Project first identified by Bank: July 1983
(2) Formal Request for Financing:         September 1984
(b) Appraisal Mission:                        September/October 1984
(c) Completion of Negotiations:               February 1985
'd) Planned Date of Effectiveness:            May 1985
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
Agreement has been reached that:
(a) A Project Manager will be employed with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank (condition of
effectiveness) (para. 125).
(b) The Borrower will appoint an agent to handle all employment
and contracting arrangements (condition of effectiveness)
(para 125).
(c) Detailed Terms of Reference will be completed in a form and
manner acceptable to the Bank (condition of effectiveness)
(para. 127).



ANNVX TV
COSTA RICA
TIECNICAL ASSISTANCZ PR=JECT
JIplneuntation Schedule
Studieu/Activitiea                                          1985                          1986                         1987
J  A  S O  N  D   J  F  M  A  N  J  J  A  S  0  N  D   J  P  MA N 
1. Strengthmning of ludget Authority
Budget Preparation Procedure. and                   .................
Adminitration
D ta Smse and Statistical MonitoringR           .........................
Study of Legal Prameoik                         .........................
2. CODESA
Reorientation and Reorganization                .................
CATSA Operationa/Managent                       .................
FERTICA Operationm/Managetmnt                   .................
3. Minlitry of Plnning
Strengthening Investme,nt Progranning/          .................
Macro Economic Analysis
Training                                        ............................
4. Social Security/Health
Analysis of ServLces, CoDt., Future Pinancing .................
5. Agriculture Sector
Price and Marketing Policies Study              .................
Program to Develop Non-Traditional Exports   .          ..-
6. Banking
Strengthen Operationh/Administration            .................
Progrm  to Reduce ArTerS                        .......................
7. Tax and Custome Aduinistration
Tax Reform/Administration                       .................
Modernization/Custonm Operations                 ................._
B. Education System
Cost Effectiveness of National Educatlon        .................
System
Strengthening Higher Education                  .......................
Training Program                                .......................
9. Public Sector Staffing
Study of Salaries and Incentives                ...............
10. Strengthening of Industrial Sector
Study of Tariff Reform I  at                    ......................
Tiwetable
Selection and appointment of consultants to take place durUng second half of 1985, with
*ost consultants expected to be In place by January 1986.
.       e..... Pparatory activities
Technical Aahistance Activities



=:=  :   2,<  .2    .4  4 4  ' }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
fi hra4/                  S 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....-.......
2    Xe x z X        O | } |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o             i



_ _ _ _ _ _ _. _ _ _ _ _                                                                 _ . _ _ _ _      _                                  I B R D     -1 1'.32 R
1GbTEMALA                                            ILIINUANY IW:I
. _v'                          N I C  A R A G  U A                                                                (  ,iONDLUH AS, -
.                                                                                                i>   LVAnOfi  r
N IC A H A  U A A
\to                                                             .'             -
<) ,. 4, J 5t -                                                              W ;TA
L      A                         '               , I" .\   _                       rA PANAMA
! ',on Rnfo.i1                                                                                                                                I'ANAMA
2:91t.,;..,                                            I I,  ;.-    !      ,\ '                                                                N I  A    N
T,Ie,l '     1urui  I01*i  III .1-. .                                     I . r1 .r 
'I-           I-A            t     --'                                                           ,
PI-INIANI ~ ~     ~      ~     /-I
PIJNlAHI    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                      -          ,~~~~~~ ~~~'2                '  I  * ~~~~-.,1-7)Jf   tiIMONI
or              '-''   N        /     ,,1?.-                .            -N
-       ,    -                            )SAN  JOSF.,'
.- ......... --  /A '-  
'_'~~                               ~ ~~~~~ '' *I;.,n -.                                                 i
"A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
PRo. cc"w , i, 4-esvs ,v >. *
| ~         D                             -                                        .1       z      To Ponumo City
|                                                       t5         | o: .~~~~~~~~~~~~;;'4To  Pur on,6  COtY
AlES                                                                                                                                                            Thaaidi
10     0     IC    20    30    40    50 s
(ILOMETE3S                                                                                                           Soy0Y    Ctj
TIt. nuD h.. b,ll 10db t.~   J' - -  . Mff -U-  Fo. V  .-C or Wzu
=    -d an  ..Chem.-  Pm IO ".t"d    W -b. v,1a .i SP. nfrnmfIIoaS
Finace Cwvc.a en,r,O. dnuSerrwruW' nl, ant J. b.o..................... ,,,., droe not
VW. -      W . owl opWl lotS B..* aNW Pr. kWPanflonM Fn-    Crp-as,, any pdc nw
t',,  saIfoP ady anm f  any .      .rn m ac;u    oP rch barON,                                                                            /
ac4e






