LvJ~~4 3 CS Z - rw
Document of
The World Bank
FOlt OFflCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10024-BR   Type: (SAR)                                   RepreNo. 10024-BR
VELEZ, C. / X39329 / I7153/ LAlIN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 12, 1992
Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
June, 1991 (average)
Currency Unit: Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00 = Cr$297.87
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AOM              Administration, Operation and Maintenance Costs
BNH              Banco Nacional da Habitagvo (National Housing Bank)
BTN          -  Bonos do Tesouro Nacional (National Treasury Bonds)
CASAN        -  Companhia Catarinense de Aguas e Saneamento
CEF          -  Caixa EconOmica Federal (Federal Savings Bank)
CY           *  Calendar Year
DEAIN            Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
DPE          -  Planning and Engineering Department
DTN          -  National Treasury Department
EMBASA           Empresa Baiana de Aguas e Saneamento S.A.
EVG          -  Global Feasibility Study
FAE          -  Fundo de Agua e Esgoto tState Water and Sewerage Fund)
FGTS         -  Federal Government Employees' Pension Fund
FY           ^  Fiscal Year
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
IPC          -  Consumer Price Indcx
FRR          -  Financial Rate of Return
LCB          -  Local Competitive Bidding
LRAIC        -  Long Run Average Incremental Costs
MAS          -  Ministry of Social Action
MCL          -  Minimum Consumption Level
MEFP             Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning
MMC              Minimum Monthly Charge
NTL          -  National Tariff Law
OCC          ^  Opportunity Cost of Capital
OED          -  Operation Evaluation Department
PLANASA          National Water Supply and Sanitation Program
PMU              Project Management Unit
PROSANEAR  -  Water Sector Project for Low Income Areas and Municipalities
PROSEGE          Social Emergency and Employment Generation Project
RIMA         -  Environmental Impact Report
SANESUL      -  Empresa de Saneamento do Mato Grosso do Sul
SIVIG        -  Global Feasibility Simulation
SNS          -  National Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitption
SWC          -  State Water Company
TA           -  Technical Agents
TOFi         -  Terms of Reference
Pr



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................                                    v
1.     THE WATER AND WASTES SECTOR ................................                                  1
A. Background                ................................                                1
B.  Water Supply and Sewerage Service Coverage ..... ......... .                            2
C. Sector Organization              .............................                           3
D.  Sector Financing and Tariff Policy .........  I ........ .                              3
E. Investment Policy                                  ..                                    4
F. Pressing Investment Needs ....................                                           5
1.   Urban and Rural Poor ....................................                         5
2.   Water Pollution Control and Prevention  .......................                   5
G. Regulation and Enforcement ....................                                          5
H.  The Potential Role of the Private Sector  ..........................                    6
I.   The Need for a New Regulatory Framework ........................                       6
II.     SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE  .........                  ................            7
A.  Government Strategy  .......................................                             7
8.   Bank Experience ...........................................                            7
1.  The Bank's Overall Experience  .............................                       7
2.   Experience in Latin America  ...............................                      8
3.   Experience in Brazil .....................................                        8
C.   Bank Strategy  ............................................
Ill.    THE PROJECT  ...............................................    10
A. Description    ..10
1. Background .10
2.   Objectives and Rationale  .................................    10
3.   Components ...........              ...............................    11
4.   The Borrower .........................................    13
5.   The Beneficiaries .......................................    13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil from June 26 to July
19, 1991. The mission was comprised of Messrs./Mmes. Carlos E. Velez (Task Manager) and Eduardo
Abbott (LEGLA), and Vera Bazzanella (Financial Analyst), Kangbin Zheng (Economist), Walter Sanchez
(Sanitary Engineer), and Fernando Alves de Almeida (Environmental Specialist) - Consultants. The
report was prepared by Mr. Velez.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



* ii 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
B.  The Economics of the Project ..................................    16
1.   Demand Projection  .....................................    16
2.   Investment Program   ....................................    16
3.   Project Cost ..........................................    17
4.   Tariff Analysis  ........................................    18
C.  The Finances of the Project ...................................    20
1. Project Financing ...............                           ...                     20
2.   Present Financial Situation  ................................    21
3.   Projected Financial Performance  ............................    23
4.   Financial Transfers of the States ............................    24
D.  Social and Environmental Impacts .............           ..       ................    24
1.   Urban Poverty Impact ...................................    24
2.   Affordability ..........................................    25
4.   Environmental Impact  ...................................    25
E.   Economic and Financial Benefits .............          ..       .................    26
F.   Risk Assesstment ..........................................    27
IV.    PROJECT EXECUTION  ..........................    28
A.  Company Eligibility ..........................    28
B.   Subproject Selection Criteria  ..........              ................    28
C.   Implementation Arrangements ............                   ..............    29
D.  Project Supervision ..........................    30
E. Reporting .                                                                              31
F. Monitoring Indicators .31
G. Procurement .32
H.  Disbursement .............................................   33
I.   Advanced Contracting and Retroactive Financing  ....................    33
J.   Auditing Arrangements ......................................   33
V.      AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................    34
LIST OF TABLES
1. Project Cost Summary .17
2. Project Financing Plan .21
3.  Companies' Investment Financing Plan .21
4.  Project Cost by Procurement Method .32
LIST OF FIGURES
1.     Average Water Tariff Rates among Consumer Groups and across Regions .19
2.      Average Sewerage Tariff Rates among Consumer Groups and across Regions ....    19
3.      Residential Average and Marginal Rates and Marginal Costs in Campo Grande ....    19
4.      Commercial Average and Marginal Rates and Marginal Costs in Campo Grande ...    19
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.     Population, Market Distribution, and Service Levels ......            ................    39
2.     Required Investment in Water Supply and Sanitation in Urban Areas  ....            ......   42



- liii 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
3.      Brazilian Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs ...........................    43
4.      Selected Operating and Financial Data on Brazil's SWCs ............. ......                           50
5.      Bank Loarts to Brazil for Waor Supply and Sewerage ...                         .................    51
6.      Organization Charts: MAS, SNS, CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL  ....                            .......    52
7.      Financial and Documents Flow   ....................................    57
8.      Urban Population Distribution in SWCs' Concession Areas  .................    58
9.      Institutional Data ..............................................    59
10.     Water and Sewermge Systems Distributed by Size  .......................    60
11.     Water Customers and Consumption Distribution  ........................    62
12.     Monitoring Indicators: CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL   ..................    63
13.     Water and Sewerage Tariffs and Service Cost Evolution: 1980-1990  ....                      ......    66
14.     Investment Programs for 1992-1997: CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL   ....                           ...    68
15.     Institutional Strengthening Component Estimated Cost ....................                              66 
16.     Marginal Cost Pricing Analysis: Methodology and Results ..................    137
17.     Current Tariff Structures: CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL  ................    97
18.     Financial Statements: CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL ...................    98
19.     Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts .........................   107
20.     Trar.sfers of the States to the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector  ....                    .......   110
21.      Sample of Suggested Letter of Agreement  .111..........................   ill
22.    Guidelines for Evaluation of Subprojects ..............................   114
23.      Loan Disbursement Schedule   .....................................   119
24.      Selected Documents Available in Project File ...........................   120
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 23322.  States of Santa Catarina, Bahia, ond Mato Grosso do Sul ....                        .........   125



. v -
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil.
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Social Action (MAS) and State Water Companies of Santa Catarina
(CASAN), Bahia (EMBASA), and Mato Grosso do Sul (SANESUL).
Executing
Agencies:      National Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitation (SNS), CASAN, EMBASA, and
SANESUL.
Amount:        US$250.0 million equivalent.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate. Proceeds of the Loan will be passed on by the Federative
Republic of Brazil to CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL on the same terms and
conditions as those of the Loan, including the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Objectives:    The project's main objectives are: (i) to strengthen sector institutional capabilities
by laying the foundations of a modern and efficient legal and regulatory framework,
and upgrading the efficiency and competence of the sector's financial framework;
(ii) to help CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL to operate on a commercial basis, with
financial self-sufficiency, corporate autonomy, and accountability for their actions,
through the financing of a time-slice of ti.eir six-year investment programs; and (iii)
to improve environmental and health conditions in urban areas, through the
expansion of water supply and sewerage services.
Project
Description:   The institutional strengthening component will finance: li) the formulation of a new
regulatory farmework for Brazil's water and wastes sector, including a detailed plan
of action for institutional reformulation, drafts of proposed legislation and regulation,
and definition of functions and mechanisms at the Federal and state levels; (ii} the
evaluation and reformulation of the sector investment programming and financing
framework, aiming at upgrading its efficiency and ensuring an improvement in the
self-financing of sector companies; (iii) technical assistance and training for the SNS
and other Federal and local sector agencies to ir.crease their institutional capacity
to carry out their responsibilities under the project and under the institutional
arrangements and sector policies to be proposed; (iv) training of sector management;
and (v) preparation facilities for a proposed Water Demand Management and
Systems Rehabilitation Project.  The investil,ant component will finance the
expansion and reinforcement of the water supply and sewerage systems of CASAN,
EMBASA, and SANESUL, improve their operational efficiency, and enhance the
quality of their services.
Project
Benefits:      The project will directly benefit more than 4.3 million people with water supply and
sewerage services in hundreds of cities and towns in the states of Bahia, Mato



- vi -
Grosso do Sul, and Santa Catarina. In addition, the project will also: {i) benefit the
companies' old and new customers, through the provision ot services of bener
quality, higher reliability, lower costs, and faster access; (ii) help the companies
strengthen their financial viability, and improve their operational and management
efficiency; (iii) provide a role model for the rest of the sector; and {iv) lessen the
water sector's financial dependence on Government funding.
Project Risks:   There are no serious technical risks In the project. Possible risks are: inadequate
tariff adjustments in a continuous highly inflationary economy and the government's
willingness to continue supporting the institutional reform to strengthen the sector.
To minimize these risks: (i) agreement was reached with the Federal and local
governments to maintain current policy on tariff adjustments, which during the past
three years have produced very positive results for the financial health of the SWCs;
and Oii) a mid-term review will assess completion of all studies, degree of
implementation of proposed recommendations at Federal and state level, and
progress made by the companies on operating and financial matters.
Project Cost:                                      Local       Fgreign         ol
-C---------IUS$ million)--........
Sector Institutional Strengthening                   2.9          3.0           5.9
Water Supply                                       185.6         46.4        232.0
Sewerage                                            97.4         24.3         121.7
Institutional Development                           37.8          9.4          47.2
Projects                                             8.8          2.2          11.0
Preparation Facilities                               0.8          0.7           .S
* Total Base Cost                                  333.3         86.0        419.3
Physical Contingencies                              16.4          4.2          20.6
Project Cost at June 1991 prices                   349.7         90.2        439.9
Price Contingencies                                 47.8         12.3          60.1
* Total Project Cost                               397.5        102.5        500.0
Financing Plan:                                    Local       Foreian       Total
-C---------(US$ million)----------------
Bank                                               147.5        102.5        250.0
Companies Intemal Cash                             250.0          0.0        25f0.0
397.5        102.5        500.0
Estimated Bank Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year         1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Annual                    17.7    32.5    55.3    56.8    44.5    31.4         11.8
Cumulative                17.7    50.2   105.5   162.3   206.8   238.2   250.0
Rate of
Raturn:         The financial rate of return is estimated at about 17%, based on a sample of nine
subprojects representing about one third of the companies' 1 992-1997 investment
programs.
Maps:           IBRD 23322.



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. THE WATER AND WASTES SECTOR
A. Background
1.    The accelerated urbanization that took place in Brazil during the 1 960s revealed the serious
limitations of municipalities in meeting the responsibilities allotted to them for provision of basic
sanitation services--water supply, sewerage, solid and liquid waste collection and disposal, and the
related needs for drainage and water pollution control--in an atmosphere of rapidly increasing demand.
By the end of the decade, these services were less than satisfactory in most areas, and quickly
deteriorating. Less than 50% of the urban population was connected to public water supply and less
than 25% to some form of sewerage service. Rural populations had only skeletal coverage. Untreated
effluent and uncollected solid wastes were discharged into cities' drainage systems, straining their
limited capacity, and producing clogging and flooding. This situation, which was more pronounced in
low-income urban areas, contrasted sharply with the concurrent rapid economic development taking
place in the country, and with the desire of the government to distribute the benefits of this
development to the population by improving living conditions, principally in the cities. To meet the
challenge of reducing the deficit of water supply and waste removal services, the Federal Government
established in 1971 the National Water Supply and Sanitation Program (PLANASA).
2.    PLANASA was structured under the aegis of the former National Housing Bank (BNH), as a
comprehensive program encompassing: design, financing, construction, and operation of water supply,
sewerage and sewage treatment systems; technical assistance to the state water companies (SWCs)
that were organized under the program; and training of SWC personnel. The main focus of PL*ANASA
was to help the states develop--with the establishment of the SWCs--their own financially and
technically viable organizations for the provision of water supply and sewerage services, and to provide
a stable source of financing, consisting of debt and equity from Federal and state sources. A portion
of the Federal Government Employees' Pension Fund (FGTS) was earmarked for water and sewerage
investments, and was lent to the SWCs by BNH. State resources were held in state water and
sewerage funds (FAEs), which were capitalized by a combination of state revenues and borrowing and
designed as revolving funds for state-wide sector development. Both Federal and state funds were on-
lent at interest rates which were designed with cross-subsidies from wealthier southern to poorer
northern states, and softer terms for sewage treatment than other sector investments. In 1978 a set
of clear criteria for setting tariffs was established, in the form of a National Tariff Law (NTL), which
has provided the essence of the framework for sector regulation. The NTL stipulates that operational
revenues should be sufficient to cover operating expenses and depreciation, plus a remuneration on
assets not greater than 12% but at least equal to the debt service. To maximize efficiency of
investments and operations, PLANASA policies emphasized decentralization of responsibilities from the
Federal to the state level, and institutional development of SWCs. Planning and programming at the
Federal level were the responsibility of BNH, which had state-level branch agencies and engineering
consultants working with the SWCs. Responsibility for provision of services remained with the
municipalities; most municipalities granted a concession to the SWC, which performed project
preparation, implementation, and day-to-day operations and maintenance. Municipalities representing
about 10% of the country's population decided against delegating their powers to the SWCs, and built
and currently operate their own water and sewerage systems. Municipalities and towns that chose
not to grant their concessions to SWCs were not eligible for PLANASA funds.
3.    Following the establishment of PLANASA, the water sector underwent a period of rapid
infrastructure investment and achieved impressive results. Increased urban water supply coverage was
assigned top priority within PLANASA, and the fact that the goal was largely accomplished is very



-2-
significant. PLANASA aimed to raise water supply coverage In urban areas from 45% in 1970 ts 30%
In 1985; by 1983, the actual achievement was an impressive 83%. However, these gains we.e not
matched by performance in other areas. Sewerage lagged behind, increasing from 24% in 1970 to
just 32% in 1984, as opposed to the target level of 50%. Investments in water supply, sewerage and
sewage treatment for the period 1977-1985 totaled about US$1 1 billion, of which 70% was invested
in water supply and 30% in sewerage (including a small amount for water pollution control).
PLANASA's investments during the period totalled US$9 billion, or 80% of the total, of which 66%
representeo BNH funding. In the same period, BNH financed drainage works in about 60 municipalities
amounting to about US$800 million.
4.    During the 1 980s, and particularly after 1985, the sector entered a financial and institutional
crisis that has severely affected it, leaving its agencies with large debts, and reducing the investment
rate to levels below those that can be attributed to a natural declining trend following a major
expansion. Besides Brazil's macroeconomic crisis ^nd its accompanying high inflation, the sector's
performance deteriorated due to an excessive reliance on government financing and subsidies; a lack
of appropriate asset valuation, which together with the 12% upper limit for remuneration on operating
assets substantially reduced the SWCs' margin for tariff increases; and a governmen,aI policy that
attempted to stop infiS I;on by frequently allo.,ving inadequate adjustments and instituting tariff freezes.
To cover the resulting investment financing gaps, BNH increased its share in the financing of SWCs
and later even covered oparational deficits. The resulting debt grew to suffocate the SWCs and was
eventually partially transferred to the states. This assumption of debt in turn prevented the states from
making adequate contributions to the FAEs for new investment. This financial deterioration at the
state level was accompanied by BNH's own financial problems in coping with the macroeconomic
crisis. A decision taken by the Federal Government to subsidize mortgages further eroded BNH
finances. In November, 1986, BNH was abolished and its main operational portfolios were transferred
to the Caixa Econ6mica Federal (CEF), and a unit within CEF designated to supervise water and wastes
sector investments. The selection of CEF as apex-cum-technical agency significantly weakened
PLANASA. CEF is a commercial bank which has only skeletal specialized technical suppoart, inadequate
to perform the inveystment planning and financial and operational control of the SWCs and the FAEs.
B. Water Supply and Sewerage Service Coverage
5.    Although the overali annual rate of population growth in Brazil is slowing to under three percent
(sea Annex 1, Attachment 1), urbanization rates will continue to exert pressure for expansion of basic
infrastructure. The country's total population (about 151 million), is expected to reach about 183
million by the turn of the century. Almost 76% (about 115 million) of this total is presently living in
cities, and over 80% will be urban by the year 2000. Urban rates of growth and population totals are
unevenly distributed in the country. The Southeast region has the largest urban population but the
smallest growth rate, while the Center-West region is the fastest growing in the country. The
distribution of this population has a pronounced effect on the demand for infrastructure and the way
this demand is attended will significantly affect Brazilians health. In addition, the relatively "bottom
heavy" age distribution of the population pyramid implies that household formation rates are 20%
higher than urban growth rates as a whole. This signifies an even higher demand for infrastructure
connections than would be suggested merely by urban population growth alone.  Finally, the
urbanization process is increasing the number of secondary and tertiary cities and towns. This fact
complicates the administrative burden of meeting the need for water and sanitation, given the present
emphasis on decentralization.
6.    Brazil has produced one of the most impressive records in expansion of water service of any
country in the region. During the 1 970s and 1 980s, more than 55 million people were giving access
to water and another 24 million to sanitation services with individual house connections. As a result
of this effort, present urban water and sewerage coverage levels are about 86% and 46% respectively,
as opposed to coverage levels of about 50% and 25% in 1968, respectively (see Annex 1, Attachment
3). As population totals, the levels of service coverage are also unevenly distributed in the country.



-3
The Southeast and South regions have the largest water coverage levels (92% and 88%, respectively),
while the Southeast and the Center-West regions have the la, Nest sewerage coverage levels (71% and
35%, respectively). The Northeast reglon has the lowest level of service for water supply (76%) and
the North region the lowest level of service for sewerage (7%).
C. Sector Organization
7.    The Federal Government has played an important policy-making role In the water and wastes
tector in the past. It has been responsible for dpproval of overall sector Investment levels and
priorities, and through PLANASA and BNH/CEF, has been regulating sector activities by estabMishing
tariff and cost recovery policy, credit Zerms and other normative guidelines. The states have had a
direct management role in sector operations through ownership and operation of the SWCs and
management of the FAEs. Federal and state level cooperation was maintained on a state by state level
through contract p:ans, agreed between the SWC and the state with the formal approval of BNH/CEF,
which outlined performance and monitoring targets. The decentralization reforms brought about by
the 1988 Constitution have increased the role of state and municipal governments in the organization
and regulation of the water sector. Tariff-setting, for example, has been formally transferred from the
Federa! authorities to the states--with so far very positive results for the financial health of most SWCs.
8.    The Collor administration transferred responsibility for the water and wastes sector to a
National Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitation (SNS), within the new Ministry for Social Welfare
(MAS). The Secretariat's responsibilities include: (i) setting national sector policies for water supply
and sanitation; (ii) consolidating planning and investment priorities; (iii) coordinating sector Federal
activities with state and municipal initiatives; and (iv) supporting MAS in its function of manager of the
FGTS funds. To this end, SNS should promote, help prepare, help finance (mainly with Federal budget
and FGTS funds lend through CEF as financial intermediary), and supervise sector investment projects
and operations.
D. Sector Financing and Tariff Policy
9.    Financing sources for the sector traditionally have been based nearly fully on debt, and have
come from the earmarked FGTS, leaving sector companies saddled with large debt burdens. This
financial policy of heavy dependance on public funds and subsidies has always been unsatisfactory.
First, financing out of the FGTS funds has always been erratic because decisions are made on an
annual basis, contract by contract, and not for complete projects. And second, the companies have
not been financially motivated and made administratively capable to explore other sources of financing.
However, only during these years of strong limitations on borrowing created by the indebtedness of
most Brazilian states and the necessary fiscal constraints imposed by tl.e Federal Government, the
negative effects of this policy on the sector's financial health have become transparent. Internal cash
generation, through adequate tariff structures and levels, should become an increasing and healthy
source of investment funding.
10.   The Bank has been closely involved with the Brazilian authorities in the design of water and
sewerage tariff structures over a long period of time, including participation in the formulation of the
National Tariff Law (NTL) (see Annex 3 for an analysis of the NTL). Although a major step in the
direction of securing the financial health of the SWCs, the NTL contains some deficienci6s with regard
to the tariff structure: (i) it does not necessarily convey the right economic signals because it is based
on accounting costs; (ii) it gives inadequate guidance on the degree of cross-subsidies for the financing
of services to the poor; (iii) it does not appropriately address the issue of cost recovery for water
pollution, and other externalities; (iv) it gives inadequate guidance on the relationship between water
and sewerage charges; and (v) the suggested structure of charges to be applied to large and small
consumers is not appropriate. Also from a strictly financial point of view--i.e, in terms of defining
average rate levels, the NTL has failed to achieve its objectives--principally because of lack of
enforcement. Finally, the lack of appropriate asset valuation by the sector companies has also



4-
substantially reduced the companies' margin for tariff increases--the NTL contains a 12% upper-limit
for remuneration on net operating fixed assets.
11.   The Brazilian authorities, aware of these anomalies, organized a national workshop in April,
1988, with Bank assistance, to examine the level and structure of water supply and sewerage tariffs.
Although there has been little progress since then, the SWCs of Sgo Paulo, Parana, and Rio Grande
do Sul are presently carrying out detailed studies of their marginal cost structures, as agreed in recent
operations.
E. Investment Policy
12.   PLANASA has been the single most Important source of investment in urban areas in -the water
and wastes sector. PLANASA investment represents more than 80% of Brazil's total investment in
the sector. The remaining Investment has been made by municipalities that did not join PLANASA and
by specific programs of the Ministry of Health, principally in areas under the responsibility of the former
Fundagao de Servigos de Saude Publica. Since 1968, PLANASA has invested more than US$1 1 billion
in the sector--about 70% In water and about 30% in sanitation--benefitting more than 55 million people
In more than 4,000 communities. Almost two-thirds of these investments came from thie central
government (through CEF and BNH), nearly a quarter from the states (a part of which had been lent
to the states by BNH/CEF), and the rest from grant and outside financing.
t3.   The objective of PLANASA to rapidly and visibly address urban service deficits led to a focus
tun water supply and, to a lesser extent, sewage collection in urban areas, as the forme, were more
visible and popular among the population, and their costs more easily recovered through tariffs than
other investments. PLANASA's actions in other subsectors reflected a wavering among various
approaches. Drainage systems and solid w3ste collection and removal did not receive PLANASA
assistance and continued to be provided, with insufficient resources and poorly trained staff, by
municipalities--although a separate program under BNH later financed some limited drainage
investments in certain municipalities. Nor was the need for rural water supply and sanitation service
adequataly addressed by the several responsible agencies: rural water supply and sanitation policy
continued to be based largely on specific and often localized threats to health or on the need to
complement rural development programs.
14.   Brazil has produced one of the most impressive records in expansion of water service of any
country in the region. However, service levels have dropped perceptibly in the recent past and, merely
to maintain present levels of water (86%) and sanitation service (46%), the annual investment during
the 1990s should be about US$614 million in water supply and about US$668 million in sanitation.
The investments required for accomplishing the more ambitious but still feasible coverage targets of
95%h in water and 50% in sewerage, would require about US$676 million and US$729 million per year,
respectively. And to achieve in year 2000 the MAS/SNS' goals for 1995 (100% in water and 60%
in sewerage), the require annual investments during the decade would be about US$712 million in
water and US$875 in sewerage (see Annex 2).
15.   The limitations for investments during the 1960s made BNH and the SWCs give priority to
increasing efficiency in investment and operations. Economic selection criteria for subprojects were
introduced by BNH and water conservation programs were initiated. Despite these actions, inadequate
levels of investment led to deficiencies in existing delivery systems: more than half of the population
with access to public water systems receives less than fully satisfactory services, including some
rationing. Since investment levels will not dramatically increase in the short-term because of
macroeconomic constraints, there is a clear need for: (i) increasing investment efficiency, including
adherence to established economic, technical and financial project selection criteria; and (ii) upgrading
)f a program of operational efficiency, including a clearly defined program for reducing unaccounted-
for-water, more efficient maintenance practices, improved cost control, and additional attention to the



-5-
rehabilitation of existing networks. To address this important issue, the Project includes preparation
facilities for a proposed Water Demrand Management and Systems Rehabilitation Project (para. 43).
F. Pressing Investment Needs
Urban and Rural Poor
16.   For the past several decades  'verty in BraOi has become Increasingly an urban problem.
Although absolute numbers show tha- poor are about 47% urban and 53% rural, the rate of
growth of the urban poor has increased, vvnile that of the rural poor has declined. The issues which
are raised by the process of macroeconomic adjustment--reductions in public expenditures for
infrastructure and increases in tariffs for infrastructure services--will, cgete paribus, worsen the plight
of the poor in the short- to medium-term, as the country attempts to achieve stabilization and growth.
Since the provision of infraptructure services is linked to poverty alleviation both Indirectly (through
growth) and directly (through access to, and targeted subsidies within, the provision of such services),
additional focus during the next years needs to be placed on targeting infrastructure policy and
irvestment interventions to address tne needs of the poor.  The ongoing Water Project for
Municipalities and Low-income Areas (FY88) addresses specifically some of the issues involved In
providing water and sanitation services to Brazil's poorest families.
Water Pollution Control and Prevention
17.   Under PLANASA, with the exception of a few erratic operations, pollution control and
prevention has been neglected. Thus the increasing problem of water pollution, particularly in the
larger metropolitan centers and heavily industrial areas, has become a key sectoral issue. The Bank
is currently preparing a project whose main objective is to assist Brazil in developing a cost effective
approach to water pollution control. Cost effectiveness will require the implementation of cost
recovery mechanisms to ensure the collection of enough revenues to finance the required investment
projects. Both projects (the Water Sector Modernization and the Water Pollution Contiol) will joint
efforts towards developing a single proposal on policy and institutional issues to minimize allocati%
distortions.
G. Regulation and Enforcement
18.   Even before the abolition of BNH, PLANASA had been in need of reformulation. The sector had
moved from a situation of abundant financial resources and large "fitapped demand in congested and
wealthy urban areas, to the presert situation of constrained investment resources and demand
pr-marily in less densely populated and poor, urban areas. Another factor which urges PLANASA's
reformulation is the series of fiscal, economic and policy reforms, undertaken from 1986 to the
present, aimed at bringing the economy to a sound footing. These reforms included measures to
manage external and internal debt, and decentralize administrative and other powers to state and local
governments. Increased fiscal transfers to the states and municipalities heloed to attenuate somewhat
the hraking effects of the debt measures, but for state and municipal water companies, these
measures, although necessary from a macroeconomic point of view, constituted new constraints on
meeting investment goals. This difficult situation coincided with the financial and technical decline of
the apex institutions, BNH. and later CEF, which failed to adapt PLANASA to these changing
circumstances.
19.   In light of the demise of PLANASA, a review of the adequacy of the current regulatory and
legal framework of Brazil's water sector is timely. Specific proposals should be made regarding. Ii)
tariff policy design, in particular cost recovery of sewage treatment facilities and the extent to which
externalities, such as sewage quality and environmental damage, are accounted for in the tariff; Oiil
tariff policy enforcement. The current rate-of-return regulation should be compared with other forms
of regulation, for example, "yardstick competition"--which assigns rewards on the basis of performance



- 6 -
relative to other firms in the sector; (iii) the locus of the regulatory power. Formerly centered at the
Federal level, following the decentralization reforms, it is likely that increasing responsibilities will be
shifted to the states. For example, a Federal Government agency may be created to design and
implement broad national water policy encompassing such elements as setting national tariff policy,
mandating quality of service standards, and defining and enforcing environmental standards; while
independent expert regulatory commissions may be created to monitor and enforce license conditions,
negotiate license modifications, and control of prices and entry and exit; and (iv) financial policy for
sector companies, including availability and terms of financing for sector investments. The possibilities
of creating regional companies to provide services to a group of towns, whether public or private,
should also be explored.
H. The Polential Role of the Private Sector
20.   The basic services of water supply and sewerage are naturally monopolistic, but activities such
as sewage treatment; the construction, operation, and maintenance of water networks; metering,
billing and collection; and the operation of production facilities could be organized in more competitive
ways. Increase involvemert of the private sector may provide a better environment for delegating
some of these activities to independent operators. Feasible alternatives to operation by public
companies worth exploring are management contracts, leasing arrangements, End concession or
franchise arrangements where service rights are auctioned. In particular, state monopolization is not
the only available policy response in circumstances in which there are significant economiee associated
with monopoly supply. Therefore, full or partial privatization, where feasible and possible, should also
be considered when reviewing the adequacy of Brazil's water sector current regulatory and legal
framework.
1. The Need for a New Regulatory Framework
21.   Concerns about the efficiency and performance of the water and wastes sector have created
interest in increasing the use of commercial practices, fostering competition among service providers,
supporting decentralization, and promoting, where feasible and appropriate, greater private sector
participation. And rather than retaining an outdated regulatory framework, there is now a consensus
on the need to evaluate other options. Measures are needed to deal with recurring problems of poor
performance and to create incentives for technical, financial and managerial efficiency. Clear-cut
government policies and guidelines are considered necessary for implementing a rational and effective
regulatory framework aiming at: li) fostering competition; (ii) improving utility management; (iii)
increasing accountability; (iv) avoiding government interference in day-to-day enterprise decisions; and
(v) gaining access to new sources of capital.
22.   Desire for improved efficienc', and the recent scarcity of funds for the financing of expansion,
have increased interest in commercial methods and in attracting private capital for sector development.
However, in the absence of clear guidance as to the long-term conduct of regulatory policy, private
investors will rightly be concerned about their ability to secure an appropriate rate of return on capital
invested in the industry.  A clearly defined and stable regulatory system  is an indispensable
precondition for private capital to flow into the sector.
23.   The need to niaintain a stable and predictable industry environment calls for the separation of
the operational and regulatory activities within the sector.  Regulatory activities include the
authorization of rates that generate sufficient revenue to finance maintenance and investment and,
simultaneously, protect consumers from monopolistic pricing. A strong regulatory agency should be
protected from fluctuating political pressure and should exercise its function in an impartial and expert
fashion. An effective regulatory framework shiould be designed in accordance with the following
principles: Wi independence of the regulatory agency, (ii) transparency of the regulatory rules, (iii)
accountability in regulatory decision making, and (iv) a secure appeals procedure for the regulated
companies.



24.   In devising an effective regulatory framework for the sector, an important issue that needs to
be resolved centers on the proper state, regional, or national character of the proposed regulatory
structure. Given the movement towards administrative decentralization and the fact that the relevant
markets in the water sector are local, the most appropriate solution seem to be the creation of a
Federal regulatory commission that each state can voluntarily rely upon for regulatory oversight, and
state regulatory commissions in those states that are of sufficient size and possess the required
technical expertise.
II. SECTOR STRATEGY AND BANK EXPERIENCE
A. Government Strategy
25.   The government's strategy for the water supply and sanitation sector has been summarized
by the recently created SNS as the modernization of the sector. The modernization strategy seeks:
(i) to place the sector on a firm commercial basis, in an effort to break the familiar dilemma between
social objectives and economic rationality; (iii to increase service coverage levels, targeting in particular
the needs of the poor; (iii) to encourage a more flexible institutional organization--stimulating the
creation of municipal and regional consortia, and a larger participation and involvement of the
municipalities and the private seLtor; (iv) to increase and diversify the sector financial sources,
including a revision of issues such as the optimal mixture of project financing and cost recovery; (v)
to support an even more decentralized and efficient operation of the sector; and (vi) to place greater
emphasis on water pollution control to minimize the negative environmental impacts accumulated
during decades of little attention to the problem. To achieve the proposed strategy, SNS wants to
restructure the sector's institutional and financial framework; promote investments according to
acceptable economic, financial, technical, and social criteria--at both national and sub-national levels;
and actively support the sector's current needs of service expansion and quality enhancement. The
Government's sector goals for the period 1 990-1994 (quite ambitious given the time frame) are: (i)
water supply service to 100% of the urban population and 50% of the rural; and (ii) sewage services
to 60% of the urban population and 50% of the rural.
B. Bank Experience
The Bank's Overall Experience
26.   The majority of projects prepared in this sector have provided substantial economic and health
benefits. Since the 1960s, when the Bank began lending in this sector, the scale of projects have
become larger, with many projects involving assistance to a number of smaller entities under one
operation. Some operations have relied on intermediaries to exercise control over implementation and
to provide assistance to the beneficiary entities. And many operations have aimed at the consolidation
of water entities. The main lessons that should be learned from this experience and address in future
operations are: (i) the achievement of institutional and cost recovery objectives are painfully slow and
difficult; (ii) adequate project preparation, early land acquisition, and manageable procurement
proceduces are necessary conditions to avoid delays in project implementation; (iii) effective Bank
supervision during project implementation is a key factor towards achievement of the proposed
objectives; (iv) in strujigling for increased service levels through expansion of facilities, sound
management and operation and maintenance of completed works should receive enough attention to
avoid endangering the sustainability of the facilities and the expected benefits; (v) adequate attention
should be paid to the disposal of wastewater in densely populated areas; and (vi) greater attention
should be paid to decrease the high levels of unaccounted-for water usually observed in water
companies.



Experience In Latin America
27.   Most water and sewerage projects Implemented in the Latin America region have tr. a large
extent met their physical objectives--and in some cases have even surpassed them, but have suffered
from delays in their implementation periods--about 2 years longer than estimated during appraisal--and
failed to reach their institutional objectives. The main lessons derived from the regional experience are:
(i) water and sanitation projects are not immune to a lackluster macroeconomic performance; (ii)
frequent management changes and long implementation times compromise project objectives; liii)
physical and institutional components should be adequately linked; (iv) project scope and design should
be simple, with a minimum of cornponents; (v) projects should emphasize more cost recovery, lower
operational costs through higher operational efficiency, and a larger internal contribution to
investments; and (vi) there is a need for better demand and productivity forecast methodologies.
28.   The Project addresses rnost of these issues. Especially noteworthy are the following features:
(i) the high contributions to investment required from the companies internal cash generation (para.
89); (ii) the open competition amnong the included SWCs for Bank resources that will begin in the third
year (para. 108); (iii) the agreement reached with the beneficiaries to develop and apply improved
methodologies for planning and marginal cost pricing (para. 64 and Annexes 16 and 22); (iv) the
proposed sector institutional restructuration will considerably benefit from implementation of the
Project in the states and vice versa (paras. 39 and 40), and (v) political stability in the states is assured
during the first years of the project implementation period and for more than a half of the entire period-
-the term of office of the recently elected governors goes until March, 1995.
Experience in Brazil
29.   Since 1971, the Bank has made 13 loans amounting to US$1,370 millions for water supply
and sewerage projects in Brazil. Basic data, including the current status of each operation, are
summarized in Annex 5. Bank assistance to the sector has concentrated on supporting the objectives
of PLANASA, particularly institutional development and adoption of appropriate sector policies, and
assisting thie Government in expanding the coverage level of water supply and sanitation services. The
main project objectives were achieved in each of the eleven completed operations. In addition to
expanding the water supply and sewerage networks, these operations have helped to achieve, inter
alia: li) effective decentralization of most responsibilities to the states--SWCs were created, made
capable, and strengthened in each state; {ii) the establishment of sound economic principles for project
selection; Ciii) the enactment and application of basic tariff legislation; (iv) the establishment of a
uniform accounting system; (v) the standardization of financial, commercial and administrative
procedures; and (vi) the establishment of water conservation and rehabilitation programs and new
methods to extend services to low-income populations and rural communities. Two important lessons
from these operations are the usefulness of project mid-term reviews and of sector (as opposed to
project specifics) lending operations.
30.   The most recent experience has been dominated by the impact of the macroeconomic crisis--as
evidenced by decreasing (until recently) real tariffs, sector investment levels, and the failure of the
Federal apex institution. Efforts to adjust tariff levels to attain compliance by the SWCs with the NTL
have not been met, despite sustained efforts in these operations to reach cost recovery objectives and
financial viability of the SWCs. As noted by the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department (OED)--four
out of the eleven loans closed to date have been evaluated by it (PPARs 2929, 4613, and 7088)--, the
question of tariff levels has been perhaps the single most difficult and time-consuming issue in the
history of Bank lending to Brazil, in the water and sanitation sector as well .as in other sectors. The
lesson seems simple: to ensure economic tariff rates, future loan approvals and disbursements must
be conditioned on the meeting of existing covenants, and these should be stated in real terms or an
acceptable equivalent. In accordance with this suggestion, disbursements under the Project are subject
to a set of clear and precise company eligibility and subproject selection criteria (paras. 109 and 110),
and, to ensure the feasibility of this policy, a proposal to set-up an appropriate regulatory system will



-9-
be developed under the Project's institutional strengthening component ipara. 43). OED audit reports
also suggest that Brazilian SWCs would benefit from specialized courses in Financial Accounting under
a highly inflationary environment. The Project addresses this issue under its institutional strengthening
component, where training in this field as well as in others of special importance for the sector has
been contemplated (para. 43).
31.   The two current operations are progressing well--as of June 30, 1991, 45% of Bank loanc
under execution had been committed and 15% disbursed (see Annex 5). The Water Project in the
State of Sao Paulo of FY89 (3102-BR), a sector operation to finance a sector-wide project in Sao
Paulo--the state where the country's largest urban poor population is located, is proceeding on
schedule and achieving all proposed objectives. The Water Sector Project for Low-income Areas and
Municipalities of FY87 (2983-BR), designed to target service extension in water, sanitation, drainage,
and assistance in domestic sanitation for low-income urban residents, has suffered from extended
delays in its implementation because of constrained counterpart funds from CEF. However, presently
this project has received top priority from the new administration, and contracts were recently signed
committing the full loan amount.
32.   Ten (10) of the completed eleven (11) operations were satisfactorily executed despite the
severe macroeconomic situation confronting Brazil, reflecting the competence of management in the
Brazilian water supply and sewerage sector agencies. These completed operations achieved the main
project objectives, despite important delays attributed to inadequate institutional capabilities of some
SWCs (mostly during early stages of PLANASA implementation), failure of the states to provide timely
counterpart financing, election year grant financing of otherwise eligible subprojects in some states,
measures taken by the Federal Government to slow down public investment, and BNH (later CEF)
investment limitations. The institutional capabilities of the SWCs under the Northeast (Loan 1656-BR)
and the Multistate (Loan 1970-BR) Projects were specially weaker than those under the other Bank
operations. The abolition of BNH and the transfer of its main operational portfolios to CEF in November
21, 1986, was distinctively harmful to the sector. CEF, a commercial Bank with only skeletal
specialized technical support, has been unable to perform the investment planning and financial and
operational control of the SWCs which BNH had carried out in the past quite successfully.
33.   Ir. the Greater Sao Paulo Sewerage and Sewage Treatment Project (1525-BR), major project
components amounting to 52% of the original loan were canceled due to overestimated demand
projections and reluctance from the Federal Government to fund the works. Project investments in
sewerage treatment without additional financial returns from tariff revenues resulted in a deterioration
of the financial situation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Company of S5o Paulo. Bank experience
under this loan shows that during preparation of water pollution control projects, special emphasis
needs to be given to cost recovery mechanisms.
C. Bank Strategy
34.   The Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil is to support policies and investments that will
encourage economic growth and social development in the context of macroeconomic stability. Our
emphasis is on efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and the
appropriate targeting and delivery of services to the poor. In this context, our ultimate goal for the
water and sewerage sector is that operations become commercial, with any public funding explicitly
directed to provide the poor with access to appropriate services and, when justified, to protect the
environment. Poverty-targeting, finan,ial self-sufficiency and accountability of the sector agencies,
and effective pollution management are basic goals.
35.   The instruments used to achieve these objectives should include: (i) increased private sector
involvement complemented by appropriately-designed regulation; (ii) review of the adequacy of current
pricing policy for full cost recovery; (iii) targeting of subsidies to the poor; (iv) adequate investment



- 10 -
programming; Iv) public sector management efficiency through operational planning and marketing
Improvements; and (vi) environmental clean-up and prevention through appropriate regulation.
36.   Bank involvement and support of the water and wastes sector are critical at this Juncture, now
that SNS has begun strengthening its management and policy role. The Bank's lending in the sector
should help to recover and consolidate the gains it helped produce in the past. Lending should
continue to promote efficiency and to ensure the consistency of sectoral and macroeconomic policies.
111. THE PROJECT
A. Description
Background
317.   The modernization of the water supply and sanitation sector is the first priority of MAS/SNS,
as stated in its strategy for the sector". Early in 1990, this strategy and a complementary investment
program that includes this project, a National Water Pollution Control Project, a Water Demand
Management and Systems Rehabilitation Project, and an investment project based on the ongoing
Water and Sanitation Project for Low-Income Areas were presented to ald discussed with the Bank
by staff from MAS/SNS. These operations support the government's goals and objectives for the
sector and seek to consolidate the role of SNS as the sector's leading entity. In accordance with the
government's strategy (para. 25), the Water Sector Modernization Project would assist: (i) SNS in
reorienting the sector's organization and objectives to achieve higher efficiency and improved financial
viability, through decentralization, greater financial autonomy and accountability, improved tariff-setting
policies, and direct access to the financial sector; and (ii) the State Water Companies (SWCs) of Bahia
(EMBASA), Mato Grosso do Sul (SANESUL), and Santa Catarina (CASAN) in improving their standards
of commerclai performance. Two Bank missions assisted SNS and the SWCs on project preparation.
After the first preparation mission--early in 1991, SNS presented the Project's Carta Consulta to the
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais (DEAIN). DEAIN approved the Carta Consulta on March 20,
1991. The Project was appraised from June 26 to July 19, 1991.
Objectives and Rationale
38.   The main objectives of the Project are: (i) to strengthen the sector's institutional capabilities
by laying the foundations of a modern and efficient legal and regulatory framework, and upgrading the
efficiency and competence of the sector financial model; (ii) to help CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL,
to operate on a commercial basis, with financial self-sufficiency--including independence from
earmarked funds, corporate autonomy and accountability for its actions, through the financing of a
time-slice of their six-year investment programs; and (iii) to improve environmental and health
conditions in urban areas, through the expansion of water supply and sewerage services.
39.   To strengthen the sector's institutional capabilities, the Project will address some key sectoral
issues, namely the need for: (i) clarifying Federal Government responsibility regarding the design and
implementation of broad national water policy encompassing such elements as setting national tariff
policy, mandating quality of service standards, and defining and enforcing environmental standards;
(ii) setting-up independent regulatory commissions with responsibility for monitoring and enforcing of
license conditions, negotiating license modifications, and control of prices, entry and exit, and financial
structure. To monitor their sector companies, the states would be given the option of relying upon a
Federal regulatory ccmmission or alternatively to create their own commissions or request the service
" See Minist6rio de Aq8o Social, Secretaris Nscional de Saneamento, Caixa Econ8mica Federal, Plano do A9Eo Inmediata de
Sansamento - Pat# Brasil, Srasflia, 1990.



of other states commissions; and (iii) evaluating and reformulating the sector investment planning and
financing model, including an effective decentralization of the sector's financial responsibilities.
40.   To assist CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL in improving their standards of commercial
performance, the Project will: (i) support their 1992-1997 investment programs. Efficient and
financially viable set of investments that have been carefully prepared to cover--within existing
economic and financial constraints--urgently needed extension and quality enhancernent of services
in their states, while permitting the financial and institutional strengthening of the companies; (ii) build
company capacity to mobilize investment resources internally. CASAN is expected to contribute as
a minimum counterpart funds amounting to 51 % of the planned investments or 51 % of total project
costs (54% and 55% respectively, including interest during construction) during the period 1992-1997.
EMBASA is expected to contribute as a minimum counterpart funds amounting to 52% of the planned
investments or 51 % of total project costs (54% and 55% respectively, including interest during
construction) during the period 1992-1997. SANESUL is expected to contribute as a minimum
counterpart funds amounting to 31 % of the planned investments or 51 % of total project costs (35%
and 55% respectively, including interest during construction) during the period 1992-1997; liii) help
optimize company allocation of scarce resources through better investment planning and marginal cost
analysis and pricing; (iv) further strengthen planning and programming by focusing on a realistic, rolling
six-year plan reinforced by performance agreements between the companies, the states, and SNS.
These agreements will make explicit the expectations and responsibilities of each party in carrying out
sector activities, including regulation and control, administration, investments and tariffs. Prior to Loan
Negotiations, a draft of these Letters of Agreement jointly prepared by the companies, the states, and
SNS was submitted to and found satisfactory by the Bank (see Annex 21); (v) improve company
operational efficiency and financial performance, including cost reduction. In addition, the participation
of CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL--three utilities currently operating with different levels of
efficiency--will provide, to the rest of the sector, examples on how to improve corporate efficiency,
and, to SNS, a real life laboratory for testing advanced and demanding initiatives and ideas proposed
for inclusion in the new sector model, in particular, the Project's goal of strengthening sector finances
through a gradual reduction of budgetary contributions, accompanied by a substantial increase of
internally-generated funds; and (vi) improve environmental and health conditions in urban areas through
water supply service and waste water disposal.
41.   The Project forms an important part of the companies' 1992-1997 investment programs which,
at the end of its implementation period, will have benefitted about 3.3 million people with water supply
(about 1.0 million in SC, 1.7 million in BA, and 0.6 million in MS) and almost one million people with
sewerage services (about 0.6 million in SC, 0.2 million in BA, 0.2 million in MS) in hundreds of cities
and towns in these states. After 1997, a significant number of additional people will also benefit from
subprojects built with excess capacity--due to economies of scale most subprojects built to increase
water production and transmission and sewage transportation and treatment present excess capacity
during their first years of operation. In Campo Grande, for example, out of a total of 0.65 million
people that will benefit from the Project, 0.45 million people (69%) will benefit after 1997. It is
estimated that over 63% of the beneficiaries with water (55% in SC, 66% in BA, and 69% in MS) and
22% of the beneficiaries with sewerage (22% in SC, 18% in BA, and 26% in MS) are in the poverty
group.
Components
42.   The Project consists of: (i) an institutional strengthening component (2%o of project total costs)
which would finance related actions and studies focusing on the restructuring and reformulation of the
organization and objectives of the Brazilian water and wastes sector; and (ii) an investment component
(98% of project total costs) which would help finance a time-slice of the six-year investment program
of CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL.



- 12 -
43.   The institutional strengthening component would provide resources for (see Annex 15): (i) the
formulation of a proposal for setting-up a new regulatory framework for Brazil's water and wastes
sector, including a detailed plan of action for institutional reformulation, drafts of proposed legislation
and regulation, and definition of functions and mechanisms at the Federal and state levels; (ii) the
evaluation and reformulation of the sector investment programming and financing model at the Federal
and local levels, aiming at upgrading its efficiency and ensuring an improvement in the self-financing
of sector companies; (iii) technical assistance and training for SNS and other Federal and local sector
agencies to increase their institutional capabilities to carry out their responsibilities under the Project
and under the institutional arrangements and sector policies to be proposed; (iv) training of sector
management in planning, marketing, and operational techniques--including cost reductions; and (v)
preparation facilities for a proposed Water Demand Management and Systems Rehabilitation Project,
under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
44.   The investment component will provide resources to expand and reinforce the water supply
and sewerage systems of CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL, improve their operational efficiency, and
enhance the quality of their services (see Annex 14). Overall, the companies' investment programs
are concentrated in expanding and reinforcing water distribution and sewage collection and treatment.
45.   Initially, the Bank Project would help finance about 48% of investments to be made by CASAN
in the state of Santa Catarina in the period 1992-1997 (see Annex 14, Attachment 2), about 52% of
investments to be made by EMBASA in the state of Bahia in the same period (see Annex 14,
Attachment 5), and about 60% of investments to be made by SANESUL in the state of Mato Grosso
do Sul in the same period (see Annex 14, Attachment 8). However, given that the creation of a
competitive environment between the SWCs is a key feature of this Project, the initial distribution of
resources will be guaranteed only during the first two years of project implementation. At the
beginning of the third year of project implementation and each year thereafter, the Bank and SNS will
redistribute (if necessary) all funds remaining to be disbursed, based on a revision of each company's
achievement of project objectives and compliance with agreed monitoring indicators.
46.   The Bank Project includes a large group of subprojects which become eligible for financing
under the Bank loan by complying with agreed upon economic criteria (paras. 1 10 and 1 11). Bank
projects have been carefully selected to avoid any negative consequence resulting from delays and/or
cancellations in the implementation of not Bank-financed projects (see Annex 14, Attachments 3, 6,
and 9). In addition, subprojects included in the investment plan for the project implementation period
which are not Bank-financed are also expected to comply with the same eligibility criteria applicable
to Bank projects (paras. 1 10 and 11 1).
47.   In the state of Santa Catarina, the Bank Project will help CASAN to finance: (i) the expansion
and reinforcement of the water supply systems of Florian6polis, Joinville, Criciuma, and other 12
medium-sized cities and 17 small-sized localities to improve their reliability, remove bottlenecks, and
reduce operating costs; (ii) the expansion of the sewerage systems of Florian6polis, Joinville, Criciuma,
and other 4 medium-sized cities; (iii) an operational development program addressing commercial,
financial, and operational issues in a coordinated manner to reduce unaccounted-for water levels,
increase billing and collecting, reduce operational costs, increase productivity, and institutionalize
operational planning; and (iv) future project preparation.
48.   In the state of Bahia, the Bank Project will help EMBASA to finance: (i) the expansion and
reinforcement of the water supply systems of the Metropolitan Region of Salvador, Feira de Santana,
Vitoria da Conquista, and Jequie to fully utilize existing production facilities and remove distribution
bottlenecks; (ii) the expansion of the sewerage system of the Salvador's Metropolitan Region; and (iii)
an operational development program, defined as in the State of Santa Catarina above.
49.   In the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, the Bank Project will help SANESUL to finance: (i) the
expansion and reinforcement of the water supply systems of Campo Grande, Dourados, Corumb, and



- 13 -
Tres Lagoas to remove bottlenecks, improvo their reliability and reduce their operating costs; (ii) the
cor,struction, extension and/or improvement of water production and transmission facilities in 47 small-
sized cities and towns--12 new localities will be served with water between 1992 and 1997; (iii) the
design and execution of sewerage systems in several medium-sized cities using low-cost technologies;
(iv) an operational development program, defined as in the State of Santa Catarina above; and (v)
future project preparation, including a detailed study of the state's hydro-geological potential before
December 31, 1993, and based on its conclusions and recommendations, review the economic
justification of water production subprojects involving superficial water.
The Borrower
50.   The Federal Government will be the Borrower. The Ministry of Social Welfare (MAS), through
its SNS, will supervise the Project. MAS was created in March 15, 1990, as part of the administrative
reform undertaken by the Collor Administration with the general mandate of implementing Federal
social policy. MAS comprises four Secretariats: Water Supply and Sanitation, Housing, Social
Promotion, and Civil Defense (see its organizational chart in Annex 6, Attachment 1). The creation of
the National Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitation (SNS)--MAS' secretariat responsible for basic
sanitation policy--has finally resulted in the long overdue establishment of a Federal agency fully
dedicated to the water and wastes sector. SNS' main functions are to: (i) define national sector
policies for water supply and sanitation; (ii) consolidate planning and investment priorities; (iii) promote
and support water and wastes programs and projects aiming at increasing coverage service and quality
levels; (iv) coordinate sector federal activities with state and municipal initiatives; and (v) support MAS
in its function of manager of the FGTS funds. To this end, SNS is organized in two Departments (see
the organizational chart of SNS in Annex 6, Attachment 2): the Planning and Engineering Department
(PED) and the Programs Supervision Department (PSD). The PED is responsible for defining basic
sanitation policy directives and parameters for the allocation of resources. The PSD, responsible for
monitoring the execution of sanitation programs, has a division for urban water supply and sanitation
and other for rural services.
51.   The Bank Project will be managed by a technical unit established by Article 4 of he Borrower's
Portaria Interministerial No. 794 of December 30, 1991, and to be maintained by the Borrower for the
duration of the Project. The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be responsible for the implementation
of the institutional strengthening component (about US$8 million) and for the supervision of the
investment component (about US$492 million). The investment component will be implemented by
and under the er.tire responsibility of the beneficiaries.
52.   MAS/SNS has not implemented a Bank project before, but it is currently directing and
supervising implementation of an IDB project--the Social Emergency and Employment Generation
Project (PROSEGE). The PROSEGE loan was negotiated between MAS/SNS and the IDB late in 1990,
and has a total cost of US$500 million.
The Beneficiaries
53.   The SWCs of Santa Catarina (CASAN), Bahia (EMBASA), and Mato Grosso do Sul (SANESUL)
will be beneficiaries of and executing agencies for subprojects financed under the proposed loan,
provided they comply with eligibility and selection criteria agreed upon during Loan Negotiations (paras.
109 and 1 10). The three companies participated as beneficiaries in the Water Supply and Sewerage
Sector Project of FY83 (2249-BR). EMBASA also participated as beneficiary in the Northeast Water
Supply and Sewerage Project of FY79 (1656-BR), CASAN in the South Water Supply and Sewerage
Sector Project of rY80 (BR-1 823), and SANESUL in the Multistate Water Supply and Sewerage Project
of FY81 (1970-BR). Despite important delays, partially attributable to the severe macroeconomic
condition confronting Brazil, the companies performed satisfactorily and developed a good working
relationship with the Bank under these loans (para. 32).



- 14 -
54.   CASAN was created in 1970 with State Law No.4597 of December 31, 1970, as Companhia
Catarinense de Aguas e Saneamento; EMBASA was established in 1971 with State Law No.2929 of
May 11, 1971, as Empresa Baiana de Aguas e Saneamento S.A.; and SANESUL was created with
State Law No.71 of January 26, 1979, as Empresa de Saneamento do Mato Grosso do Sul. The
companies, limited corporations owned by their state governments, are headquartered in the state
capitals and are responsible for services in the capital city and hundreds of other localities (1177 in
CASAN, 379 in EMBASA, and 109 in SANESUL--see Annex 8).
55.   As shown in the organization charts (see Annex 6, Attachments 3, 4, and 5), each company
is governed by a Board of Directors appointed by the state governor for a period of four years. The
president of the board of directors is the Chief Executive Officer. Each of the other Directors is the
working head of one of the operational departments. The Directors are ultimately responsible to an
Administrative Council responsible for such functions as ex-ante approval of investment programs and
issuing of new shares. A Fiscal Council is responsible among other things for approving ex-post all
budgets and financial closing. This structure is common to most Brazilian state-owned companies and
is adequate to suit the companies' needs.
56.   The companies--like all SWCs in Brazil--operate under concessions granted by the municipal
governments, because water distribution is considered constitutionally delegated to the municipalities.
Under the PLANASA system, standard concession contracts were developed with a duration of 30
years and the possibility of renewal.
57.   CASAN's area of responsibility covers 178 municipalities which account for about 80% of
Santa Catarina's urban population. In its area of responsibility, CASAN serves 242 localities with
water supply and 11 with sewerage service, and has coverage levels of about 85% in water and 9%
in sewerage. EMBASA is responsible for service to 271 municipalities in the state, covering about
80% of Bahia's urban population. In its area of responsibility, EMBASA serves 379 localities with
water supply and 12 with sewerage service, and has coverage levels of about 72% in water and 9%
in sewerage. SANESUL's area of responsibility covers 65 municipalities which account for about 84%
of Mato Grosso do Sul's urban population. In its area of responsibility, SANESUL serves 109 localities
with water supply and 11 with sewerage service, and has coverage levels of about 83% in water and
11% in sewerage. (See municipalities under the companies' area of responsibility in IBRD Map 23322.)
58.   At December 31, 1990, CASAN staff numbered 3,033, EMBASA 6,096, and SANESUL 1,365.
The employees efficiency of SANESUL, as measured by the number of water and sewerage
connections per employee (235 in 1991), is one of the highest in the country. The 1991 employees
efficiency of CASAN and EMBASA (182 and 157 water and sewerage connections per employee,
respectively) is significantly lower than that of SANESUL and even lower than the 1 989 sector average
of 216 (see Annex 4). During Negotiations, agreement was reached on a gradual improvement of
these ratios (see Annex 12). In addition, programs for training, technical assistance, and managerial
skills upgrading, form a prominent part of a managerial development program included in each company
investment program (see Annex 14).
59.   Personnel costs are the most important element in the three companies structure of operating
costs. Measured as a percentage of operating costs--excluding depreciation, personnel costs are
considerable high in the three companies. During 1991, they have been estimated at about 75% in
CASAN, 66% in EMBASA, and 64% in SANESUL as compared with less than 40% in a sample of Latin
American utilities and less than 30% in a sample of Spanish and French utilities. During Negotiations,
in addition to targets for number of water and sewerage connections per employee, targets for
personnel costs as a percentage of operating costs--excluding depreciation, were also agreed to
gradually reduce personnel costs during the following years (see Annex 12).
60.   CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL use a uniform, computerized, double-entry, cost-center
accounting system developed under the PLANASA system and used by all SWCs in Brazil since 1976.



- 15 -
Major accounting procedures (reviewed in Annex 19) are consistent with internationally-accepted
accounting standards and include provisions for inflation adjustments. Monthly closings are completed
within 30 days, and the results circulated as a management report. Year-end closing are finalized
within three months of year's end. Independent external auditors review annually the companies
financial statements. These arrangements conform to the accounting and auditing guidelines of the
Bank. However, the examination of EMBASA's financial statements revealed problems In its
accounting system and procedures. As requested by the Bank as a result of these findings, prior to
Loan Negotiations EMBASA furnished a report of a reputable independent auditor on the company's
accounting systems and procedures. This report confirmed the mentioned weaknesses, and made
specific recommendations for strengthening of the company's accounting department and training of
EMBASA staff, which have been incorporated into the company's institutional development program.
61.   Customer meters are read monthly on a rotating basis by region. The companies confront
common billing and collection problems: (i) long billing periods (from meter reading to due date); and
(ii) poor accounts receivable records, due to non-payment of some users but, principally, to the
companies' historic inability to cumulatively adjust consumer bills for inflation. These circumstances
have contributed to liquidity problems (para. 90). During Negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the companies to gradually bring down the accounts receivable comparator (see Annex 12), and to
adjust overdue accounts for inflation or take other measures which would reduce the financial losses
resulting from overdue bills. Programs on billing and collection designed to improve the companies'
organizational methods, reduce billing time, and improve collection efficiency, also form part of each
company operational development program (see Annex 14). In addition, assurances were also obtained
from the states to promote and support actions aiming at improving the companies' management and
operational systems, as well as to adjust overdue accounts for inflation or take other measures which
would reduce the financial losses resulting from overdue bills.
62.   About 1983, BNH began financing programs on operational development that were highly
successful--EMBASA, for example, was able to decrease its level of unaccounted-for water to about
33%--from a 45% level, in only three years. Since 1987 however these programs have been seriously
cut in almost all SWCs due to lack of financial resources, and unaccounted-for water is again a very
serious problem. In 1990, unaccounted-for water was estimated at 44.7% in CASAN, 43.6% in
EMBASA, and 36.1% in SANESUL. As shown in Annex 4, SANESUL's figure is about the national
average (36.3%  in 1989), while CASAN's and EMBASA's are substantially higher.  During
Negotiations, assurances were obtained from the companies for gradually improving this indicator (see
Annex 12). Operational development programs, as the ones developed before, form a prominent part
of each company investment program (see Annex 14) and will be financed by the Project.
63.   Consumption metering in 1990 was 72% in CASAN, 71% in SANESUL, and 54% in EMBASA.
Although CASAN's and SANESUL's indicators are in line with the 1989 sector average (70%--see
Annex 4), these are low levels of consumption metering. EMBASA's indicator is extremely low even
for Brazilian standards. Low levels of both production and consumption metering result in unreliable
assessments of unaccounted-for water, and make cross-subsidization through tariff structures difficult.
During Negotiations, assurances were obtained to gradually increase this indicator (see Annex 12).
The operational development programs will also provide funds for this activity.
64.   PLANASA's lending system has transmitted considerable uncertainty to the SWCs' financial
planning and caused major delays in the implementation of many projects (para. 9). Brazil's economic
crisis and the transfer of sector operations to CEF has remarkably increased that uncertainty, throwing
sector planning into chaos, The companies and the states do not any longer establish priorities for the
extension of water supply and sewerage services based on assessed needs in the communities. SWCs
do not any longer use the communities' assessed needs to define service levels targets and investment
schedules, and to prepare financial projections. The Global Feasibility Study (EVG), a standardized
format used for the sector during many years with variable fortune, has became a useless tool. The
Project will address this issue by strengthening company planning and project appraising capacity--



- 16 -
badly damaged during the past years by the lack of appropriate supervision, thereby fostering the
efficient utilization of inv6stment resources within the company, Important elements of this strategy
will be the adoption of realistic, rolling six-year plans reinforced by performance agreements between
the companies and their respective states, and the use of stronger criteria for economic analysis of
subprojects.
65.   Engineering studies, design and supervision of works are executed by competent consultants.
The companies' engineering departments review designs and monitor construction. During BNH, these
departments were given advice and control by BNH's technical agents. Wlhen BNH was abolisheu and
its functions transferred to CEF, this close supervision practically disappeared. This is another area
where the Project expects to have a significant impact. The reintroduction of Technical Agents (TA)
will strengthen project programming, irnprove project implementation, and make project supervision
more efficient (para. 1 14).
B. The Economics of the Project
Demand Projection
66.   Overall water supply and sewerage service demand projections are made by the companies
separately for the markets of the capital and the interior and then added together. These projections
are supply driven. The key independent variable is the number of new connections each company
expects to hook-up to their systems in each region every year. These expected figures are then added
to the existing number of connections, convejrt-3d into number of customers and multiplied by the
volume of water per customer each company estimates to sell in each region every year. Demand is
implicitly assumed to be inelastic to price.
67.   Water supply and sewerage service demand are also independently projected by the companies
for each of the systems independently analyzed: Florian6polis, Joinville, and Criciuma in Santa
Catarina; Salvador, Feira da Santt..a, and Vitoria da Conquista in Bahia; Campo Grande, Dourados,
Corumba/Ladario, Tres Lagoas, Miranda, Sete Quedas, and Guia Lopes in Mato Grosso do Sul. These
projections are also supply driven. They have been estimated using expected population growth rates,
given targets for service coverage, estimated levels for annual per capita consumption, and declining
percentages of average losses. Demand is again implicitly assumed to be inelastic to price. (Demand
projections for Florian6polis are shown as an example in Annex 16, Attachment 1.)
68.   With this Project, CASAN, EMBASA, SANESUL will extend water supply and sewerage services
into the next century, covering additional populations of about 3.3 and 1.0 million (about 1.0 and 0.6
million people in Santa Catarina; about 1.7 and 0.2 million people in Bahia; and 0.6 and 0.2 million
people in Mato Grosso do Sul), increasing CASAN's services levels from 85% to 93% in water supply
and from 9% to 21 % in sewerage; EMBASA's services levels from 72% to 80% in water supply and
from 9% to 11 % in sewerage; and SANESUL services levels from 83% to 96% in water supply and
from 11 % to 17% in sewerage.
Investment Program
69.   The Project supports efforts by CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL to improve existing water
supply and sewerage services in their areas of responsibility (see IBRD Map 23322). The Project
emphasizes investments in water supply distribution (to complement previous production investments)
and in sewage collection and treatment. Complementary works to existing facilities will increase the
cost-benefit ratio of many subprojects, especially in water production. EMBASA, for example, will
build a power line in its new treatment plant of Pedra de Cavalho, that will allow its operation at full
capacity, the expansion of its distribution network, and a quality improvement in the areas already
served. Annex 14 contains the companies' detailed investment programs for 1992-1997.



- 17 -
70.   Service standards under the Project will consist of water supply by house connections and
sewage disposal by publiL; systems. Subprojects are being designed to conform with CEF--former BNH-
-standards. These standards are in accordance with proper management practices and the habitats,
expectations, and ability to pay of the populations benefitted. As it is customary in the Brazilian water
sector, emphasis is given in the Project to the use of low-cost sewage disposal techniques.
Consolidated service levels for each company for the project implementation period are presented in
Annex 12,
71.   Works are appropriately staged to suit the least-cost solutions. Subprojects with preliminary
feasibility studies, amounting to about 25% of total project investments and including all type of
subprojects, were assessed and found to represent the least-cost solution and to comply with the
subproject selection criteria agreed among the Bank, the SWCs, and SNS (paras. 109 and 110).
Project Cost
72.   The total cost of the Project is estimated at about US$500 million equivalent: US$8 million for
MAS/SNS component, US$161 million for the CASAN component, US$202 million for the EMBASA
component, and US$129 million for the SANESUL component. Project Costs are summarized in Table
3.1. Direct and indirect foreign exchange requirements are estimated at about US$102.4 million
(20.5% of total)--about US$4.0 million (50% of total) for the institutional strengthening component
IMAS/SNS) and about US$98.4 (20% of total) for the investment component (CASAN, EMBASA, and
SANESUL). Costs are expressed in prices of June, 1991, and include physical contingencies estimated
on average as 5% of base costs--about US$20.6 million, and price contingencies estimated on the
basis of estimated international inflation of about 3.9% per year for 1992 and thereafter--about
US$60.1 million. Due to high internal inflation rates, Project cost estimates were prepared in Cr$ and
then translated into US$. Costs include direct taxes (about US$38 million). Import duties resulting
from the recent abolition of the special exoneration enjoyed by the SWCs are not considered on the
assumption that the companies will be able to obtain a waiver of this tax. Interests during construction
are not included.
Table 1
Project Cost Summary
(US$ millions)
Component                          MASISNS CASAN  EMBASA   SANESUL  Total
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING            5.9                                    5.9
PREPARATION FACILITIES PROJECT         1.5                                    1.5
INVESTMENT COMPONENT                          136.1    168.4    107.4    411.9
Water Supply                                   65.7      91.9      74.4    232.0
* State Capital                                12.0      43.9      47.9    103.8
* Medium-sized Cities                          38.5      48.0       9.1      95.6
* Small-sized Towns                            15.2          -     17.4      32.6
Sewerage                                       59.2      46.5      16.0    121.7
* State Capital                                10.1      46.5          -     56.6
* Medium-sized Cities                          49.1          -     16.0      65.1
Institutional Development                       6.2      30.0      11.0      47.2
Projects                                         5.0         -      6.0      11.0
TOTAL BASE COST                        7.4    16.1      168.4    107.4    419.3
Physical Contingencies                   -      6.8       8.4       5.4      20.6
PROJECTCOSTAT DEC'90 PRICES            7.4    142.9    176.8    112.8    439.9
Price Contingencies                    0.6     18.2      25.2      16.1      60.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     8.0   .161.      202.0      28.9    500.0



- 18 -
73.   The total cost of the ProJect was determined on the basis of the companies' 1992-1997
investment programs (see Annex 14). This cost represents about 53% of the companies' investment
programs during 1992-1997 and 100% of the institutional strengthening component. During Loan
Negotiations, assurances were obtained from the companies that annual investments during the project
Implementation period will not be changed by more than 20% of the original agreed amounts, without
prior Bank approval.
74.   Costs estimates for major subprojects are based on bills of quantities and unit prices prepared
by the SWCs. Estimates for other subproJects are based on unit costs of similar works. Costs of the
institutional development programs are estimated in accordance with prevailing costs of materials and
services. About 445 man-months of consulting services are included for the institutional strengthening
component--275 man-months for the formulation of a new regulatory model for Brazil's water and
wastes sector, 50 man-months for the evaluation and reformulation of the sector Investment
programming and financing model, aiid 120 man-months for the preparation facilities for a proposed
water demand management and systems rehabilitation project. The consultants' average cost Is
estimated at about US$12,500 per man-month. This average cost represents man-month rates as
billed by consulting firms, and include salaries, social costs, and the firms' overhead and profits.
Tariff Analysis
75.   The tariff structures of CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL, as presented in Annex 17, are
basically in accordance with the NTL's requirements for tariff design and levels (see Annex 3 for an
analysis of the NTL)--the only exception are EMBASA's tariff rate levels which, as indicated below
(para. 89), will need to be increase about 36% in real terms to achieve financial equilibrium.
76.   Three main characteristics--all following NTL's guidelines--can be recognized from  the
companies' tariff structures. First, tariffs are differentiated by final usage for the purpose of cross-
subsidization. Water users in industrial, commercial and public sectors face a price discrimination by
bearing rate levels ranging from about one to four times higher than those paid by residential
consumers. In SANESUL, for example, the average tariff charged to industrial water users is 3.6 times
higher than the average tariff charged to residential consumers. Figure 3.1 and 3.2 below illustrate
tariff differentiation among consumer groups and across regions. Second, all customers face minimum
consumption levels (MCLs) that translate into minimum monthly charges, which are total or partially
equivalent to the companies' fixed commercial and administrative costs of providing the service. MCLs
go from 10 m3/month--the MCL applicable to all residential consumers, to 50 m3/month--the MCL
applicable to CASAN's industrial consumers. And third, residential consumers are billed according to
a system of increasing block tariffs. The marginal tariff rates are stepwise increasing with the
consumption amount (in CASAN, for example, the tariff rate for an additional cubic meter of water
when the total amount of water consumption is between 25 m3 and 30 m3 is 60% higher than the
tariff rate when the consumption is between 15 m3 and 25 in3). As exemplified in Figure 3.3 where
SANESUL's tariff rates for residential consumers are used, this tariff schedule translates into a set of
average rates that shapes like a capital L, decreasing sharply until a minimum point is reached at a
monthly consumption of 10 m3 and then begins to increase.
77.   Sewerage tariffs are 100% of water tariffs in CASAN and 80% in SANESUL. EMBASA's
sewerage tariffs are 80% in the state capital, Salvador, 70% in the interior, and 45% in all isolated
systems (see Annex 18). These rate levels plus each company's market distribution, produce average
sewerage tariffs that are not in the same pattern as average water tariffs (see Figures 3.1 and 3.2).
In CASAN, for example, sewerage tariffs are actually higher than the corresponding water tariffs for
each consumer group. Meanwhile, average sewerage tariffs in both SANESUL and EMBASA are about
89% and 75% of average water tariffs.
78.   Average tariff levels on both water supply and sewerage collection and treatment for all
different groups of consumers are, as shown in Figure 3.1 and 3.2, significantly higher in SANESUL



- 19 -
than in CASAN, which are in turn higher than In EMBASA. Aggregated average tariff levels for
SANESUL and CASAN are closer and almost twice as high as EMBASA's tariff levels (see Annex 17).
These price differences can largely be explained by the companies' different investment financing
requirements, and by their different market structures--that Is, by the percentage of users belonging
to each tariff category.
4A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
1.01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.. -  ...  ..
Figure 1 AVERAGE WATER TARIFF RATES AMONG       Figure 2 AVERAGE SEWERAGE TARIFF RATES
CONSUMER GROUPS AND ACROSS REGIONS              AMONG CONSUMER GROUPS AND ACROSS REGIONS
1.4                                             7.4 
0.8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7..
I  0. 0                                                              * W.Hx.
00t *- ,    ,    ,    ,                                     ___. _  D._.,    ,    ,    ,    , ______
Figure 3 RESIDENTIAL AVERAGE AND MARGINAL       Figure 4 COMMERCIAL AVERAGE AND MARGINAL
RATES AND MARGINAL COSTS IN CAMPO GRANDE        RATES AND MARGINAL COSTS IN CAMPO GRANDE
79.   Current tariff rates are set to be progressive with respect to the amount of monthly water
consumption, conceivably to ensure satisfaction of urban residents' basic demands for water
consumption and to discourage lavish uses of the already scarce water resources. In practice, these
complexities may generate some problems. Billing and fee collection, for example, may become more
difficult and costly to manage, since consumers can take the advantage of information asymmetry to
claim themselves belonging to the category upon which a cheaper rates are charged. On the other
hand, price discrimination may stimulate adverse selectio,a problems, since some potential consumers
may find it more profitable to establish water supply facilities for themselves, e.g. digging deep wells
or set#n;,o "r 2!f-^,perated transmission pipes, hence the companies lose their opportunities to make
profits and are misled to allocate their resources to largely subsidized customers.



- 20 -
80.   Overall, resulting average wat.i rates and the combined average rates for water and sewerage
are distorted to some extent and do not reflect the companies' actual economic costs, that is, the long-
run average incremental cost (LRAIC) of providing the services. As shown in Annex 16, Attachments
5 and 6, the three companies have average non-residential rates higher and residential rates lower than
the corresponding LRAIC. Departure from marginal cost pricing is in general larger when only water
is supplied. This result, though partially explained by the difficulty of including in the calculations all
future usage of common facilities, suggests the existence of cross-subsidization favoring sewerage
users. And given that sewerage coverage is notably lower than water coverage, any subsidy favoring
sewerage is also favoring the richest groups of the population.
81.   To better serve society and meet the two basic requirements of financial self-sustainability and
social equity, the companies need to further rationalize their tariff structures, taking the following four
points into consideration. First, consumer classification shall be simplified, say, into only two
categories: residential and non-residential. It is not economically justifiable and financially profitable
to distinguish non-residential consumers and to charge them discriminated rates. Second, the miniimum
monthly charge and the progressiveness of the rates shall be carefully modified in line with the principle
of marginal cost pricing, so that cost recovery can be guaranteed while the deadweight social welfare
loss can be reduced. Third, the pattern of the tariff structures, i.e. a fixed minimum monthly charge
plus increasing block tariffs--while typical in developing countries as a means of encouraging water
conservation and implementing cross-subsidies from higher- to lower-income consumers--may not be
achieving its second desired objective. There is evidence which suggests that a significant proportion
of the cross-subsidy is enjoyed by medium- and high-income consumers, while some of the poorest
consumers are charged high average rates, because they have to pay the fixed minimum charge
afthough their consumption level is very low. And fourth, it is desirable to find a reasonable way to
correlate the tariff rates with the inflation rate, such that continuity can be assured for the companies'
long-run financial planning for investment and cost recovery.  However, before firm practical
conclusions can be drawn, costs estimates and assumptions made should be carefully reviewed to
have better estimates of the companies' marginal cost structures.
82.   During Negotiations, the companies agreed to prepare detailed tariff analyses before December
31, 1993, based on marginal costs calculated in accordance with the methodology presented in
Annexes 16 and 22, discuss the results and agree with the Bank on a set of recommendations, and
implement them before June 30, 1994.
C. The Finances of the Project
Project Financing
83.   A Bank loan amo,nting to US$250 million equivalent will help finance 100% of direct and
indirect foreign costs plus about 37% of local costs. The loan will have a term of 15 years, including
five years of grace at the Bank's standard variable intersst rate (currently 7.73%). The balance
(US$250 million) will be provided by the water companies.
84.   The financial success of the Project depends largely on the self-financing capacity of the sub-
borrowers: CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL. This feature is consequence of one of the Project's main
objectives, namely, to strengthen the companies' financial discipline and independence, making them
less reliant on government funds by requiring major cash contributions from them. This is a key
departure from practices in the past where investments were done with nearly total debt financing.
Under the Project, the companies will agree to provide a counterpart cash contribution amounting to
about 50% of the Project's total cost (54% including interest during construction). The remainder of
the companies' investment programs will be financed directly by the states. State contributions will
be madp by means of direct capital increases to the companies. Assurances were obtained from the
states that these contributions would be made available according to the Project schedule and be
totally disbursed by December, 1997.



- 21 -
85.   Table 3.2, which summarizes the Project financing plan, includes interest during construction
amounting to US$46 million. Table 3.3, which summarizes the companies' total investment financing
plans, includes interest during cjnstruction amounting to US$54.4 million. All interest during
construction will be financed by the companies. The financing plan is shown in detail in Annex 18.
During Negotiations, assurances were obtained from the SWCs to submit to tile Bank, not later than
October 15 of each year, financial projections for the following six year period, with specific details
on investment plans for the upcoming year.
Table 2
Project Financing Plan
(US$ millions)
Source of Funds      ._MAS/SNS      - CASAN        EMBASA        SANESUL       Total
Amount %    Amount %   Amount %    Amount %   Amount %
World Bank              8.0 100    79.3  45    99.3  45    63.4  45   250.0  46
Company's Internal
Cash                     -  _      98.2  55  120.8  55    77.0  55   296.0  54
Total                   8.0 100   177.5  100  220.1 100   140.4 100   546.0 100
Table 3
Companies' Investment Financing Plan
(US$ millions)
Source of Funds        MAS/SNS       CASAN         EMBASA       SANESUL        Total
Amount %    Amount %   Amount %    Amount %   Amount %
World Bank              8.0 100    79.3  22    99.3  25    63.4  28   250.0  25
Caixa Economica
Federal                      -    31.1    9        -   -    14.6   6    45.7   5
Federal Government        -   -      9.4    3     3.0   1      4.9   2     17.3   2
State Water and
Sewerage Fund                -    29.5    8        -   -    34.6  15    64.1   6
State Government          -   -    25.5    7   84.5  21       31.5  14   141.5  14
Company's Internal
Cash                       -      185.4  52  216.9  54    78.7  35   481.0  48
Total                   8.0 100   360.2  100  403.7 100   227.7 100   999.6 100
Present Financial Situation
86.   The financial situation of Brazilian SWCs has been seriously affected by the country's changing
macroeconomic environment since 1983: high inflation (more than 1,000% in 1988, 1989, and 1990--
see Annex 19), periodic differentials between domestic inflation and the currency's devaluation against
the US dollar, and the quasi-annual macroeconomic adjustment plans (1986. 1987, 1989, 1990, and
1991). But besides Brazil's macroeconomic crisis, the sector's financial performance has deteriorated
due to the burden of the debt service related to investments made under the PLANASA system, an
excessive reliance on government financing and subsidies, a lack of appropriate asset valuation, and
a governnmental policy that attempted to stop inflation by frequently allowing inadequate adjustments
and instituting tariff freezes (the first tariff freeze was in 1985). Although Brazilian corporate law



- 22 -
provides for inflation accounting (National Law No.6404 of December 15, 1978), the magnitude of the
macroeconomic shocks, the variance in increases of the adjustment indexes, and lack of internal (quality
control in the companies' accounting systems, have made difficult the line-by-line comparative
interpretations of historIcal financial statements or precise conclusions regarding company profitability.
87.   The past and projected financial statements for CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL are presented
in Annex 18. Major accounting procedures, and the notes and assumptions for the forecasts, are
provided in Annex 19. A summary of financial resources transferred by the states to the companies
is presented in Annex 20. The financial performance of the companies began to improve in 1987 with
the j.e facto delegation to the state governments of the power to set tariffs. At that time, the
companiies started to readjust their tariff rates in accordance with financial recuperation plans which
had been agreed with the Bank and CEF. In 1986, the companies did not cover their operational costs,
depreciation, and financial expenses--SANESUL's operating ratio was 1.20, CASAN was 1.25, and
EMBASA was 1.30. In 1987, though EMBASA and SANESUL continued showing an operating ratio
larger than one (1.10, both of them) and compliance with the NTL was still far from being reached2'--
CASAN's compliance coefficient was 0.80, SANESUL was 0.84, and EMBASA was 0.58--a
performanice improvement was already noticeable. By 1990, the financial situation of CASAN and
SANESUL had changed considerably: their operating ratios were 0.72 and 0.79, respectively, and their
compliance ratios with the NTL were 1 .10 and 1 .13, respectively.
88.   EMBASA's overall financial situation improved only slightly due to particularly severe
constraints. Although EMBASA's tariff increases--specially those of 1 987 and 1988--were enough to
turn positive its operational result (in 1990, its operating ratio was 0.88 and its NTL compliance ratio
was 1.06), they were insufficient to provide financial health to the company because of fines and
unpaid contributions to PASEP, FINSOCIAL, INSS, and Ministerio da Educacao (Salario Educacao), as
well as fines and unpaid bills to the Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia and unpaid taxes
(the Imposto sobre a Renda Retido na Fonte--IRRF, and the Imposto de Circulac3o de Mercadorias e
Servigos--ICMS). In addition, EMBASA was not paying its debt to CEF and FAE, and at end-1 990 this
debt was estimated at about US$193.3 million. During project preparation, the Bank asked the state
of Bahia and EMBASA to find a satisfactory solution to the company's financial debt problem, as a
condition for participating in the Project. Prior to Loan Negotiations, the state of Bahia and EMBASA
furnished to the Bank documentation demonstrating a satisfactory resolution of its overdue obligations
to government creditors. This documentation includes: (i) copies of the agreements with PASEP,
FINSOCIAL, INSS, the Ministerio da Educaggo, and the Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia
which regularize payments over an extended amortization period; (ii) copy of the agreements which
provide for gradual repayment of overdue ICMS and IRRF obligations; (iii) copy of the agreement
between CEF, the state of Bahia and EMBASA which makes the State responsible for repaying
EMBASA's long-term debt with CEF, but leaves this debt as part of EMBASA's long-term eligibilities;
and (iv) copies of the documents that extinguishes the FAE and converts in equity EMBASA's debt to
the FAE.
89.   Tariff recovery has been notable in the three companies: SANESUL's combined water and
sewerage average tariff increased 356% from 1986 (US$ 0.16/m3) to 1990 (USS 0.73/m3), CASAN's
average tariff increased 353% from 1986 (USS 0.13/m3) to 1990 (US$ 0.59/m3), and EMBASA's
average tariff increased 247% from 1986 (US$ 0.19/m3) to 1990 (US$ 0.66/m3). Tariff recovery
however has followed different paths. While SANESUL and CASAN have been continuously increasing
their rate levels in real terms during the last four years, EMBASA concentrated its real increases in
1987 (45%) and 1988 (1 10%)--partially to minimize the effects of a reduction in its flux of external
investment resources. At appraisal time, and regardless of a new governmental tariff freeze from
February to May, 1991 --applied as part of the Collor Plan II, CASAN's tariff level were found adequate
21 The NTL compliance ratio is definer] as operating revenues over the sum of operating expenses, depreciation, and debt service.
Therefore, a water company is in compliance with the NTL when this ratio is larger than one.



- 23 -
for generating the Project's required internal cash, if kept constant in real terms. CASAN's internal
cash generation during the period 1992-1997, with current real tariff levels and achieving agreed target
levels for operational improvement (see Annex 12), would be enough to finance about 48% of total
Investment costs (52% including interest during construction). To comply with the conditionality of
the loan, SANESUL should either increase its real tariff levels or decrease its investment program in
1992 and thereafter. With real increases of 4% in 1992 and 1993, 2% in 1994 and 1995, and 1 %
in 1996 and 1997, and achieving agreed target levels for entrepreneurial operational (see Annex 12),
SANESUL's internal cash generation during the period 1992-1997 would be enough to finance about
31% of total investment costs (35% including interest during construction). To comply with the
conditionality of the loan, EMBASA should achieve average tariffs of US$0.54/m3 for water and
US$0.41 /m3 for sewerage in December, 1 991 (a real increase of about 36% in both cases), and either
apply further increases in its real tariff levels or decrease its investment program in 1993 and
thereafter. With real increases of 4% in 1993, 2% in 1994, and 1% in 1995, 1996, and 1997 (in
addition to the 36% required in 1991), and achieving agreed target levels for operational improvement
(see Annex 12), EMBASA's internal cash generation during the period 1992-1997 would be enough
to finance about 52% of total Project investment costs (54% including interest during construction).
90.   The companies' inability to make inflationary corrections on consumer bills has been partly
responsible for liquidity problems, as indicated above (para. 61). There is no monetary adjustment for
the period between billing and the due date, and policies regarding penalties for delays beyond that
date vary widely among the companies. The average collection period estimated by CASAN,
SANESUL, and EMBASA for 1991 is 58, 75, and 75 days, respectively. During Negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the companies to gradually bring down the accounts receivable
comparator (see Annex 12), and from the states to take all administrative and legal acticns necessary
to allow cumulative inflation adjustments of consumer bills.
91.   Company net fixed assets at end-1 990 are estimated to be about US$109 million (CASAN),
US$84 millions (SANESUL), and about US$197 million (EMBASA). Because of the book-value
distortions caused by inflation adjustments during the past decade (adjustment indexes do not always
move in tandem with inflation), the companies' assets are undervalued. A recent study in the SWC
of Sao Paulo, for example, recommended to multiply by 4.6 the net assets of the Metropolitan Region
of Sao Paulo. During Negotiations assurances were obtained from each company to undertake a study
on the amounts involved and likely fiscal implications of an asset revaluation before June 30, 1 993.
The study should be based on current replacement costs and useful asset life and the
recommendations should be incorporated into the end-year 1 993 financial statements. In addition,
each company was requested to undertake a subsequent study every three years to determine the
necessity of further physical revaluations. Because of off-setting equity entries, this step should
improve the companies' capital structures.
Projected Financial Performance
92.   Financial forecasts for the ,,eriod 1992-1997 (see Annex 12) are based on conservative
assumptions: (i) financing plans only include expected loans from CEF equivalent to the contracts
already signed and, as is now current practice, resources from the FAEs equivalent only to forthcoming
amortization; (ii) the annual average of projected grants from the states are below the observed 1 986-
1990 annual average (see Annex 20); (iii) investment programs are as high as the companies expected
financial results allow them to be; (iv) with EMBASA's exception, required tariff levels are very close
to their current levels (para. 89); and (v) the expected increases in productivity and efficiency, though
important, are reasonable and feasible to reach (see Annex 12).
93.   To further strengthen the financial condition of the companies, assurances were obtained from
them during Negotiations: li) to generate sufficient internal cash to cover annually an increasing
percentage of their total investment programs: 20% in 1992, 22% in 1993, 24% in 1994, 27% in



- 24 -
1995, 31 % in 1996, and 35% in 1997 and every year thereafter3'. However, given that the current
stage of the budgetary process of the States and municipalities, which includes extraordinary
contributions to the SWCs, will result in a much higher level of State and Municipal financed
Investments for 1 992 that the one envisaged during Appraisal, it was agreed during Loan Negotiations
that solely for CY92 the total investment of the companies for such year will not include an amount
equivalent to US$30 millions for EMBASA, US$15 millions for SANESUL, and US$18 millions for
CASAN for purposes of the calculation of the percentage of internal cash generation to investments
durinig such year; {ii) to comply with the requirements of the NTL (i.e., to cover all operating expenses,
depreciation charges, and debt service costs);  liii) to revalue their fixed assets to obtain real
investment remunerations; (iv) to gradually increase the number of water and sewerage connections
per employee; Iv) to gradually decrease personnel cost as a percentage of operating costs; (vi) to
achieve a debt service coverage ratio no lower than 1.5; and (vii) to carry out action plans aimed at
improving their commercial performance, including the specific set of operational and financial
performance targets presented in Annex 12. In sddition, assurances were also obtained from the
States: (i) to set water and sewerage tariffs rates at levels that allow the companies to comply with
the NTL and to achieve the generation of adequate internal cash consistent with the Project's financial
plans; and (ii) to promote and support any action that would imply an improvement of the companies'
management and operational systems.
Financial Transfers of the States
94.   The states of Santa Catarina, Bahia, and Mato Grosso do Sul--as any other state in Brazil--have
transferred important amounts of money to the SWCs, since its creation during the 1970s. These
transfers are partially made to compensate the SWCs for the amounts of money that they give away--
complying with the states' political decision--to many poor customers through highly subsidized tariffs
(see Annexes 16 and 17), and partially to ensure the financial solvency of the companies--the states
are the companies' major shareholders. These transfers have been made either directly to the SWCs--
to increase their working capital and/or make total or partial payments of their debt service, or
indirectly as contributions of counterpart funds to the FAEs. Most of these contributions have been
made as grants--even the money received from the FAEs as loans have usually ended-up effectively
as grants because new loans are used to cancel out the debt service payments. During the period
1986-1990, these transfers to the SWCs have averaged: US$4.8 million per year (0.7% of totai state
revenues) in Santa Catarina, US$7.7 million per year (6.4% of total state revenues) in Mato Grosso
do Sul, and US$19.9 million per year (2.0% of total state revenues) in Bahia. Contributions during the
period 1992-1997 are forecast to be below 1986-1990 values and average: US$4.2 million per year
in Santa Catarina, US$5.2 million per year in Mato Grosso do Sul, and US$14.1 million per year in
Bahia.
D. Social and Environmental Impacts
Urban Poverty Impact
95.   The urban poor will comprise about 54% of the beneficiaries of this Project--about 2.31 million
people. Urban poor are defined in Brazil as families earning a monetary income of three minimum
salaries or less. In Santa Catarina, CASAN estimates that 44% of the benefitted population (about
0.66 million people during the life of the loan) will be urban poor. In Bahia, EMBASA estimates that
60% of the benefitted population (about 1.1 7 million people during the life of the loan) will be urban
3' Given the companies' investment profile and the expected improvements in their operational and financial performance, the
companies' required contribution of internal cash generation to investment indicators contained in Annex 12 depert significantly
from the agreed targets. These differences are particularly notable during the last years of the planning horizon when
investments tend to be underestimated.



- 25 -
poor. In Mato Grosso do Sul, SANESUL estimates that 60% of the benef;tted population (about 0.48
million people during the life of the loan) will be urban poor.
Affordability
96.   CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL apply a minimum consumption level IMCL) of 10 cubic meter
per month to their residential consumers. The MCL, which is intended to provide households with
enough water to satisfy basic needs and maintain minimum health and sanitar-, conditions, is charged
a minimum monthly charge (MMC). The MMC for water consumption for residential consumers is
about 4.6% of one minimum salary (MS)--Cr$23, 132 as of June, 1991 --in CASAN, about 3.2% of one
MS in EMBASA, and about 5.2% of one MS in SANESUL. The combined MMC for both water and
sewerage services for residential consumers is about 9.2% of one MS in CASAN, varies from 4.6%
to 5.7% of one MS in EMBASA, and is about 8.8% of one MS in SANESUL. These MMC are well
within the range of acceptability by Bank standards. (A standard often accepted in Bank projects has
been to keep water and sanitation charges under 5% of three minimum salaries.) In addition, CASAN
and EMBASA have a special tariff category for their poorest residential consumners, which is very
affordable even for the poorest segment of the population. In CASAN, the special tariff rates--about
33% of the ordinary residential tariff rates--are applied to about 2% of the residential consumers. In
EMBASA, these special rates are larger on percentage terms--about 59% of the ordinary residential
rates, but are applied to a largest segment of the residential consumers--about 26%.
Environmental Impact
97.   The Project will significantly improve sanitary and environmental conditions in the area of
responsibility of the SWCs, and no major environmental problems are envisaged. The Project will help
finance sewage collection and treatment in greater proportions than in past Bank projects--about 34%
of total investment will go to sewerage. Besides major facilities to be built in the capitals and other
large cities, the Project also includes low cost sanitation programs to be implemented on the
countryside and metropolitan peripheral areas, where conventional systems would not be financially
viable. CASAN's investment program includes almost the same amount of financial resources for
sewerage as for water supply systems (see Annex 14, Section A), increasing the company's sewerage
coverage level from the current 9% to 21% in 1997. All of CASAN's sewerage projects will be
designed and built including final treatment and disposal. As a result of this policy, many touristic
areas of the state seashore will turn to be appropriate for bathing. EMBASA's investment program is
concentrated in the Metropolitan Region of Salvador and includes several facilities aiming at improving
the sanitary conditions of the city and the quality of the seashore (see Annex 14, Section B).
SANESUL's investment program includes the construction of a complete sewerage system in Campo
Grande and important facilities in several medium- and small-sized localities (see Annex 14, Section
C). The facilities to be built in Campo Grande will reduce the organic pollution on the Prosa and
Segredo Rivers and protect the riverside community from the risk of contamination during rainy season
flooding.
98.   Several ways to improve environmental conditions in the states were discussed with the
companies and agreement reached on the following: {ii to ensure that each subproject is
ernvironmentally sound and sustainable, all subprojects will be properly screened by the companies and
subsequently by the technical agents to determine the degree, if any, to which potential environmental
impacts may occur, as well as the necessary measures to prevent or mitigate any adverse effects; (ii)
to keep the concentration level of chlorine above 0.1 mg per liter of treated water in all their water
distribution systems. A plan to monitor compliance with this agreement--based on as many sampling
points as necessary to give a good statistical representation, will be presented by the companies and
approved by the Bank during negotiations; {ii) to take all necessary provisions to assure an efficient
operation of sewage treatment plants in all major cities; and (iii) CASAN and EMBASA in particular, to
develop a plan to monitor bacteria contamination on the metropolitan bay areas that will benefitted
from the Project, to recover them for citizen use according to the Federal standard for ocean bathing.



- 26 -
In addition, the state governments will review current information collection systems on diarrheal
disease incidence, to detect improvements resulting from the expansion of water supply and sanitation
systems.  The operational indicators contained in these agreements will be monitored during
supervision and carefully evaluated at the mid-term review (para. 120).
99.   To assess tho Projects' environmental impact, the companies are required by Federal Law
(Resolution 001, 23 January 1986) to prepare environmental impact reports (RIMAs) following state
guidelines. During Appraisal, the capacity to assess the RIMAS was reviewed and found sufficient in
the state of Santa Catarina, but not completely satisfactory in the sates of Bahia and Mato Grosso do
Sul. Santa Catarina's environmental agency is a nationally well known control agency that has about
200 employees spread all over the state at 8 regional offices and runs 5 state parks. The agency has
good experience on managing environmental control assessments--including many difficult cases, and
has succeed on cleaning up some important rivers. Bahia's environmental agency needs to be
strengthened to catch up with an increasing demand from society's growing ecological awareness.
The agency's institutional capacity to control environmental degradation is very incipient. The agency
has no experience introducing sanitation projects on the permit system and, so far, Bahia's
environmental control system has not issued any license to EMBASA. Mato Grosso do Sul's
environmental agency has been trying to introduce environmental impact assessments as a routine tool
and has been training many members of its staff at these techniques, but its institutional capacity to
control environmental degradation is still incipient. The agency needs more experience, training, and
institutional strengthening. During Negotiations, it was agreed that SNS will set up a program to
provide training and institutional strengthening to the environmental agencies of Bahia and Mato Grosso
do Sul, in particular on water and wastes related issues.
E. Economic and Financial Benefits
100.  The Project will directly benefit more than 4.3 million people with water supply and sewerage
services In hundreds of cities and towns in the states of Bahia, Mato Grosso do Sul, and Santa
Catarina. The Project will also generate significant additional financial and economic benefits to water
consumers, the three companies, and the Federal and state governments.
101.  Among the economic benefits the Project brings to the consumers, in addition to the expansion
of coverage service levels, the following deserve special mention: (i) all customers of the three
companies, old and new, will be provided services of better quality, higher reliability, faster access and
lower costs; (ii) the incremental consumer surplus due to the Project is substantial because of the
increase of aggregate water consumption and the better condition of the water supplied, which may
increase people's "willingness to pay"; (iii) benefits from improvement of sanitation conditions, such
as pollution abatement, health amelioration and refinement of the living environment, are also
significant; and (iv) the consumers can furthermore gain from the benign side-effects of the Project,
such as better employment opportunities and more advantageous positions in the market of consumer
goods because of the development of other sectors pushed forward by the modernization of the water
sector.
102.  Besides the financial profitability required to recover the investment cost, the Project will
directly help CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL to: li) strengthen financial viability, through better
investment and financial planning and pricing; (ii) improve nianagement efficiency; (iii) reduce
unaccounted-for water levels, (iv) enlarge infrastructure capacities, (v) restore water supply reliability,
and (vi) reduce operating costs. In addition, the Project will also indirectly benefit remaining Brazilian
water companies by providing them with a role model to follow and by strengthening sector
institutional capabilities.
103.  And besides lessening the water sector's financial dependence on government funding, the
Project will also benefit the Federal and state governments by: (i) creating employment opportunities
in both the Project and other enterprises made feasible from the enlargement and improvement of



- 27 -
water supply and sewerage collection and treatment; {ii} increasing the gross domestic products in both
the water sector and other related sectors; (iii) expanding the tax bases; (iv) reducing government
expenditure on social welfare programs, such as public health improvement and environmental
protection; and (v) other revenues generated from the forward and backward effects of the Project,
such as providing inputs for water intensive industries or generating larger demanGs for industries that
provide inputs to the water sector.
104.  The quantification of the economic benefits generated by the Project is difficult due to: li) non-
quantifiable nature of some benefits, notably better public health and an improved quality of life; and
tii) lack of adequate market data and relevant information, such as price elasticities of demand and
reliable conversion factors for the water sector. Therefore, following a common practice in appraising
water and sanitation projects in the Bank and with a sound understanding that the Project's economic
benefits are certainly higher, the iinancial benefits generated by the Project are used to determine its
feasibility. The companies' net incremental revenues have been used as a proxy of the Project's
financial benefits, again on the understanding that they provide a minimum measure of the Project's
economic benefits. The financial rates of return (FRR) calculated using there cash flows should be also
understood as a lower bound of the Project's economic viability.
105.  Financial rates of return (FRRs) have been calculated for water and sewerage as a joint service,
since in many casus consumers pay a combined bill for both. Although separate charges are provided
in the tariff structures for water and sewerage (see Annex 17), it is not possible to identify the
"willingness-to-pay" for each service separately. All investment and operating costs and revenues are
expressed in constant market prices (US$ as of June, 1991 M--investment costs include all
complementary investments necessary to achieve the full benefits of the Project. A project life of 30
years has been used for all FRR calculations.
106.  The FRRs calculated using current tariffs for water projects are 36%  for Florianapolis'
Integrated System (CASAN), 17% for Salvador Metropolitan Region (EMBASA), and 14% for Campo
Grande, Corumbd/Ladario, Tres Lagoas, Miranda, Guia Lopes, and Sete Quedas (SANESUL). And the
FRR calculated using current tariffs for Florian6polis sewerage system is 12%. The FRR for the entire
Project is estimated as about 17%, using these systems as sample of the companies' 1992-1997
investment programs. These systems represent about one third of these programs, and localities of
every size. These FRRs compare highly favorably with the 10% opportunity cost of capital (OCC)
utilized in the analysis, and are moderately sensitive to increases in costs or decreases in revenues.
For example, an increase of 10% in investment and operating costs combined with a 10% decrease
in revenues reduces the FRRs to only 27% in Florian6polis (8% in its sewerage system), 13% in
Salvador, 10% in the six localities of SANESUL, and 13% in the entire system. Proposed tariff
adjustments in EMBASA and SANESUL (para. 89) would remarkably increase the FRR of Salvador (from
17% to 29%), but would only slightly increase the FRR of the six localities of SANESUL (from 13%
to 17%)--because of EMBASA's weight, the FRR of the whole system would also have a noticeable
Increase (from about 17% to about 23%).
F. Risk Assessment
107.  There are no serious technical risks in the Project. Possible risks include: (i) inadequate tariff
adjustments in a continuing highly inflationary economy; (ii) the government's willingness to continue
supporting the institutional reform to strengthen the sector; and (iii) the institutional capability of
MAS/SNS. To minimize these risks: {i) agreement will be reached with the Federal and local
governments to maintain current policy on tar-iff adjustments, which during the past three years have
produced very positive results for the financial health of the SWCs; {ii} a mid-term review will assess
completion of all studies, degree of implementation of proposed recommendations at Federal and state
level, and progress made by the companies on operating and financial matters; liii) a PMU in SNS,
supported by consultants, will assure an efficient technical and administrative direction of the Project;



- 28 -
and (iv) the investment component has been designed to be executed with total independence from
Federal funding.
IV. PROJECT EXECUTION
A. Company Eligibility
108.  CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL will be eligible for new subproject financing only if they
comply with the following conditions: (i) submission to the Bank before November 30 of each year,
of an updated investment program for the following six-year period--including a detailed investment
plan for the upcoming year, and updated general financial projections for the same period; (ii)
compliance with the NTL; (iii) demonstration of each company's solvency, profitability, and liquidity
according to standard financial ratios (see Annex 12); (iv) generation of enough internal cash to
annually cover a gradually larger percentage of new investment, beginning with at least 20% in year
1992, reaching at least 24% by 1994, and at least 35% by the last year of the Project; and (v)
compliance with agreed targets for number of water and sewerage connections per employee and
personnel costs as a percentage of operating costs--excluding depreciation. The TA will verify
company eligibility for disbursements, prior to assess compliance with agreed technical criteria for
subproject selection (paras. 110 and 111 ). The Bank will guarantee the proposed minimum levels of
financing (Table 3.2) only during the first two years of project execution or until March 31, 1994,
whichever is first. After this period, Bank funds will be freely allocated to eligible subprojects provided
that the companies meet technical and financial capability criteria.
B. Subproject Selection Criteria
109.  Each proposed subproject should correspond to the least-cost solution, and should be the
object of a feasibility study prepared in accordance with the guidelines for evaluation of subprojects
presented in Annex 22. All feasibility studies should be prepared by the SWC, reviewed by the
technical agent (TA), and approved by the PMU. The analysis of a given subproject seeks to establish
the priority of the proposed components, its consistency with sector policies, and its contribution to
improve the delivery of services in a given locality. This analysis also aims to ascertain that neither
the subproject nor its components adversely affect the environment and that their benefits equal or
exceed their costs. The justification of each individual subproject will be based on the long-run average
incremental costs (LRAIC) vis-a-vis the company's current average tariffs. LRAIC will be calculated
on the basis of the incremental demand it will satisfy, the estimated investment cost--including
complementary works, and the estimated operational and maintenance cost (see Annex 16).
110.  In large cities--more than 500 thousand inhabitants, water projects will be approved only if the
company's current average water tariff in that city (AWTi) exceeds 75% of the marginal cost of
providing the water supply service to residential customers with the given project (MCWi) in 1992,
80% in 1993, and 85% in 1994 and thereafter. In medium cities--more than 50 thousand inhabitants
but less or equal than 500 thousand, water projects will be approved only if the AWTi exceeds 75%
of the MCWi in 1992 and 80% in 1993 and thereafter. In small cities and towns--more than 5
thousand inhabitants but less or equal than 50 thousand, water projects will be approved only if the
AWTi exceeds 60% of the MCWi in 1992, 65% in 1993, and 70% in 1994 and thereafter. In rural
communities--population less or equal than 5 thousand, water projects will be approved only if the
AWTi exceeds 60% of the MCWi. Sewerage projects in large cities will be approved only if the
company's current average sewerage tariff in the project's site (ASTi) exceeds 60% of the marginal
cost of providing the sewerage service to residential customers with the given project (MCSi) in 1992,
65% in 1993, 75% in 1994, 80% in 1995, and 85% in 1996 and thereafter. Sewerage projects in
medium cities will be approved only if the ASTi exceeds 60% of the MCSi in 1992, 65% in 1993,
70% in 1994, 75% in 1995, and 80% in 1996 and thereafter. Sewerage projects in small cities and
towns will be approved only if the ASTi exceeds 60% of the MCSi in 1992 and 1993, 65% in 1994



- 29 -
and 1995, and 70% in 1996 and thereafter. Sewerage projects in rural communities will be approved
only if the ASTi exceeds 60% of the MCSi.
111.  Projects not satisfying the above conditions but which are designed for minimum cost may be
accepted by the Bank on a case-by-case basis. The analysis should explicitly address the following
issues: (i) the lack of alternative and feasible solutions; (ii) the impossibility of recovering costs through
tariffs; and (iii) the impact on poverty alleviation and health conditions. These subprojects are likely
to be in localities where urban poverty prevails and large investments are needed to compensate for
the lack of previous investments.
112.  Assurances were obtained during Loan Negotiations that: (i) subprojects should meet project
selection criteria as a condition of disbursement for the specific works; and (ii) selection and design
of subprojects outside the Bank-financed part of the companies' investment program should be based
on the same eligibility criteria agreed for subprojects under the Loan. During the course of project
execution, amendments to selection criteria may be made as a result of new marginal cost calculations.
C. Implementation Arrangements
113.  The Project, estimated to last from 1992 to 1997, will be managed by the Project Management
Unit (PMU), a technical unit established jointly by the MAS and the MEFP for the duration of the
Project (para 51). The PMU, headed by a Technical Coordinator supported by a small staff of full-time
employees, will be specifically responsible for the implementation of the institutional strengthening
component, for the coordination and supervision of the Technical Agents (TAs) to be selected to
supervise implementation of the investment component, and for the coordination of activities necessary
to translate the resulting set of proposals into appropriate legislation. The PMU will hire and retain
teams of consultants to carry out most of the studies and training comprised in the institutional
strengthening component. At Negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Federal Government on
terms of reference for the creation and staffing of the PMU, as well as on the qualifications and
experience of the unit manager, satisfactory to the Bank. CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL will be
entirely responsible for implementation of the investment component. The contractual documents will
be as follows: (i) a Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) Project Agreements
between the Bank and each company; and (iii) Shareholder Agreements between the Bank and each
state government.
114.  The TAs will report to and work under terms of reference defined by SNS/PMU, but will be paid
by the DTN--through a commercial bank, on behalf of the companies and making use of Bank
resources. The Borrower wiUl sign an agreement to that effect with each company, and not later than
September 30, 1992, should have signed Contracts of Consulting Services with the selected TAs. The
TAs will have the following functions: (i) before March 31 of each year, verify company compliance
with eligibility criteria for subproject financing; (ii) before March 31 of each year, submit an annual
report to the Bank and SNS, through PMU, on the companies' compliance with eligibility criteria for
subproject financing, (iii) after receiving each subproject or package of subprojects from a company
eligible for financing, verify compliance of each subproject with agreed selection criteria and, if
positive, review engineering designs; (iv) inform the Departamento do Tesouro Nacional (DTN) of
subprojects ready to be built with project financing; (v) submit quarterly reports to the Bank and SNS,
through PMU, summarizing subprojects compliance or not with agreed selection criteria; (vi) supervise
project execution, including inspection and expediting, certification of invoices submitted by
contractors and suppliers, and technical services connected with the interpretation of contract
documents; (vii) supervise financial performance and help the DTN to audit financial expenses; (viii)
review procurement documents to verify compliance with Bank procedures and methods; (ix) twice
a year, at March 31 and September 30 of each year, verify companies' compliance with performance
indicators defined in Letters of Agreement accorded with the Federal and state governments; and (x)
submit annual reports to SNS, through PMU, on project execution, and its main lessons and



- 30 -
experiences. During Negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Federal Government on TOR for
the selection of TAs satisfactory to the Bank.
115.  Bank resources will flow to the companies as follows (see Annex 7): (i) DTN signs a Carta
Reversal with a financial institution acceptable to the Bank--Banco do Brasil, for example, to arrange
the transfer of Bank funds; lii) MAS includes in its budget resources in favor of the Ministry of
Economy, Finance, and Planning (MEFP); (iii) from their own resources and through a commercial bank,
DTN disburses funds for subprojects cleared by the TA; (iv) the commercial bank signs Contracts of
Financing with each company and then advances to them the funds received from DTN; (v) the
companies submit to DTN supporting documentation and evidence of payments made with external
funds and corresponding internal counterpart; and Cvi) DTN withdraws equivalent amounts from the
project's Special Account. Prior to Loan Negotiations, the states and the companies furnished financial
counter-guarantees to DTN, including legal authorizations from the State Assemblies.
116. Repayment of Bank resources will be made as follows: li) the companies pay back to the
commercial bank interest and amortization resulting from the Bank loan, in accordance with the same
terms and conditions as those of the Loan (para. 83), including the foreign exchange risk and a service
charge of 0.2% (1/5 of one percent) to cover administrative costs; (ii) the commercial bank transfers
these resources to DTN; (iii) DTN assimilates these resources as Federal Government revenues; and
Civ) in the dates established in the Loan Agreement, DTN repays the loan to the Bank making use of
the resources previously included in MAS' budget and withdrawing the money from the account of the
Federal Government where the resources were deposited. The financial risk associated with delays
in or lack of payment will be borne by the Federal Government.
117.  Annual project investments are presented in Annex 14. These investment tables will be
updated semi-annually and, together with the financial projections (see Annex 18), the monitoring
indicators (see Annex 12), the status of the advancement of physical works, and the Letters of
Agreement (see Annex 21), form the basis for semi-annual progress reports. The investment schedules
are compatible with the executing capabilities of each SWC. The Project is expected to be completed
by June 30, 1997. A final agreement was reached during Loan Negotiations on annual investment
figures, monitoring indicators, and the submission to the Bank of progress reports on a quarterly basis
(para. 121). To avoid delays in project implementation, assurances were obtained during Loan
Negotiations that all funds will be on-lent to the companies as envisaged in the financial plan of the
Project (see Annex 1 8). Prior to Loan Effectiveness, Letters of Agreement among the SWCs, the state
governments, and SNS satisfactory to the Bank, should be signed and submitted to the Bank. Two
workshops will be held for purposes of orientation and explanation of Bank procedures: the first not
later than two months after Loan Effectivenes; and the second by mid-project implementation but
before December 31, 1994.
D. Project Supervision
118.  As originally structured, the PLANASA system provided a network of qualified technical staff
in BNH who were capable of fulfilling a large part of the supervision function for Bank financed
projects. In particular, with the sector loans which involved many states, BNH's state-based staff and
the technical consultants hired by BNH were rolied upon by the Bank for major contributions to the
supervision effort. However, since BNH was abolished and its opera.ional portfolios transferred to CEF,
the role of the water and wastes sector financial intermediary has been changing from one which
provided strong technical support capabilities to a role solely of financial intermediation. As an answer
to this new reality, the Project reintroduces the use of technical consultants--the TA--as the agents in
charge of supervision. Supervision activities of the TAs will include inter-alia the review of company
compliance with agreed eligibility and subproject selection criteria--including engineering studies of
subprojects, procurement, and disbursement (para. 114).



- 31 -
119.  The Project will require more than customary supervision by the Bank, to assure its successful
implementation. Extensive project reviews, to be held each year, will focus on the execution of the
institutional strengthening component, compliance with procurement issues, and the companies'
financial performance and compliance with monitoring indicators. To ensure the timely acquisition of
goods and works and contracting of consultants' services, special attention will be given to
procurement issues. EMBASA, CASAN, and SANESUL have executed Bank-financed projects under
sector loans made to, and directly supervised by. either BNH or CEF, but have never carried out a
Bank-financed project under the direct supervision of the Bank. Therefore, in addition to the usual
review of procurement documents and decisions, Bank supervision activities will include guidance in
procurement planning and on drafting of procurement documents, in particular during the first year of
project execution. Before Loan Negotiations, standard procurement documents jointly prepared by the
companies were submitted to the Bank. This strategy will significantly reduce the risk of having major
procurement problems.
120.  A mid-term project review, tentatively scheduled for June, 1994, will: (i) assess completion
of all studies included in the institutional strengthening component, as well as degree of
implementation of proposed recommendations at Federal and state level; (ii) evaluate progress made
by the SWCs in carrying out plans to improve their commercial performance, as measured by their
degree of compliance with agreed operating and financial monitoring indicators (see Annex 12); (iii)
assess the effectiveness of the training and institutional strengthening to be provided by SNS to the
environmental agencies of Bahia and Mato Grosso do Sul; and (iv) verify compliance with covenants
of the Loan and Project Agreements. During the mid-term review, particular importance will be given
to advancements made in the institutional restructuration of the water and wastes sector and to
improvements achieved in the financial performance of the SWCs. During Negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Federal Government, the states, and the SWCs, to hold a mid-term project
revipw not later than June 30, 1994.
E. Reporting
121.  Progress reports, based on timely and efficient project supervision by the TAs, will describe and
compare past achievements to appraisal projections, review the compliance with the monitoring
indicators detailed in Annex 12, and provide a critical assessment of problems and issues arising during
project execution. They will also propose adjustments and remedial actions in case of unsatisfactory
progress. The format of progress reports will be developed jointly by the Bank, PMU, and the
companies after Loan Signature. During Loan Negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower
to ensure that: (i) complete progress reports will be submitted to the Bank by April 15 and October 15
of each year. These complete progress reports will include an assessment of the advancement of the
physical works under execution, an analysis of the companies' operational and financial performance
vis-a-vis the agreed monitoring indicators (Annex 12), and general financial projections and updated
investment plans for the following six-year period; (ii) progress reports including only an assessment
of the advancement of the physical works under execution will be submitted to the Bank by January
15 and July 1 5 of each year; and (iii) a final report analyzing the Project's key issues and containing
a retrospective assessment of project implementation from the Borrower's own perspective, will be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date.
F. Monitoring Indicators
122.  A set of operational and financial monitoring indicators developed during appraisal (see Annex
12) will constitute the basis for project reviews and supervision, including the mid-term review (para.
120). A condition for company eligibility is compliance with five of those indicators, namely: {i)
number of water and sewerage connections per employee; (ii) personnel costs as a percentage of
operating costs--excluding depreciation; (iii) compliance with the NTL; (iv) debt service coverage; and
{v) internal contribution to investment (para. 108). The companies' performance will be judged
comparing their actual results with the entire set of agreed monitoring indicators presented in Annex



- 32 -
12. In addition to the indicators listed above, particular importance will be attached during supervision
and project reviews to the unaccounted-for-water percentage, the accounts receivable comparator, and
the percentage of water connections with meters. The entire set of monitoring indicators are
contained in Supplemental Letters to the Project Agreements between the Bank and the companies,
as wel! as in the Letters of Agreement to be signed among SNS, the states, and the companies.
G. Procurement
123.  Civil works would represent about 46.5% of the total project cost, equipment and materials
about 46.5%, and engineering and technical assistance--including consulting services under the
institutional strengthening component--the remaining 7%. All contracts which can be packaged to
exceed the equivalent of US$5 million for civil works and US$250 thousand for equipment or materials
will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) following the Bank's guidelines
for procurement. Domestic manufacturers will be guaranteed a margin of preference under ICB
contracts for goods, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. All other contracts for civil works and
equipment or materials not exceeding aggregate amounts of about US$139.3 million and US$46.4
million, respectively, will be procured under nationally advertised local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Under these assumptions, 60% of works and materials will be
procured under ICB. The nature of the rest of civil works to be executed preclude the efficient
packaging of services to be bid, because they will be carried out in several towns across the states.
Under these circumstances, it is unlikely that foreign firms will be interested in participating in the
bidding and thus, many works will be built by local contractors. The large number of experienced
Brazilian contractors guarantees a meaningful competition. Foreign firms will be allowed to participate
in LCB. LCB procedures utilized by the companies have been reviewed by the Bank and found
acceptable. Standard procurement documents (including Letter of Invitation and Draft Contract for
hiring consultants) were jointly prepared by the companies and submitted to the Bank. Project costs
by procurement method are presented in Table 4.1.
Table 4
Project Cost by Procurement Method!'
(US$ millions)
Proiect Element            ICB           LCB           Other         Total
Civil Works                92.9        139.3           0.0          232.2
(43 7)      (65.5)                      (109.2)
Equipment and             185.9         46.4           0.0          232.3
Materials                (100.3)       (21.8)                      (122.1)
Engineering, Technical      0.0          0.0          35.52'         35.52'
Assistance & Training                                 (18.7)        (18.7)
Total                     278.8        185.7          35.5          500.0
(144.0)       (87.3)        (18.7)       (250.0)
!' Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
l' Consulting services.
124.  Consultants for detailed engineering and training, project supervision in each company, and the
various studies and technical assistance planned under the institutional strengthening component, will
be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).



- 33 -
125.  All procurement under ICB will be subject to the Bank's prior review of advertising, bidding
documents, bid evaluation, and contracts awards. In the interest of expediting project execution, the
balance will be subject to ex-post review by sampling. However, in order to ensure that adequate
procurement procedures are followed, the Bank will review and approve--irrespective of the s: :,ount--
the first two contracts under LCB for goods and for works, respectively, of each company. If the Bank
determines in the review by sampling that procurement is inconsistent with agreed procedures, no
expenditures for such items will be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may cancel
an equivalent amount of the Loan.
H. Disbursement
126.  The loan will be disbursed as follows: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment
and materials; (ii) 47% of local expenditures for civil works, equipment, and materials; liii) 47% of local
expenditures for services of consultants domiciled in Brazil and 100% of foreign expenditures for
services of foreign consultants; (iv) 100% of expenditures for all consultant services and training under
the Project's institutional strengthening component; and {v) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures Cex-factory cost), and 85% of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
To expedite project execution, two Special Accounts in the amounts of US$14 million and US$1 million
respectively, will be established in the Banco Central do Brasil and in a commercial bank abroad,
acceptable to the Bank, to cover local and foreign currency expenditures, respectively.  Loan
disbursements against civil works contracts below the equivalent of US$3 million and for goods
equivalent to US$250 thousand will be made under the Statements of Expenditure procedure prepared
and certified by SNS/PMU, and CASAN, EMBASA, or SANESUL. Detailed documentation will be
retained by the companies and SNS for inspection during supervision missioris and for audit by the
external auditors of MAS and the SWCs. No force account works are envisaged. The estimated
schedule of disbursement provides for loan disbursement in six years (see Annex 23). The Closing
Date will be December 31, 1997.
I. Advanced Contracting and Retroactive Financing
127.  The Bank loan will finance works to be carried out during the period 1992-1997. Some of the
works are urgently needed--for instance to rehabilitate and expand systems and to restart unaccounted
water control programs--and these are scheduled to start early in 1992. Other works are parts of
annual investment programs with expenditures spread over the agreed investment period. In view of
these needs, the Project will provide for the following: {i) advanced contracting as of January 1, 1992,
and amounting to US$35 million; and (ii) retroactive financing as of the same date, and amounting to
US$15 million. Advance contracting and retroactive financing will be subject to the following
conditions: (i) the SWC should be eligible for project financing at the actionl time; (ii) the subproject
should comp;y with the agreed eligibility criteria; and (iii) the Bank procurement guidelines should have
been followed.
J. Auditing Arrangements
128.  Prior to Loan Negotiations, EMBASA furnished to the Bank an independent auditor's report on
its internal accounting systems and procedures, as requested by the Bank. Recommendations from
this report have been incorporated into the company's institutional development program, to strengthen
its accounting department. During Loan Negotiations, agreement was reached that external auditors
will carry out an audit on the following: li) project accounts; liii financial statements of CASAN,
EMBASA, and SANESUL; Ciii) Statement of Expenditures; and (iv) the Special Account. It was also
agreed at Loan Negotiations that, beginning in 1993, audit reports corresponding to each year will be
submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 of the following year.



- 34 -
V. AGRFEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
129.  Prior to Loan Negotiations:
(a)  the states and/or the companies furnished to DTN financial counter-guarantees, including
legal authorizations from the State Assemblies (para. 115);
(b)  the state of Bahia and EMBASA agreed on a satisfactory strategy to reduce the
company's debt burden (para. 88).  Copies of the agreements and related legal
documents were furnished to the Bank prior to Loan Negotiations;
(c)  EMBASA furnished to the Bank an independent auditor's report on its internal accounting
systems and procedures, as requested by the Bank. Recommendations from this report
have been incorporated into the company's institutional development program, to
strengthen its accounting department (paras. 60 and 128);
(d)  the companies furnished to the Bank standard procurement documents (para. I 1 9); and
{e)  SNS, the states, and the companies jointly furnished to the Bank drafts of Letters of
Agreement accorded among them (para. 40).
130.  During Loan Negotiations, the Federal Government agreed on:
(a)  TOR satisfactory to the Bank for the creation and staffing of the PMU, including
qualifications and experience of the unit manager (para. 1 13);
(b)  the employment throughout the life of the Project of consultants (TAs) to assist in the
supervision of each of the SWCs, selected based on TOR satisfactory to the Bank, not
later than September 30, 1992 (para. 1 14);
(c)  carrying out the studies and training programs included in the institutional strengthening
component in accordance with terms of reference and timetables satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 43);
(d)  the initial distribution of the Bank loan among CASAN, EMBASA, SANESUL, and
MAS/SNS for the first two years of project execution (para. 45). After this period, Bank
funds will be freely allocated to eligible subprojects provided that the companies meet
technical and financial capability criteria;
(e)  company eligibility criteria for continual participation ir the Project (para. 108);
(f)  authorizing any action required on its part to enable the companies to meet agreed
operational and financial indicators (Annex 12);
(g)  on-lending the proceeds of the loan and providing advances to the companies as
envisaged in the financial plan of the Project (para. I117);
(h)  holding a mid-term review (about June, 1994) to assess completion of studies and
degree of implementation of proposed recommendations; to evaluate progress made by
the SWCs in carrying out plans to improve their commercial performance; to assess the
effectiveness of the training and institutional strengthening to be provided by SNS to the
environmental agencies of Bahia and Mato Grosso do Sul; and to verify compliance with
covenants of the Loan and Project Agreements (para. 120);



- 35 -
{i)   providing project preparation facilities for water demand management and systems
rehab;litation under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 43);
(j)   providing training and institutional strengthening to the environmental agencies of Bahia
and Mato Grosso do Sul, in particular on water and wastes related issues (para. 99);
(k)  submiksion to the Bank of progress reports by January 15, April 15, July 15, and
October 15 of each year (para. 121);
(i)  taking any required administrative and legal actions to support the companies to adjust
both current and due accounts cumulatively for inflation, and to eliminate overdue bills
(para. 61);
(m)  the external audit of project accounts, the financial statements of the SWCs, statement
of expenditures, and the Special Account, and its submission to the Bank not later than
June 30 of the following year (para. 128); and
(n)  submission to the Bank of an analysis of key issues related to the Project, and a
retrospective assessment of project implementation from its own perspective, not later
than six months after the loan closing date (para. 121).
131.  During Loan Negotiations, the states of Bahia, Mato Grosso do Sul, and Santa Catarina agreed:
(a)  to authorize, permit, or promote any improvement to the companies' management and
operational systems, and if necessary, any adjustment in the companies' tariff rates to
assure a permanent compliance with the financial performance established in the NTL
and the generation of adequate internal cash consistent with financial plans for the
Project (paras. 61 and 93);
lb)  to assure the timely provision of counterpart financing (para. 84);
{c)  to take any required administrative and legal actions to support the companies to adjust
both current and due accounts cumulatively for inflation, and to eliminate overdue bills
(para. 61); and
(d)  the states of Bahia and Mato Grosso do Sul, in particular, to strengthen their agencies
in charge of reviewing the RIMAS and environmental supervision of water and sewerage
services, through their active participation in the technical assistance program to be
organized by SNS (para. 99).
132.  During Loan Negotiations, CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL agreed:
(a)  to select all individual subprojects, including those outside the Bank-financed part of the
companies' investment programs, based on the following criteria: (i) the subproject
represents the least-cost alternative; and (ii) the subproject's LRAIC does not exceed the
current average tariff in more than a preestablished percentage (paras. 109 to 112);
lb)  to comply with the financial performance established in the NTL (para. 93);
(c)  to take all measures necessary to generate sufficient internal cash to annually cover an
increasing percentage of their total new investment costs--excluding interest during
construction, beginning with at least 20% in fiscal year 1992, reaching at least 24% in
fiscal year 1994, and at least 35% in fiscal year 1997 and thereafter (para. 93);



- 36 -
(d)  to refrain from changing annual investments during the project implementation period by
more than 20% of the investment amounts originally agreed, without prior Bank approval
(para. 73);
(e)  to gradually reduce personnel costs by: (i) improving labor productivity, as measured by
the number of water and sewerage connections per employee, so that by December,
1993, it should have been increased to at least 195 in CASAN, 175 in EMBASA, and
245 in SANESUL, and by December, 1997, to at least 225 in CASAN, 210 in EMBASA,
and 260 in SANESUL (para. 58); and (ii) diminishing personnel costs as a percentage of
operating costs--excluding depreciation, so that by December, 1993, it should have been
decreased to at most 75% in CASAN, 66% in EMBASA, and 64% in SANESUL, and by
December, 1997, to at most 74% in CASAN, 63% in EMBASA, and 63% in SANESUL
(para. 59);
(f)  to achieve a debt service coverage ratio no lower than 1.5 (para. 93);
(g)  to carry out programs satisfactory to the Bank to improve their commercial performance
vis-a-vis agreed operating and financial targets (para. 93 and Annex 12);
(h)  to adjust overdue accounts for inflation or take other measures which would reduce the
financial losses resulting from overdue bills (para. 61);
(i)  to hold two workshops on project implementation, one not later than two months after
Loan Effectiveness and the second during implementation but before end-1994 (para.
117);
(j)  to submit to the Bank, not later than October 15 of each year, a general financial
projection for the following six-year period, with specific details on investment plans for
the upcoming year (para. 85); and
1k)  to prepare detailed studies on: (i) tariffs before December 31, 1993, based on marginal
costs calculated to show compliance with subprojects eligibility criteria, discuss the
results and agree with the Bank on a set of recommendations, and implement them
before June 30, 1994 (para. 82); (ii) the amounts involved and likely fiscal implications
of an asset revaluation before June 30, 1993, and incorporate the results into the
audited financial statements of fiscal year 1993 (para. 91). These studies should be
repeated every three years to determine the necessity of further physical revaluations;
and (iii) SANESUL, in particular, a detailed study of the state's hydro-geological potential
before December 31, 1993, and based on its conclusions and recommendations, review
the economic justification of water production subprojects involving superficial water
(para. 49).
133.  Prior to Loan Effectiveness:
(a)  at least two of the companies, should have signed on-lending contracts with the Federal
Government. The remaining on-lending contract, if any, would become a condition for
disbursement for the respective company (para. 115); and
(b)  Letters of Agreement among the SWCs, the state governments, and SNS satisfactory
to the Bank, should be signed and submitted to the Bank (para. 11 7).
134.  Subject to the above conditions, the Project is siuitable for a Bank loan of US$250 million
equivalent, to be repaid over a period of 15 years--including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable rate. Advanced contracting for up to US$35 million and retroactive financing for up
to US$10 million for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1992, is also recommended (para. 127).



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEXES



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment 1
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
..................................
Urban and Rural Population
..........................
(Thousands of Inhabitants)
Urban as a X of   Annual Avg. Urban
State J REGION         1990 (Estimated)            2000 (Projected)       Total Population   Growth Rate QX)
Total    Urban    Rural    Total    Urban    RuraL    1990       2000    1980-90 1990-2000
........... ........ ........ .......................................................................
Acre                      417      235      182       523      341      182      56.4     65.2     5.74      3.77
Amapa                     256      164       92       337      233      104     64.1      69.1     4.50      3.56
Amazonas                 2002     1423      579      2545    1,979      566     71.1      77.8     5.01      3.35
Para                    5002      2601     2401     6426    3,602      2824     52.0      56.1     4.35      3.31
Rondonia                 1096      480      616      1500      721      779     43.8      48.1     7.50      4.15
Roraiwa                   121       85       36       159      122       37     70.2      76.7     5.46      3.69
NORTH                   8894      4988     3906    11490      6998     4492     56.1      60.9     4.89      3.44
Alagoas                  2420     1393     1027      2792     1796      996      57.6     64.3     3.42      2.57
Bahia                   12039     7959     4080    15183    11108      4075     66.1      73.2     5.07      3.39
Ceara                   6472      4109     2363      7594     5412     2182     63.5      71.3     3.67      2.79
Maranhao                 5182     1970     3212      6221     2749     3472     38.0      44.2     4.41      3.39
Paraiba                 3248      1993     1255      3693     25;2     1161     61.4      68.6     3.04      2.42
Pernarbuco               7361     5055     2306      8539     6361     2178     68.7      74.5     2.74      2.32
Piaui                    2666     1379     1287      3143     1913     1230      51.7     60.9     4.19      3.33
Sergipe                  1417      876      541      1645     1119      526     61.8      68.0     3.36      2.48
Rio Grande do Porte      2319     1579      740      2718     2036      682     68.1      74.9     3.34      2.58
NORTHEAST              43124    26313    16811    51528    35026    16502       61.0      68.0     3.70      2.93
Espirito Santo           2524     1921      603      2983     2465      518      76.1     82.6     3.84      2.25
Minas Gereis            15832    12242     3590    18119    14997      3122      77.3     82.8     2.95      2.05
Rio de Janefro          14134    13315      819    16968    16254       714      94.2     95.8      2.34     2.01
Sao Paulo              33070    30433      2637    40079    37494      2585     92.0      93.6     3.01      2.11
SOUTHEAST              65560    57911      7649    78149    71210      6939     88.3      91.1     2.86      2.09
Parana                   9137     6578     2559    11154      8838     2316      72.0     79.2     3.74      3.00
Rio Grande do Sul        9163     7037     2126    10454      8570     1884      76.8     82.0     2.78      1.99
Santa Catarina          4839      3572     1267      6025     5043      982      73.8     83.7     5.18      3.51
SOUTH                  23139    17187      5952    27633    22451      5182      74.3     81.2     3.57      2.71
Goias                   4944      3703     1241      5938     4862     1076      74.9     81.9     4.23      2.76
Distrito Federal         1864     1813       51      2496     2440       56      97.3     97.8      4.56     3.01
Mato Grosso              1727     1153      574      2228     1626      602      66.8     73.0      5.62     3.50
Mato Grosso do Sul       2191     1819      372      3080     2300      411      83.0     74.7      6.10     3.30
CENTER-WEST            10,726    8,488    2,238   13,742   11,228    2,145       79.1     81.7      5.12     3.43
BRAZIL                151,443  114,887   36,556  182,542  146,913   35,260       75.9     80.5      3.39     2.54
POP-ST: 11/05/91
Source: IBGE, Diretoria de Pesquisas, Departamento de Populacao.
1/ ProJections based an the company's own estimates and sligthly higher than IBGE estimates.



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOQ MOOERNIZATI0N PROJECT
----------------------------------
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector: Market Distrfbution
,......................................... ..... ............... .........
Nurber of Localities
WATER SUPPLY                                  SEWERAGE
State I REGION -------..--------...........--    ...................................
SWC   MUNICIPA-    FNS         TOTAL        SWC   MUNICIPA-    FNS          TOTAL
LITIES                                      LITIES
Acre                                  15           0          0         15          1          0          0           1
Amapa                                 13           0          4         17          5          0          0          5
Amazonas                              57           0         13         70          1          0          0           1
Para                                  70         32         35        137           2          0          0          2
Rondonia                              48           0          1        49           2          0          1          3
Roraima                               11           0          0         11          1          0          0          1
................................. ........ ............ ........ ............ ........ ............ ........ ..................................
NORTHl                               214         32         53        299          12          0          1         13
Alagoas                               77           5         14        96           1          0          0           1
Bahia                                379         91         38        508          12          0          1         13
Ceara                                135           7        50        192           1          0          0          1
Maranhao                             132           2        42        176           1          0          0           1
Paraiba                              143         43           5       191          11          0          0         11
Pernambuco                           136           3         15       154          14          0          2         16
Piaui                                139           1          0       140           1          0          0           1
Serglpe                              164         38        330        532           1          0          0           1
Rio Grande do Norte                  231         27          17       275           5          0          0          5
,................................. ........ ............ ........ ............ ........ ............ ........ ......... ................ .....
NORTHEAST                          1,536        217        511      2,264         47           0          3         50
Espirito Santo                        86         60         81        227           9        392         58        459
Minas Gerais                         400        654         52      1,106          24         24         32         80
Rio de Janeiro                       111        117           0       228          13          8          0         21
Sao Paulo                            538        420          6        964        361         311          5        677
......................... ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
SOUTHEAST                          1,135      1,251        139    2,525          40?         735         95      1.237
Parana                               681         47           0       728          37          5          0         42
Rio Grande do Sul                    276        196           0       472          20          5          0         25
Santa Catarina                       242         23         32        297          11          1          4         16
SOUWTH                             1,199        266         32      1,497         68          11          4         83
Goias                                215         20          15       250          24          3          0         27
Distrito Federal                        1          0          0          1          1          0          0           1
Mato Grosso                           82           4          0        86           7          0          0           7
Mato Grosso do Sul                   109          33          7       149          11          0          0          11
......................... ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
CENTER-WEST                          407         57          22       486          43          3          0         46
.......... ........ ........ .....................................................
BRAZIL                             4,491      1,823        757      7,071        577         749        103      1,429
MARKETl: 11/05/91



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment 3
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MOOERNIZATION PROJECT
Regional Distribution of Urban Service Levels: 1989
URBAN        WATER COVERAGE /1      SEWERAGE COVERAGE 2/
State / REGION       POPULATION. --.--   -------------- -----------.--------
Thousands   Thousands     %         Thousands      %
Acre                             226          NA          NA          NA          NA
Amapa                            158          96        60.8           6         3.8
Amazonas                       1,370       1,252        91.4         189        13.8
Para                           2,509       1,972        78.6         103         4.1
Rondonia                         461         230        49.9           7         1.5
Roraima                           81          54        66.5           6         7.4
,OR'' ----------- ..............0...... ........-4   -78.......----..3.1..   . ..... 6. ..... ..
NORTH                          4,804       3,604        78.7         311         6.8
Alagoas                        1,353       1,084        80.1          84         6.2
Bahia                          7,530       5,725        76.0       1,700        22.6
Ceara                          3,979       2,065        51.9         241         6.1
Maranhao                       1,899       1,262        66.5         142         7.5
Paraiba                        1,939       1,866        96.2         538        27.8
Pernambuco                     4,923       4,175        84.8       1,226        24.9
Piaui                          1,328       1,146        86.3           1         0.0
Rio Grande do Norte            1,532       1,250        81.6         155        10.1
Sergipe                          852         687        80.6         107        12.6
. '''EAST ..................... . 25,3-,-  .19,26  ...... 76..........1.9.. ...... ......... 6.......
NARTHEAST                     25,335      19,260        76.0       4,193        16.6
Distrito Federal               1,753       1,597        91.1       1,480        84.4
Goias                          3,582       2,516        70.2         969        27.0
Mato Grosso                    1,108         914        82.5         226        20.4
Mato Grosso do Sul             1,714       1,495        87.2         174         10.1
........................     ........ .......... ......... ... ........  ........ .... ........  ..................................
CENTER-WEST                    8,157       6,522        80.0       2,848        34.9
Espirito Santo                 1,864       1,524        81.8         957        51.3
Minas Gerais                  11,946      10,782        90.3       8,377        70.1
Rio de Janeiro                13,017      11,097        85.3       6,891        52.9
Sao Paulo                     29,722      28,854        97.1      23,807        80.1
........................     ........ .......... ......... ... .. ......  ........  ... .... .  ...... ..... ................
SOUTHEAST                     56,549      52,257        92.4      40,031        70.8
Parana                         6,354       5,820        91.6       2,082        32.8
Rio Grande do Sul              6,874       6,030        87.7       1,341         19.5
Santa Catarina                 3,396       2,716        80.0         273         8.0
...... ...........  ..........................  1........4, ..1........6.6.    ----.. 87....6 .... ........,6  ...... 22.2............
SOU TH                        16,624      14,566        87.6       3,696        22.2
.......................  .  ........  . ... ........  ........ . ... ........  ..................... ....... ....
BRAZIL                       111,469      96,209        86.3      51,080        45.8
^ ::====:======:====s=        =======~----------------------------=- =:==_=5=====
URB-COV:    02/04/92
1/ Water coverage levels only include people living in dwellings with house
connection.
2/ Sewerage coverage levels only include people living in dwellings with water-borne
sewerage.
Source: Bank calculations based on IOGE's estimates of urban population, IBGE's
Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicilios, 1989, and data on service
coverage from some SWCs.



AVI 2
BEZIL
VATER SEC1OI ODER6IZATION PEWCT
I quired ! airvtment for ProvICeiOD of Bsic   tor Supply and SanIt ation Needs in Urban Areas
USS Hillicn as of June. 1991
IsTER SUPPLY SERVICE                                              SARITATION SERVICE                       TOTAL
POPULATION  ESS1NAED  AVER4C7E t991-2000 ANNUAIL I      BVSHII  POPULASTON  ESTIMATE   AVERAGE ANNUAL INVESINERT@ 1991-2000   NEEDS IN
Stat. I BEGION     REQUIR1IG      TOTAL    TO REACH A 2000 COVERAGE LEVEL OF:   REQUIRING       TOTAL    TO RUECH A 2000 COVERAGE LEVEEL OFr      VATER
SERVICE    INVESTHM         -----------------_--_-_-____  SERVICE    iNVESTEr  ------ -_-------------  SVPPLY &
UP TO 2000     COST         1002        952         66.32     UP TO 2000      COST        602         502         45.82     SAISTATION
(000) 11       21           31          41           Si       (000) 61        71          31          41           51
Acre                           PA          NA           NA          NA           AA          NA           NA          NA          NA           NA          NA
Anapa                         133          20            2           2            2         227           35           2            2           2          55
A.aronse                      678          102          10           10           9       1.783          276          17           14          13          378
Park.                       1.55S         234           23          22           20       3.495          542          33           27          25          775
Rondonia                      461          72            7            7           6         714          III           7            6           5          183
Roraima                        65           10           1            1           1          116          18           1            1           1           28
NOETI                       2,916         437           44          42           38       6,334          982          59           49          45        l,419
Algoas                        680          102          10           10           9        1.710         265           16          13          12          367
Babia                       5.059         759           76           72          65       9.309        1.443          87           72          66       2.202
Ceara                       3.279         492           49           47          42       5.161          SOO          48           40          37        1.292                           1
Marsnhao                    1.439         216           22           21          19       2.601          403          24           20          18          619
Parsibs                       615          92            9           9            8       1.978          307          18           IS          14          399
Perambuco                   2.074         311           31           30          27       5.102          791          47           40          36        1.102                          t.
PLaui                         723         104           11           10           9       1.912          296          is           15          14         405
Sergip.                       404          61            6           6            5       1.031          160          10            a           7         220
Rio Grand* do  artoe          763         114           11           11          10       1.837          285          17           14          13         399
HNORFlAST                  15.037       2,256          226          214         195      30.642        4.749         285          237         218        7.005
Espirito Santo                894         134           13           13          12       1.480          229          14           11          11         363
Hinse Gerail                3.942         591           59           56          51       6.415          994          60           50          46       1.586
Rio de Janeiro              4.,96          734          73           70          63       9.210        1,428          86           71          65       2,162
Sao Paulo                   7.944       1.192          119         113          103      13.117        2,033         122          102          93       3.225
SODAST                     i67.76 26651                 65         252          229      30.222       4;684          281         234          215       7,336
Parana                      2,813         422           42          40           36       6.680        1.035          62          52           47       1.457
Rio Grando do Sld           2.399         360           36          34           31       7.198        1,116          67          36           51       1,475
Santa Catarnus              2.105         328           33          31           28       4.757          737          44          37           34       1.065
SOUTH                       7.397       1.109          111          105          96      18.635        2,888         173          144         132       3.998
Colas                       2,262         339           34          32           29       3,862         599           36          30           27         938
Distrlto Federal              788         118           12           11          10         910          141           8            7           6         259
Mato Grosso                   675          101          10           10           9       1 391          216          13           11          10          317
Mato Groso do Sul             714          107          11           10           9       2.116          328          20           16          1S         435
.... .... ___ _______ ... ____-----               _         _    -------  _   ------      .__.__.  _______. .._.   ------- _
CERTEN -IIEST               4,439         666           67          63           57       8.279        1.283          77          64           59       1.949
BRAZIL                     47,465       7.120          712         676          614      94,113       14,588         875          729         668      21.707
. .... __ .....~~~~~~~~~~~~......_ .    _......_........_................._.... _...._.,__._.
RE-UiVt    02104192
11 tstimat, based on current deficit and projected urban population in year 2000.
21 Estimst  based on a per-capita investmtt cost of USS1S0. Estimated investment does not include major rebabilitation, training, and lstitutional
development needs.
31 HASISSS' taorgt for 1995.
41 Intermdiate end more feasible target.
51 Target to keep constant current coverage level.
61 Estimate based on current deficit and projected urban population in year 2000.
71 Estiate based on a per-capita investmnt cost of US$175 for water-borne sevwrage and US$75 for septic tankcs. and the assumptio  that 202 of nev
sanitary solutiom  are septic tans.  Estimated investment excludes seaage treatment coat, and major rehabilitation, training, and inatitatioual
development needs.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Brazilian Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
General Pricing Criteria
1.    Brazilian State Water Supply and Sewerage Companies (SWCs) apply a uniform tariff structure
known as the National Tariff Law (NTL). The NTL was established by Law No. 6,528 in May 11,
1978, and further delimited by Decree No. 82,587 in November 6, 1978. The NTL was conceived by
the National Water Supply and Sanitation Program (PLANASA) as the major underpinning framework
of sector regulation and implemented under the direction of the former Banco Nacional da Habitagao
(BNH).
2.    The NTL seeks financial equilibrium for the SWCs and social equity for the customers. Financial
equilibrium is sought by requiring the SWCs to have average tariffs for water supply and sewerage
services high enough for their revenues to meet all their financial expenses, including an appropriate
remuneration for capital. Social equity is sought by requiring the SWCs to consider the customer's
ability to pay when setting tariffs.
Financial Guidelines
3.     Financial equilibrium is guaranteed by requiring each utility to have an average tariff -1 for
water supply and sewerage service such that it should generate a revenue equal to its service cost
(SC). SC is defined as the sum of operating expenses--personnel, materials, electricity and other third
party services, general, and fiscal expenses (DEX); annual allowances for depreciation, doubtful
accounts, and amortization of expenses (DPA); and a remuneration for investment (RI) that should be
at least equal to the debt service--interest payments and capital amortization due in a given period of
time, but not larger than 12% of the acknowledged investment in operating fixed assets.
Social Equity Guidelines
4.    The current social guidelines on water supply and sewerage tariffs require utilities to take into
account users' ability to pay. Rate structures are defined using minimum consumption levels and
increasing block tariffs. Assumptions underlying this requirement are: (i) there are households which
are classified as commercial or industrial customers, and lii) family income is positively correlated with
family water consumption. In addition, the current guidelines explicitly deny subsidies to commercial
and industrial customers, and suggest a neutral tariff (a tariff equal to the company's service cost) for
public users. Social equity guidelines are discussed in detail in the following paragraphs.
Minimum Residential Bill
5.    The first guideline establishes that there should be a minimum water residential bill not
exceeding 0.35 OTN (Obrigacoes do Tesouro Nacional), and a minimum water and sewerage residential
bill not exceeding 0.50 OTN. In 1983, the average minimum water supply and sewerage residential
bill reached 70% of the maximum value authorized by the law. By 1986, this figure was reduced to
less than 60%, and the average minimum water supply residential bill was near 50% of the maximum
limit. The abolition of the OTN in 1990 has turned this guideline into an useless parameter.
31/ Average tariffs are defined dividing operational revenue, y volume sold. Required average tariffs are defined dividing service
cost by volume sold.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
Minimum Residential Consumption Level
6.    A  second guideline establishes that: (i) the minimum  residential consumption level
corresponding to the minimum bill should be at least equal to 103 per household per month, and (ii) this
volume should represent the quantity of water a family requires for maintaining minimum and
indispensable health and sanitary conditions. In 1988, 18 SWCs had their minimum consumption level
(MCL) at 10 m3/household-month (hm), one had it at 12 m3/hm, and 2 at 20 m3/hm.  The
concentration at 10 m31hm is a relatively recent trend.
7.    Establishing a MCL is equivalent to setting a fixed rate with a right to consume the minimum
level free of charge. Usually, the main reason for including MCLs in a rate schedule is that it allows
utilities a full or partial recovery of customer-related fixed costs. Establishing MCLs for accommodating
low-income households--as it seems to be happening in the Brazilian case--does not generally
accomplish its purpose; on the contrary, it contributes to significant departures from the objective of
improving poor families' welfare when handled aggressively.
8.    In addition, it is not only the problem of having some low-consumption customers paying
average tariffs greater than high-consumption users. It may be the case that many residential,
commercial, industrial, and public customers who are able to afford the utilities' service cost (without
violating NTL's directives) are being subsidized.
Residential Consumption Blocks
9.    A third guideline establishes that residential consumption should be differentiated by increasing
block tariffs. The blocks' ranges vary significantly not only from one utility to another, but also
between areas being served by the same utility (for example, CAERN has three different schedules).
In addition, the formation of the blocks does not follow any specific guideline. For exan.ple, the range
of the second block goes from 11 m3/hm to 15 m3/hm in 9 SWCs, from 11 m3/hm to 20 m3/hm in 6
SWCs, from 16 m3/hm to 30 m3/hm in 3 SWCs, and exhibits eight different ranges in the remaining
12 SWCs.
Residential Water Consumption and Family Income
10.   Current social guidelines on water supply and sewerage tariffs are based on the assumption
that family levels of income and water consumption are positively correlated. Minimum bills, minimum
consumption levels, and principally, consumption blocks, are elements of the rate schedule because
of this assumption. However, if this assumption is proven inaccurate, the entire apparatus involving
social considerations could be regressive and some households could be paying bills smaller than what
they can afford. In addition, a large majority of households are subsidized when residential rates are
smaller than marginal costs--as is Brazil's most common case. This fact gives utilities a large room for
increasing revenues just by eliminating unnecessary subsidies now being granted to high-income
families.
11.   A 1987 study by ACCORSI & ASSOCIADOS examined this assumption and concluded that in
Brazil "water consumption is not an appropriate variable for the purpose of guaranteeing progressive
tariffs, because of its weak relationship with family income." 21 The studs found a correlation
coefficient between these two variables of only 0.21.
12.   Table 1 shows average household water consumption by income level in SANEPAR (Parana's
SWC). The small differences among average values of the first four categories, as well as the large
2I ACCORSI & ASSOCIADOS LTDA. O1987). Avaliaco dos Normas e Critsrios de Fixacao de Terifas no Setor do Soneamanto:
Uma AnMliso dos Obietivos de Equidede, 2 Volumenes. Curitiba, Agosto. SANEPAR - CEF (BNH), p.138.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
standard deviation exhibited by all income categories, are worth noting. Household water consumption
distribution for each income category is shown in Table 2 and illustrated in Figure 1. The small range
defined between 7 m3/hm and 1 5 m3/hm includes almost half of SANEPAR residential consumers.
13.   The use of water consumption as a main element in water supply pricing may result in tariff
structures that are not as progressive as originally planned and, in some cases, even in regressive tariff
structures. This issue has been pointed out by several authors. For example, CHAVES DE AZEVEDO
and BAZANELLA stated that 2.: "...the majority of the tariff structures of the Companhias de
Saneamento present unsatisfactory progressive levels which cause even inverse transfers of subsidies."
However, it would be wrong to argue that the solution is to make the tariff structure more progressive,
sharply increasing the rates belonging to higher consumption blocks. This proposal could make the
tariff structure appear progressive for the average poor family. But upon closer examination, it will
surely aggravate the situation of many households--individually considered.
Table 1. SANEPAR's Household Water Consumpticn and Income1'
Household Income               Households       Household Water Consumption
(Y)                                                (m3l/hm)               l
Minimum Salaries
[MS] per Month                     %       Mean       Standard      Deviation
Deviation    Coefficient
Y < 01 MS           338       6.2    10.4          12.3          118
01 MS < Y < 02 MS            806      14.9    11.0           7.7           70
02 MS < Y < 05 MS           1969      36.4    12.3           7.5           61
05MS < Y < loMS             1228      22.7    15.7          11.0           70
10 MS < Y < 20 MS            674      12.5    22.5          18.5           82
20 MS < Y                    419       7.3    32.3          24.6           76
TOTAL                5434      100.0    15.5         13.8            89
"Source: ACCORSI & ASSOCIADOS LTDA. (1987)
Residential Water Consumption and Other Variables
14.   In the study mentioned above, residential water consumption (RWC) could not be successfully
explained by other variables. Geographical location and urban size failed to explain the differences
between water consumption of households located in different cities. An explanation of RWC using
variables such as: number of water exits (points) (W), number of people living in each house (P),
number of rooms (R), the area of each house (A), and the type of construction (C), also failed when
applied to SANEPAR's case.
31 CHAVES DE AZEVEDO, Jos6 Carlos e Vera L. BAZANELLA, 1984. Modelo de Estrutura Teriferia, Conv6nio de Cooperac9ao
Tecnica 3NH/OPAS de 22112/81, Julho. Revisio 00. p.24.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
Table 2. SANEPAR's Household Water Consumnption Distribution '
Water                           Household Income Level (Y) %
Consumption
4W)                    01VMS<Y    02MS<Y    05MS<Y    1OMS<Y   2OMS<Y
m31hm       Y<011MS   Y<02MS   Y<05MS   Y<1OMS   Y<20MS
W<03             15         12           7           5           3          2
03 < W < 06           18          15          12           9           4          2
06 c W < 10           31          31          29          20          13          0
10 < W < 15           21          24          28          27          20         16
15   < W < 25         12          14          19          26         33          29
25 < W < 50            3           4           5          11          19         30
50 < W                 0           0           0           2          8         21
TOTAL             100         100         100        100                    100
v Source: ACCORSI & ASSOCIADOS LTDA. (1987)
Non-residential Tariffs
1 5.   A fourth guideline establishes that tariffs should be differentiated by final usage, and that
average commercial and industrial rates should be greater than the utility's average rate.
16.   A fifth guideline establishes that: {i) commercial, industrial, and public 4' minimum
consumption levels should also be set, and (ii) in each category, the minimum consumption rate should
be smaller than the remaining rates, in that category. Additionally, commercial and industrial minimum
rates should be greater than the utility's average tariff, and the public minimum rate should be greater
than the residential minimum rate.
17.   Differentiating between commercial, industrial, or public customers based on their water
consumption level has negative effects on the resource allocation process. Brazilians seem to be aware
of this point, as minimum consumption levels for non-residential customers are explained by some
households owning a small family business, and in turn, being classified as commercial or industrial
customers.  However, a well designed tariff structure should automatically take care of this
classification process. Households having small family business within or attached to their homes
should find themselves better off when classified as residential customers. Likewise, households
having a larger than normal family business should find themselves better off when classified as non-
domestic customers.
Non-metered Consumption
18.   In 1988, twelve (12) SWCs charged non-metered residential customers with only their
authorized minimum bills. The remaining companies used their rate schedules, and water consumption
estimates based on the following criteria: dwellings' area in m2 (5), dwelling construction type (3),
number of rooms (2), number of water exits (1), or a combination of more than one of the above (1).
4/ The public category also includes some private entties involved in social activitias.



- 47 -
Annex 3
Pago 5 of 7
Figure 1. SANEPAR's Household Water Consumption Distribution
30                                                               30
20                                                               20
10                                                               10
0                               _1          3/hm                  0             --                          fl_h 3 m
3    6   10  15  25  50                                          3    6   10   15  25  50
Household Income (Y)   1 1 MS                                    I MS c Y 6 2 MS
4L%                                                              A %
30.                                                              30.
20 -20
10                                                               10 
0                1                        n'Piiih                0                                        No-rrPlhm
3    6   10  15  25  50                                          3    6   10   15  25  50
2MS   YS 5 MS                                                    SMS cy V   t OMS
30                                                               30
20 -20 
10                                                               10
0                 -   -                   m /hm                 0o                                 -        a4m3i
3    6   10  15  25  50                                          3   6   10   15  25  50
10 MS c YC  20 MS                                                Y> 20 MS
Caxw6sOOlwC t4)



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
19.   Most non-residential water consumption is metered, and those customers that are not metered
are generally non-intensive water users. SWCs use one of the following criteria to estimate water
consumption: establishment are in m2, economic activity, minimum consumption, number of water
exits, or a combination of more than one of the above criteria.
Special Contracts
20.   Special contracts are celebrated between non-residential customers and eight of the SWCs.
These contracts usually guarantee a minimum amount of water to be supplied to the customer
benefitting from such contract. In this case, the customer negotiates his rates aside from the actual
rate schedule. The water volume sold under this kind of agreement represents a significant share for
some of these companies, regardless of the small number of customers involved.
Sewerage Rates
21.   Sewerage and water supply tariff structures are the same, with sewerage rates oscillating
between 35% and 100% of water rates. In 1988, there were 15 SWCs applying a 100% overcharge,
9 applying 80%, 2 applying 60%, 2 applying 50%, while the remaining three applied 90%, 75%, and
35%, respectively.
22.   Sewerage rates are not based on supply costs, but on financial reasons. Explicit charges for
treatment do not exist.  Systems without treatment have rates significantly larger than costs,
meanwhile systems with treatment have costs much greater than rates. Therefore, sewerage systems
are usually transferring a large portion of its revenue to water supply systems, given that in most cases
only a small portion (if at all) of the collected sewage is treated.
Complementary Guidelines
23.   A long term objective of each utility is to serve the entire population under its area of
responsibility. Therefore, as a way to facilitate access to their services, most utilities do not charge
connection fees to their customers or, if they do, it only covers materials, labor, and the meter cost,
if applicable.
24.   SWCs usually have several water supply and sewerage systems with different supply costs
which are aggregated and consolidated for financial and pricing purposes. Therefore, SWCs' rate
schedules and levels are uniformly applied to all customers, independent of the individual system that
serves them. This pricing feature introduces a cross-subsidization element among customers of a given
utility. Funhermore, differences in the interest rate PLANASA applies to the different SWCs introduces
another cross-subsidization element between states.
Efficient Allocation of Resources
25.   Water supply and sewerage pricing criteria are complemented by planning criteria that aim to
obtain an efficient allocation of resources. Under PLANASA, utilities are required to expand their
systems choosing the minimum cost alternativeE, and water projects are accepted only if the utility's
water average tariff (WAT) Is larger than 0.75 of the project's marginal cost (MC), for cities with
populations larger than 50,000 people. The WAT should be larger than 0.60 MC for localities with
populations between 5,000 and 50,000 people. Sewerage projects are accepted only if the utility's
sewerage average tariff is at least equal to 0.60 MC. However, a project that does not satisfy these
5/ Sea BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITAGAOIBNH) 1981a), Circular COSAN No.01181, Disp6esobre a Escolha de Alternativas
nos Relatorios Tacnicos Preliminares.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
conditions may still be accepted if it is possible to demonstrate that there are "special social benefits"
attached to its execution. 6/
) See BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO (l3NH) (1981b, Ccul  COSAN NO.02fllB Instituw Modelo do Anliseo CEcon6mnIce
do Emprendimentos Financi6vels Atrnv6s do Sislemns Financisro do Snnenrnonto o D6 Outros ProvidOncis.



BRAZIL                                                    ANNEX 4
WATER SECTOR HOOERNIZATICN PROJECT
Selected Operating and Financiat Data on Brazil's SUCs
.. ........... ...................... ... .... .. ...... ......... ...
yeaf 1989
CGNNECTIONS     WATER  EPLOYEES   U&S    OPERAT. PERSONNEL  WATER    WATER   AVERAGE
----------------- CONNEC-            CONNEC.  COST /   COST f    LOSSES  BILLED    WATER
State / REGION        Svc     WATER  SEWERAGE   TIONS                PER    OPERAT.  OPERAT.               PER    & SEUR.
METERED           EMPLOYEE  REVENUE  REVENUE             CONNEC.  TARIFF
(000)    C000)      %                                               X      m3lmo. USS/m3
.. ...... ........... .. .. . ...... ......... .. ..... .... .... .... .... ....... ........ ........ ......... . .... . .. . ... .... .
Acre                   SANACRE         NA       NA        NA       NA        NA       NA        NA       NA        NA       NA
&Mapa 1/               CAESA           26        2        82      279       100      124        49     29.5     36.7      0.46
Arnazonas              COSAMA         206        7        53    1,629       131       73        31     52.5      22.7     0.82
Para                   COSANPA        354       17        24    1,962       189      103        50     50.2     32.3      0.27
Rondonia 7/            CAERD           64       20        23      856        98      120        78     37.3     37.4      0.47
Roraima 11             CAER            21        2        56      161       143      217        83     28.1     32.8      0.36
...   . . . . . . . .    .... . .   ... . .   ... . .  ... . .   ..... .    ... . .   ..... .    ..... .   ... . .   ..... .   ... . .
WORTH                                671        48        39    4.887       156      103        50     47.5     30.0      0.43
Alagoas                CASAL          215       21        94    1,510       156      129        71     42.0      15.5     0.35
8ahia                  EMBASA         858       74        53    6,136       152       62        56     43.6     20.4      0.64                         1
Ceara                  CAGECE         360       53        22    1,727       239      201        56     35.3     27.2      0.37                        tn
*Iaranhao              CAEMA          234       57        29    2,589       112      318        86     57.3     21.6      0.32                        0
Paraiba                CAuEPA         349       83        75    2.286       189      176       112     43.0     24.4      0.27
PCrnbxico              COMPESA        801      119        53    4,737       194      106        59     43.0     25.6      0.41
Piaui                  AGESPISA       262        2        70    1.682       157      306        73     49.0      15.6     0.37
Rio Grande do Norte   CAERK           274       32        63    1,666       183      163       101     46.0      19.8     0.28
Sergipe                DESO           183       14        72    1,339       147       85        50     29.8     23.5      0.50
.. ... ............... ......... ........ ........ .......  ...... ....... . .g. ...... ... .... . . . ...... .. ...... .....
NORTlEAST                          3,536       454        56   23,672       175      147        70     43.1     22.2      0.42
Distrito Federal       CAESB          178      159        88    2.332       145      105        70     19.5     60.2      0.30
Goias                  SANEAGO        419      123        74    4,364       124      105        74     28.0     37.1      0.46
Hato Grosso            SAUEHAT        234       28        69    2,010       131      140        96     51.1      19.3     0.54
Ma:o Grosso do Sut    SAMESUL         273       26        67    1,258       238       87        42     36.1     3Z.7      0.50
... .. 4............ ......... ........ .. ... ... ...... ........  , . . ... ... ........ ........ ...... ........ . ......
CENTER-VEST                         1,104      336        61    9,964       154      105        69     28.3     36.0      0.41
Espirito Santo         CESAN          239       25       44    1,633        162       86        50     33.6     45.4      0.43
Hinas Gerais           COPASA       1,370      453        93    7,851       232       51        42     30.3     25.9      0.40
Rio de Janeiro         CEDAE        1,306      569        22   10,773       174       92        55     44.6     96.9      0.30
Sao Paulo              SABESP      3,386    2,045        100   20,240       268       87       42      28.8     32.7      0.50
SOXJUTHEAST                        6,301    3.092        80   40.497       239        84       48      36.2     45.0      0.39
Parana                 SANEPAR      1,130      266        99    4.846       288       70        38     19.9     20.3      0.57
Rio Grande do Sul      CORSAN       1,018       96        51    5,025       222       92        53     45.3     21.9      0.55
Santa Catarina         CASAN          479       23        76    3,026       166       74        48     44.7     23.8      0.47
. ....   .....      .  .........   . ....   .....   .  ....   .....   .   ....  .. ...   .....  .. .....  .. .. ....  . .... ...
SOUTH                              2,627       385        76   12,897      243        79        46     34.9     21.5      0.54
._.................... ......._.. ... _.__.... ........ .____...... ...... ...... .. . .. .... .......  ........ _.... .. .. ......
BRAZIL                             14.239    4,315        70   91,917      216        97        53     37.3     33.6      0.42
1/  1988 Data.                                                                                              FINDATA: 0204/92



BRAZIL                                                                       ANNEX 5
WATER MODERNiZATION SECTOR PROJECT
Bank Loans to Brazi fot Water Supply and Sewerage
AEout/Borrower                                                 Status as of         9/30J91
Year     Loan No.      (USS Miltions)_   Purpose                                      Cotmitments       Disbursements                      Conmnets
1971      757-SR       22.0 City Water        Sao Paulo water distribution and             100%               100%         Project Performnce Audit Report (PPAR)
Coqpany         storage.                                                                      dated April 4. 1980.
1971      758-BR       12.0 City Water        S5o Paulo sewage :oltection and              100%               100%         Idem. Loan amxunt reduced from USS15.0
Corpany         disposal.                                                                     million.
1974     1009-8R            36.0 BNh          Water supply and sewerage in the             100%               100%         Project Performance Audit Report dated
state of Minas Gerais.                                                       June 30, 1983.
1976     1309-B1            40.0 8NH          Water supply and sewerage in the             100%               100%         Project Completion Report (PCR) dated
state of Minas Gerais.                                                       April 22, 1985.
1978     1525-8R            52.5 81H          Sewage collection and disposal in            100%               100%         US$57.5 million canceled 1/85.  PCR
metropotitan Sao Paulo.                                                      dated Noveotber 18, 1987.
1979     1656-8;            100.0 SNH         Water supply and sewerage in the             100%               100%         Project Completion Report dated February  I
state of Bahia, Ceara, and                                                   27, 1987.
Pernibruco.
1980     1823-BR            130.0 SRK         water supply and sewerage in the             100%               100%         Project Performance Audit Report dated
states of Parana, Santa Catarina.                                            January 14, 1988.
and Rio Grande do Sul.
1980     1850-8R            139.0 611         Third Minas Gerais Water supply and          100%               100%         Project Completion Report dated February
sewerage.                                                                    23, 1990.
1981     1970-9R            180.0 SNI         Multi-state water supply and                 100%               100%         Project Completion Report dated July 27,
sewerage project in the states of                                            1990.
Rmnzonas, Goi6s, Mato Grosso do
Sul, Pari, Paraiba, and the Federal
District.
1983    2Z49-BR             302.3 BNH         Water supply and sewerage sector             100%               100X         Project satisfactory completed in
project; sub-projects in 23 states                                           August, 1989. PCR under preparation.
and territories.
1985     2532-8R          16.3 Govt. of       Teckical assistance to develop               100%               100%         Project cownpteted in January, 1990.
Brazil          national rural water and sanitation                                          Unused funds amouwting to US$5.22
parame'ers, and a pilot rural                                                million canceled.  PCR urder
project in one state.                                                        preparation.
1988     2983-BR            80.0 CEF          Water Sector Project for                      85%               26X          Impltwentation of low-income component
nrmicipalities and low-income                                                (US#50 million) is just beginning.
areas.
1989     3102-SR          280.0 SABESP        Water Supply and Sewerage Sector              40X               ?3X          Loan became effective on July 6, 1990,
Project in the State of Sao Paulo.                                           and irplementation is satisfactory
advancing.



- 52 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERN-ZATION PROJECT
pr anization Chart of the Ministry
of Social Action (MASO
| MINISTRY                  MNSR
SOCIAL ACTION
LEGAL ASSISTANCE                                        OFFICE OF
PUBLIC RELATIONS              .THE MINISTRY
ADMINISTRATIVE DEPT.
EXECUTIVE
SECRETARIAT
SECTOR
PLANNING
COORDINATION
NATIONAL           NATIONAL          NATIONAL           SPECIAL
SECRETARIAT FOR    SECRETARIAT FOR    SECRETARIAT         SECRETARIAT
WATER SUPPLY AND       HOUSING         FOR SOCIAL          FOR CIVIL
SANITATION                            PROMOTION           DEFENSE



- 53
ANNEX 6
Attachment 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Organization Chart of the National
Secretariat for Water Sunolv and Sanitation ISNS)
NATIONAL
SECRETARIAT FOR
WATER SUPPLY AND
SANITATION
OFFICE
OF THE
SECRETARY
ADVISORS
PLANNING AND                  PROJECT                    PROJECTS
ENGINEERING                 MANAGEMENT                 SUPERVISION
DEPARTMENT                     UNIT                     DEPARTMENT
F      I 
PLANNING         ENGINEERING
COORDINATION        COORDINATION



BRAZIL                                                                              Ahrt 3
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Companhia Catarinense de Aguas e Saneamento
Organization Chart
Genera? Assembly |
Administrative                            Fiscal Couni
|dvzsoy Aavisoryy    The free0s nt
Director
President _                                           0 T        _e 
I,         S6 S
PlnAuditing    |en
FI ha :coSi~rector                             ... |Admainistrative                        *             | osrsto ||Oeain 
FL-~ar~c~al;    Aco*n     esurces       r,ocrem     l .eminsraiecftoraio             Reinl l         P...Droects   onsruc          Opeatina |tCmeca
P                                           S7 s                                                    I  ,eelopment  'Deve*pment.. . .
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Am inist X1S3ra3v                                                                     Constru3on                     OpeTa on



4
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Empresa de Saneamento de Mato Grosso do Sul
Organization Chart
|   Secrelaryof                                T
I   PubPic                                   e norks    s
|  Administrative   |  ,       _ - |        ffi     Fzs  Councoi
Board of
DireD sors
Com mercial                                                                    ________r-------____________
tnlemal Auditing.                                             
AUDIT             _                                                                       ]     Oflice of The Presidr,n 
GE,C,OGAB
ausiness Pianninc
GEMAE
!   GEPI F           _  u  ~~~~~Plannmng  O evelopmn         President                                L  egal Assistant    -
Information Systems                   SUE                                                                   GEU
GECMF
GEIMF   _               0                        .               l   Public ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Regaions (0visory)
Procurement UnR                                                                                            AO 
GEL                                                                                                       R
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
Fnance                                     A Community Afnairs Assistant
C EF.                                  I             ASCOM
|   ,operations Director AssisFant I                                                '                          Projects ur
ASDO . .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEPRO 
Commerdal                                                                                                  ok
GECO                                                      Operations                                    GEOB
,   Director
Maintenance                                        .DO                                              Budgeting &Costs
_~~~~~~~~~~~ ,
GEMA                                                  _                                                  ..  ...nGEORIC
Sanitary Contro l                                                                                  Op     erations D evelopment
GECSA                                             *                                                    GEDEO
. ....... _| ..Regions (Ol- tl
|        ~~GER      
|        innc             |,                                                                       |Adin &t nnce   Director Assist.
[   c EFI   11                  ,                         ,            [ 1           ~~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~ASDAF  
Accounting                         Administrabon &remenIt.-                               ---     ----
L=_ -X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iac Di    -E.~rc
Gooft &S~efties     --                                .                                                Human Resources
GESB                  1-.'|GERM
-             -
. II____      



Personnel Advisor
Human Resources
Tochnical &
Planning Advisor
Administrative    _
7Support0    [1 tli    i1 11
Procurement
Transportation                                                         
Commercial
Revenues                                                                                                         a . e 
Finance       L
Accounting      _           t3
Technicai Assistance            3                                                                                                          0
& Planning                     0                                                                                                    t1  m
rBudget   Contracts                           [j o                                                                             i
2                         CIL.                       (D      ~~~~~~~0  0
_ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_    __   co2
~0zF
! Distribution      1r n.                                                                                                                     :
|Amrliated Systems H                                                                                                                         2|@ i;
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.
IMaintenance          I        -r  :."
m |CD S9 -0              | $
|Technical Support  H              R II                                     
| Main System                                                          
I  Sewerage       r        
Operational~~~~~ Son 
Development                       
[Technical Assistance|      I    r      i
|  Support                   CT.02=i 
| Maintenance    |         
Tchnical Assistance                       I
Supprt 
| Malntenance    t                            
99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6X



ANTWX 7
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Documents and Financial Flows
-
r  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
+                     ~~~~~GOVERNMENT
_ I~~~~~BRD                                   MASISNS
PROJECT JNIT --  - en aF c-    r   Aeme
fl                      t4....._  _----------
LACEN      s              . _         DTN          ...              Lte o- Ag
t  X     |                          <   CO~~~~~~~~MMERCIAL    /t
}   }   ~~~~STATE                                     _                            TECHNICA         I;;
OVERNMENTS                     r                                    AGENTS          __
(1) Loan Agreement
- - Technic al and Financial Documents                                 1)PoetArmns
(111) Shareholders Agreernents
L egal Documents                                                (iv) Letters of Agreement
Accountabi)ityofExpenses                                          M   Contracts of Counter-guarantee
(VI) Special Account
Fhnancda1 Resources                                             (VIl)  Carta Reversal
(VIII) Contracts of Financing
(IX) Contracts of Consultng Services
cak\w50t45



A8NEX 8
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION SECTOR
---------------------------------
Urban Population Distribution in SWCn' concession Area: 199o
-----__--_--_-----------------------__-----------------_----
CASAJN                             EMBASA                              SANESUL
LOCALITIES SIZE         Localities        Population        Localities        Population        Localitiee        Population           t,
CP-Population)      -----------------   -----------------   -----------------  _            -
*        Z      t(OOO)    I         *        I 2     (OOO)    2         f        2      1(OO)    2
p c   5,000         157     64.9      240      8.4      205     54.1      428      6.7       59     54.1      100      6.3
5,000 < P <  50,000          75     31.0    1,027     35.9      161     42.5   2,046      32.2       46     42.2      614     38.4
50,000 c P < 500,000          10      4.1    1,594     55.7       12      3.2    1,265     19.9        3      2.8      270     16.9
500,OO   < P                   0      0.0        0      0.0        1      0.3   2,611      41.1        1      0.9      614     38.4
Total Urban Population        242    100.0   2,861    100.0       379      100   6,350       100      109      100    1,598      100
in Area of Concession
LOC-SIZE:02104192



- 59 -
ANNEX 9
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
. .......................
SWCs Institutional Data
....................
Deceffber, 1990
INDICATOR                       UNIT        CASAN      SANESUL       EMBASA
A. SOCIO-ECONOMICAL
..  ..... .........    .
Average Monthly Household Income                MS /1            3.4          2.5         2.2
Households Earning IMS or Less per Month         X               3.6         7.8         15.4
Households Earning 2MS or Less per Month         %              12.2        22.1         35.1
Households Earning 5MS or Less per Month         %              44.5        58.7         65.3
Electricity Coverage                             %              98.5        96.2         97.1
Infant Mortality                               #/000              47          66           74
Life Expectancy                                years              67          66           58
B. OPERATIONAL
..................... 
State Urban Population                         #(000)          3,572        1,819       7,959
Urban Population in Concession Area            #t000)          2,861        1 518       6,350
Urban Population in Concession Area                             6 80.1      63.5         79.8
Municipalities Served with Water Supply          #               178           65         271
Localities Served with Water Supply              #               242          109         379
Water Coverage Level                             X              86.2        74.0         73.4
Water Systems in operation                       #               206          108         326
Water Connections                                U           505,136     296,224      877,440
Water Customers                                  #           648,717     3S7,654   1,132,630
Per Capita Production (Annual Average)          lpd              228         246          222
Per Capita Consump;ton (Anmual Average)         lpd              139          157         125
Water BfilLed per Customer (Annual Avg.)      m3/month         17.08        18.65       16.06
Municipalities Attended with Sewerage            #                11           11          12
Localities Attended with Sewerage                #                11           11          13
Sewage Coverage Level                            X               8.2         7.9          9.6
Sewerage Systems in Operation /2                 #                 7           11          80
Sewerage Connections                             #            23,832      26,510       62,950
Sewerage Customers                               U            66,049      42,686      148,520
C. ADMINISTRATIVE
Uumber of Directors                              #                 5            3           5
Number of Profession3Ls                          #               268          195         524
Number of Employees                                           1 3,033       1,365       6,096
Annual Average Salary per Employee              USS           14,653      20,422       16 164
Annual Employees Turnover                        X              4.00         0.76        6.98
Average Staff Trained In Last 5 Years           U/yr             545          618         658
Administrative Regions                                             a 8         11           14
Regional Offices                                 U               171          109         190
g:   :::  3:::     uuerse==2ss:e:::eese::3  :: :::: ::3e:  e 3: : :-e:  aX :  sc=:u::e::
DATA:    11/05/91
1/ MS = Minimumt Salaries.
2/ EMBASA fncludes 72 Isolated systems serving condmininums.



ANREX 10
Attachment I
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS DISTRIBUTED BY SIZE: 1990
CASAN                                 EMBASA                                SANESUL
ANNUAL AVERAGE        ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------- -----------------------------
VOLUME PER SYSTEM        WATER SYSTEMS   ANNUAL PRODUCTION   WATER SYSTEMS   ANNUAL PROOUCTION   WATER SYSTEMS   ANNUAL PRODUCTION
(1,000 ms)   -----m--------- --                                                -
#        %X    m3OOO)       X                  X     m3(000)      X         #X             m3(OOO)      X
Up          to      00         80        38    4,232         2       113       35    6,328         2        36       36    1.836         1
From    101 to      500         90        43   19,683        11       138       42   31,602         8       39        39   11,115         8
From    501 to   1,000          15         7   10,347         6       38        12   27,246         7        16       16   12,080         9
From  1,001 to   5,000          i8         9   42,444        23       29         9   60,407        16        14       14   26,306        20
From  5,001 to  10,000           3         1   21,763        12         6        2   40,866        11         1        1    7,560         6
From 10,001 to  15,000            1        0   12.403         7         0        0        0         0         2        2   27,570        21
Fron 15,001 to  50,000           2         1   72,176        39         1        0   25,818         7         1        1   4.898         34
From 50,091 to tOO.000           0         0        0         0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
More than       100,000           0        0         0        0         1        0  188,788        50         0        0         0        0
Water Supply Systems           209       100  183,047       100      326       100  381,055       100       109      109  131,365       100
W-SYSTEH:02/04/92



ANNEX 10
Attachment 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
SEWERAGE SYSTEMS DISTRIBUTED BY SIZE: 1990
CASAN                                 EMBASA                                SANESUL
ANNUAL AVERAGE        ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------- -------------------------------
VOLUME PER SYSTEM      SEVERAGE SYSTEMS  ANNUAL COLLECTtON SEWERAGE SYSTEMS  ANNUAL COLLECTION SEWERAGE SYSTEMS  ANNUAL COLLECTION
(1.000   .3).. . . . . . . .           .. . . . . . . .   .. . . . . . . .   .. . . . . . . .   .. . . . . . . .   .. . . .   . . . .
(l,000--- -- ---    -       -----     -----     --- --  --------   -------- -----   --------    -------- -----   -------- -------~~ --------~t* 
% X         3(000)     %                  X      .3(000)     X         11       %      .3(000)     X C
Up          to      100           3       33        56        0        35       44    1,987         6         5       45       170        2
From    tO1 to      500          3        33      890         7       38        48    9.009        26         2       18      582         6
From    501 to   1,000           0         0         0        0        3         4    1,891         5         3       27    1,968        19
From  1,001 to   5.000            2       22    5,530        44         3        4    B,044        23         0        0         0        0
From  5,001 to  10,000            1       11    6,037        48        0         0         0        0         1        9    7,837        74
Frm 10,001 to  15,000             0        0         0        0         1        1   14,023        40         0        0         0        0
From 15,001 to  50,000           0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
From 50,007 to 100,000           0         0         0        0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0
More than       100,000           0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Sewerage Systems                 9       100   12,513       100        80      100   34.953       100        11      100   10,557       100
S-SYSTEM:02/04/92



- 62 -
ANNEX 11
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION SECTOR
SWCs Water Customers and Consumption
-------------------------------------
December, 1990
SWC / Tariff Category     Water Customers          Water Sold per Month
#  8   m3(000)       %    m3/custome::
CASAN                        648,717    100.0      11,368    100.0.      17.52
Residential                  580,813     89.5       8,257      72.6      14.22
Residential A                8,943      1.4          94       0.8      10.51
Residential B              571,870     88.2       8,163      71.8      14.27
Commercial                    52,817      8.1       1,221      10.7      23.12
Industrial                     5,940      0.9       1,250      11.0     210.44
Public                         9,147      1.4         640       5.6      69.97
EMBASA                     1,132,632    100.0      17,606    100.0       15.54
Residential                1,042,097     92.0      14,698      83.5      14.10
Residential A             273,539      24.2       3,069      17.4      11.22
Residential B              768,558     67.9      11,629      66.1      15.13
Commercial                    79,080      7.0       1,749       9.9      22.12
Industrial                     1,000      0.1         424       2.4     424.00
Public                        10,455      0.9         735       4.2      70.30
SANESUL                      357,654    100.0       6,054    100.0       16.93
Residential                  310,633     86.9       5,108      84.4      16.44
Commercial                    36,093     10.1         553       9.1      15.32
Industrial                    4,592       1.3         110       1.8      23.95
Public                         6,336      1.8         283       4.7      44.67
WC&C:   10/04/91



- 63 -
ANNEX 12
Attachment I
BRAZ I L
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
..................................
MONITORING INDICATORS: CASAN
......................... ..............................
Actual  Estimated                       Projected
INDICATOR                -.- ....   ..-.-.-.-.-...........-.-.-.........-.-...-.-.
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996      1997
OPERATIONAL
...........
Population Served with Water (000)          2,459    2,575    2,700    2,841    3,028    3,215    3,397    3,565
Water Coverage Level (%)                     84.8    85.3    85.9    86.8        88.9     90.6      92.0    92.7
End-Year Water Connections (000)              505      529      554      582      621      659       696      730
End-Year Water Customers (000)                649      679      712      750      799      840       o96      941
Residual Chlorine in Water Pipes (mg/tt)    >0.2      >0.2    '0.2      >0,2     >0.2    O.2       >0.2    >0.2
Water Connections with Meters (K)            72.0    70.0    70.0       75.0    80.0      85.0      90.0    90.0
Unaccounted-for Water (M)                    44.7    38.0    37.0       35.5     33.3    31.9       30.5     30.0
W I S Connections per Employee                174      182      188      195      202      209       217      225
Personnel Cost/Operating Cost (M) /1         71.3    75.2    74.9    74.9        74.9    74.7       74.6    73.7
Population with Sewerage Service (000)        234      267      353      483      552      626       733      808
Sewerage Coverage Level (%)                   8.1      8.8    11.2      14.8     16.2     17.7      19.9     21.0
End-Year Sewerage Connections (000)            24       27       39       57       66       77        91      102
End-Year Sewerage Customers (000)              66       75       99      135      154       174      204      225
Sewage Collected/Water Consumed (U)          11.2    10.8    12.7       16.2     18.9     20.1      21.9    23.6
Sew. Coll.& treated/Water Consumcd (X)         NA      4.1      7.8     10.1     17.1      18.1     19.7    22.4
FINANCIAL
Average Water Tariff (USW/m3)                0.60     0.55     0.59     0.61     0.62     0.63      0.65     0.66
Average Sewerage Tariff (lISSjm3)            0.59     0.54     0.58     0.60     0.61     0.62      0.64     0.65
Operating Ratio /2                           0.72     0.86     0.7?     0.73     0.71     0.69      0.66     0.63
Compliance with NTL /3                       1.10     1.02     1.15     1.21     1.22     1.25      1.30     1.23
Current Ratio                                1.78     1.77     1.67     1.58     1.49     1.54      1.09     1.15
Debt/(Dcbt & Equity) /4                      0.76     0.72     0.67     0.62     0.56     0.52      0.46     0.40
Accounts Receivab.e Comparator (doys)          47       50       55       50       45       45        45       45
Rate of Return (%) /5                        27.3     11.3    20.8      22.8     20.9      18.5     17.4     17.5
Debt Service Coverage (times)                 2.5      1.6      2.8      3.4      3.2      3.3       3.9      2.5
Net Internal Cash/Investment /6             (0.09)   (0.07)    0.23     0.34     0.42     0.55      0.66     0.69
IND-CA: 02/04/92
1/ Operating Cost Excludes Depreciation.
2/ Operating Cost plus Depreciation/Operating Revenue.
3/ Operating Revenue/Operating Cost plus Depreciation plus Debt Service.
4/ Long-term Debt.
5/ RoR on Average Net Fixed Assets.
6/ Ercluding Interest during Construction.



- 64 -
ANNEX 12
Attachment 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MOOERNIZATION PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS: EMBASA
Actual  Estimated                         Projected
INDICATOR                 ...... .-. ...............-..
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996      1997
OPERATIONAL
...........
Population Served with Water (000)            4,752    4,827    5,113    5,377    5,659    5,948    6,247    6,545
Water Coverage Level (%)                       73.4     72.1      73.8     75.0      76.4      77.6     78.8      79.8
End-Year Water Connections (000)                877      887       935      981    1,031    1,081    1,132    1,184
End-Year Water Customers (000)                1,133    1,151    1,219    1,282    1,349    1,418    1,489    1,560
Residual Chlorine in Water Pipes (m8/lt)    >0.2        40.2      >0.2     >0.2      >0.2      aG.2     >0.2      %0.2
Water Connections with Meters tX)              53.5     53.8      55.8     60.3      64.3      69.0     75.1      75.6
UInaccounted-for Water (X)                     43.6     44.7      42.4     40.1      37.6      35.4     33.4      31.3
W  S Connocrtons per Errployee                 154      157       166       175      183       193      202       212
Personnel Cost/Operating Cost I%) /1           70.1     66.2      66,0     65.4      64.9     64.3      63.7      63.0
Population with Seweroge Service (000)          623      638       651      675       701       757      826       869
Sewerage Coverage Level (1)                     9.6      9.5       9.4      9.4       9.5       9.9     10.4      10.6
End-Year Sewerage Connections (000)              63       64        66        70       74        81       89        94
End-Year Scwerage Customers (000)               149      151       154       t60      166       180      197       208
Sewage Collected/Water Consuned (13            15.4     15.1      14.8      14.6     14.5      14.8     15.3      15.6
Sew. Coll.& Trcated/Watcr Constsred (X)          NA     19.6      19.8     20,0      2U.2     21.0      22.0      23.5
FINANCIAL
Average Water Tariff (USS/mr)                  0.67     0.46      0.54     0.56      0.57      0.57     0.58      0.59
Average Sewerage Tariff (USS/ml)               0.51     0.35      0.41     0.42      0.43      0.4!     0.44      0.44
Operating Ratio /2                             0.88     0.94      0.80     3.75      0.73      0.72     0.70      0.i.9
Cc.frplieance with NTL /3                      1.06     0.93      1.10      1.18     1.24      1.28     1.31      1.23
Current Ratio                                  0.44     0.67      0.70     0.76      0.72      0.69     0.59      0.57
Dcbt/fDcbt & Equity) /4                        0.85     0.74      0.63      0.56     0.50      0.4'.    0.38      0.34
Accounts Pcceivable Co-p3rator (days)            64       75        70       65        60        55       So        45
Rote of Return (%) /5                           9.1      3.7    1t.2        16.5     16.0      15.2      14.2     13.0
Dtbt Service Covcrage WtImes)                  (2.7)     0.9       2.2       3.1      4.5       5.?      6.5       3.4
Net Internel Cash/Investment /6                0.14    (1.22)    0.21      0.40      0.42     0.48      0.70      0.79
IND-0M: 02/04/92
1/ Operat;ng Cost EAcludes Deprecietion.
2/ Optrating Cost plus Dcpreciatlon/tiperating Revenue.
3/ Operating ltc crnve/perating Cost pluis Depreciation plus Dcbt Service.
4/ tong,tetm Debt.
S Ro# on Average Net Fixed Assets.
6/ Exclu4ing Interest during Construction,



- 65 -
ANNEX 12
Attachment 3
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MOOERNIZATION PROJECT
..................................
MONITORING INDICATORS: SANESUL
............. ..................... ........
Actual  Estimated                        Projected
INDICATOR                 .........  ........  .......................  -   .   -    -   .--
1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1995     1996      1997
OPERAtIONAL
...........
Population Served with Water (000)          1,2B9    1,374    1,460    1.564    1,678    1.789    1,897    2,00i
Water Coverage Level (X)                     81.0      83.0     85.0     87.6     90.5      92.8     94.7      96.2
Erd-Year Water Connections (000)              288       308      328      353      381       408      434       459
End-Year Water Custoawrs (000)                347       370      393      420      451       481      510       538
Residuat Chlorine in Water Pipes (mg/It)   70.1        >0.1     ,0.1     0.1     >0.1      >0.1     ,0.1      >0.1
Water Connections with Metere CX)            70.9      76.1     80.8     8S.1     90.0      91.1     91.1      91.1
Unaccounted-for Water MX)                    36.1      35.9     35.2     34.0      32.8     31.6     30.4      30.2
U & S Connections per Employee                230       235      241      246       250      254      259       264
Personnel Cost/Operating Cost (X) /1         61.8      63.6     63.4     63.5     63.3      63.1     62.9      62.8
Population with Sewerage Service (000)        138       186      235      257       280      311      343      357
Sewerage Coverage Level CX)                   8.7      11.3     13.7     14.4      15.1     16.1     17.1      17.1
End-Year Sewerage Connections (000)            27       35        48       53       59        67       76       80
End-Year Sewerage Customers (000)              42        57       72       78        85       95      105       110
Sewage Collected/Water Consumned (X)         11.6      13.9     17.0     18.6      19.0     19.5     20.4      20.?
Sew. Coll.& treaced/Water Consumed CX)        0.6       0.5      2.1      3.4      4.5       5.4      7.4      8.1
FINANCIAt
Average Wtter Toriff (USS/m3)                0.74      0.67     0.70     0.72      0.74     0.75     0.76      0.78
Average Sewerage Tariff (USV/ml)             0.61      0.59     0.62     0.64     0.65      0.66     0.67      0.69
Operating Ratio /2                           0.79      0.76     0.73     0.71      0.71     0.70     0.69      0.68
Corfpliance with NIL /3                      1.13      1.04     1.06     1.04      1.02     1.05     1.07      1.00
Current Ratio                                0.68      0.57     0.57     0.54     0.49      0.48     0.39     0.39
Debt/(Dcbt 6 Equity) /b                       1.08     0.98     0.88     0.79      0.73     0.66     0.57      0.50
Accounts Rcceivable Comparator (days)           ?2       75       70       65        60       55       50        45
Rate of Return t%) J5                        18.8      15.5     1S.5     13.7      13.0     12.9     11.9      11.6
Debt Service Covernae (times)                 4.2       1.7      1.7      1.6       1.5      1.7       1.9      1.5
Net Internal Cnsh/investment /6                NA      0.19     0.22     0.30     0.24      0.30     0.41      0.40
IND-SA:  02/04/92
I/ Optratin3 Cost Excludes Depreciation.
2/ Cperating Cost plus Ocprcciation/Operating Revenue.
3/ Operating Revenue/Operating Cost plus Depreciation plus Debt Service.
4/ Long terin Debt.
5/ NoR on Average Net Fixiet Assets.
6/ Excluditng Interest during Construction.



- 66 -
ANNEX 13
Attachment I
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
............... ..    ...........
1980-1990 Evolution of Water and Sewerage Tariffs and Service Cost
.................................... ...........................................................
Current USS/m3
Average Water Tariff     Avarage Sewerage Tariff      Average Service Cost
Year *------------..................... .... . -... ............. .......... ..........................
CASAN   EMBASA   SANESUL   CASAN  EMBASA   SANESUL   CASAN   EMBASA   SANESUL
1980      17.02    17.08     9.49    17.49    13.28    13.28    17.08    28.46    18.98
1981      19.66    22.56    13.96   20.21    19.33   32.22    20.41    26.85    22.56
1982     20.06    25.63    15.04    20.61    21.17   31.75    21.73    32.87    35.65
1983      13.86    21.84    12.13    14.21    17.50   25.48    14.38    27.21    13.69
1984      12.77   22.29    13.85    12.88   16.50   25.11    14.12    32.85    16.18
1985      12.35    23.95    14.84    11.66    17.31    25.42    15.08    38.63    21.40
1986      12.71    19.81    15.76    12.07   13.92    16.79    17.00    25.98    18.14
1987      19.07    28.65    21.31    17.70   21.36   24.56    17.67    31.26    24.41
1988     27.52    60.10    31.26    25.50   44.52   35.74    25.63    50.04    32.24
1989     46.99    64.27    50.16   45.50   51.34    40.88   35.76    59.41    43.86
1990     59.53    66.80    74.30   58.84    50.96   61.09   46.08    81.40    59.75
TARIFFS: 11/05/91



WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT                    WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT                       WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
701                                                     go
o .                                                     I                                                                                               4
79                                                    4
*Rf     *ss    5s    s!    *aF   SDw                      
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
t7~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
10
toCf         1     1      i~   I                                                               M 5505 I 
a    79 50U0 x                                              795*    sfm                                    9C"        5*m%
crX
v t
ft@



- 68 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 9
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Investment Programs for 1992-1997: CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL
1.    The six year investment program  (1992-1997) of CASAN  (Attachment 1), EMBASA
(Attachment 4), and SANESUL (Attachment 7) have been conceived to increase water and sewerage
service levels and the operational efficiency of the companies. At the end of the implementation
period, about 3.34 million people will have gained access to water supply and more than 0.94 million
people to water-borne sewerage service. After 1997, a significant number of additional people will
also benefit from subprojects that, although being the least-cost solution, will be exhibiting varVing
degrees of idle capacity during the first operational years. Other important physical objectives are
included with the agreed monitoring indicators presented in Annex 12.
A. CASAN
2.    As shown in Attachment 1, CASAN will invest a total of US$336.6 million. The capital region
(Florian6poiis, San Jose, Palhoca e Santo Amaro da Emperatriz)--which accounts for 21% of that urban
population in the state, will receive US$80.0 million 124%) of the planned investments; Jcoinville,
Crici(ima, and other medium-sized cities (population between 50,000 to 500,000) will receive
US$160.7 million (48%); small-sized towns (population between 5,000 and 50,000) US$47.2 mii'ion
114%); and rural communities (population below 5,000) US$33.5 million 010%). Investments in wtAter
supply and sewerage will account for 50% and 46%, respectively, of the total, while US$15.1 naillion
(5%) will be allocated to instituitional development programs.
3.    The main components of CASAN's investment program are:
a.    Water Supply
The expansion of CASAN's water supply systems seeks to increase thO region's coverago level
from the current 85% to 93% in 1997. The following works will be executed to serve an
additional population of about 1 .0 million people:
1)    Florian6polis Integrated System
Water Production. Water intake capacity will bo increased by about 0.40 m3/s--principally
through the addition of new wells to the svstems, andt treatment capacity by about 0.52 ml/s.
Pumping Stations. The nominal capacity of tho pumping stations will bo Incroased by about
0.40 m3/s.
Transmission Pipelines. TI-he total length of the transmission network will be increased by
about 37 km. The availability of raw water will be expanded by building 13 km of transmission
pipelines to the water treatmient plants anrd the reliability of the delivery system will be
improved by buildingI 24 km of pipelines from thio water treatment plants to tlle storage tanks.
Storage Tanks. Storage capacity will be increased by about 11,600 n13.
Distribution System. About 568 km of primary and secondary distribution pipes and 44,900
connections will be installcd.



- 69 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 9
Rehabilitation and Other Programs. Small investment programs throughout several of CASAN's
water supply systems will also be made to improve its reliability, remove bottlenecks and
reduce operating costs.
2)    Other Medium-Sized Cities {population between 50,000 and 500,000)
Water Production. Water intake capacity will be increased by about 2.07 m3/s and treatment
capacity by about 2.52 m3/s.
Transmission Pipelines. The total length of the transmission network will be increased by
about 135 km. The availability of saw water will be expanded by building 40 km of
transmission pipelines to the water treatment plants and the reliability of the delivery system
will be improved by building 95 km of pipelines from the water treatment plants to the storage
tanks.
Pumping Stations. The nominal capacity of the pumping stations will be increased by about
4.17 m3/s.
Storage Tanks. Storage capacity will be increased by about 57,450 m3.
Distribution System. About 1,077 km of primary an'd secondary distribution pipes and 78,802
connections will be installed.
Rehabilitatioin and Other Programs. Small investment programs throughout several of CASAN's
water supply systems will also be made to improve its reliability, remove bottlenecks and
reduce operating costs.
3)    Small-Sized Cities and Towns (population between 5,000 and 50,000)
Water Production. Water intake capacitV will be increased by about 1.45 m3/s--principally
through the addition of new wells to the systems, and treatment capacity by about 1.49 m3/s.
Transmission Pipelines. The total length of the transmission network will be increased by
abcut 43 km. The availability of raw water will be expanded by building 11 km of transmission
pipelines to the water treatment plants and the reliability of the delivery system will be
improved by building 32 km of pipelines from the water treatment plants to the storage tanks.
Punmping Stations. The nominal capacity of the pumping stations will be increased by about
0.62 rnm5/.
Storage Tanks. Storage capacity will be increased by about 12,900 m3.
Distribution System. About 705 km of primary and secondary distribution pipes and 77,300
connections will be installed.
Rehabilitation and Other Programs. Small investment programs throughout several of CASAN's
water supply systems will also be made to improve its reliability, remove bottlenecks and
reduce operating costs.
4)    Rural Communities (population below 5,000)
Investment programs in several water supply systems to accommodate demands from new
customers. Theso programs entail construction of some 35,700 house connections.



- 70 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 9
b.    Sewerage
CASAN's expansion of the sewerage systems will increase its coverage level from the current
9% to 21 % in 1997. An additional population of about 0.5 million people will be attended.
A very important fact of this sewerage investment program is that all projects include final
treatment and disposal. Works to be executed are:
1)    Florian6polis Integrated System
Interceptors, Treatment and Final Disposal. To increase the volume of sewage collected that
is treated, about 9.1 km of large diameter interceptors will be constructed, the nominal
capacity of the stabilization ponds will be increased in about 0.68 m3/s, and about 7.0 km of
comp,lementary pipes for final disposition will be built.
Pumping Stations. The nominal capacity of pumping stations will be increased by about 0.98
m3/s.
Collection Network. About 2.8 km of main collectors, 241.0 km of secondary collectors, and
22,200 house discharges will be added to these sewerage systems.
Rehabilitation and Other Programs. Small investment programs will be made throughout these
sewerage systems to improve service, remove bottlenecks ar.n reduce operating costs.
2)    Other Medium-Sized Cities (population between 50,000 and 500,000)
Interceptors, Treatment and Final Disposal. To increase the volume of sewage collected that
is treated, about 9.7 km of large diameter interceptors will be constructed, the nominal
capacity of the stabilization ponds will be increased in about 0.56 m3/s, and at-out 4.6 km of
complementary pipes for final disposition will be built.
Pumping Stations. The nominal capacity of pumping stations will be increased by about 1.35
m3/s.
Collection Network. About 38.9 km of main collectors, 507.0 km of secondary collectors, and
48,400 house discharges will be added to these sewerage systems.
Rehabilitation and Other Programs. Small investment programs will be made throughout these
sewerage systems to improve service, remove bottlenecks and reduce operating costs.
3)    Small-Sized Cities and Towns (population between 5,000 and 50,00(i)
Interceptors, Treatment and Final Disposal. To increase the volume of sewage collected that
is treated, the nominal capacity of the stabilization ponds will be increased in about 0.25 m3/s
and about 2.8 km of complementary pipes for final disposition will be built.
Pumping Stations. The nominal capacity of pumping stations will be increased by about 0.60
m31s.
Collection Network. About 7.7 km of main collectors, 73.0 km of secondary collectors, and
4,500 house discharges will be added to these sewerage systems.
Rehabilitation and Other Programs. Small investment programs will be made throughout these
sewerage systems to improve service, remove bottlenecks and reduce operating costs.



- 71 -
ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 9
c.    Operational Development
Technical assistance, materials and works for: (i) macrometering and pitometry, to improve
reliability and coverage of production metering, and to improve pressure zoning, ascertain pipe
roughness coefficients and delivery flows; (ii) micrometering, to develop maintenance and
replacement programs for meters, and to acquire and install about 36,000 new meters; (iii)
technical cadastre, to carry out a physical inventory of about 2,400 km of networks; (iv) user's
cadastre, to assess and redesign the basic classification of about 120,000 connections; and
(v) planning and operational control, to acquire and install 30 new radio-communications and
automatic systems in four operating units.
d.    Managerial Development
Restructuration of CASAN's area of data processing, including acquisition of a new computer
and development of new management systems, to reduce billing time and improve collection
efficiency.  Renovation of its transportation vehicles to improve CASAN's response to
consumer complaints. Improvement of its inventories' techniques. Implementation of a quality
control program. And construction and equipment of a training center.
e.    Projects
Because CASAN already has many basic projects concluded, most projects will consist in
reassessments, technical assistance, and prepar3tion of executive projects.
4.    The Bank project (see Attachment 2) would finance about 48% of CASAN's tota' investment
program. Subprojects excleded from the Bank proect are (see Attachments 2 and 3): {i) all sewerage
works being financed by IDB and the Federal Government under the PROSEGE program; (ii) all water
and sewerage works already with financing contracts signed with CEF; (iii) all sewerage works planned
in the cities of Videira, CriciOma, e Capador, and complementary sewerage works in Florian6polis; liv)
expansion of those water supply systems for which alternative sources of financing are already
available; (v) all water supply expansion programs in rural communities; and (vi) the acquisition of
veNicles and computers under the institutional development program.
D. EMBASA
5.    As shown in Attachment 4, EMBASA will invest a total of US$385.6 million. *rhe Metropolitan
Region of Salvador--which accounts for 41 % of tho urban population in the stato, will receive
US$178.6 million (46%) of the planned investments; medium-sized cities will receivo US$75.7 million
(20%); small-sized towns US$44.0 million (1 1 /); and rural communities US$20.0 million (5%).
Investments in water supply and sewerage will account for 64% and 19%, respectively, of the total,
while US$54.1 million (14%) will be allocated to institutional development programs and US$13.3
million (3%) to prepare projects and buy general goods.
6.    Tho main components of EMBASA's investment program are:
a.    Water Supply
The expansion of EMBASA's water supply system seeks to increaso the region's coverage level
froim the current 72%X to 80% in 1997. Tho following vvorks will ho executed to serve an
additional population of about 1,718 million peoplo:



- 72-
ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 9
1 >    Metropolitan Region of Salvador
Water Production. Construction in the Treatment Plant of Pedra do Cavalo of: li) a 230 kv
power transmission line to increase in 4.5 m3/s the nominal capacity of its pumping station--
bringing it to the original design capacity of 7.0 m31s; and (ii) a sludge disposal plant to avoid
pollution of the Joanes River-- the largest source of drinking water in Salvador's Metropolitan
Region.
Transmission Pipelines. Construction of 23 km of transmission lines to improve the reliability
of the delivery system from the water treatment plants to the storage tanks.
Storage Tanks. Storage capacity will be increased by 165,000 m3.
Distribution System. 150 km of primary and 850 km of secondary distribution pipes and about
140,000 connections will be installed.
Rehabilitation and Other Programs.  Small investment programs throughout Salvador's
integrated water supply system will also be made to improve its reliability, remove bottlenecks
and reduce operating costs.
2)    Medium-Sized Cities (population between 50,000 and 500,000)
The following works will be executed in about 15 municipalities, including Vitoria da Conquista,
Feira de Santana and Jequie:
Water Production. Water intake will be increased by 0.47 m3/s, treatment capacity by 0.77
n3/s, and pumping stations by 0.30 m3/s. 11.7 km of transmission pipes for untreated water
will be built.
Transmission Pipelines. Construction of 31.2 km of transmission lines to improve the reliability
of tho delivery system from the water treatment plants to the storage tanks.
Distribution System. 128 km of primary and 691 km of secondary distribution pipes and about
84,000 connections will be installed.
Rehabilitation anid Other Programs. Small investment programs throughout these water supply
systems will also be made to improve their reliability, remove bottlenecks and reduce operating
costs.
3)    Small-Sized Cities and Towns Ipopulation between 5,000 and 50,000)
The following works will be executed in about 35 municipalities:
Water Production. The water iintake capacity of those systems will be increased by about
0.803 m3/s, the network of small transmissioni pipes for untreated water will bo increased by
abouit 145 km, the pumping capacity by about 0.490 m3/s, and tthe treatment capacity by
about 0.854 m3/s.
Transmission llipe;ines. Construction of abot 6 03 km of transrission lines to improvo the
reliability of the delivery system from the water treatment plants to the storage tanks.
Storage Tanks. Storage capacity will be increased by about 8,300 m3.



- 73 -                               ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 9
Distribution System. About 64 km of primary and 360 km of secondary distribution pipes, and
about 42,500 connections will be installed.
Rehabilitation and Other Programs.  Small investment programs throughout several of
EMBASA's water supply systems will also be made to improve its reliability, remove
bottlenecks and reduce operating costs.
4)    Rural Communities (population below 5,000)
Investment programs in about 40 water supply systems to accommodate demands from new
customers. These programs entail construction of about 113 km of primary and 264 km of
secondary distribution pipes, and about 37,000 house connections.
b.    Sewerage
1)    Metropolitan Region of Salvador
The expansion of the sewerage system of Salvador's Metropolitan Region will increase the
urban region's coverage level to 23% in 1 997--from its current level of 17%, benefiting the
region as follows: (i} about 5 km of seashore will be recovered by discharging about 4 m3Is of
sewage through an existing submarine outfall; (ii) a very strong septic sewage odor currently
present from the collection point until the ocean will be eliminated; (iii) the existing outfall will
be fully utilized. Built in 1975 to attend a population of about 1.6 million persons (with a cost
of about US$30 million), the outfall is currently used by less than 0.25 million persons; (iv)
scme urban beaches of Todos os Santos Bay will be recovered for bathing usage; and (v) most
open ocean beaches will be recovered by collecting the dry season discharge of the
Camarugipe River (only two small streams with reasonable water quality would keep on
discharging at the seashore). To accomplish these objectives, the following works will be
executed:
Interceptors and Treatment. Construction of a main pipeline of about 4 km at the final portion
of tho drainage basin to collect the dry season discharge of the Camarugipe River and send it
to the ocean. Network implementation of three small drainage basins along the main river,
close to the diversion point.  This inclusion would add 165,000 persons to the system.
Construction of about 3 km of interceptors in Itapua's area. These works will increase the
average utilization of the existing submarino pipeline to 5.4 m3/s_ its nominal capacity is 7.8
m3/s and its current average utilization is about 1.4 m3/s.
Collection Network. About 200 km of collectors and 30,000 house discharges will be added
to the sewerage system.
c.    Operational Development
The objectives of this program are to: (i) reduce unaccounted-for-water from 44.7% (the level
observed In 1990) to 33.3% in 1996; (ii) reduce operational costs; tiii) increase billing and
collecting; (iv) increase EMBASA's productivity; (v) seek economies of scale; (vi) test new
technologies; and (vii) institutionalize operational planning in the company. To reach these
objectives, EMBASA's operational development program requires techinical assistance,
materials arid works for the followinU subprojccts: (i) macrometening, to improve reliability of
production metering by increasing its coverage from 70% to 100%/o in 1996; (ii) pitometry, to
improve pressure zoning, ascertain pipe roughness ;oefficients and delivery flows by creating
and training 30 pitomoetic teams and implemeniting 65 pitometric districts; {iii) micrometering,
to increase the percentage of water connections metered to about 76% in 1997 (from its
current level of 54%') and to develop maintenance and replacement programs for those meters;



- 74 -
ANNEX 14
Page 7 of 9
(iv) consumer services (SIP-SAP), to improve EMBASA's productivity and response to
consumer complaints through training, the replacement of part of its vehicles, better data
systematization, and a program of minor reparations; (v} technical cadastre, to carry out a
physical inventory of about 2,400 km of networks to attain the 50% mark; (vi) maintenance
and rehabilitation of operational units, to develop and execute maintenance and rehabilitation
programs in different operational units, including its etectro-mechanic and electrical equipment;
{vii) planning and operational control, to acquire and install equipment for better water quality
control, implement new operational control activities, and review its technical and operational
manuals; (viii) user's cadastre, to assess and redesign the users' basic classification; and (ix)
billing and collection, to improve EMBASA's organizational methods to reduce billing time and
improve collection efficiency.
d.    Managerial Development
Restructuration of EMBASA's area of data processing, including the acquisition of new
equipment and technical assistance and training.
7.    The Bank project, presented in Attachment 5, would finance about 52% of Eiv1BASA's total
investment program. Subprojects excluded from the Bank project are (see Attachments 6 and 7): (i)
all water and sewerage works with financing contracts already signed; (ii) water distribution pipes and
connections and sewerage collectors and connections planned to be built in Salvador's Metropolitan
Regioni from 1995 to 1997; (iii) the water investment program in all medium-sized cities with the
exception of Vitoria da Conquista, Feira de Santana e Jequie--the three largest cities; (iv) all water
supply expansion programs in small-sized cities and towns and ru,al communities; (v) the entire
managerial development program and the acquisition of vehicles under the operational development
program; and (vi) future project preparation and acquisition of general goods.
C. SANESUL
8.    As shown in Attachment 7, SANESUL will invest a total of US$215.1 million. Its capital
Campo Grande--which accounts for 39% of the urbarn population in the state, will receive US$111.3
million (52%) of the planned investments; medium-sized cities will receive US$19.3 million (9%); small-
sized towns US$54.8 million (25%); and rural communities US$2.4 million 1 %). Investments in water
supply and sewerage will account for 71% and 22%, respectively, of the total, while US$10.6 million
(15%) will be used for preparing new projects and US$ 16.7 million (8%) will be allocated to
institutional development programs.
9.    The main components of SANESUL's investment program are:
a.    Water Supply
The expansion of SANESUL's water supply systems will increase its coverage level from the
current 83% to 96% in 1997. The following works will be executed to serve an additional
population of about 630 thousand people (about 71,500 house connections will be built by
developers during the planning period 1992-1997):
1)    Campo Grande
Projected works will increase water coverage lovel to 96% in 1997 (from 83% in 1991) and
allow future demand to be attended until year 2000.
Water Production. Perforation of 11 wells with a total projected capacity of about 0.22 m3 s
to increase the total capacitV of the Guariroba system to about 0.67 m3fs. And construction



- 75 -
ANNEX 14
Page 8 of 9
of 2 pumping stations and 16.0 km of water transmission pipes to increase raw water
availability in the treatment plants.
Transmission Pipelines. Construction of about 26 km of transmission lines to improve the
reliability of the delivery system from the water treatment plants to the storage tanks.
Storage Tanks and Pumping Stations. Construction of 4 new stations to pump treated water
to the distribution system. And construction of 10 storage tanks to increase storage capacitY
by about 26,000 m3.
Distribution System. About 244 km of primary and 382 km of secondary distribution pipes and
about 25,000 connections will be installed.
2)    Medium-Sized Cities (population between 50,000 and 500,000)
Projected works will increase 1997 water coverage level to 95% in Dourados, Corumba-
Ladario, and Tres Lagoas from the current 1991 levels of 72%, 90%, and 90%, respectively.
These works will also allow future demand in these cities to be attended until year 2000.
Water Production. Water intake and treatment capacity will be increased by about 330 It/s
(230 I/s in Corumba-Ladario and 100 I/s in Tres Lagoas, where 3 wells will be drilled). About
8.5 km of transmission pipes and 4 pumping stations for raw water will be built .
Transmission Pipelines. Construction of about 6 km of transmission pipes in Corumba-Ladario
to improve the reliability of the delivery system from the water treatment plants to the storage
tanks.
Storage Tanks. One storage tank will be built in Corumba-Ladario to increase storage capacity
by 1,000 m3.
Distribution System. About 35 km of primary and 203 km of secondary distribution pipes and
9,300 connections will be installed.
3)    Water Supply In Small-Sized Cities and Towns (population between 5,000 and 50.000)
Projected works will allow to maintain current water coverage level in 47 cities and towns.
Water Production. Water intake and treatment capacity will be increased by about 170 It/s.
and about 2.5 km of transmission pipes for raw water will be added to these systems.
Transmission Pipelines. Construction of about 8.4 km of transmission pipes to improve the
reliability of the delivery system from the water treatment plants to tho storage tanks.
Storage Tanks. Storage capacity will be increased by about 15,400 m3.
Distribution System. About 29 km of primary and 414 km of secondary distribution pipes, and
22,600 connections will be installed.
4)    Rural Communities (rIopulation below 5,000)
Investment programs in several water supply systems to accommodate demands from new
customers. These programs entail construction of some 8,078 house connections.



- 76 -
ANNEX 14
Page 9 of 9
b.    Sewerage
The expansion of SANESUL's sewerage systems will increase its coverage level from the
current 11 % to 17% in 1997. An additional population of about 170 thousand people will be
attended. Subprojects to be executed are under preparation for the following areas:
1)    Campo Grande
The few urban areas that hzvp, current access to sewerage systems use the Prosa and Segredo
Rivers as their final destination points without any kind of treatment. Sewage produced in
these regions will now be collected and pumped for aorated ponds and then discharged into
the rivers. In other areas that are not currently served by the sewerage system--low-income
districts, in general, a septic tank scheme will be implemented with a program of settled sludge
cleaning and treatment at the lagoons. This solution will improve the ecological conditions of
the rivers, and the risk of general waterborne diseases contamination during the rainy season
flooding will be reduced.
2)    Cities and Towns of the Interior
Low-cost technology projects based on septic tanks and anaerobic filters, for example, will be
prepared and implemented at localities until 50,000 inhabitants.
C.    Institutional Development
Programs on operational and managerial development aim at reducing unaccounted-for water
to 30% in 1997 (from its current level of about 36%), and operating costs, and improving
water and sewerage systems reliability, billing and collection efficiency, and consumer services.
In particular, technical assistance, materials and works will be required for: {i) macrometering
and pitometry, to improve reliability and coverage of production metering, and to improve
pressure zoning, ascertain pipe roughness coefficients and delivery flows; (ii) micrometering,
to implement maintenance and replacement programs for meters; {iii) technical cadastre, to
continue with a physical inventory of the water distribution network; (iv) user's cadastre, to
assess and redesign the users' basic classification; {v) operational units, to develop and
execute maintenance and rehabilitation programs in different operational units throughout
several of SANESUL's water supply and sewerage systems, to improve their reliability, remove
bottlenecks and reduce operating costs; (vi) planning and operational control, to acquire and
Install equipment for better water quality control, implement new operational control activities,
and review its technical and operational manuals; Ivii) consumer services, to improve
SANESUL's response to consumer complaints; (viii) billing and collection, to restructure
SANESUL's area of data processing, optimize organizational methods, reduce billing time and
improve collection efficiency; and (ix) technical assistance and training.
d.    Projects
Most projects will include technical assistance for the preparation of basic and executive
projects.
10.   The Bank project, presented in Attachment 8, would finance about 60% of SANESUL's total
investment program. Subprojects excluded from the Bank project are (see Attachments 8 and 9): (i)
all sewerage works being financed by IDB and the Federal Government under the PROSEGE program;
ii) all water and sewerage works already with financing contracts signed with CEF; (iii) expansion of
Campo Grarnde's sewerage system; (iv) the aistribution part of the water investment program in half
of targeted small-sized towns; {v) all water supply expansion programs in rural communities; and (vi)
the acquisition of vehicles and computers under the institutional development program.



- 77 _                                                   ANNEX 1,4
Attac ment 1
8PAUL
IJATgl SLCTOA 8IODW61IZA'UON PROJSECT
CASAI4'S Inivetment tProgr.
DSS Thousand: oo of Juro  1991
w ...........*w9"w*F9...................... ...................................... "."w*b@woP w@"sw..........................
D)SCLPT O8                    1992      1993      8994      1995      1996       1997      TOTAL
.................. ......... .!............... .... !  _ ..... ........ ........ .. ..... .......  ........ ... ___... __...
I.   CLSA1'5 6OTAL INvEST l PRIAHOG
A.   W&TEP SUPPLY                                    20.633   30,163   20.156   21,271   16,300   15.408  139.731
I.   1LORLAN2OPOLIS o System                          5,664    2,788    2.s80    2.z20    2,791         2,362    19,532
Raw Water ?ntal. 5 trnsmieeon                      634         0         0       100         0         0       734
?Ping Stottion                                      97         0         0         0         0         0         97
Treatm.nt                                          106        82         0       258       134         0       580
Tr.ated Water Trmnaiseton                       2,412          0         0        82         0         0    2,494
ieeervoirs                                        357       326        387         0       284         0    1,384
Primary Distribution                            1,606    1,700    1.013    1.700         8,700     1.700   10,219
Secondary Distribution                               0         0         0         0         0         0          0
Connections                                       622        680       660       600       680       682    4,024
2.   Cities with 50   to 500K 2tlabitante           13,646   17.252   14,645    7,516    4,130    4.816   62,005
As'.. Water Intalce 6 Tranaui.,io              s5,966    4.250         430         0         0         0   10,666
Puz.ing Station,                                  649    5 165      1.590        950         0         0    6,354
Trs*tment                                          500    1.350    150m           0         0         0    5.358
Treated Water Transmission                      3,045       .560    3,227    1,580           0       706   12,856
Reservoir.                                        931    1 709    1.676          530         0         0    4,*66
Primary Distribution                            1,575    1.190    4.938    3.550    2.950    3.000    17,203
Secondert                                            0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Connections                                        960    1,020    1,276       1.176     1.180    I,1IO      6.722
J.   Localitios with 5K to 50R inhobitants            2.923    3,123    5.631    6.935    6,372    5,210   30.194
F.v Water Intoko S Tr.n,mleeieon                  381          0       455       660       610       750    2.856
Pumpint Station*                                   240       113       3.7         0         0         0       670
Treatment                                          748       740       831       8'0     1.808       eso    5.280
Treated Vater Transmiseeon                           2       606       400       400       3e8.      soo    2.202
K.eervoirs                                          83       869       496       400       301         0    l,1,.49
Primary Dietuibution                               513      509    1.992    34207    2,798    2,000    11,119
Socondary Dietributlon                               0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Connections                                       963        986    1.140    1.228    1.171    1,110    6,598
4.   Loralitlee up to 58 inhabitants                  6,0OO    7,000    5,000    6.0o0       3.000    3.000   28,000
.   ..v............................
.   SEWER9GE                                         17,646   20,470   20,347   .9,000   26.104   25,273  829,040
1.   LNHZ60PDLIS  System                              4,809    5,706    4,891    6,700    18.900   13,395   47.401
Conn ctione                                       , 000      906       1         20                1.100    4,896
Collector*                                      3,065    4,200    18400    1.500    3,700    4,600   88,465
Hain Collector$                                      0       100       140       250       35i         0        841
PurpIng Stations                                  488          0 o       o       220       460       535     1,783
Intcre.ptore                                         0      500        ,7?       540    2,139    3,060       6,710
Treatnt                                            151         0    2.500    S,700    4,2100    4,00   14.651
DinaI Disposition                                  105         0       S00       200       250         0       755
2.   Citte uwitb 50D to  OOK inh&bItantq             88,783   14,764   85,456   12,300   18.707    6,326    72,346
Conroctiono                                    81115    1,524    18109           902       954       *99    6,833
Collector*                                      5,623    6,733    6.459    6,232    7,090          2,913   35,050
Hain Collector*                                    600    1,533    3,988       2,924    1,468    8,432    12,268
Pumpitng Stations                               1,85s    2,259    2.767        1,359       375       600    9,2's
In trceptors                                       700      547        800       812         0         0    2,86s
TrVatment                                       1,503    1,867         757        31       eo0        882    5,840
final Diepositinn                                  3t7       301       253         0         0         0       941
3.   Localities with Sl to SOK inhabitant.            1,254         0          0         0    2.687    5,552       9,293
Connectione                                         8...........,....  0  0        0       100       390       574
Collectoat                                        513          0         0         0    1,263    3,000    4,776
Mcan Collector$                                      0         0         0         0       645     1.000      1,445
Pusping Stations                                   0'?         0         0         0       179       400       696
Interceptors                                         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
Treatmant                                          is,         0         0         0       500       762    8,593
Final Disposttion                                  209         0         0         0         0         0        209
A.   Localitlee up to S5  inhabitant,                     0         0          0         0         0         0         0
C  ...............................
C    INSTITUTIONAL DEVE0LP8T                         2,167   18100    1,100    1,100    1.100    1.100            7.667
0.   PROJECTS                                         1,000   18000   18000    10000             S         500    5,000
CASAN S TOTAL IIOVESrdEII? tASE COST           49.46  5  2,733   50,603   42,371   44,004   42,288  281,438
Phyeical Contiogeneies                          2,472    2.637    2,530    2,119    2,200    2.114   14,072
Prico Contingeniets                             2,025    6,374    6,376    7,296    9,657   11.321   41.049
....................~..........                    ........                           ........................ ; ....... .................................................................................
CASAkI'S tOTAL IIOvESI7I8  cosr'               53,943   59,744   s9.509   31,784   55,861   55,716  336.539
Interoct During Construction                    3,777    3,609    3,470    4,902    5.992          2,085    23,635
............. _ ..............................................................................................
CASAN'~S tOTAL IEVESflOEN? KEQItJlE2El8TS      57,720   63,1S3   62,979   56,688   61,t53   57,801  360,t91
IIVII.SC, 09116190



- 78-                                                   ANNEX 14
Attachment 2
B?.AZIL
VATLIt SECSWll 9t0E7JZ#ZATION PIDJECT
........................ ....................._..................................
CASAII'S OOveata,t 9rogr..
05$ ThouaOdeO sa OF Juog, 199I
WSCJltPT1011                    199Z      1993      1994     1995      1996      1997    TCTAL
....... ............ _!! . ,  ? ............... ..               ..      ....     ....       ....     ....   ......
tl.  tIlD 2AOSECT
...... !2 ........  
A.   WATX. suFPLY                                   10.156   18,263   17,224   1O.,30  6,625    2.608   65.706
1.   ?LOINiA3OPCL?0'e System                           733    2.300    2.40D    2.3140    2,318    1,902   12.001
I9v Water Totalce & Trcn aeton                    167         0        0       IOD         0         0       267
uapSrlg Stations                                    0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Treatasnt                                          33       82         0       235       136         0       So7
Treated weter Transaiseion                         31         0        0        82         0         0       113
v a.r.s,ra                                          0      326       387         0       2F4         0       997
Pr:Acry DOltribution                             446    1,7D0    1,S13    1.700    1.100    1,700    9.061
SeCondary P.tt:lbution                              0        0         0         0         0         0         0
connection.                                        34      200       200       200       200       202    1.056
2.   C'ttsa vitb SIG  to SOcr InhAbitanta            8,313   13,792   1t,153    *.490    1.070           706   38,524
lag Water Zotalce & Tranialaetcn               3,700    4.250        630         0         0         0    8.380
hugSnlj stations                                649    2.665    1,000         950         0         0    5,264
TreatmeltC                                       0So     1,350    1.508          0         0         0    3.358
Treas     ater TrOnrSICteon                    3.045    3,068    1,100    I.SIO            0       706    9,229
Reservoir.                                        419    1,209    1,257        S30         0         0    3.415
Fr tary DIstrituttio                                0    ll.O     6.586    I.550        950         0 D,276
S:orlndat' Distribution                             0         0        0         0         0         0       0
Connettiona                                         0       60       272       I50       120         0       602
3.   Loclittar with 511 to sox 50 nhabtatnts         1.110    2.163    6,671    4.000    3,237             0   15,181
i;a  Water S.Ntake;  Tra;n,mlaatn                 381         0      655       310       210         0    1.356
Puspitnx  Statton,                                166       113      317         0         0         0       596
Treatment                                         460       760      931       590       608         0    3.229
Treated Water Trsnsaieston                          t      606       400       200       184         0    1.392
teser:or                                           1.0      169      686       600       300         0    1.406
Prtmary Diatr1bu.ton                               57      509    1.992    2,307    1.798            0    6.663
SecontJas  DistrtbutiDn                                      00        0         0         0                   0
Conneotona                                          4        26      180       193       136         0       539
4.   Loealities up to 50 inhabttants                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
,...............................
B.   SVE.AAGE                                        4*500   10,682   17.238   14,691   10,903           974   59,188
1.   1L0R1A3o'iCtIS'a Syvts.                             0    1,200    2.391    3,000    3.500             0   10.091
Connectiona                            0 ~ ~ ~~~~~               ~~~ 0  1000  290  300  0       690
Collectora                                          0       6080   0,00    1,500    1,700            0    5.200
ltOn Collaetor                                      0       100      140       250       351         0       841
'uplng Statlone                                     0         0       80       220       260         0       560
Interceptora                                        0      300       471       360       639         0    2.150
Tretmetwnt                                          0         0        0         0         0         0         0
PInl Diapo.ltion                                   0         0      200       200       250         0       650
2.   Cities vith SOR to SODI Inhabitants             4.500    0.602   14,647   11.6901    7.40)          974   49.097
ConnectI.n.                                         0      637    1.000        793       60D        61    3,090
Coll.ctora                                        527    2.678    4.959    3.732    5,335          913   21.144
Main Collettora                                   600    1.533    3.311    2.024    1,468            0    9.836
P1'uplng Statione                               1,320    2.119    2.767    1.389           0         0    7.595
Intareoptor.                                      700      567       800       822         0         0    2.869
Treatsent                                       1,100    1.667       737        31         0         0    3,75
final Dlapoaition                                 253      301       .53         0         0         0       807
3.   Localitiee utth SR to 50t inhabitaa.ts              0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Connections                                         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Collertore                                          0         0        0         0         0         0         0
SaSn Collectors                                     0         0         0        0         0         0          0
Puspins Station0   0                                                   0         0         0         0         0
tntareaptor                                         O        O         O         O          
T   *nl                               ~~~                                    ~~~~~0 0 00  0  0    0
nter DlaPOOSSO                                     0O0                                     0                   0
1ta   Lipcto                                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
4.   Localities up to 5R tvhabltenta                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
......... ............... _ ...
C.   tNSTITUTIOOAL DEVELOPHZNT                         700    1,100    1,100    1,100        1,100    1,100    6,200
D.   PROJECTS                                        1.000    1,000           1      0,0       500       500       000
CASAIOS SOt2.LJ ?ltNVSflGNt 8450 cosr         16,356   31.245   36,162   27.621   09,128    5,082  136,094
Phystc.1 Continbentetr                            818   1.62    1.828    1.381          O56       259    6,803
Price Continbencti,                              670    2,592    4.607    4.756    4.198    1,387   18,210
C/ASAJOS TOtAl INVIISNTO4  COSr               17,646   3S,J9C   '.2.997   33,758   26,282    6,829  161,109
tnteract During Construction                     357    1,528    2,974    6,381    3.443    1,S57   16,370
........... I................. w................... ._.............. .....................................
CASAIIS TOTAL INVISTHDIT P.EQOIPfl025TS       18,381   36,927   43,970   38,130   29.725    8,336  0177679
SUlV2-5CI 0910.191



ANNEX 14
- '19 -                                                 Attachment 3
UASER SECTOR 6iSESDIZZATioi PROJECT
CASAN 'S ttv;;t;;nt ?rogrea
USS tbousends ;; o2 June. ii91
~~~~~~~~~~~.....                                                    .....    ....    ......   ............ -
DESCRIPTION                    1992     1993      1994.    1995       1996      197       STOTAL
,,_,... _._..... z__... ..................... .. ...... ........ ........ ........ ........ .......s_. ... ....._
SU. OTMER PROJECTS
.,............
a.   Ur&1  somFLT                                   18,277   11.900   10.932   10,461    9.675   12.00   74,025
...........
1.   ILOklANOPOL!S'o System                          5,131       480       480       4180      430       480    7531
........ ........   -
low Water tntsktk    i Tranrntaie n               *67         0         0         0         0        0       467
pumping stattons                                   97         0         0        0          0         C       97
Treamet                                             3         0         0         0         0         0        73
Treate5 Water Tratai4aaion                     2.361          0         0         0e        0         0    2.381
Re*srvoire                                       357          0         0        0          0        0       387
Primary Diotrtbution                            1,158         0         0         0        0         0    1,158
SecondAry Distribution                              0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Connactiona                                      568       480       480       *80       480       460    3,968
2.   Cities witb hSO  to  OOK Inhabitants           5,333    3.160    4.492    3,026    3,060    4,110   23,4I1
B.u Waoter tntake I TramlFia2on                1,286          0         0        0          0         0    2.28C
Pumping St1tiona                                    0      500       590          0         0         0    1,090
Trtu nt0                                                      0         0         0         0         0         0
Treated Wattr trknn2imstou                          J    1.500    2,127           0         0         0    3.627
Reaervoiva                                        512       500      119          0         0        0    1,1431
Pristry  tetribution                            1.575         0       $52    2,000    2.000    3.000    8,927
Secondary Ditribution                               00                       0        0                        0
Conn4ctton                                       960       960    1.004    1.026    1.060    1,110    6.120
S.   Localities vith 5t to 50t tnhabttanto           1.813       960       960    2.935    3,135    5.210   15,013
Ray Water Znta9ea I Traoralssion                    0         0         0      330       400       750    1,500
PunPing Ststions                                   74         0         0         0         0         0        74
Troetment                                         2B1         0         0      350       500       850    1.981
Treatod W*ter Trancstoston                          0         0         0      200       200       500       900
Reservoir                                          43         0         0         0         0         0       43
Primagr  OitributIon                              456         0         0    5,000    1.000    2,000    4,456
Seconary Distribution                               0         0         0         0         0         0        0
Connections                                       959       960       960    1,035    1,035    1.110    6,059
1.   Localities up to 3g Snhobttonts                 6,000    7,000    5,000    4.000    3,000    3,000   28,000
...................................................... 
D.   SEWEAGE                                        13,346    9.S88    3,109    4,309   15,201   24,299   69,852
1.   FLOK?A7OPOLIS'. System                          4.809    4,506    2.500    3,700    6,400   13,395   37.310
.,onnectionc                                    1,000       906         0         0      500    1,100    3,506
Collectors                                     3.065    3.600           0         0    2.000    4,600   13,265
main Collctors                                      0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Puzpltng Sttion.                                  188         0         0        0       200       535     1.223
Interceptors                                        0         0         0        0    1,500    3,060    4,560
Tre4tnont                                         151         0    2.500    3,700    4,200    4,100   14,651
Final Disposition                                 105         0         0         0         0         0       105
2.   Cties witb 50K to 500RK inhattnts               7,263    5,082        609       609    4,314    5,352   23,249
Connoetions                                     1,115       887       109       lO0      384       439    3,042
Collectors                                     5,096    4,055         500      500    1,755    2.000   13,906
Hemin Colectors                                     0         0         0         0    1,000     1,.32    2,1432
Pumping Stattons                                  535       140         0        0       375       600    1,650
Interceptors                                        0         0         0         0         0        0         0
rreatuent1 403                                                0         0         0      800       882    2,083
linal Ditpooitton                                 134         0         0         0         0         0       134
3.   Localittie  vith SR to 50K inhabitants          I,254         0         0         0    2,487    3,552    9,293
Connections                                        84         0         0         0       100      390       574
Collectors                                        313         0         0         0    1,263    3,000    4,776
Main Collectors                                     0         0         0         0       445    1,000    1,445
Pusping Stations                                  117         0         0         0       179      400       696
Interceptors                                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
treatment                                         331         0         0         0      500       762    1,593
final Dtoposition                                 209         0         0         0         0         0      209
4.   Locoltties up to 5t inhabitants                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
............ .................................... 
C.   INSTITiTIONAL DEVElOPHalT                       1,467         0         0         0         0         0    1,467
D.   PROJECTS                                            0         0         0         0         0         0         0
CASAN S TOTAL IOSVEStT10   BASE cosT         33,090   21,1.88   14,041   14,750   24,876   37,099  1145,344.
Physical Contingencies                          1,655    1,074        702       738    1,244    1,855    7,267
Price Contingencies                             1,355    1.782    1,769    2,540    5.459    9,933   22,839
*w*""*w*B*""**wn**v*Off"**    w*ev** o--_--------e"@o* ,,N:M-                          *,,,*N_ Mow,;i_
C.SAN S TOTAL IHVEST1GNT CosT                 36,100   24,51.5   16,512   18,027   31,579   48,887  175,450
Interest During Construction                   3.240    1.881        496       521       51.9      578    7,265
CASAN 'S TOTAL INVCSTXE14T 1tEQ0IR12itES      39,340   26,226   17,008   18,548   32.128   49,465  182,715
....................... .......................................... .,, ........... , ........  1.Ss 09.11619
lNV3-SC8 09/16/91



ANNEX 14
- 80 -                                                 Attachment 4
*IZIL
tATER SECTOR HOOER1iZATION PROJECT
......~~~~~.. ''ogr-o--
EffSASA S Invetmnt Prograo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_.___.__.__._...............................................__...................
DSS Thouands ae of June. 1991
DESCRIPTION                    1992      1993     1994      1995      1996      1997    TOTAL
.. .. .............................. ... ..... ........ ........ ..... ... O..... ........ ..
. EH  AsA'S TOTAL INVESTKT PROGRAM
,, ... !! ".Z.......-$.B..........
A.  WATER SUPP.T                                  30,816   31,541   *8,724   42,570   29,327   20,096  203.074
1.  SALVhD0K S Metropolitsn  esgtion              22,676   20,701   15,021   11,626   10,739    6,328   $7.291
Ew Uater Intake L Traamaiseion                   571        0         0         0         0         0      571
Pumping Stations                                   0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Treatmnt                                           0    1,*35    1,435          0         0         0    2,S70
Treated Water Transeission                     3,967    2.793    1,056          0         0         0    7,816
1s*ervoirs                                     7,364    7,80S    3,679    2,662    1,406            0   22,919
PrImry Detribution                             2,000    2,260    2,240    2,240    2,240            0   11.760
Secoudary Distribution                         3,026    2,329    2.499    2,635    2,805    2,040   15.334
Connections                                    4,672    3,648    3,861    4.053    4,288    4,288   24,810
Engineering                                      276      44S       251       236         0         0    1.211
2.  Clties with 50R to 500S inhabitants            5,050    6,094   17,412   14,003   11.809    8,396   62,764
ltaw Wzt.c IntakeI Transmission                    0        0    2,194    2,195           0         0    4,389
Pmping Stations                                    0        0       685         0         0         0      685
Trestment                                          0         0    2,726         0         0         0    2.726
Treated Water Transuiesion                         0         0    3,345    3,345    3.346    3.346   13,382
Reservoirs                                         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Primary DiStribution                               0    1,044    3,412    3.413    3,913            0   11,282
Secondary Distribution                         2.456    2.456    2,456    2,456    2.456    2.456   149736
Connections                                    1,977    1,977    1,977    1,977    1,977    1.977   11,862
Engineering                                      617      617       617       617       617       617    3,702
3.  Locltitsee with 51 to 501 fnhabitants          2,262    2.262   12.979   13,429    3,467    2,060   36,959
P.s., Uater Intake & Transmission                  0        0    4,338    9,338           0         0    8,676
Pnwping Stationo                                   0        0       889       884         0         0    1.768
Treatment                                          0        0    i,816    1,816           0         0    3,632
Treated Water Transmieston                         0        0    1.178    1,178           0         0    2,356
Reservoir*                                         0        0    1,521    1,521           0         0    3,092
Primary Dlitribution                               0        0       980    1.430    1,205           0    3,615
Secondary Dietribution                         1.072    1,072    1,072    1.072    1.072    1,072    6,432
Connectione                                      988      98S       988       988       98S       988    5,928
Engincering                                      202      202       202       202       202         0    1,010
4.  Localities up to 51K tnhabit:nt                  828    2.%84    3,312    3,312    3.312    3,312   16,560
B.  SEWWPACE                                       2.310    5,182    5,521   16,109   13,902   17.707   60,731
1.  SALVADOPS Metropolitan Reg on                  2,310    5,182    5,521   16.109   13,902   17,707   60,731
Connectioos                                      302      786       713    1,280    1.420         910    5,411
Collectors                                     1,699    2,609    2,994      7.471    5.652    4,250   24,655
Hain Collectore                                    0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Pu2plg Stations                                 133      973       374       188        94    5,000    6,762
Interceptors                                       0      263       607    5,975    6,179    7,402   20,626
Treattent                                          0         0      412       824       412         0    1,698
FLnal Disposition                                  0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Engineering                                      226      971       471       371       145       145    1,829
2.  Cities vith 50  to 500CK Inhabitant.               0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Connections                                        0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Collectors                                         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Main Collectors                                    0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Pumping Stations                                   a        0         0         0         0         0         0
Interceptore                                       0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Treatment                                          0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Final Dieposition                                  0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Enginering                                         o        o         o         o         o         o         o
3.  Localities w'ith 5K to 50K inhabitants             0         0         a        0         0         0         0
Connecton0                                                   0        0         0         0         0         0
Collectors                                         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Main Collectors                                    0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Puaping Stations                                   0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Interceptors                                       0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Tre&tment                                          0         0        0         0         0         0         0
rival Dieposition                                  0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Engineering                                                                                                   0
4.  Localitiee up to 51 inhabitant.                    0         0         0        0         0         0         0
, _ __ _,.................
C.  tNSTITOTtONAL DEVELOREMT                       6,191    7,595    9,080    9,174    7,850    4,940   44.830
D.  PROJECTS                                           0         0         0         0    2,000    5,000    7,000
E.  CENtX GOODS                                        0         0    2,674       820       506         0    9,000
LUBASA'S TOTAL INVT.Sfl04T 8ASE COST          39,317   66,318   65,999   68,673   53,585   47,743  319,635
Physical Contingencias                         1.966    2.216    3.300    3,434    2.679    2,387   15,982
Price Contingencles                            1.610    3,676    8,316   11,826   11.759   12,783   49,970
I28SlA'iS TOTAL IMVESTh2I COST                4i2.893   50,21    77,ii.615   83,9;32   68,023   62.9i13  385 ,587
Intetest During Conatruction                     632    1,606    3,141    4,807    6,140        1,823   18.149
...... ........ ___..._..__.___.....................___..... _... ....... ........... ____....._- .-... ... ....  -----.........
D43A54'S TOTAL il1VES1bENS 9EQUIttD6ENTS    63,525   51,816   80,756   8h,739   74,163          64,736  403,736
ThV1.L^a 09116/91



ANNEX 14
-                                                   Attachment 5
_.............
WIATER SECTOR MODEPrnzAn5O1 P%WJECT
DASA'5 Investment Program
US$ Thousands s of June, 1991
................... ............................... -..............................................
DESCRIPTION                     1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997    TOTAL
... .._._.___..............._._.__.__.__.................. .........__ .....___.__.__ ......____ ........ ... .....__ ....... _.__ .......... _ 
1. ISRD PROJECT
.!...........
A. WATER SUPPLY                                    12,066   10,359   31,804   15.959    8.598    5,162   91,948
1.  SALVADOR'S   etropolitan Region                 9,766   12,265   14.392    6.125    1.406             0   43,954
Rav Water ntnake & Transmission                   571         0        0          0         0         0       571
Pumping Stations                                    0         0        0          0         0         0         0
Treat ent                                           0    1,435    1.435           0         0         0    2.870
Tr.ated Water Tranumision                           0    1,336    1,056           0         0         0    2,392
Reservotrs                                        331    1,458    3,679    2,662       1,406          0    9,536
Primary Distribution                            2,100    2.240    2,240        876          0         0    8,136
Secondary Distribution                          1.907    1.700    1,870         765         0         0    6,242
Con=tction                                      3,881    3.648    3,861      1,586          0         0   12.976
Engineering                                       276       448      251       236          0         0    1,211
2.  Cities with 50R to SOO  Inhabitants            2.300    6,094   17.412    9,834    7,192    5,162   47,994
Raw Water Intake 4. Transmission                    0         0    2.194    2,195           0         0    4,389
Pumping Stations                                    0         0      685          0         0         0       6B5
TreatmEent                                          0         0    2,726          0         0         0    2,726
Treted Water Tranmission                            0         0    3.345    3,345    3.346    3,346    13,382
Reservoirs                                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Primary Distribution                                0    1,044    3,412    2.030    2.030             0    8,516
Secondary Distribution                            933    2,4'6    2.456      1,109    1,109      1,109    9,172
Connuetons                                        750    1,977    1,977         706       707       707    6,824
Engineering                                       617       617      617       449          0         0    2,300
3.  Localities with 5K to 50K inhabitants               0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Rtaw Water Intake & Transmission                         0         0              0         0         0         0
Pumping Stations                                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Treatment                                           0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Treated Water Transmission                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Reservoirs                                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Primary Distribution                                0         0         0         0         0         0         a
Secondary Distribution                              0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Connections                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Engineering                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
4.  Localities up to 5R inhabitants                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
B.  SEWERAGE                                        2,310    5,182    5,521   10,961    9,979   12,547   46,500
1.  SALVADO'S  etropolitan Region                   2,310    5.182    5.521    10,961    9,979   12,347   46,500
Connections                                       302       786      713       473       48S          0    2,759
Collectors                                      1,649    2.689    2,944    3,130    2,664             0   13,076
Main Collector&                                     U         0         0         0         0         0         0
Pumping Stations                                  133       973      374        188        94    5,000    6,762
Intereeptots                                        0      263       607    5,975    6,179    7,402   20,426
Treatmient                                          0         0      412        824      412          0    1,648
Pinal Disposition                                   0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Engineering                                       226       471      471       371        145       145    1,829
2.  Cities with SOK to SOOK inhabitants                 0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Connect -ons-0                                                0         0         0         0         0         0
Collectors                                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Main Collectors                                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Pumping Stations                                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Interceptors                                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Treatment                                           0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Pinal Disposition                                   0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Engineering                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
3.  LocalitLes with SR to SOK inhabitants               0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Conn:ctions                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Colletors                                           0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Main Collectors                                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Pumping Stations                                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Interceptors                                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Treatment                                           0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Final Disposition                                   0         0         0         0         0         0         O
Engineering                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
4.  LocalitiSa up to SR inhabitants                      0        0         0         0         0         0          0
,,.,........_._....  ........
C.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOP2MET                       4,140    4,986    5,617    6,135    6,883    2.219   29,980
t213ASA'S TOTAL INVESSltENT SASE COST          18,516   28,327   42,942   33,055   23,460   19,928  168,428
Phytical Contingonctes                            926    1,426    2,147       1,653    1.273        996    8,421
Price Contingencies                               758    2,366    5,411      5,692    5,587    5,336   23,150
E2iBASA'S TOTAL INVESTMN  CosTr                20,200   32,320   50,500   40,400   32,320   26.260  202,000
Interest During Conetrtaction                     632    1,606    3,141    4,807    6,140    1.823   18,149
.. .._...................................................... ........................................................
E2f8ASA'S TOTAL  INVESSIENT P,EQIIRENENTS    20,832   33,26   33,641   45,207   3i3,460   28,083  220,149
IUV2.3As 09/16191



ANNEX 14
-82-                                                  Attachment 6
US$ Thoussads as of JuA., 1991
.... !SC IPTZOH                    1992      1993      199'.    199).   .1996        1997    TOTAL
11.0T'.r  PROJECTS
A.  WATER $UP 1.!                                  15,730   13,162   16.920   26.611   20.729   14.93'  111,126
I.  MAVZO'   etropolitan Region                    12.910    6,436        629    3.701    0.333    6.326   63.337
Rag Water Intak  & Tranautaston0                 0         0         0         0         0         0
Pumpini. Stations                                   0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Treat out                                           0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Treata  Water Transmission                     3.967    1.657           0         0         0         0    5.624.
R..sorvc,ire                                   7.033    6.350           0         0         0         0   13,383
mriary Distribution                                 0         0         C    1.36'.,   2.240          0    3,606
Canondary Distribution                         119         60         69     180       285       20.        .1
onnectLone                                      791          0         0    2.467    6.268    4,268   11.634
Engindering                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
2.  Cities with 30K. to soar. Inhsbitsnts           2,750         0         0    6.169    4.617    3,234.  16,770
Rag Water  ntalc  6 Transalseion0                0         0         0         0         0         0
pumping Stations                                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Tre atment                                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Treated Water Transmission                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Reservoira                                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Primary Distribution                                0         0         0    1,383    1,363           0    2,6
Secondary itrbto                               1,323          0         0    1.347    1,567    1.347    5,566
Connections                                     1.227         0         0    1,271    1,270    1,270    5.036
Engineering                                         0         0         0       165      617       617    1,602
3.  Localities vitb 5r. to so0. inhabitants         2.262    2,262   12.979   13,629    3,467    2,060   36.459
Rag Water ntake 6 Trnamiesion0                   0    4.335    6,335           0         0    6,676
Pum~ptn6 stations                                   0         0      604       686          0         0    1.768
Treatmeut                                           0         0    1.616    1,616           0         0    3,632
Treated Water Transmission                          0         0    1.178    1,178           0         0    2.336
Reservoirs                                          0         0    1.521    1,521           0         0    3.062
Primary Distribution                                0         0      980    1,630    1,205            0    3.615
Secondary Distribution                         1.072    7,072    1,072    1,072    1,072    1.072    6.432
Cornnection.                                      988       968       988       988      g86       986    5.928
Engineering                                      202       202       202       202       202          0    1.010
4.  Localities up to SR inhabitants                   628    2,684    3,312    3,312    3.312    3.312   16.560
S.  SEWJERAGE                                           0         0         0    3,168    3.923    3,160   14,231
1.  LALVADORS Metropolitan Region                       0         0         0    5,168    3,923    5.160   16,231
Cnnectl.ons                           ~    ~ ~~           ~ ~~0  0  0  507  935       910    2,652
Collectors                                          0         0         0    6.361    2,988    6.250   11,379
Main Collectors                                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Puznping Itatinns                                   0         0         0         0         0         0         0
lntsrceptors                                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Tretatment                                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
final Diapositton                                   0         0         0         0         0         a         0
Engineer ns                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
2.  Cities with SOK to 5oo0. inhabitants                0         0         0         0         0         0         0
C----n-------------0                                   0         0         0         0         0          0
Collector*                                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Main Collectors                                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Pumping Stativne                                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Interceptors                                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Treatment                                           0         0         0         0         0         0         0
final DOipoaition                                   0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Engineering                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
3.  Loc&lities with SR to SCR inAalbitants              0         a         0         0         0         0         0
...............n....                         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
Collectors                                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Main Collectors                                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
pumping Stations                                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Incarceptore                                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
'treatment                                          0         0         0         0         0         C         0
Fpinal Disposition                                  0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Engineering                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
4.  Localities up to SR inhabitants                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
C.  tNSTITtUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                      2,051    2,609    3,663    3.039          967    2,721   16,630
D.  PROJECTS                                            0         0         0         0    2.000    3.000    7,000
E.  GENERA  GOODS                                       0         0      .674       620       506         0    4.000
Phyeical Contingencies                         1,040        790    1,153    1,761    1.406    1.391    7,560
Pric  Contingencies                               652    1,310    2,905    6,133    6,172    7.441   26,620
~2ASA   TOTL ZlWSPMET COS.........590                      7.11      3,532T  35.703   36,63   18.58
tnterest Duting Construction                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
INV3S.A 09116191



- 83                                                 ANNEX 14
Attachment 7
WATER SECTOR MODEPJIIZASTOI PXOJECT
SANiESUL'S Investment Pro5rsaF
...... ....... _._......__
$ Thbs*ends as of Juoe, 1991
...........................................................................................................
DESCRIPTtON                   1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997    TOTAL
................. ................................. ..........   .__._..  ___......._ ............ ........ ........ ...........  ........
.  SANESUIL'S TOTAL INVESTCNS POGRhA4
........ ............ 
A. WATP SUPPLY                                   10.556   13.632   21.112   17.732   13,757   10,117   56.936
1. CAHPO CIANDE                                  7.966    7,485   12.660    9,625    6.440    4.200   45.176
1t... Water Intake 6 STranmitsion            1.000    1,000    1.500    1,000    1,000          0    5,500
Ppupig Stations                                550      150       470      640         0        0    1.540
Treatment                                      135       135        0      135         0        0       405
Treated Watcr Transaission                   2,455    1,000    3,000    2,450       500         0    9,605
pResrvolr6                                   1,060    1.000    3.490    1.000        740        0    7.290
PrLmary Distribution                         1,107    2.320    2.320    2.320    2,320    2.320   12.707
SCcindary Distribution                       1,025    1.260    1.280    1.280    1,2t0    1.280    7.425
Connection6 60.                                         600       600      600      600       600    3,604
2. Cities vith S0K to 500K inhabitants             600    1.922    2.192    2,182    1,392    1,392    9,760
Raia Uater Intake & Traranmisson                 0      520      340       100        0         0       760
Fusping Stetione                                 0       70         0        0         0        0        70
Trestment                                        0       100      200      300         0        0       600
Treated Water Transmission                       0        0       260      390         0        0       650
Reservoirs                                       0       40         0        0         0        0        40
Primary Dletribut'on                             0      370       370      370      370       370    1,850
Secondary Distribution                         450      760       760      760       760      760    6,250
Connections                                    230      262       262      262       262      262    1,540
3. Localtties vitb 5r to 50K tcinabttints        1,80    4.025    5.960    5.25    5.725    4.425   27,800
Paw Water Intake L Transmission                490      320      300       300      400         0    1,810
Pumping Stations                               100       SO       200      200       100        0       650
Treatment                                      100      460       500      600      700         0    2.860
Treated Water Transtitsson                       0       50       100      100       100        0       350
Reservoirs                                       0       35      460       325      325       325    1,470
Primary Distribution                           400    1,200    1.600    1.600    1,600    1,600    8,000
Secondary Distribution                         570    1,3t0    1,840    1.840    1.840    1.840    9,310
Connectiona                                   10       530       660      660       660      660    3,350
*. Localities up to 5  itnhabttants                100       200      300      300       200      100    1.200
__.___ .................. _.. _....
S.  SEWERACE                                    12,500    7 000   11.000   13,000   13.000   13.000   69.500
1. C8HPO OIANDE                                  8.500   4*000    6,000    8,000    8,000   10,000  644500
2.  OTILR LOCALITIES                             4.000    3.000    5,000    5,000    5,000    3,000   25,000
C.  IHSTITUTIONAL DMVSLQTKDT                     2.517    2,352    3-'50    2,250    2.250    1,250   13,899
D.  PROJECTS                                     2.500    2,500    1,450       950       950      450    8.500
SAZ1ESUL'S TOTAL I01VESTME1~1SiASE COST     2;.103   is.516   36,i12   33,932   28,957   24,51i  179,135
PhyseCal Contitnercies                       1,405    1,276    1,841    1,697    1,495    1,241    5.957
Price Contingenctee                          1,151    2,116    4,638    5,843    6,574    6,645   26,967
SAN4ESUL'S TOTA2L IINVESTIfEST COST         30,659   25,906   43,291   41,472   35,029   32,703  215,059
Interest During Constructton                   963    1,320    2.179    3,023    3.945    1,173   12.603
Shl4ESUL'S SOTAL UWVESTIEllT P.EQUX9DEITES   31.622   30,226   45,470   *4,495   41,974   33,576  227.662
........................... .................................................. * ,  ...... ............, .01619,
'LNVI.l15t 09116/91



- 84-                                                 ANNEX 14
Attacment 8
UATER SECTOR WODERNIZATION PROJECT
.. _ _ _ .._    !.__.._ _.. _________..
SANESOL$S Inveatment Progras
~~~~~~~~~~~~____,...........__.........______.....................................
USS Thoutaand as of June. 1991
DESCRIPTION                    1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997    TOTAL
_____._____..............................  __..... ........ _.._..  .......  _..__..  ........__  _........___ ______ ........
It. I RD PROJECT
....... .............. 
A.  WATER SUPPLY                                 86388   12.372   18.762   13.382   11.507    7.967   74.378
1.  CAKPO 091.2401                                7.698    7.485   12.660    9.425    6,440    4,200   47.908
Raw  atear tnttkce & Tranbmissuon             1.OCO    1,000    I.500    1.000    1.000           0    5,300
Pumping Stations                                580      150       470      640         0         0    1.840
Treatment                                       135      135         0      135         0         0      405
Treated Water Tranemission                    2.45    1.000    3.000    2,450        500         0    9,405
Recervoirs                                    1,060    1.000    3,490    1.000        740         0    7 290
Primary Distributieon                         1.107    2.320    2.320    2.320    2.320    2,320   12,707
Secondarg Distribution                          850    1,280    1,280    1,280    1,280    1.280    7.250
Connections                                     511      600       600      600       600       600    3,511
2. Citias vitb 50R to 500K inhabitants                0    1.922    2,192    2,182    1.392    1,392    9.080
Raw Water Intake & Transasciton                   0      320       340      100         0         0      760
Pumping Stations                                  0       70         0        0         0         0       70
Treatment                                         0      100       200      300         0         0      600
Treated Water Tranesisaion                        0        0       260      390         0         0      650
Reservoirs                                        0       40         0        0         0         0       40
Primary Distribution                              0      370       370      370       370       370    1.850
Secondary Distribution                            0      760       760      760       760       760    3,600
Connectiong                                       0      262       262      262       262       262    1.310
3. Locolities with SR to 50K inhabitants            690    2,965    3.910    3,775    3,673    2.375   17,390
Raw Water Intake & Tranamieeion                 490      320       300      300       400         0    1.810
Puzping Stations                                100       50       200      200       100         0      650
Treatment                                       100      460       800      800       700         0    2,860
Treated Water Traneicsion                         0       50       100      100       100         0      350
Reservoir.                                        0       35       460      325       325       323    1,470
Primary Distributton                              0      800       o00      800       800       8o0    4,000
Secondary Distrlbution                            0      920       920      920       920      920    4.600
Connections                                       0      330       330      330       330       330    1,650
4. Localitics up to SR inhabitants                    0         0        0         0        0         0         0
....... ...........  _.....
P.  SEWERAGE                                          0    2.000    4,000    4.000    4.000    2.000   16,000
1. CUPO CRANDE                                        0        0         0         0        0         0         0
2. OTHER LOCALITIES                                   0    .,000    4,000    4.000    4.000    2.000   16.000
C.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOZ1IIT                     1,200    1,800    3,000    2,000    2.000    1.000   11,000
D.  PROJECTS                                      1.500    1,500    1,250        750      750       350    6,000
SAX4ESUL S TOTAL INVESTHIENT BASE COST       11,088   17.672   27,012   22.132   I8.257   11.217  107,378
Physical Contingencies                          554      884    1.351    1,107        913       561    5.369
Price Contingencies                             454    1.466    3,404    3,811    4,006    3.003   16,144
SANESUL'S TOTAL INVESThENT COST              12,096   20,021   31.766   27,050   23, 176   14.781  128.891
Interest During Construction                    38I      984    1,944    3,023    3,945    1.173   11,457
SAN4ESiLS TOTAL INVESENENT REQUIRDi6EN1TS   12,484   21,005   33,710   30.073   27,121   15,954  040,348
INV2-MSr 09/16191



-85s-                                                 ANNEX 14
Attachment 9
8RAZIL
ATER. SeCTOP flyDE?JZZAT.CN PROJECT
6NShISJ'.'f5 Inv;;ten;n Progr;a
OSS Thouoands as of June, 1991
................................... ................................................................. ""*-..---.......---  
DESCRIPTION                    1992      1993      1994     1995      1996      1997    TOTA
._.........._.._........ ..____*...... ......... .....  _.__...... .._..  .....  _..
III.OTER PROJECTS
......... ....
A. WATEP. SUPPLY                                   2,198    1,260    2,350    2,350    2.250    2,150   12,538
1.  CAM(PO GAI4DE                                    268         0        0         0         0         0       268
Paw Water Intaklc  & Transmisuion                  0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Pusp5ng Stct'.ons                                  0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Trsstuant                                          0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Treated Water Tranmission                          0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Is Irvoir                                          0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Primary Distribution                               0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Secondary Distribution                           175        0         0         0         0         0       175
Connections                                       93         I        0         0         0         C        93
2.  Cities vith 50K. to 500R inhabitanto             680         0         0        0         0         0       680
Raw Hater ~ntake 6 Transoission                    0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Ptn;vg St;tiono                                    0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Treatment                                          0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Treted Water Trantmission                          0         0        0         0         0         0         0
IeservoIts                                         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Pr;i:n  Distribution                               0         0        0         0         0         0         0
ceconday Distribution                           450          0        0         0         0         0      450
Conanctions                                      230         0        0         0         0         0       230
3.  Localities with 5g to SOP inhsbitants          1,150    1.060    2,050    2,050    2,050    2,050   10,410
Rew Water Intecsk 6 Trancstroton                   0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Pumping Stations                                   0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Treatn                                             0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Treated Water tran.mission                         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
R.sssrv,rs                                         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Primary Distribution                             400      400       800       600       800       800    4,000
Secondary Distributton                           570      460       920       920       920       920    4,710
Cor,i',ctOlm                                     180      200       330       330       350       330    1,700
4.  Localities up to 51: inhabitants                 100       200       300      300       200       100    1,200
B.  SEuERAGE                                      12,500    5,000    7,000    9,000    9,000   11,000   53,500
1.  CAMPo GPAANDE                                  8.500    4,000    6,000    6.000    8.000   10,000   64,500
2. OTIER LOCALITIES                                4,000    1,000    1.000    1.000    1,030    1,000    9,000
C.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHENT                      1,317       582       250      250       250       230    2,899
D.  PROJECTS                                       1.000    1,000        200      200       200       200    2,800
SAlESVL S TOTAL 1NVE5121224T iASE COST       17,015    7,84i    9,800   11,600   11,;00   13,600   71,337
Physltal Contingencies                          B51       392       490       590       585       680    3,588
Price Contingencteo                              697      650    1,235    2,032    2,568    3.641   10.823
SAi4ESUL S TOTAL iNVE6TtNHT COST            i8,563    8,885   11,525   14,422   14,853   17,921   86,168
Interest During Constructio,                    575      336       235         0         0         0    1,146
SAIIESUL S ToTAL INVESTMENT PZQUIRiNTs   i9,i3i    9,i22    11,760    14,422   14,853  1i,921i   8.31i
IOVS.23S. 09/16191



- 86 -
ANPEX 15
BRA2IL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
~~~~~....... ......... _
Institutional Strengthening Component
............. !..............
vSS Thousands as of June, 1991
.... .....................................-.....  ......................
DESCRIPTION                                         1992      1993     1994      1995      1996     TOTAL
A. FOPXULAIION OF A NEW REGULATOR': YODEL        275 man.-onth         1,000    1,438    1000           0        0    3,438
FOR SRAZIL'S WATER AN.D WASTES SECTOR         e US$12,500 per
Includes institutional reformulation,         %an-month
draftipg of proposed lstislation, and
definit on of functions and mechanisms
B. EVALUATION AND0 REIRHFOULATION OF THlE        50 man-month            150       325       150        0         0       625
SECTOR INVESTIVENT PROGRAMOINlG AND0          e US$12,500 per
FINANCING MODEL                               man-month
to upgrde   it off  tency In accordance
with (A) above
C. INSTITUTIONAL BUILDINI,                                               480       890       480        0         0    1,850
1. Updatfng of SNS' capebiities to be in         Training                 80        90       80         0         0       250
lIno with the proposed regulatory model
2. Updating of otbor federal agencies'           4 enminsrs e            200       400       200        0         0       800
capabiliti.s to be in line with the           US$200,000 each
proposed regulatory tod,l
3. Traintng of sector's management In            4 #eminre               200       400      200         0         0       800
linn,  snrketint, and op.rational            USS200,000 each
%echnIquec.includ ng coat reductions
D. PREPARATION FACILITIES FOR A PROPOSED         120 van.month           SuO       900       300         0        0    1,500
WATER. DD(AD4 KAAMODIET AND SYSTEMS           0 US$12,500 per
REHABILITATION PROJECT                        zan-month
INSTITUTIONAL COMPONE}JT oASE COST                                  1,930   -3553   -1,90 io0                  0  --4
Price Contingencies                                                    7S       281      232         0         0       588
TOTAL INSTITUTIONAL COt4TONENT COST                                 2,005    3,833    2,162          0         0    8,000
------------------------------ 2" 005"  - -53" - -.6-- ... -...... 0-- ---- --923
SNV-SNSI 09iiiiii



- 87 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Methodology and Results of the Marginal Cost Pricing Analysis
1.     Marginal cost pricing analysis has been applied to evaluate the tariff structures and the
economic benefits and cost-effectiveness of prospective water and sewerage investments in the states
of Bahia, Mato Grosso do Sul, and Santa Catarina. Long-run average incremental costs (LRAIC) have
been estimated for eight water supply systems and one sewage collection and treatment system
managed by the SWCs of CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL. The planning horizon covers 30 years
(1992-2021) and the opportunity cost of capital (OCC) is assumed to be 10%.
Projections of Water Productioni and Consumption
2.     Urban population, projected by the compaiiies based on census data, is assumed to growth at
a uniform rate from 1991 to the year in which the expanded water supply system saturates. A star
is attached to the year in which the extended production capacity of the water supply system is
saturated, namely, when water production minus unaccounted-for water is equal or smaller than water
consumption. Urban population served is simply the product of total urban population and the
estimated service coverage level. Urban population is assumed to be static after the saturation year,
constraint by the project's water supply capacity. The number of households served is calculated
dividing the urban population served by the estimated number of persons per household, which is
assumed constant at their 1990 levels throughout the entire planning horizon. The incremental number
of households served in year t is calculated as the difference between the number of households
served in year t and the number of households served in year (t-1). Assuming implicitly that water
demand is inelastic to price changes, total water consumption is projected as the product of the urban
population served by an estimated daily water consumption per capita. The average unaccounted-for
water level is assumed to decrease during project implementation as a result of the actions to be taken
under the institutional development program, and then to remain steady at its 1997 level.'. Water
production is computed as the sum of water consumed and lost in the transmission anc distribution
networkz'. The total incremental water production is calculated as the difference between the current
water production level and the water production level in the base year (i.e., 1991). The production
capacity of the water supply system is expanded when the project becomes operational. The index
of excess capacity shows the percentage of the current production capacity which is not utilized. The
total incremental benefit resulting from new investments is divided into the benefit from reducing
unaccounted-for water, the benefit from restoring supply reliability, and the benefit from expanding
supply capacity. The benefit from reducing unaccounted-for water, BRL, is equal to the additional
water available to old and new customers resulting from a company's accumulative efforts to decrease
11 The assumption of constant unaccounted-for water levels after project completion, that is, after 1997, requires from the
companies to completely internalized into their day-to-day operations all the measures that allowed them to reach their new
levels. In the case used to illustrate this methodology, the costs associated with keeping all those measures in placed once
project execution Is completed are implicitly assumed to be part of thq companios' total operating costs. However, an explicit
recognition of these costs will improve the cost-benefit analysis of reducing unaccounted-for water levels and produce a more
reliable estimate of the LRAIC of this type of subprojects.
2g This can be mathematically expressed as:
WPt =     ce
w   le
where WC,, It and WP, are thte consumption amount, the average loss level, and the total r~roduction in year t, respectively.



- 88 -                                   bANNEX 16
Page 2 of 5
its average loss i b:e-. The benefit from restoring supply reliability, BRR,, results from a partial or total
elimination of an overloading operation of treatment plants4'. The benefit from expanding supply
capacity, BEC,, is equal to the nominal capacity of additional facilities built under the projectr-'.
However, given the V'vct that the benefit from expanding supply capacity is usually fulIV captured only
after several years of the beginning of project operation, an additional element to adjust total benefit
needs to be introduced. This adjustment benefit, BEX, is by definition!' usually negative during the
first years of project oper.iion. The net present value of the incremental amount of water to be
supplied by the project is then calculated using the assumed OCC. The discounted present values of
benefits from reducing unaccounted-for water, restoring supply reliability, expanding supply capacity,
and the adjustment benefit are calculated analogously. As an example, projections on water
consumption and production in Florian6polis (CASAN) are presented ir, Attachment 1.
Projection of Sewage Collection and Treatment
3.     Urban population served with sewerage connections is estimated as the product of total urban
population and projected service coverage levels. The projected amount of sewage collected in each
year is estimated based on the number of sewerage connections projected for each year and the
amount of sewage produced per connection in each year. The amount of sewage produced per
connection may vary annually (in Florianapolis, for example, where the number of households per
connection is assumed to decrease during the project implementation period, the amount of sewage
produced per connection also decreases during the entire implementation period). The incremental
amount of sewage collected in year t is calculated as the difference between sewage collected in year
t and in the base year. The total and incremental amounts of sewage collected and treated are
calculated analogously. The net present value of the incremental amounts of sewage collected and
sewage collected and treated by the project are then calculated using the assumed OCC.
S/ The following formula is used to approximately calculate the marginal benefit from reducing unaccounted-for water:
BRLt = Wpt*T. (lk-1-7k) = WPt*(1o-1t)
where L, is the loss level in vear t and 10 is the avorage loss rate in the base year.
4/ The benefit from restoring supply reliability, BRR,, can be calculated as follows:
BRRt  0,             if WPCI > WPI
BRRt  WP,-WPC1,         if WPC < WP1
where t = 1, 2,.... T.
Et The benefit from expanding supply capacity, BEC,. can be calculated as follows:
t
BECr =    (WPCk-WPCkl) = WPCt-WPC0
where t = 1, 2 ... r and WPC. is the water supply capacity in the base year.
i BEX, is defined as:
BEX5 = AWP,-BRR-BRCt
where t = 1, 2, ..., T.



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 5
Incremental Costs in Water Supply Systems
4.    Incremental costs in water supply systems result from building new capacity, reducing
unaccounted-for water levels, and operating and maintaining new facilities. The capacity cost includes
investments for water intake, water supply treatment, transmission, primary distribution, secondary
distribution, and connections. Complementary investments--mainly house connections and secondary
distribution water pipes--to be built after project execution is completed and until the year in which the
system capacity is saturated are also included. Complementary investment costs are calculated based
on the number of incremental households to be served in each year and an assumed cost per
household of building the required facilities. The investment cost for reducing unaccounted-for water
levels corresponds to a fraction of the total cost of the companies' institutional development program.
All investment costs are expressed in market prices of June, 1991, and include engineering and
physical contingencies. Since fixed operating and maintenance (O&M) costs are associated with the
formed capital stock, they should be accumulated over years. Incremental fixed O&M costs in year
t are then assumed to be proportional to capacity investment costs accumulated from year 1 to year
t. Total investment costs in each year are equal to the sum of capacity investment costs plus the cost
of reducing unaccounted-for water plus incremental fixed O&M costs in the same year. The net
present value of these stream of costs are calculated using the assumed OCC as the discount rate.
As an example, projected investment and O&M costs for Florian6polis (CASAN) are presented in
Attachment 2.
Incremental Costs in Sewerage Systems
5.    Incremental costs in sewerage systems result from building new capacity and operating and
maintaining new facilities.  The capacity cost includes investments for sewerage connections,
secondary collectors, main collectors and pumping stations, interceptors, and final disposition and
treatment. Complementary investments--mainly house connections and secondary collectors--to be
built after project execution is completed are also included. Complementary investment costs are
calculated based on the number of incremental households to be served in each year and an assumed
cost per household of building the required facilities. As in water supply, all investment costs are
expressed in market prices of June, 1991, and include engineering and physical contingencies. Also
as in water supply, fixed operating and maintenance (O&M) costs are associated with the formed
capital stock and are accumulated over years. Incremental fixed O&M costs in year t are then assumed
to be proportional to capacity investment costs accumulated from year I to year t. Again as in water,
the net present value of all streams of costs are calculated using the assumed 0CC as the discount
rate.
Calculation of Long-Run Average Incremental Costs
6.    Long-run average incremental costs (LRAIC) have been calculated at each stage of the water
supply chain as the ratio of the sum of the present value of the respective capacity investment and
incremental fixed O&M costs to the discounted present amount of incremental water production. Since
investments that reduce unaccounted-for water levels produce results that are equivalent to increasing
water production capacity, the present value of these investments should be added to the present
value of increasing water intake. Since LRAIC are calculated based on incremental water production,
an adjustment for water losses should be made at each stage of the water supply system to find the
actual marginal cost. To this end and based on the current unaccounted-for water distribution, loss



ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 5
|Wl9ATER    INTAE   |Untreated
Water
Customers
O.005Q  .|,                       TREATMENT
PLANT                               Consumera
with Special
TRANSMISSION    / / s    / ,Jo t                             Conotrats
O.00S -Q                                                                   Bulk Sale
, , D ~~~~~~~Colnsers
0.050Q                                                           Consumers
with Special
0.08Q     -       SECONDARY                                                 Contracts
DISTRIBUTION
-                 O~~~~E  Non-Legal
_FF l   _   .            I    i   Consumption
O.I4oQ               I    I            i    I |
SMALL CONSUMERS
Losses   0 = Large & Medium Connections  0= Small Connections
Q - Total Volume of Treated Water
Figure 1. Simplified Diagram of a Water Supply System
adjustment factors (LAF)" have been calculated at the system's steady leakage level (see Figure 1).
Marginal capacity costs (MCC) at the water intake level are then equal to the product of LAF at that
level for the correspondinp RAIC; the MCC at the treatment level is equal to the LAF at that level
multiplied by the sum of t._s MCC at the vater intake level plus the LRAIC at the treatment level; the
MCC at the transmission level is equal to the LAF at that level multiplied by the sum of the MCC at the
treatment level plus the LRAIC at the transmission level; and so onr'. Marginal operational costs
21 The Loss Adjustment Factors (LAF? are calculated as follows:
LAj=(1
where LAF, and 1, are the LAF and the percentage of unaccounted-for water divided by 100 at level i of the water supply system,
namely, water intake, treatment, transmission, primary distribution, secondary distribution. or connections.
AI The Marginal Capacity Cost IMCCI is calculated as follows:
MiCl -LRAZIC *LAF,
MCC.2= (MCC, LRAIC2) *LAF2
MCC,= (MCC(, .1) +LRAITCI) *LAF,



- 91 -
ANNX3
Page 5 of 5
IMOC) at each stage of the water supply chain are equal to the unitary cost necessary to produce an
additional m3 of water (chemicals plus electricity) times the corresponding LAF. And finally, marginal
consump' on costs at each stage of the water supp;; chain are equal to the sum of the corresponding
MCC and MOC at that stage. As an example, estimated LRAIC, LAF, MCC, MOC, and marginal
consumption costs for Floriandpolis (CASAN) are presented in Attachment 3.
7.    LRAIC have been also calculated at each leve3l of the sewerage chain, from collection to final
disposal. and treatment, as the ratio of the sum of the present value of the respective capacity
investment and incremental fixed O&M costs to the discounted present amount of incremental sewage
collection (connections, collectors, and main collectors) or incremenzal sewage collected and treated
(interceptors and final disposition and treatment).
Financial and Economic Subsidies
8.    The tariff structures of CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL are shown in Annex 1 7. Financial
subsidies (or overcharges) are calculated, in each system and for each tariff category, by comparing
the average tariff rate charged to that specific group of customers with the company's overall average
tariff rate. Economic subsides (or overcharges) are calculated, in each system and for each tariff
category, by comparing the average tariff rate charged to that specific group of customers with the
marginal cost to provide the service to them. As an exarple, estimated financial and economic
subsidies for Salvador (EMBASA), Florian6polis (CASAN) are shown in Attachment 4, and for Campo
Grande, Corumba/Ladario, Tres Lagoas, Miranda, Sete Quedas, and Guia Lopes (SANESUL) are shown
in Attachment 5.



BRAZIL                                                             Attachment I
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Projected Water Consumption & Production and Investment Benefits
In Florianopolis Water Supply System
URBAN                       TOTAL                                 WATER                INVESUIEN 8ENBIff COW M3VEA_
URBAN  COVER- POPU- HOUSEHIOLS S,ERVED  WATER   AVER-  WATER PRODUCTION   PRODUC- EXCESS                  REST-
YEAR   POPU-   AGE   LATION                       C(MSUMP- AGE                 IMCRE-      TION    CAPA- REDUC- ORING  EPAND-   EEtrr   TOTAL
LATION  LEVEL  SERVED   TOTAL   INCIRE-   TION 2   LOSS    TOTAL    MENtAL   CAPACrTY   C,Y    ING    RELIA- WG    ADAUST-  BENEFT
COO)   11%)    (0O)       /    I MENTAL  CO00 P.3  .J)   (.000 US3)   COW M3) ICOOO Ms)   J       LEAKCA   BUM   CAPACITY   MEWi
1991     640.0     83   529.3  126,0191       NA    28.978    34.0   43,906         NA    56.765    29.3      NA      NA       NA        NA       NA
1992     668.0     84   563.8  134,236      8.n17    30.868    33.0   46.071      2,165    67.802    47.2    461       0    11.038    (8.873)    2.626
1993     698.0     87   607 S   144,586    10.350    33.247    32.0   48,893      4,987    67.802    38.7    978       0    11.038    (6.050)    5.965
1994     730.0     89   651.2  155,038    10.452    3S5.651    31.0   51.668      7,762    67.802    31.2   1.550      0    11.038    (3,276)    9.312
1995     763.0     91   695.9  165.680    10,642    38.098    30.0   54.426      10.520    67,802    24.6   2,177      0    11 ,c38    (518)   12.697
1996     797.0     93   74Z20   176,668    10,988    40.625    29.0   57,218     13,312    73.164    27.9   2.861      0    16.399    (3.087)   16.173
1997     833.0     95   788.9  187,822    11.163    43.190    28.    60,405      16.499    73.164    21.1   3,322      0    16.399      100    19.821
1998     870.5     95   824.3  196,274      8.452    45.133    28.5   63,123     19,217    73.164    15.9   3,472      0    16.399     2.818    22,689
1999     909.7     95   861.4  205.106      8,832    47.164    28.5   65,964     22.058    73.164    10.9   3,628      0    16.399     5,659    25.686
2000     950.6     95   900,2  214,336      9,230    49.286    28.5   68.932     25,026    73,164     61   3,791       0    16.399     8,627    28.817
2001     993.4     95   940.7  223,981      9,645    51.504    28.5   72.034     28,128    73.164     1.6   3,962      0    16,399    11,729    32.090
2002 *  1 008.9    95   955.5  2274s        3.512    52.312    28.5   73a164     29.257    73.164     00   4024        o    16399               3321
2003   1,008.9     95   955.5  227.493         0    52.312    28.5   73.164      29.257    73.164     0.0   4,024      0    16.399    1 2,859    33.281
2004   1,008.9     95   955.5  227.493         0    52,312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73.164     0.0  4,024       0    16,399    12.859    33.281
2005   1,008.9     95   955.5  227.493         0    52.312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0   4,024      0    16,399    12.859    33,281
2006   1,008.9     95   955.5  227,493         0    52.312    28.5   73,1&       29,257    73,164     0.0   4,024      0    16,399    12,859    33,281
2007   1,008.9     95   955.5  227,493         0    52,312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0   4,024      0    16,399    12,859    33.281
2008   1,008.9     95   955.5  2z7,493         0    52.312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     o.o   4,024      0    16,399    12,859    33.281
2009   1 ,008.9    95   955.5  227,493         0    52.312    28.5   73,164      29.257    73,164     0.0   4,024      0    16,399    12859    33.281
2010   1,008.9     95   955.5  227,493         0    52,312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0   4,024      0    16,399    12.859    33,281
2011    1.008.9    95   955.5  227,493         0    52,312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73.164     0.0   4,024      0    16.399    12.859   33.281
2012   1,008.9     95   955.5  227,493         0    52.312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0   4.024      0    16.399    12.859    33.281
2013   1.008.9     95   955.5  227.493         0    52,312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0  4,024       0    16,399    12.859   33,281
2014   1,008.9     95   955.5  227,493         0    52,312    28.5   73,164      29.257    73,164     0.0   4,024      0    16,399    12.859    33,281
20:5   1.008.9     95   955.5  2z27.493        0    52.312    28.5   ?3.164      29.257    73.164     0.0   4,024      0    16,399    12,859    33,281
2016   1,008.9     95   955.5  227,493         0    52,312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0   4.024      0    16,399    12,859    33,281
2017   1,008.9     95   955.5  227,493         0    52.312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0   4.024      0    16,399    1ze28    33,281
2018   1.008.9     95   955.5  227.493         0    5?,312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0   4,024      0    16,399    12,859   S3,281
2019   1,008.9     95   955.5  227,493         0    52.312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0   4.024      0    16,39    1Z859    33281
2020   1,008.9     95   955.5  227,493         0    52.312    28.5   73,164      29,257    73,164     0.0   4,024      0    16,395    12859    $3,281
2021   1,008.9     95   955.5 I 227,493 I      0    52,3121   28.r |  73,164     29,257    73,164     0.0   4,024 1    0    16,399    12859    33.281
NPV (r=10%)                                                                      174,327                    27,348      0   137,595,  36.732   201,675
The expaended water supply system o Florianopolis satuLrates In this year.
/I The number of persons per household is 4.2.
/2 Water consumption per capit Is assumed to be 150 litres per day.                                                                            02107192



BRAZIL                                                                     Attachment 2
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Projected Investment Costs
In F'orianopolis Water Supply System
I(SS 'COO as d June 1991)
INVESIIENJ                                                                     1TAOL
YEAR                   CAPACfTY INVESTMENT COST                       FOR CONTROLUNG               INCREMENTAL FIXED O&M COSTS           2 
WATER- TREAT- RANS-  DISTRIBUllON n    CONNEC-  TOTAL  UNACCOUNTED-FOR  WATER- TREAT- TRANS- O0SThiBUION                     CONNEC- TOAL    LENT
INTAAKE  MEW   MISSION PRIMAR  SECOND.  l1ONS I                    WATER          &rA1E   MENT   MISSION PRIMR  SECOND.  TiONS                   COST
1991       0       0        0       a         0         0        0                   0       0       0        0       0         0         0       0O
1992     768      i *5 2,533   2.093          0   O 53   8,157                     371      38       6      127     105         u        33     383     68w
1993       0      86        6   2,127         0       714   2,934                  188      38      10      127     211         0        68     455      3,576
1994       0       0        0   2,310         0       714   3,024                  158      38      10      127     326         0       104     606      3,818
1995     105     271       86   1,785         0       714   2,961                  158      44      23      131     416         0       140     754      3,903
1996       0     141        0   2.083         0       714   2,938                  18S      44      30      131     520         0       175     901      4.027
1997       0       0        0   1,785         0       716   2,501                  188      44      30      131     609         0       211   1,026     3.715
1998       0       a        0       0      2,441      799   3,239                    0      44      30      131     609       122       251   1.188     4.427 I
1999       0       0        0       0      2.550      835   3.385                   0       44      30      131     609       250       293   1,357     4.742 %o
2000       0       0        0       0      2.665      872   3.537                    0      44      30      131     609       383       337   1.534      5.071 W
2001       0       0        0       0      2,785      911    3,696                   0      44      30      131     609       522       382   1.719      5,415
2002       0       0        0       0      1t014      332    1346                    0      44      30      131     609       573       399   1,7861    3132
2003       0       0        0       a         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     609       573       399   1,786      1.786
2004       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      S0      131     609       573       399   1.786      1.786
2005       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     609       573       399   1.786      1,786
2006       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   C      44      30      131     609       573       399   1.786      1,786
2007       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     409       573       399   1,7686     1,786
200Y       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     609       573       399   1,786      1,786
2009       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     609       5 73      399   1.786      1,786
2010       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     609       573       399   1.786      1,786
20i 1      0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      S0      131     609       573       399   1,786      1,786
2012       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     609       573       399   1.786      1,786
2013       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     609       573       399   1,786      1,786
2014       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                  0       44      30      131     609       573       399   1,786     1,786
2015       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     609       573       399   1.786     1,786
2016       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                  0       44      30      131     609       573       399   1,786     1,786
2017       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                  0       44      30      131     609       573       399   1,786     1,786
2018       0       0        0       0         0         0       0                   0       44      30     131      609       573       399   1,786     1.786
2019       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30 s    131     609       573       399   1.786     1,786
2020       0       0        0       0         0         0        0                   0      44      30      131     609       573       399   1.786     1.786|
2021       0 1     0        0       0         0 |       0        0                  0       441    30      131      6091      573       399   1.786     1.786|
sjpjc.weo   769 |   445   2.366   8,916      5,0021   4,692  22,191                  985     398 1   227   1.226   4.555       2,423     2,352  11.181    34 3571
1( The cost of secondary distribution per household Is assumed to be $275. and the cost of water connection with meter is assumed to be $90 per household.
/2 The totad incrementai fxed O&M cost Is assumed to be 5% of the totel capacity investment
02107192



Attachment 3
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Marginal Cost Structure
In Florianopolis Water Supply System
(US$as of June 1991)
40
LRAiC        LOSS      MARGINAL       MARGINAL        MARGINAL           MARGINAL CONSUMPTiON COST
STAGE               (Before    ADJUSTMENT  CAPACIlY    OPERATIONAL    CONSUMPTION            (ISWIMONTH (HSIMcNTH
Losses)     FACTOR        COST          COST             COST         PER COONECTION)  PER CONSUMER)
WATER INTAKE                     0.0123       1.0000       0.0123          0.0467           0.0590             vwariable        variable
TREATMENT                        0.0039       1.0050       0.0163          0.0469           0.0632             variable         vwiable
TRANSM;SSION                     0.0206       1.0050       0.0371          0.0472           0.0842             vwiable          variable
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION             0.0773       1.0526       0.1204          0.0497           0.1700            variable          variable
SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION           0.0426       1.0929       0.1781          0.0543           0.2324             vaiable          varible
CONNECTION                       0.0404       1.1628       0.2541          0.0631           0.3172               1.50              1.24
0207/92



Attachment 4
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Costs, Tariffs and Subsidies in EMBASA and CASAN
FINANCIAL SUBSIDY /1             ECONOMIC SUBSIDY 12
SYSTEMS AND                    MARGINAL COST                   AVERAGE TARIFF                  {OVERCAIE                         fOVERCHARGEl
TARIFF CATEGORIES                    SEWER-  WATER &                 SEWER-  WATER &                  SEWER-   WATER &                  SEWER-   WATER &
WATER    AGE    SEWERAGE  WATER    AGE    SEWERAGE  WATER                  AGE      SEWERAGE   WATER         AGE      SEWERAGE
USSIMS  USSiMa    US$1tS3   USSIMS  USUSM3    USS1t3             %         %            %_                        S         S
EMBASA                                  NA        NA           NA    0.3600   0.2700        0.6300     0.00        0.00         0.00      NA          NA           NA
SALVADOR                                                             0.4000   0.2800        0.8800   (11.11)      (3.70)       (7.94)
NON-RESIDENTIAL
- INDUSTRIAL SERVED FROM
TRANSMISSSION PIPES                 0.09o8      NA           NA    0.9580       NA           NA   (566.11)        NA           NA   1891.72)        NA           NA
PRIMARY OISTRIBUTION PIPES          0.1849      NA           NA    0.9580       NA           NA   (166.11)        NA           NA   (418.12)        NA           NA
SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES        0.2530      NA           NA    0.9580       NA           NA   (166.11)        NA           NA   (278.88)        NA           NA
- COMMERCIAL SERVED FROM
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES          0.1849      NA           NA    0.8068   0.6560        1.4628   (124.11)   (142.98)      (132.20)  (338.34)      NA           NA
SECONDARY DISTRIBUTtON PIPES        0.2530      NA           NA    0.80t8    0.6S60       1 4628  (124.11)   (142.98)       (132.20)  (218.89)      NA           NA
- PUBLIC SERVED FROM                                                                                                                                                             Cl
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES          O.t849      NA           NA    0l.5S2   0.4626        1.0478   (62.58)]    (71.32)      (68.31)  (216 50)       NA           NA
SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES        0.2530      NA           NA    0.58S2   0.4628        1.0478   (62.56)     f (71.32)    (68.31)  (131.30)       NA           NA
RESIDENTIAL                          0.4343       NA           NA    0.3278   0.2285        0.5561     9.00       15.38        11.73    24.57         NA           NA
CASAN                                   NA        NA           NA    0.5700   0.6s500       1.2200     0.00        0.0D         0.00      NA          NA           NA
FLORIANOPOLIS                                                        0.5799   0.6514        1.2313    (1.4)      (0.22)        (0.93)
NON-REStDENTIAL
- INDUSTRIAL SERVED FROM
TRANSMISSSION PIPES                 0.0842   0.6t58       0.7500    1.6259   0.7865       2.4124   (185.25)    (21.00)      197.74) (1,831.00)   (18.13)     (221t.5)
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES          0.1700   0.6858       0.8358   1.6259   0.7865        2.4124  (185.25)     (21.00)      t97.74)  (858.41)    (18.13)     (188.63)
SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES        0.2324   0.8865       0.8982    1.6259   0.7865       2.4124  (t75.25)     (37.98)       (97.74)  4599.81)   (18.13)     (168.58)
- COMMERCIAL SERVED FROM
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PiPES          0.1700   0.8688       0.8358    1.4307   1.085t       2.S185   (151.00)    (67.05)     (108.27)  (741.59)    (63.08)     (201.09)
SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES        0.2324   0.6658       0.8982    1.4307   1.0858       2.5165   (151.00)    (67.05)     (108.27)  (515.82)    (63.08)     (180.17)
- PUBLIC SERVED FROM
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES          0.1700   0.6685       0.8358   2.3438   1.2574        3.8012  (31*.19)    (9.45)       (t195.18) (1.278.71)    (88.86)   (33.87)
SECONDARY D ISTRIBUTION PIPES       0.2324   0.8688       0.8982   2.3438   1.2574        3.60,12  (11 .19)    (93.45)     (195.1 e)  (98.52)    (88.) (8G300.94)
RESIDENTIAL                          0.3172   0.6658        0.9830   0.4285   0.4323        0.8608   _ 24.82     33.49         29.44   (3509)      35.07         12.43
11 Financial subsidies (FS) are defined as follows FSI = (1 - ATIIAT) 100
where: FSI - Financiel Sutbsdy (Overcharge) given to consumers classIfied In category I
ATI  Average Tariff tor consumers classfled In category I
AT - SANESUL's Average Tartf
2J Economic subsidies (ES) are defined as follows: ESI = (1 - ATVIMCI)-t1O
where: ESI - Economic Substdy (Overcharge) given to consumers classifIed In category I
MCI - MargInal Cost associated with consumers classIiled in categry I
020l7/92



Attachment 5
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Costs, Tariffs and Subsidies in SANESUL
FINANCIAL SUBSIDY               ECONOMIC SUBSIDY
SYSTEMS AND                MARGINAL COST                   AVERAGE TARIFF                  (OVERCHARGE) 11                  1ERCHAR;E 2
TARIFF CATEGORIES                  SEWER-  WATER &          |      SEWEil-  WATER &               SEWER-   WATER &                SEWER-  WATER &
WATER    AGE    SEWERAGE  WATER    AGE    SEWERAGE  WATER                AGE     SEWERAGE   WATER    AGE    SEWERAiE
US$/M3  USSIM3    US$1543    USS1111S USSIM3    US$1SM3         %         %           # __       S.                  %
SANESUL                              NA       NA           NA   0.6321   0.5594        1.1915      0.0        0.0          0.0      NA       NA           NA
CAMPO GRANDE                                                     0.6547   0.5704       1.2251     (3.8)      (2.0)1       (2.8)
NON-RESIDENTIAL
- INDUSTRIAL SERVED FROMI
TRANSMISSSION PIPES              0.1895      NA           NA    1.881 8   1.3600     3.0218   (182.9)    (143.1)      (153.s)  (776.9)      NA          NA
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES       0.3248      NA           NA    1.6618   1.3600      3.0218   (162.9)    (143.1)     (153.6)  (41t.6)      NA          NA
SECONDARY OISTRIBUTION PIPES    0.4883       NA          NA    1.68e8   1.3600       3.0218   (162.9)    (143.1)       (153-.6   (254.9)    NA          NA
- COMMERCtAL SERVED FROM
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES       0.3248      NA          NA    1.0835   0.7671        1.s307    (68.3)     (37.1)       jSi.6)  (227.5)     NA          NA
SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES    0.4083       NA           NA    1.0036   0.1671       1.8307    (88.3)     (37.1)      (53.6)   (127.1)     NA          NA
- PUBLIC SERVED FROM
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES       0.3248      NA          NA   2.2370   1.6595        3.8965   (253.0)    (196.7)      (227.0)  (588.7)      NA          NA    %O
SECONDARY OISTRIBUTION PIPES    0.46a3       NA          NA   2.2370   1.6595        3.8965   1253.9)    (196.7)      (227.0)  (377.7)      NA          NA
RESIDENTIAL                       0.6479      NA           NA   0.5217   04011         0.9228     17.5       2a.3         22.6     19.5      NA           NA
CORUMBM    LADARIO                                               0.7386      NA           NA     (16.8)       NA           NA
COMMERCIAL                       0.37a7      NA           NA    1.0614      NA           NA      (87.9)      NA           NA    (179.5)     NA           NA
RESIDENTIAL                      0,5569      NA           NA   0.5202       NA           NA      17.7        NA           NA       6.6      NA           NA
TRES LAGOAS                                                      0.5932   0.5629       1.2489      8.2       (0.8)        (4.8)
COMMERCIAL                       0.3916      NA           NA   0.9495   0.6971        1.6488    (50.2)     (24.8)       (38.2)  (142.5)     NA           NA
RESIDENTIAL                      Os,sa1      NA           NA   0.4827   o.3928        0.8755     23.8       29.8         26.5     15.0      NA           NA
MIRANDA                                                          0.5738      NA           NA       9.3        NA           NA
COMMERCIAL                       0.5845      NA           NA    1.0612      NA           NA     (67.9)       NA           "A     (81.6)     NA           NA
R ESIDENTIAL                     0.7835      NA           NA   0.4475       NA           NA      29.2        NA           NA      42.9      NA           NA
SETE  UEDAS                                                      0.5a22      NA           NA       7.9        NA           NA
COMMERCIAL                       0.2429      NA           NA    2.0740      NA           NA     (69.9)       NA           NA    (342.2)     NA           NA
RESIDENTIAL                      0.3170      NA           NA   0.4275       NA           NA      32.4        NA           NA     (34.9)     NA           NA
GUIA LOPES                                                       0.5413      NA           NA      14.4        NA           NA
COMMERCIAL                       0.7315      NA           NA   0.8731       NA           NA     (38.1)       NA           NA     (1t9.4     NA          NA
RESIDENrIAL                      0.6996      NA           NA   0.3950       NA           NA      37.5        NA           NA      36.1      NA           NA
I/ FinancIal xubsIdIes (FS) are defined as fotlovs FSI  (t - ATIAT)' 100
where: FSl - Financial Subsidy (Overcharge) giver to consumers classified In cdlegory I
ATI - Avweage Twill tot consumers classllied In category I
AT - SANESUL's Average TarU
2/ Econormic subsidies (ES) are defined es tollows: ESI - (I - ATVMCQI 1 00
where: ESI - Economic Subsidy (Overcharge) given to consumers classified In category I
MCI  Marginal Cost associated wilth consumers classified In caory I
0210092



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATrON PROJECr'
SANFSUL. CASAN and EMBASA's Tariff Structurcs as of June. 1991
MINIMUM                               MONTHLY WATER CONSUMPTION (MWC)                                                   ESTIMATED   ESTIMATED
CATEGORY             MONTliLY                                                                                                                  AVERAGE    AVERAGE
CHARGE           10?cMWC<15  15cMWC<20 20-cMWC.c25 25<MWCc30 30<MWC<45 45<MWCc50  50 < MWC                                 TARIFF            BILL_
WTR T  SG          j JG             j             K     G       iJ a                                        j7 G          WT      SW
WTR  | SWG    WTR | SWG  W~-TR    w    WTR I SWG   WTR |SWG   WTR I swG   WTR T SWC:WRiSG                          T        W;      T        W
USS 1.00 = CrS 297.87      USS/Cons-Mouth    USSIM3_    USSIM3                USSIM3        USS'M3         US: M3         USSIM3         USS5M3        USSfM3        USSIM3-*month
SANESUL                                                                                                                                                 0.63   0.56    10.7    9.47
RESIDENTIAL                    4.04     2.83   0.44   0.31   0.46   0.32   0.86   0.60   0.99   0.69    1.07   0.75   1.07   0.75    1.14   0.80        0.49   0.39      8.07   6.47
COMMERCIAL                     6.58     4.61    1.45   1.02   1.45   1.02   1.45   1.02   1.45   1.02   1.45   1.02   1.45   1.02   ;.45    1.02         1.02   0.75    15.68  11.48
INDUSTRIAL                    10.45     7.31   2.13   1.49   2.13    1.49   2.13   '.49   2.13    1.49   2.13   1.49   2.13    1.49   2.13    1.49       1.78   1.35    42.62  3Z28
PUBLIC                         7.10     4.97   2.96   2.07   Z96    Z07   2.96   2.07   2.96   2.07   296   2.07   Z96    Z07   Z96   Z07                Z021   1.56    39.70  69.68
SYSTEMS
CAPO ORANDE                                                                                                                                              065    057    S353      9.66
DOURADOS                                                                                                                                                 CAS    0.57      0A60   9.60
CORUIEA.%DARIO                                                                                                                                           074    NA        2250    NA
TRES LADOAS                                                                                                                                              0.J9    0536    1024    9.33
MIP-ANDA                                                                                                                                                 0.57    NA       9.7t    KA
OUIA LOPS                                                                                                                                               O04    NA |        .16    NA
SETS CUEDAS                                                                                                                                              0 ..30  NA       9.06    NA
CASAN                                                                                                                                                  00.57   0.65 | 954  32.1
RESIDENTIAL                    3.56     3.56   0.50                  0.50   0.50   0.50   0.81   0.81   0.81   0.8   0.81   0.81    1.33    1.33       0.41   0.51      5.68   7.88
COMMERCIAL                     8.51     8.51   0.00   0.00   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   i.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33          0.73   0.79    15.36  16.77
INDUSTRIAL                    17.02    17.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33           1.15   1.14   22S60  132.91
PUBLIC                        11.35    11.35   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33  1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33           3.27   1.22    39.06  173.23
SYSTEMSll                                                                                                             l              
FLORIANAPOLSO                                                                                                                                            0.2    0.6      10 26   152
SOINVLLE                                                                                                                                                 037    0|0      1Z.77 1"9.9
CIUCIUMA                             _ _ ___                                                                                                             0        i.-  NA   |t.O    NA
EMBASA 1                                                                                                                                                0.36   0-27     5.53   5.19
RESIDENCIAL                    2.47     1.98   0.30   0.24   0.57   0.46   0.57   0.46   0.57   0.46   0.76   0.61    1.00   0.80    1.00   0.80        0.31   0.22      4.62   4.01
COMMERCIAL                     5.71     4.57   0.96   0.77   0.96   0.77   0.96   0.77   0.96   0.77   0.96   0.77   0.96   0.77   0.96   0.77          0.73   0.61    16.28  16.37
INDUSTRIAL                    13.56    10.92    NA    NA    NA    NA    1.22   0.98   1.22   0.98   1.22   0.98   1.22   0.98   1.22   0.98             0.95   1.09   405.01  37.26
PUBLIC                         8.32     6.65    NA    NA    NA    NA    0.75   0.60   0.75   0.60   0.75   0.60   0.75   0.60   0.75   0.60             0.55   0.43    51.82  98.32
F77MS                                                                                                                                                                                           i      I II i1
SALVADOR                                                                                                                                                 040    0.2|     7T0      .6            -.
VITORtA DACONQUISTA                                                                                                                                      0.33   0.27     4.79   4.09
|FEIRADE SANA                                ___________                                                                                                 0.37   0.24     S.7 | .2i
Il Sawarage rates applicable in tb stato capital. Salvador. EMBASA-s swers8. ros are 80% of water rates in tbo capital. 70% in tbe interior. nd 45% in isolted rystor



- 98-                                                 ANNEX 18
Attachment 1
BSRAZIL
VATER SECTOR MODRNIZATION PROJECT
Coupnhiac Catarinenee de Aguee e Saneanento (CASAI)
......... ..............___.__........ ..._ ......._
Incone Stateuent
Current U8$ Thousands
-------.-.------ Historic                             ..---------------  Sit - ..-----.-----.---- Projected .-----------------
1986      1987      1986      1989      1990     1991      1.2       1993      1994      1995       1996      1997
....      ....      ...  ..... ....     ....... ....       .....  ........ ....           ----... ......... .... .... ....... .............. ..
Water Billed (M.3)                 126790   137569   142263   136809   130464   137273   143759   150861   159733   169859   179823   189643
Sewage  illed  06.3)                13935    14808    14860    14292    13631    15172    18687    25130    310S3    35267    40659    46126
Avg. Water Tariff CUS$1m3)           0.13      0.19       0.28      0.47      0.60     0.55      0.59      0.61      0.62      0.63      0.65       0.66
Avg. Sewersge Tariff (US$1*3)        0.12      0.18      0.26       0.46     0.59      0.54      O.AS      0.60      0.61      0.62      0.64       0.65
Operating Revenues                  19194    30051    85088    73811    92265    85S57   103583   114673   126959   139383   152902   166809
...... .......  ......   ......   .................   ...... ........   ......   ........   ......  ........   ...... ........   ......   ........ ..
Water                             16117    25293    37953    62132    77666    75143    85436    91660    99146   107674   116363   125221
Sewerage                           1685      2621      3919      6417      8021      8166    10921    15013    18955    21985    25871    29950
Other                              1392      1196      2150      3015      6578      6248      7227      8000      8858      9724    10668    11638
Operating Expenses                  20953    23562    36614    50032    62240    72903    75268    78852    82731    86756    90744    92730
Personnel                         13773    15165    28266    35279    44390    58829    56407    59078    61992    68885    67655    68332
materiels                          1978      2265      2694      3576      5203    4849        4769      5038      5329      5658      5994      6356
Chealoals                         733       789       928      1265      1957      1705      1758      1807      1851      1929      2002      2093
Other Materials                  1245      1476      1766      2311      3246      2844      3011      3231      3478      3729      3992      4263
Third Parties                      4689      5903      9517     10744    12068    12973    13510    14111    14737    15532    18823    17218
Electricity                      2193      3028      5898      6625      7666      8225      8481      8715      8929      9304      9636    10097
Other Third Parties              2491      2875      3619      4119      4402      4750      5029      5396      5808      6228      6667      7121
General                             513       229       126       1I8       224       241       255       274        bc       316       338       361
fiscal                                0         0        11       232       355       309       327       351       378       405       434       463
Deprec. & Provisions                 3003      3359      3668      4413      4158      4206      4605      5430      6920      8860    10830    12812
........ ......   ......   ........ ... .......   ......   ........   ......   ........   ... ....   ... ......   -----    .............
Depreciation                       2930      3181      3299      3474      3367      3773      4130      4952      6444      8337    10277    12186
Provision for Bad Debt               73       170       369       939       791       433       475       478       476       523       573       626
Operating IncoN,                    -4762      3130      4806    19366    25867    12448    23710    30391    37306    43767    51308    61267
Set Non-Op. Expenses                  69        840       236      8142    13701        896      1036      1147      1270      1394      1529       1668
Net financial Expenses               2637      7201      6256    25580       9462      3617      5617      5705      8414      9807      9592    15329
Net Inflacion Adjust.              -14359     14707    15780   -21807   .16511             0         0        0          0         0         0         0
Pr6-Tax Income                     -21099    11476    14366   .19879    13595          7727    19129    25833    30164    35354    43245    47606
Net lnco   STax CbhArge                  0         0         0         0         0         0        0          0         0         0         0         0
Net Revenue (Los)                  .21099    11476    14566   .19879    13595          7727    19129    25833    30164    35354    43245    47606
... ....... .... .. ... ...............   ........   ..... ....    .........   ......   ........ *  .......   ...... ........   ...... ........   ......
.*-
Operating Ratio                      1.25      0.90      0.89      0.74      0.72      0.86      0.77      0.73      0.71      0.69      0.66      0.63
Rovs/(OpExp+Dop&P*DS*.vice)          0.66      0.80      0.85      0.77      1.10      1.02      1.15      1.21      1.22      1.25      1.30      1.23
(tNS compliance)
RoRIAvg Net lixed Assets                 -      3.7       6.1       24.7     27.3      11.3      20.8      22.8      20.9      18.5      17.4      17.5
(Un.Rovalued Basis)



99                                                    ANNEX 18
Attacme-nt 2.
VATZR SECTOR MODWIIZATION PROJECT
Coupubt  Cacrinnsedo Ais.* $aea~nto(CASAi4)
Dalance shoot
Curret O;_S9,T,h,o,u,sads
----------- Historic---------                    o -    ------t      .-----  Projected -----------
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      1995      1996      1997
At.SETS                             143801   144475   146034   156173   140153   161639   217847   260380   362589   399504   460838   312204
Current Asgets                        6017       6435      5689    11186    17523    22322    23803    24w48          24536    36311    28206    3998
casb,                                397      1128        463      2684      3487      6075      6272      6571      6894       7230      7562      7727
Noet Aecouints Receivable      ~      .75     3616      4310       7313    10492    12989       14246     14338     14287    15885       17206    18771
Inventory                           16 ~.     1361        284       419      855        569       596       630       666        707       749       795
Deferred ftysonto & Other            99        330        432       570      2689      2689      2689      2689      2689       2689      2689      2689
Short-T.om Investment                  0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
Long Term Aessts                       264        220      1459      1413      1002      1002      1002       1002      1002      1002      1002      1002
Total ?ii~~d Assets  137520   137820   139086   143574   1268 181                904       510 375              729       380 412
Nit Plized Agstet                    873        175    736           963   196         1181    1167l503    207062   266531   322765   376181
Oross Fixed ksses                 103669    98563    93782   100500   129949   136008   144789   182693   245386   312378   377932   442422
Loess  Accumulated Dsp.            15934     17188    17046    20737    20505    24327    28118    32539    38318    45847    55167.   66241
WJorkc iu Progresg                   47868    54135    60493    62078    11264    23911    72836   100675   104965    99972   102590    98371
L..T lutangi'ble Agsses                1917      2310      1857      1733       920      2723      3535      4321       5024      5688      6275      6668
LIABILITIES &  QUVITY               143801   144475   146034   156173   140153   161639   217847   2803680   342589   399504   460838   512204
Current Liabilities                  2023        19        1317     15069      9833    12630    14219    15337    16452    17084    25931    26038
Accounts Payable                   114         01       35;22   1,2666       5923;   "6904       7123;     7454;     782         18       852       83
Current Port. of L-T Debt           2579      2558      3050       1856      3211      4758      4981      5587      63.23      6726     15030    15030
Suppliers and 3rd Parties           6612      2544      4606       1347       719       968      2115      2296      2317       2174      2349      2272
Total LongaTerw Debt                 88925    90876    92622   101786    99126   107726   137030   163934   183384   198132   200169   193894
Loess  Current Portfolio            259       255       300        15        21        45         91       58 6323             626       100       1530
Total L-T Debt                     91504    93434    93672   103642   102337   112484   142011   169521   189707   204858   215199   208924
Other L-T Liabilities                     0         0        32       112        28         0          0         0         0         0         0          0
Equity                               346(.4    42406    40202    3840)6    31146    41283    66598   101109   142753   184288   234738   292272
AATIOS.
Current Ratio                       0.30      0.57      0.42       0.70      1.78      1.77      3.67      1.58       1.49      1.54      1.09      1.15
Debts Equity Ratio                  0.72      0.68       0.70      0.73      0.76      0.72      0.67      0.62      0.56       0.52      0.46      0.40
A/R Comparator                        62         47        39        43        47        58        55         50        45        43        45        45



- 10  -                                                   ANNEX 18
Wt=chmeint 3
WiATER SECTOR MODERNIZATUOI PROJECT
Funds Flow.
Current ISS T,h,o,us&nds
------ Historic.---------                  Est..-----------Projete4d........
1986      1987       3988      1989       1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995       1996       1997
T1OTAL SOUS.CESz                       16043    31018       27124     36368    54.873    33291    70381         76137      79313      76786    81966    92303
...........    ...                                  ... ...    ....    .... ...    ...                             ...       .... .... ...
Internal Sources                       .1173      7300       8642    31396       44134     17117    28876       36490    4.5022    53498        63114      75121
Not Itnc. (Loss) after tax           -21099      11476      14566   .19879    .13595        7727      19129     25833      30164      35354     43245    47606
Plus$
Detpreciation                        2930       3181      3299       3474.      3367      3773      4130       4952       6444      8337      10277     12188
Not Financial Expeasse.               2637      7201       6256    25580        9462      5617      5617       5705       8414      9807       9592     15329
Monatary Correction                  14359   -14758   .15479    22221    17710                0         0          i0        0          0          0         0
Other                                    0         0          0          0         0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0
External Sources                       17216     23918      18482      4972      10739     16174    41505       39645      34291      23288     18831      37183
CuP                                  8278      16870      10400       293        475     11596    20403       10690          0          0         0          0
PAE                                  5495       2417      5784       1447      9956       3309      5105       4389       4624      4869       5123      5396
233.0                                    0         0          0         0          0         0      8777      17412     21149      16605      11944      3359
Other                                 220         SI          0          0         0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0
Equity                                  3223      4580       2298      2906        314      1297        132      4791       8518       1814      1784       8428
Federal Governiment Grants,                0          0         0          0         0          0      7088      2363           0         0          0         0
Other Liabilities Increase                 0          0         0        326        -6        .28         0          0          0         0          0         0
TOTAL APPLICATIO3WSs                   16043     31018      27124    36368       54873    53291    70381        76137      79313      76786     81966    92305
Capital Expenditure.                  22344      20076      27725      5647       9865     19346    60088       65544      65394      59126     64317    60289
Proposed Project                         0         0          0          0         0         0    17844       35399      42997    33758       24282      6829
Other Invoetments                   22344      20076     27725       5647      9865      15117    36100       24345      16512     18027    31579    48887
tat. During Coast.                       0         0          0         0          0      1885      3777       3409       3470      4902       5992      2085
Cap'd Adami. Cost$                       0         0          0          0         0      2344       2367      2391       2415      2439       2464      2488
(ISSO/Doe  in working Capital        -11429        407   -13291   -10501        27527       3570        -83       -93        .82       1530      1331       1657
Other AseetelIncrease                      0               0          0         0         0          0    0          000                             00
Debt Service                            5128     10534      12691    41222       17481    10375       10375     10686      14001      16130     16318    30359
hAortization                         2491       3333       6435     15642       8019      4758       4758      4981       5387       6323      6726      15030
Interest                             2637       7201      6256    25580        9462       5617      5617       5705       8414      9807       9592     15329
Cash tegiuning Year                        0        397      1128        463      2684      3487       4286      4281       4330       4453      4617       4617
(Inc)IDecresse in Cash                   397       731       .665      2221        803      2588       1986      2290       2564       2777      2945       3110
Cash~ End Year                           397       1128       463       2684      3487      6075       6272      6571       6894       7230       7562      7727
Debt Service Coverage                   CO.2)       0.7       0.7        0.8       2.5        1.6       2.8        3.4       3.2        3.3        3.9       2.5
tnt. Cash cen./Itnvestsent              0.23     (0.19)    0.33        0.12      (0.09)   (0.07)    0.23         0.34       0.42       0.55      0.66       0.69



- 101 -                                               ANNEX 18
AttaheSnt 4f
WATER SZCTOR  ODUENS9ITION BPROJECT
,. ._...............,....
EUpresa Salana de Aguaso a  anosmnto (DIASA)
.. ,........................._-..........
Incas* Statwuet
....... ........._
Current US$ Thousands
............. - IHistoric ----------------       Est.    ........ ........... Projected ............
1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      199S      1996     1997
,.,,     ....    ,..,,      ..,       ....,     ....     ....      ...       ....     ....      .._      ....
Water 111led (Ma3)                208925   211272   181977   209750   210658   218705   225033   237449   249290   261640   274266   287043
Setwa   bill.d (M*3)               34734    34313    30993    30521    31641    33863    34309    35917    38133    41078    45069    49266
Avg. WAter Tariff (US$1.3)          0.20      0.29     0.60      0.64      0.67     0.46      0.54     0.56      0.57      0.57     0.50      0.59
Avg. Sewet&ge Tariff (US$1.3)       0.14      0.21     0.45      0.51      0.51     0.35      0.41     0.42      0,43      0.43     0.44      0.44
Operating Revenues                 4864S    70636   127907   155284   168015   119690   144659   158116   169378   179946   191346   203083
_,_ ..._ .. ..  . .... .. ......  ......   ........ ._ .......   ......   ..........   ... _...   ...... ........   ......  ........   ......
Water                            41392    60S34   109368   134615   140714   100320   121272   132615   141896   150338   159074   168006
$ewerage                          4835      7328    13798    15669    16123    11727    13923    15157    16401    17836    19754    21790
Other                             2418      2774     4741      4800    11178      7843      9464    10344    11081    11772    12518    13286
Operatitg Expenses                 55825    68397   100331   131205   139100   104311   105645   107676   109652   111780   114049   116300
Personnel                        3069S    44580    68417    86312    97464    69070    69761    70458    71163    71875    72593    73319
lsterials                         7912      6696    10297      6867    10320      8454      8617     8947      9265     9616    10000    10379
Che.icals                       205:     3257      4867      2465     4233      3577     3587      3660      3710     3776      3859      3932
Otber Materials                 5861     3639      5430      a402     6087      4877     5030      5287      5555     5840      6141      6447
Third Parties                    13993    14122    17256    17997    29121    23754    24139    24983    25770    26657    27637    28593
Belctricity                     5275     7659      9600    10840    13427    12612    12648    12905    13080    13315    13607    13864
Other Third Parties             8718     6463      7656      7157    15694    11142    11491    12078    12690    13342    14030    14729
Geeoral                           2125      2646     4342      1275     2143      1908      1968     2068      2173     2285      2402      2322
Piscsl                            1099       153        19    18754       52      1125      1160     1220      1281      1347     1417      1487
Deprec. & Provisions                7473      9313     9676      9492     8341      8223      9408    11405    14142    17063    20304    23660
._..    ......   ----    ...... .....   .....    ....._.   . ....   ----    .....___ ..... ___ ._. ._____._._._. __.___,
Deprecistion                      7326      8626     7751      7132     6447      7474      8564    10549    13295    16238    19507    22898
Provision for Bad Debt             147      68G      1925      2360     1894       749       844      856       847      82S       797       762
Operating Income                  .14653    .7074    17900    14587    20574        7356    29606    39035    45584    51103    56993    63123
,,.___. ... .. _. __.___....   .......  ----  _._...... ......   ........ ------  _._*_ _.. ...   -----    ... ...   ----___
Nst lon-Op. Expenses               -3077      -560     6465      1715       679     -404    -2467    -3193    -3080    -2763    -1881    -1095
Vot Pinancial Expenses              3370    31247    82340       6606    10380      6561      6080     5570      6062      4716     4351      9738
Nit  nlflac.on Adjust.             -4322    -2875    40114  -408203   -49095           0         0         0        0         0         0        0
Pre-Tax Income                    -19267   -40636   .17861  _398505   -38222         390    21059    30271    36442    43627    50760    52288
Not tncoa  Tax Charge                  0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
Not RevCnue (Lose)                -19267   -40636   -17861  .398505   -38222         390    21051    30271    36442    43627    50760    522a8
......   .......  .......  ....  ...   ......   .......  ....  ...   ......   ........ .... ...  X... .......  ..... .... ........ ...
RtATIOSs
Operating Ratio                     1.30      1.10     0.86      0.91      0.88     0.94      0.80     0.75      0.73      0.72     0.70      0.69
Rsvsi(OpExp4D*p&P+DS4rvics)         0.72      0.58     0.66      1.05      1.06     0.93      1.10      1.18     1.24      1.28      1.31     1.23
(NTL compliance)
b*R/Avg Not Fixed Assets               -      (2.2)     6.6       5.8       9.1      3.7      14.2      16.5     16.0      15.2      14.2     13.0
(Un-Revalued Basio)



- 102 -                                                   ANNEX LB
DRAZI!.
1IATER SECTOR IIODEJWZATIO11 PROJECT
Euprasa Batans de Aguas e Sanesuento (.......
Balance Shee
Curren,t U,S5 T,ho'usands
..........  Historic .........                  Eat.      ..........Projected-...........
1986      1987      1988      1988      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1993      1996      1997
ASSETS                              406677   374149   329930   349693   282038   286837   331033   380778   461269   546256   627733   700293
...    .... .... ....                ...    ...*..   ......   ....    ...    ......   ...*.-  4 -00@
Current Assets                       17038      19732    23483    24982    34821    32633    33391    36143    36021    53534    34897    34011
Cash                       2314~~~-;;; -,;; 3671  2241     ;; 3657  629         ; 6934  7043       . 7176    7310;     7452;     7603      7753
Hoet Accounts Receivable           11702     14149    22067    19671    23993    22394    23444    23825    23336    24869    24040    22963
Inventory                            926       764       332        142       363       916       933       969      1004      1042       1083      1124
Deferred Payments & Other           2116      1128       823       1312     2171       2171      2171      2171      2171      2171       2171      2171
Short-Term Inventoont                  0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0        *0          0         0         0
Long Term Assets                          0         0         0         3         7         7         7          7         7         7         7         7
Total Pieod Assets                  3861      3441    3045 340                420 249             943       468 456             175 323              6667
Nost lized Assets                   334479   299003   246745   253015   197130   200833   214807   239370   311382   359329   440464   32979
Gross lixed Assets                3841 319             922 3272 215                  695 206              431   4073    4680;33         694 608
Leoss. Accumulated Dep.            48992    52293    50477    39757    44223    67132    73236    84381    95648   108504   123490   140989
Work in Progress                     33950    34239    36887    70967    49701    33270    74201    71173    90628   121630   114439    97278
L.-T Intangibl  Assets                1190       1153       8-J       726       379        92      6427    14093    23031    31556    37928    39203
LIAJLLITUES & EQUITY               406677   374148   329950   349693   282038   286837   331033   380778   461289   34023                627735   700293
.... ...             ... ...             ... ...              ... ...             ... ...             ... ...
Current L,iabilities                 30378    48037    47791    42093    79182    48961    30677    47867    30076    31841    39262    59241
Accounts Payable                   2320      27047    383         18706    41630    3193         2313    32910    339         341       34780       54
Current Port. of L.T De'bt          8264     10230       635    17821    25085        10195      9633      6362      6703       7067    14915    14915
Suppllier. and 3rd Parties         19107    10780       8823      3366    12447        6853      8731      8395      9879     10638      9367       8886
Total Long&-Tero Debt               203967   205211   182902   292097   172168   177093   177395   186930   203064   217669   218831   216852
Loe%s Current Portfolio             826      120         635    1821    25083         10193      963       636       670        7067    1913    14915
Total L..T Debt                   212231   213442   183537   309919   197252   187288   187028   193292   211769   224936   233766   231767
Otber L-T Liabilities                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
Equity                              132132   120880    99237    15503    30688    60783   102961   143981   206149   278346   349622   424202
RATIOS.
C..urrent Ratio                      0.34      0.41       0.S3     0.59       0.44      0.67      0.70      0,76      0.72      0.69       0.39      0.37
Debt. Equity Ratio                  0.57      0.63      0.65      0.95      0.83       0.74      0.63      0.36      0.50      0.44       0.38      0.34
AIR Comparator                        92         79        70        33        64        73        70        63         60        35        30        45



- 103 -
ANNEX 18
Attachment 6
WATER SECTOR H;OEz1r2ATION PROJECT
.;........... ...........
S*Frasa sa,oiA do Aguas e Snsnetanto (V6BASA)
........... I..........................
funds llosw
..........
Current US$ Thousands
-------.* Hictorie *...                     -           Eat .  . ... -. --- Projected .....................
1986       1987       1988       1089       1990      1991       1992        1993       1994       1995       1996       1997
TOTAL  SOURCKSI                         26520      21323      46830      37761      20604      59208      69728      76700    100879    108095        95252      98295
. .............                           .          .      ....         ......    ......   ......S ...... ......   ......   .....   ......   ......   ......   ......
Intern.l Souross                        .6007        -254     36964       19667     29132      14425      35703      46390       55799     64581      74618      64924
. **o**w*......... ......              ......   ........ ......   ........ ......   ........ ......   ........ ......    ........ ......   ....... ............. ................ ...
Net Inc. (Laos) after tax              .19267    .40636    .17861  .39850s5    .38222            390      21059      30271      36442      43627      50760      52288
Flue,
Depreciatton                           7326       8626       7751       7132       6447       7474       8564      10549      13u9s      16238      19507      22898
Net l6nanceijl ?xpenose                3370      31247      82340       6606      10380       6561       6080       5370       6062       4716       4351       9738
Monetary Corroation                    439        3461    .35148    407268    .30445              0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Othar                                 -1832    .-2952       .-118      .2834      22708          0          0           0          0          0          0          0
Ext.rsa1 So,4rces                       32527      21577       9866       16094     49736      44733      34025      30310      45080      43474      20634      13371
........ ......................        ......   ------ **..... ...... - .----i.. .- .. ..  .   ...........   ...... ........   ......   ....... ... .......    ......   ....... ..
C*r                                   25348       9109       5441       2340           0         0           0          0          0          0          0          0
PAZ                                        0          0          0          0          0         0          0           0          0          0          0          0
is"D                                      0          0           0          0         0          0       9936      15897      24839      19872      15897      12916
Other                                      0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Equity                                   7179      12468       4425       15754     49736      44783      21089      14413      20241      23602       4737         455
?.edersl Goverxment Grantr                   0          0          0          0          0          0      3000           0          0          0          0          0
Other Liabtiltiea  lucreaae                  0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
TOTAL APPLICATIOSSo                     26520      21323      46829      37760      2e60s      59208      6 728      76700    100879    108055        95252      98295
Capital Expenditures                    41758      14529      22789      24643      57913      29538      53021      61407      90443      98523      84045      74722
.......... ...........................  ...... ........    ---          ......   ......   ... .. .   - - .*-... ---.. ..>^  ......   ..........   - - w..-- --.. ..... w.   * ......
Proposed Project                           0          0          0          0          0         0      20200      32320      50500      40400      32319      26259
Other Investments                     41758      14529      22789      24643      57913      20136      22693      17890      27115      43532      35704      36654
Int. During Const.                         0          0          0          0          0         0        632       1606        C 41      4807       6140       1828
Cap'd Adato. Coats                         0          0          0          0          0      9402       9496       9591       9687       9784       9682       9981
(Inc)/Dec in Workitg Capital           -18022    .38244    -59209         6092    *48026       13145        431          90     .1968      .1889        -211     -1080
......   ......    -....---    ----    -----    ......   ... .......  -.....- -  - -- .------   ......        ......     Z .......  o
Other Assets Incrase                   -1245           0        171         13         17          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
*s-".   ........   --** ......   ........ ......   ---- ...... . ------   .......   ** .... ....  .. . *-...   ......   ........   *
Debt Service                             4029      45038      83078        7012     10701      16525      16276       15203     12424      11421       11418      24653
*w" .. . X--*-... . ----. ---e. w..  ......   ......   ... ...       ---- ... ...   ......   . oe...... ......   ... ...   ... ...   ......   ......
Aaortitation                            659      13791        738        406        321       9964      10196       9633       6362       6705       7067      14915
tnterest                               3370      31247      82340       6606      10380       6561       6080       5570       6062       4716       4351       9738
Cash Beginning Year                          0      2314       3671        2241       3657      6292       6954        7043       7178       7310       7452       7603
(Inc)JDacrease in Casb                  -2314      .1357        .430     -1416      -2635       .662        -89       .135       -132       .142        -151      .150
Cash End Year                            2314        3671       2241       3657       6292      6954        7043       7178       7310       7452       7603       7753
RATIOe
Debt Service Coverage                     (1.5)      (0.0)       0.4        2.8       (2.7)      0.9         2.2        3.1        4.5        5.7        6.5        3.4
lat. Cash Oen./Inve,tzeit                0.22      (0.49)       0.57       0.27       0.14     (1.22)      0.21        0.40       0.42       0.48       0.70       0.79



- 104 -                                                  ANNEX 18
Attachment 7
WATU SECTOR MO0DERNIZATI0N PROJECT
..................... ..............     ................., 
Eapresa da Snancannto do H4ato Oroacjl      Sul. (SJ1SULE
Inco,e statow*ut
Current U9$ Thoueends
....H....- Historic ................                            2ct -------------. ------- Projected ----------.---------
1986      1987      1988     1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995       1996     1997
.. .  *... .. ..... ......... .. .. .. ....  ....  .....  ....  .....  ....  .....  ....  .....         ....
Water lillud (Mm3)                  51703    61221    65104    67838    71311    73101    77734    82912    a8864             95027   101013   106817
Swvaga Billed (Mm3)                  8356      9229    10338    10278    10734    12412    16178    l8908    20443    22752    25241    27122
Avg. Water Tariff (tS$/n3)           0.16       0.21      0.31      0.50     0.74      0.67      0.70      0.72      0.74      0.75       0.76     0.78
Avg. Swerago Tariff (tS$1S3)         0.17      0.25      0.36      0.41      0.61      0.59      0.62      0.64      0.65      0.66      0.67      0.69
Operating Revenues                   10012    16491    25214    39403    62020    58366    66545    74812    81916    89661    96095   106397
......    ...... _  _ .  .......   ......   ........ ......   ........ ......   ........ ......   ........ ...... .... ...............____..._
Water                              8149    13044    20351    34030    52986    488s3    54033    539854    65335    71137    76295    83531
Beverage                           1399      2267      3693      4201       .57      7257      9953    12080    13432    15075    16874    18774
Other                               463      1180      1169      1262      2476      2245      2559      2877      3151      3449      3727      4092
Operating Expeness                   9754    1315;    18900    28131    43326    39478    42350    45505    48443    51619    54688    58024
o . ._.........   ....... _... ...   _. .. ... .._. ...____.. .   _. .....   ------ ........    -----   .......   ........ _. ... ..._. __.
Personnel                          3099      7029    10742    16713    26773    25105    26867    28897    30653    32579    34406    36428
m(aterials                          1218     1435       1738     1830      3114      2781      2998      3218      3449      3694      3937      4194
Chemicals                         237       247       293       267       523      1017      1070      1121      1180      1240      1295      1366
Other Materiala                   980      1188      1446      1563      2591      1764      1928      2097      2269      2454      2642      2828
Third Parties                      3263      4453      6074      8763    12321    10494    11285    12084    12929    13819    14701    15642
Electricity                      1629      2155      3128      3806      4386      4540      4?78      5005      5269      5535      5783      6098
Other Third Parties              1634      2298      2945      4957      7935      5954      6507      7079      7660      8284      8918      9544
General                             174       224       335       518       381       402       439       478       517       559       602       644
Fiecal                                0         10       11       307       737       69P       761       828       895       968      1042      1116
Deprec. & Provisions                 2212      4053      5476      6137      5697      4991      6233      7932      9448    10957    12637    14386
-. . ....    _ _ . _..... _...... .......   ......   ........   ...... ........   ------   ._._.....   .... ,....   .....__.  -----    ----
Deproeistion                       2160      3884      5164      5531      4851      4626      5845      7527      9038    10546    12233    13987
Provision for Bad Debt               52       169       312       606       846       365       388       405       410       411       404       399
Operating Income                    -1954      .713        838     522S    12997    13897    17962    21375    24025    27085    29570    33987
............ ....._..... ..... .  . ... .... ... ...   -----    ...... ........   ------ ........   ------ ........   ...... ........   ------
Not Non-Op. Expenses                  1396       *36       -84        75        72       584      665       748       819        897       969      1064
Hat Financial Expenses                1S5S      1140       616      1774     3835      4386      6830      8963    11014      10476       9914    13907
Nat Inflacion Adjust.                9078      2541    .4045  -167908   -66917             0         0        0          0         0         0         0
Pro-Tax Income                       7015       652    -3907  -164382   -57683    10095    11797    13160    13830    17506    2062S    21144
Not Income Tax Charge                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Net Revanua (Loss)                    7015       652    -3907  .164382   .57683    10095    11797    13160    13830    17506    20625    21144
........ ........"s.... .. .......  ........   ......   ...... ........   ...... ........   ...... ........   ...... ........   ......
PATIOS a
Operating Ratio                       1.20      1.04      0.97     0.87      0.79      0.76      0.73      0.71      0.71      0.70       0.69      0.68
Revs/(0pZxp+D#p4P.DS*rvice)          0.71       0.84      0.96      1.05      1.13      1.04      1.06     1.04      1.02       1.05      1.07      1.00
(NSL compliance)
RoR/Avg NHt Fixad Asests                 .       4.2       6.4      11.0      18.8      15.5      15.5      13.7      13.0      12.9      11.9      11.6
(Un-Revalued Basies)



ANNEX 18
- 105-                                                    Attachment 8
BRAZIL
WATER SECTORt MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Empresa deSnaet   oNt   reed   u.(BAIIESUL)
Balance Sheet
Currant US$ Thousandso
* --------Historic---------                    Est..-----------Projects) ------. ----
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      1996      1997
ASSETS                              124738   128965   127537   160903   144079   184533   215434   248683   284902   325656   373679   404877
.... ...             ...       ...       -.. .......                              ...       ......
Current Asetst                        6358      5594       5066      5875    13409    13538    14421    15117    15414    15629    15573    15608
Cash                                2009       415       522        305      1510      1645      1765      1896      2019      2151       2279      2418
Not Accounts Receivable             2817      3543      3620      4741    11002    11327    12054    12583    12718    12760    12536    12389
Iuventory                            65,      1556       792       218        795      464        300       536       575       61o       656        699
Deferred Payments & Otber            873        80        132       611       102       102       102       102        102       102       102       102
Short-Torn Investment                  0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Long Term Assetst                         a         0        17        35        83        83        83        83         83        83        83        83
Total Fixed Asseta                  118380   123371   12245        154993   10587   102 2030    2343 29405   30994    3582    3918
Noet Irixed Assets                   36824    93754    93300    99654    84268    95071   137395   175267   195247   224884   271873   314877
Gross fixed Assets                 6442     103456   1009 161               80       107 104              009 231291   269370   326183   378522
Least Accumulated Dsp.              7603      9702    11789    16856    14240    17936    22649    28762    36044    44466    54310    65643
Work in Progress                     59021    25196    23840    46940    396465    68808    54824    48097    61781    71837    72185    63298
L-P Intangible Assets                 2535      4421      3314       8399      6673      7033      8711    10119      12377    13223    13965    13011
LIA3ILITIES  EQtOITY               124738   128965   1275,37   160903   144079   184533   215434   248683   284902   325656   373679   404877
.i-     .  .         ... ...          ... ...              ... ...             ... ...              ... ...
Current Lisbilities                  1693        9925      7574      9970    19774    23875    25440    28012    31352    32734    40127    40011
Accounts Payable                    2893      2927      2720      3093    10073        9201      9856     10576     11246    11971    12670    13431
Current Port. of L-T Debt           3691      4284      3313      6365      7102       7508      9782     11681    12306    12938    19802    19802
Suppliers and 3rd Parties           7109      2714      1541       512      2519       7166      5802      5755      7800      7825       7655      6778
Total Long-Term Debt                 66828    68877    72061   131848   134238   15765t~  166421   174142   186019   192237   189997   183935
Lsess  Current Portfolio            3691      4284      3313      6365       7182      7508      9782     11681    12306    12938    1980.1   19802
Total L.P Debt                     70519    73161    75374   138213   141420   165158   176203   185823   198325   205175   209799   203737
Other L-P Lisbilitiea                  553        377         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
Equity                               43664    49786    47902    19085    .9933           !008    23573    46529    67531   100685   143555   180931
lATIOS a
Current Ratio                       0.46      0.56      0.67      0.59       0.68      0.57      0.57      0.54      0.19      0.48       0.39      0.39
Deb~ts Equity Ratio                 0.60      0.58      0.60      0.87       1.08      0.98      0.88      0.79      0.73      0.66      0.57       0.30
AIR Comparator                       10          87        59        50        72        75        70        65         60        55        50        45



- 106                                     ~~~~~ANNEX 18
-  -                                       ~~~~~~Attachment 9
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR 1SODERNZIATIONa PROJECT
Empress do(nset   oNt   reod   ~    SANIESUL)
Funds Flow
Cur:.nt US$ Thousands
--------Historic.---------                            Est.-----------Projected----------
1966       1987      1988       1989       199       1991       1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       1997
TOTAL SOUR0ESt                         22017      24857      34278      44574    50749       52440      48397     50008      66765      67768      65270      68621
.s.n. .....                            ......  ......  ......  ...... ....  ......                                                             ..... S...
Intemnal Sourcus                          664       949       3818      10485     25152      19107      24472     29650      33882      38528      42772      49038
Not Inc. (Loss) after tax                7015        652     -3907  .164382   -57683         10095      11797      13160     13830      17306      20625      21144
Plutoa
Deproclation                          2160       3884       5164      5531       4851       4626      5845       7527       9038      10546      12233      13987
Not Financial Expenses                1505       1140        616       1774      3835       4386       6830      8963      11014      10476       9914      13907
Montetry Correction                  -5726      .4714       1975    167530      74145          0          0          0          0          0          0         0
Other                                .4290        -13        -30         32          4         0          0          0          0          0         0          0
External Sources                       21353      23908      30460      34089     25597    33333        23925     20358      32883      29240      22498      19583
CEF                                  13844      13437      21754     23279      24763      30791       7340      4289       3000           0         0          0
?AZ                                       0         0          0          0          0        34      5263       5265       5558       5851       6162      6470
18R9)                                     0         0          0          0         0          0      5950       9848      15625      13305      11400      7270
Other                                     0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0          0          0         0          0
TEuIty                                   7509     10471       8706      10810        83'      2015        935        956      8700      10084       4936       5843
Federal Government Grants                   0          0          0         0          0       493       4437          0          0          Q0                   0
Other Liabilities Increase                  0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0         0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS,                    22017      24856      34277      44575     50748    52440        48397     50008      66765      67768      65270      68621
Capital Expenditures                   24260    22720        30107      32595     44590      44613      32626     31240      46495      45530      43019      34932
Proposed Project                          0         0          0          0          0         0     12096      20022      31767      27050      23177      14781
Other Investments                    24260      21720      30107     32595      44590      41207     18563       8884      11524      14422      14852      17922
Ent. During Const.                       0          0          0          0         0       241Z1       963      1320       2179       3023       3945      1173
Cap'6 Adlmik. Costs                       0         0          0          0          0       994       1004      1014       1025       1035       1045       1056
CIno)/Doc In Workring Capital          -4399        597       2154       8675        155     .3646       1433         23     .2425       .544       -601        .20
Other Aeseets Increase                      0          0         34       -12         38          0         0          0          0          0          0          0
Debt 15arvice                           2156       2539        1982      3317       5965     11473      14338      18745     22693      22782      22832      33709
Amortization                           651       1399       1366       1343      2130       7087       7508      9782      11681      12306      12938      19802
Interest                              1505       1140        616       1774      3835       4386      6830       8963      11014      10476       9914     13907
Cash Beginning Year                         0      2009        415        522        305      1510       1645       1765       1896      2019-      2151       2279
(IncflDecrease in Cashl                 2009      -1594        107       -217       1205       135        120        131        123        132        128       139
Cash~ End Year                           2009       415         522       305       1510      1645       1765       1896       2019      2151       2279       2418
.... ...               ... ...              ... ...              ... ...               ... ...               ... ...
RATIO,
Debt Service Coverage                     0.3       0.4         1.9       3.2        4.2        1.7       1.7        1.6        1.5        1.7        1.9       1.3
Inl. Casha Gan./Investuent              0.12      (0.10)    (0.01)    (0.05)        0.43      0.19       0.22       0.30      0.24       0.29       0.41       0.40



- 107 - 1071
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
A. Introduction
1.    The financial projections are based on: la) audited financial statements of CASAN, SANESUL,
and EMBASA for FY 1986-1990; (b) FY 1991 budget; and (c) financial projections and explanatory
notes for 1992-1996, as prepared by the companies.
2.     Because of the high inflation in Brazil during the past decade, historical financial statements
have been translated into current US$ (using year-end exchange rates for balance sheets and average
exchange rates for income statements), and projections have also been prepared in current US$. The
coefficients used for projected international inflation (source: IEIRD OD 6.50, Annex B, May 1991),
historic domestic inflation and exchange rates (source: Conjuntura EconOmica, March 1991) are shown
below:
End-year      Average        Domestic      International
Exch.Rate     Exch.Rate      Inflation     Inflat.lndex
Year           Cr$/US$       Cr$/US$        ./M)           1990=100
1986M            0.0151        0.0137            65            80.7
1987             0.0727        0.0394           416            88.6
1988             0.7878        0.2628         1,038            95.1
19897'          11.8465        2.8408         1,783            94.4
1990w'         170.3500       68.5500         1,477           100.0
1991                                                          103.9
1992                                                          107.9
1993                                                          112.0
1994                                                          116.4
1995                                                          120.9
1996                                                          125.5
1997                                                          130.4
B. Income Statement
Revenues
3.     Operating revenues are derived from the sale of water and sewage collection and treatment
services. Consumers, volumes, and revenues are broken down into two major regions: capital and
Interior. Projections assume that water volumes billed per customer will remain essentially the same
during the projection period. Other operating revenues, which include sale of equipment and consumer
connection, installation and service fees, and penalties for delayed payments, are derived as a given
lti On February 28. 1986, as part of the Cruzado Plan, the oruzado (Cz$M replaced the cruzeiro at the rate of 1 = 1,000.
21  On January 15. 1989, as part of the Summer Plan, the cruzado novo (NCz$) replaced the cruzado at the rate of 1 = 1,000.
31 In March 6, 1990, as part of the Collor Plan, the government renamed the currency the cruzeiro (Cr6).



- 108 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 3
percentage of the water and sewerage services sold (7.5% in CASAN, 7.0% in EMBASA, and 4.0%
In SANESUL).
4.    Retail prices. Financial performance improved dramatically from 1987 to 1990, because of
large real increases in the average tariff levels during these years, as shown in Annex 18. Tariff levels
are projected in US$ prices. Estimated 1991 average tariff levels are based on 1991 projected average
tariff levels, and projected average tariff levels for the remaining years are based on a percentage of
their projected values at December, 1991, as follows: CASAN, 90% in 1992, 92% in 1993, 94% in
1994, 96% in 1995, 98% in 1996, and 100% in 1997; EMBASA, 100% in 1992, 104% in 1993,
106% in 1994, 107% in 1995, 108% in 1996, and 109% in 1997; and SANESUL, 104% in 1992,
108% in 1993, 110% in 1994, 112% in 1995, 113% in 1996, and 117% in 1997. These levels
enable the companies to comply with the conditionality of the loan.
5.    Unaccounted-for water is measured by the difference between water produced and water
consumed, and include losses due to meter errors, theft and other items. Forecasts assume CASAN,
EMBASA, and SANESUL meet targeted unaccounted-for water levels by the end of the project period.
(See Monitoring Indicators, Annex 17.)
Expenses
6.    Operating expenses include personnel, materials (chemicals and others), electricity, other third
party services, general, and fiscal costs. Variable costs (chemicals and electricity) are projected based
on the companies' 1991 budgeted unitary estimates and their annual projected production volumes.
Personnel costs are projected reflecting annual productivity gains of 3.6%  in CASAN, 5.1%  in
EMBASA, and 2.0% in SANESUL (see Monitoring Indicators, Annex 12), combined with annual real
increases in the average salary of 0.5% in CASAN, 1.1 % in EMBASA and 0.6% in SANESUL. Fixed
costs are assumed to increase in accordance with the increase in the number of both water and
sewerage connections.
7.    Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis taken into account the assets expected useful
life. The effect of proposed asset revaluation studies (see para. 91) was not taken into account,
although they will surely recommend to significantly increase the value of the operating assets (in the
SWC of Sao Paulo, for example, a similar study resulted in a recommendation to multiply by 4.58 times
the book values of the reviewed fixed operating assets). Provision for doubtful accounts is based on
about 3% of accounts receivabie.
8.    Net financial income and expenses is the net of interest on long-term debt (excluding interest
during construction on the IBRD, CEF and FAE loans, which is capitalized) and interest income from
short-term investments.
9.    Total inflation adjustment, in the historic financial statements, is the net of monetary
corrections on asset and equity accounts, and monetary variations on long and short term debt.
10.   Income tax for the water sector was increased from its historical 6% level (compared with 35%
private corporate income tax) to 30% during FY 1989. Brazilian corporate law allows for an income
tax loss carry-forward of up to four years, thus the companies assumed no provision for income tax.
C. Balance Sheet
Assets
11.   Accounts receivable are assumed to decrease to 45 days of yearly sales revenue by 1993 in
CASAN, and to 45 days by 1997 in EMBASA and SANESUL. Accounts receivable consist of accounts
billed and unpaid.



- 109 -                              ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 3
12.   Inventory consists of materials and, according to the company, represents between 40 and 60
days of supplies.
Liabilities and Equity
13.   Long-term debt consists of debt belonging to loans contracted with IBRD, IDB, CEF, FAE or
others that has more than 360 days before becoming exigible. EMBASA's long-term deb-; has been
reduced following the agreement reached with the State of Bahia. The agreement specifies that the
State will convert Into shares EMBASA's debt with the FAE ai id pay EMBASA's debt service with CEF.
14.   Share capital is assumed to incr ise with the increased equity participation of the state over
the period, as shown in the financing plan (see Funds Flow, Attachments 3, 6, and 9).
D. Borrowing and Investments
Project Financing
15.   Proposed IBRD Loan: CASAN, US$79.2 million equivalent borrowed over 15 years, including
5 years of grace, at the Bank's variable lending rate--currently 7.73% (source: IBRD OD 3.10, Annex
A, July 1991). EMBASA, US$99.4 million equivalent borrowed over 15 years, including 5 years of
grace, et the variable lending rate. SANESUL, US$63.4 million equivalent borrowed over 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the variable lending rate. In addition, the MAS/SNS will receive US$8.0
million equivalent borrowed over 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the variable lending rate. First
disbursements are expected during mid-1 992, and first repayments during mid-1 997. Commitment
fee: 0.75% of undisbursed balance.
Non-Project Investment Borrowing
16.   PLANASA: CASAN, US$23.1 million equivalent from CEF and US$28.5 million equivalent from
FAE borrowed over 25 years, including 2 years of grace, at 2.5% (FAE) and 12.0% (CEF). EMBASA
contemplates no new borrowing from other sources. SANESUL, US$14.6 million equivalent from CEF
and US$34.6 million equivalent from FAE borrowed over 25 years, including 2 years of grace, at 2.5%
(FAE) and 6.0% (CEF). Forecasts of FAEs resources for the companies' investment programs were
based solely on the company's estimated repayments to the FAEs for the period.
Total Investment Costs
17.   Total investment costs are projected to include interest during construction on the IBRD, CEF,
and FAE loans, and administrative costs of about 10% of total investments, which are capitalized
(representing physical improvements and other items allowed under Brazilian accounting standards).
These items are separated from physical investments.



- 110 -
ANNEX 20
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Transfers of the States to the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
--------------------- -----------_.___-----.---__-----_-_--__--._
Current US$ millions
Actual                    Projected
DESCRIPTION               ------------------------------------------- Annual Avg
1986     1987     1988     1989      1990    1992-97
SANTA CATARINA
Total Revenues                            504.7    644.3    605.3   1044.3   1298.6         NA
Total Transfers to Sanitation               3.7      7.3      8.7       4.2      0.3       4.2
2 Revenues to Sanitation                    0.7      1.1       1.4      0.4      0.0        NA
2 Revenues to CASAN as Grants             100.0     62.6     50.3      74.1    100.0        NA
2 Revenues to FAE                           0.0     37.4     49.7      25.9      0.0        NA
HATO GROSSO DO SUL
Total Revenues                            111.0    111.8    102.0    154.0    270.1         NA
Total Transfers to Sanitation               7.5     10.5      8.7      10.8      0.8       5.2
2 Revenues to Sanitation                    6.8      9.4      8.5       7.0      0.3        NA
2 Revenues to SANESUL as Grants            87.5     98.7    100.0    100.0    100.0         NA
X Revenues to FAE                          12.5      1.3      0.0       0.0      0.0        NA
BAHIA
Total Revenues                            833.0    759.1    752.2   1007.2   1244.7         NA
Total Transfers to Water Sector            17.3     12.5      4.4      15.8     49.7       14.1
2 Revenues to Sanitation                    2.1      1.6      0.6       1.6      4.0        NA
2 Revenues to EMBASA as Grants            100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         NA
2 Revenues to FAE                           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        NA
EXPI: 02/04/92



- 111 -
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Sample of a Letter of Agreement
CASAN, the State of Santa Catarina and the SNS
Objectives of the Agreement
1.    The purpose of this agreement is to clarify the respective responsibilities of CASAN, the State
of Santa Catarina, and the National Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitation (SNS) in relation to the
provision of water and sanitation services in the state of Santa Catarina during the period 1992-1997,
to establish a set of guidelines for appraising their performance, and to improve their mutual
understanding regarding accountability in the respective roles. The rationale for this agreement arises
from the mutual interest of CASAN, the State of Santa Catarina, and the SNS:
* to support greater decentralization and competition in the water supply and sanitation sector;
*  to increase the quantity and quality of water and sanixatiorn services in the state of Santa
Catarina;
* to optimize investment and financial planning and project execution to reach, within the agreed
limits, the physical goals established by the Federal and State govarnments for expansion of
the water supply and sanitation sector;
* to set and maintain water and sewerage tariffs at levels which allow CASAN greater financial
autonomy and the implementation of its 1992-1997 investment program--within expected
terms; and
i to promote an improvement of CASAN's operating and financial performance.
Period of Agreement
2.    This agreement covers the period between its date of signature and December 31, 1997,
coinciding with the implementation period of CASAN's investment progrim--estimated 2t about
US$337 million. However, the period of this agreement may be extended at an', time with the consent
of the signatories.
Commitments and Responsibilities of CASAN
3.    CASAN agrees to take all measures necessary to improve its standards of commercial
performance and, in particular:
* to implement its 1992-1997 investment program with efficiency and efficacy, and within
expected terms, to achieve the water supply and sewerage service levels shown in Annex A
and the financial results shown in Annex B;
* to submit to the state and the SNS, not latter than September 30 of each year, an updated
general financial projection for the following six-year period--with specific details on investment
plans for the upcoming year, based on the Globai Feasibility Simulation Model (SIVIG) or in a
similar one to be agreed with the SNS;



- 112 -
ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 3
* to gradually improve its standards of operating and financial performance to reach, within
expected terms, the monitoring indicators shown in Annex C;
* to implement and start using by June 30, 1992, ar. information system to be agreed with the
state and the SNS;
* to take all actions necessary on revenue generation and cost control to assure permanent
compliance with the National Tariff Law (NTL) and the generation of adequate internal cash
consistent with financial plans and monitoring indicators shown in Annexes B and C,
respectively;
* to prepare a new tariff proposal by July 31, 1994, based on a detailed marginal cost pricing
study, including a timetable for implementation;
* to prepare a detailed study on the amounts involved and likely fiscal implications of an asset
revaluation, and incorporate the results into the audited financial statements of fiscal year
1993. This study should be repeated every three years to determine the necessity of further
physical revaltiations;
* to adjust overdue accounts for inflation or take other measures which would reduce the
financial losses resulting from overdue bills; and
: to prepare a detailed study on water demand management and systems rehabilitation before
July 31, 1994, including a proposal for its implementation.
Commitments and Responsibilities of the State of Santa Catarina
4.    The State of Santa Catarina agrees to take all measures necessary to help improve CASAN's
standards of commercial performance and, in particular:
* to restraint from curtailing CASAN's administrative and financial autonomy;
- to authorize or not to take any action that would prevent periodic increases in CASAN's
nominal tariffs to assure permanent compliance with the NTL and the generation of adequate
internal cash consistent with financial plans shown in Annex B;
* to assure the timely provision of the counterpart financing shown in Annex B; and
* to take any required administrative and legal actions to support CASAN's efforts to adjust both
current and due accounts cumulatively for inflation, and to eliminate overdue bills.
Commitments and Responsibilities of the SNS
5.    The SNS agrees to take all measures necessary to help improve CASAN's standards of
commercial performance and, in particular:
* to restraint from curtailing CASAN's administrative and financial autonomy;
* to authorize or not to take any action that would prevent periodic increases in CASAN's
nominal tariffs to assure permanent compliance with the NTL and the generation of adequate
internal cash consistent with financial plans shown in Annex B;
* to support CASAN's efforts to obtain new financial resources In either the private or public
capital markets; and



113 -
ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 3
0 to take any required administrative and legal actions to support CASAN's efforts to adjust both
current and due accounts cumulatively for inflation, and to eliminate overdue bills.
Evaluation. Compliance, and Publication
6.    All three parties are responsible for compliance with this Agreement, as well as with the
permanent evaluation of advances made in the water and wastes sector in the State of Santa Catarina.
This Agreement will be published in the Federal and state Official Diaries. The SNS will pay the fees
corresponding to publication in the Federal Official Diary and the State the fees corresponding to
publication in the State Official Diary.
Annexes:
A. Investment Program
B. Financing Plan
C. Monitoring Indicators



- 114 -                                ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Guidelines for Evaluation of Subprojects
Background
1.    These guidelines have been prepared: (i) to help design subprojects that contribute towards
optimizing company allocation of scarce resources; {ii) to permit the financial and institutional
strengthening of the SWCs; (iii) to improve environmental and health conditions in the SWCs' areas
of responsibility; and (iv) to provide a common framework for subproject evaluation by all parties
Involved In this operation: SNS, the state governments, the SWCs, the Project Management Unit
(PMU), the Technical Agents (TA), and the Bank.
2.    Each proposed subproject should correspond to the least-cost solution, and should be the
object of a feasibility study prepared in accordance with these guidelines. All feasibility studies should
be prepared by the SWCs, reviewed by the TA, and approved by the PMU.
3.    A subproject is the sum of one or more components from three main categories: (a) institutional
development programs; (b) rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, and (c) construction of new
facilities. These categories are listed in descending order or priority. The composition of a subproject,
however, should be tailored to the specific needs of a given locality.
4.    The analysis of a given subproject seeks to establish the priority of the proposed components,
its consistency with sector policies, and its contribution to improve the delivery of services in a given
locality. The analysis also aims to ascertain that neither the subproject nor Its components adversely
affect the environment and that their benefits equal or exceed their costs.
5.    Seve;al steps should be followed to perform this analysis in a systematic and effective way.
It is first necessary to describe and evaluate the current water supply and/or sewerage systems, as
well as assess both the existing and future demands for these services. Second, feasible alternatives
to remove institutional and physical constraints are explored and compared, leading to the selection
of subproject components. The end result is an investment and action plan designed to improve the
performance of the company and its capacity to meet future demand at minimum cost. Third, an
environmental assessment is done to ensure that the proposed works meet acceptable environmental
protection standards. Fourth, a marginal cost pricing analysis is preformed to evaluate the tariff
structure, the economic benefits, and the cost-effectiveness of prospective water and sewerage
investments.
Institutional Development Programs
6.    The SWCs' programs directed towards improving their efficiency in delivering water and
sewerage services have been justified on the basis of a general assessment of their overall design and
main organizational units, of the effectiveness of the proposed financial, commercial, and operational
activities, and of the training needs of their staff. To assure an accurate post-evaluation of these
programs, the SWCs should develop appropriate accounting systems to carefully record all costs and
benefits associated with them. The level of aggregation will depend on the nature of the activities--for
example, costs and benefits associated with financial improvements may be aggregated in a single
account, but not costs and benefits associated with operational Improvements.



- 115 -                                ANNEX-22
Page 2 of 5
Rehabilitation Program
7.    The evaluation of a water supply and sewerage system begins with an engineering assessment
of the main existing components of the system (main physical dimension, materials, cond!tlon,
reliability, and capacity). Major components include:
(a)   Water Supply:
Intake facilities
Transmisslon pipelines
Treatment plants
Storage tanks
Primary distribution network
Pumping stations
Secondary distribution network
Connections
(b)  Sewerage System:
Connections
Collectors network
Main collectors
Interceptors
Puniping stations
Outfalls
Treatment plants
8.    This engineering evaluation provides the basis for assessing the feasibility of rehabilitating the
system's components to bring them up to their optimal capacity at a cost usually lower than that
required to construct a new facility.
Demand Analysis
9.    The evaluation of a water supply or sewerage system continues with an analysis of existing
coverage levels and type of service provided as well as per capita and aggregate consumption and
production volume. The demand analysis should treat the following aspects in detail:
(a)  existing coverage levels and type of service provided (total population, population served,
number of house connections, standpipes, septic tanks, etc.);
(b)  water metered consumption (based on house connections), preferably broken down by main
users (residential, commercial, industrial, and public) and estimated unmetered consumption
(including a detailed explanation and justification of the criteria utilized to estimate it);
(c)  water metered production and estimated unmetered production (with the same breakdown and
explanations as (b) above); and
(d)  estimates of unaccounted-for water (UFW). UFW  is defined as the difference between
production and metered consumption.
10.   The analysis of historical production, UFW, and demand should cover the previous two to five
years. Production, UFW, and demand projections should be based on the projected growth of house
connections or service accounts and consider the effects of metering consumption, plans to reduce
UFW and improve commercialization practices, and possible price elasticity effects. Projections should



- 116 -                               ANIEgX 22
Page 3 of 5
be made on a yearly basis up to the system's time of saturation. Sanitary sewerage flow demand
estimates should also be made on the basis of the number of connections to the sewer system and
reasonable assumptions on consumption and Infiltration flows. Sewage collection projections should
bW broken down by type of final disposition used.
Optimal Expansion of System's Components
11.   In determining the optimum investment expansion plan li.e., the least-cost solution), the
following aspects should be taken into account:
(a)  all investment works should be built or expanded as late as possible, as determined by the
demand projection and the existing capacity of the component under analysis; and
(b)  facilities should be sized so as to minimize idle capacity. Several models are available to
determine the optimum size and sequencing of investments.
12.   One model often used to determine the optimum size of water and sewerage works is based
on the observation that these works present economies of scale and assumes a linear demand growth
(a conservative assumption). Based on a discount rate of 10% and average economy of scale factors,
the following design periods are recommended:
Intake works                     20 years
Deep wells                       10 years
Transmission pipelines           15 years
Distribution system              15 years
Water treatment plants           10 years
Storage tanks                    10 years
Pumping stations (civil works)   20 years
Equipment                        10 years
Meters                            5 years
Sewerage pipe systems            20 years
Sewage treatment plants          10 years
13.   Design periods greater than those indicated or for components not shown should be justified
by a detailed analysis. Financial constraints may justify the use of shorter design periods.
Analysis and Selection of Alternatives
14.   To determine the optimal expansion program of a water supply or sewerage system, an analysis
of all technically feasible alternatives should be made and the most promising ones, particularly
rehabilitation works, compared on the basis of discounted total costs (capital and operational) and on
a present value or equivalent annual basis. The one with the lowest cost should be selected. The
discount rate to use is 10%. A sensitivity analysis is recommended when alternatives present similar
value or annual costs, this can help in the selection of the best alternative.
15.   It should be remembered that only economic costs enter into the calculations. Costs should
be expressed in constant prices; that is, inflation should not be taken into account. Financial and
transfer costs such as interest, depreciation, and taxes should not enter into the calculations.
Moreover, economic costs to be included are the incremental investment and operational costs
associated with the component. These costs are determined on the basis of an analysis of the
situation "with" and "without" the project, which is not necessarily the same as "before" and "after"
the project. Annex 16 contains a detailed description of the methodology to be used for calculating
water and sewerage incremental costs.



- 117 -                               ANNEX 22
Page 4 of 5
16.   For all main investment components included In a subloan, it is necessary to develop unit costs
and tangible monitoring indicators that can be easily followed during project execution. These
indicators should be routinely used during project execution as control devices to ensure that all
investments will produce the intended results and remain cost effective. Unit cost indicators are also
intended to create a cost data bank to be used to improve cost estimates for future subprojects and
to help identify cost-effective and replicable programs.
17.   Benefit and cost parameters should be followed closely during project construction. An adverse
change In any of these parameters should trigger a review of the project and, if necessary, the
subproJect or component should be modified to ensure that maximum net benefits continue to accrue.
Environmental Assessment
1 8.   All subprojects will be screened to determine the degree, if any, to which potential
environmental impacts may occur. Also considered will be any proposed actions, that will prevent or
mitigate any adverse effects and ensure that the subproject is environmentally sound and sustainable.
Many subprojects are likely to require only a limited environmental analysis. Each assessment ', ill
include:
(a)   a detailed description of the project and of relevant environmental conditions;
(b)  an analysis of positive and negative impacts likely to result from the project's components;
{c)  an analysis of alternatives to mitigate any adverse effects and costs and benefits of proposed
remedial actions;
{d)  a proposed plan to reduce potentially significant adverse environmental impacts to acceptable
levels, its costs (capital and recurrent) and institutional and training requirements, if any; and
(e)   a monitoring plan regarding environmental impacts and performance.
Project Justification
19.   Each individual subproject should be economically justified using marginal costs calculated on
the basis of the incremental demand it will satisfy, the estimated investment cost--including
complementary works, and the estimated operational and maintenance cost Csee Annex 16). In large
cities--more than 500 thousand inhabitants, water projects will be approved only if the company's
current average water tariff in that city (AWTi) exceeds 75% of the marginal cost of providing the
water supply service to residential customers with the given project CMCWi) in 1992, 80% in 1993,
and 85% in 1994 and afterwards. In medium cities--more than 50 thousand inhabitants but less or
equal than 500 thousand, water projects will be approved onlv if the AWTi exceeds 75% of the MCWi
in 1992 and 80% in 1993 and afterwards. In small cities and towns--more than 5 thousand
inhabitants but less or equal than 50 thousand, water projects will be approved only if the AWTi
exceeds 60% of the MCWi in 1992, 65% in 1993, and 70% in 1994 and afterwards. In rural
communities--population less or equal than 5 thousand, water projects will be approved only if the
AWTi exceeds 60% of the MCWi.
20.   Sewerage projects in large cities will be approved only if the company's current average
sewerage tariff in the project's site CASTi) exceeds 60% of the marginal cost of providing the sewerage
service to residential customers with the given project (MCSi) in 1992, 70% in 1993; 80% in 1994;
and 85% in 1995 anid afterwNards. Sewerage projects in medium cities will be approved only if the
ASTi exceeds 60% of the MCSi in 1992, 70% in 1993, and 80% in 1994 and afterwards. Sewerage
projects in small cities and towns will be approved only if the ASTi exceeds 60% of the MCSi in 1992,



- 118 -                                 NNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
65% In 1993, and 70% in 1994 and afterwards. Sewerage projects in rural communities will be
approved only if the ASTi exceeds 60% of the MCSi.
21.   Projects not satisfying the above conditions but which are designed for minimum cost may be
accepted by the Bank on a case-by-case basis. The analysis should explicitly address the following
issues: (i) the lack of alternative and feasible solutions; (ii) the Impossibility of recovering costs through
tariffs; and (iii) the impact on poverty alleviation, and environmental and health conditions. These
subprojects are likely to be in localities where urban poverty prevails and large investments are needed
to compensate for the lack of previous investments.



- 119 -                           ANNEX 23
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year              Quarterly
and Quarter Ending            Oisbursement            Cumulative Disbursement
(US$ million)          (US$ million) % of Total
FY 1992
March 31, 1992                    0.0                     0.0          0.0
June 30, 1992                    17.7"'                  17.7          7.1
FY 1993
September 30, 1992                4.5                    22.2          8.9
December 31, 1992                 4.5                    26.7         10.7
March 31, 1993                   11.7                    38.4         15.4
June 30, 1993                    11.8                    50.2         20.1
FY 1994
September 30, 1993               11.7                    61.9         24.8
December 31, 1993                11.8                    73.7         29.5
March 31, 1994                   15.9                    89.6         35.8
june 30, 1994                    16.0                   105.5         42.2
FY 1995
September 30, 1994               15.9                   121.5         48.6
December 31, 1994                15.9                   137.4         55.0
March 31, 1995                   12.5                   149.9         60.0
June 30, 1995                    12.4                   162.3         64.9
FY 1996
September 30, 1995               12.5                   174.8         69.9
December 31, 1995                12.4                   187.2         74.9
March 31, 1996                    9.8                   197.0         78.8
June 30, 1996                     9.8                   206.8         82.7
FY 1997
September 30, 1996                9.8                   216.6         86.6
December 31, 1996                 9.9                   226.5         00.6
March 31, 1997                    5.8                   232.3         92.9
June 30, 1997                     5.9                   238.2         95.3
FY 1998
September 30, 1997                5.9                   244.1         97.6
December 31, 1997                 5.9                   250.0        100.0
1/ Includes US$15 million of Special Account.



- 120 -                                ANNEX 24
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in Project File
A.  General reports and studies on the water and wastes sector:
Al.  BRASIL 11978), Lei No. 6528 de 11 de maio de 1978 (Lei Nacional de Tarifas dos
Servigos POblicos de Saneamento Bdsico).
A2.  BRASIL (1978), Decreto No. 82587 de 06 de novembro de 1978 (Regulamentagio da
Lei Nacional de Tarifas dos Serviqos Piblicos de Saneamento Bdsico).
A3.  BRASIL - IBGE (1989), Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicflios, Junho.
A4.  BRASIL - Ministerio da Ag5o Social (1991), Portaria No. 560 de 30 de julho de 1991
(Regimento Interno da Secretaria Nacional de Saneamento).
A5.  BRASIL - Ministdrio da A95o Social - Secretaria Nacional de Saneamento (1991),
Legislago Federal sobre Saneamento Bisico, Brasflij, DF.
A6.  BRASIL - Ministerio da Agao Social, Secretaria Nacional de Saneamento - Caixa
Econ6mica Federal (1990), Piano de A=co Inmediata de Saneamento - Pals Brasil,
Brasflia, DF.
A7.  BRASIL - Ministdrio da A;.o Social e Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento
(1991), Portaria Interministerial No. 794 de 30 de dezembro de 1991 (Establishment of
the Project's Management Unit).
A8.  BRASIL - Ministdrio das Minas e Energia - Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia
Eldtrica (1980), C6digo de Aguas, 2 vols., Brasflia, DF.
A9.  FONTENELE, Jose Amaury Teles and Cldudio Gabarrone (1991), SIVIG: Uma
Contribuicao ao Planejamento Global e Estratdgico nas Empresas de Saneamento
Basico, 160 Congresso Brasileiro de Engenharia Sanitgria e Ambiental, Goiania, 22 a 27
de setembro.
B.  General reports and studies relating to the project:
B1.  BAHIA, State of (1989), Constituis0o.
B2.  CASAN, Regulamento dos Servigos de Agua e Esgotos SanitArios.
83.  CAOAN, Regimento Interno.
84.  CASAN, Estatuto Social.
85.  CASAN (1991), Projeto Banco Mundial - Programa de Investimentos.
B6.  CASAN (1991), Projeto Banco Muridial - Descritivo T6cnico.
B7.  EMBASA (1991), Plano de ModernizagIo - Programa EMBASA/BIRD.



- 121 -                                ANNEX 24
Page 2 of 2
B8. EMBASA, Estatuto Social.
89.  MATO GROSSO DO SUL, State of (1989), Constituit5o.
810. SANESUL (1991), Programa de Investimento para 1992-1997, 2 vols., Junho.
B11. SANESUL (1991), Sistema Comercial - Base Legal.
B12. SANESUL, Regulamento dos Servi9os de Agua e Esgotos.
813. SANESUL, Estatuto e Reglamento Interno.
814. SANTA CATARINA, State of (1989), Constitui9go.
C. Selected Working Papers, tables, drawings and maps prepared by Bank staff or its
consultants:
Cl.  ALMEIDA, Fernando Alves de (1991), Environmental Impact Analysis, Final Report,
Water Sector Modernization Project.
C2.  Marginal Cost Pricing Analysis for Selected Cities and Towns.
C3.  SANCHES, Walter R. R. (1 991), Programa de Modernizag9o do Setor de Abastecimento
de Agua e de Esgotamento Sanit6rio das Empresas SANESUL, CASAN e EMBASA.



13RRD 23322
BRAZIL                                                                   -; ---  _STATE OF MATO GROSSO DO SUL
R BRA   ZIL                                                                                                          -,                                MUNICIPAUTIESSERVEDBYSANESUL
2   MUNICIPAUnESSERVEDbYEITHER  (-   \   .,)       Sf ffi        >                            Soi                                       A  |           k     (     \-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tANIIPAITES EREDBY HEFN
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                       MC ,,                OUTSIDE
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ' MUICPA  -ONAtESUSD                                           MUIIA \ONARE OUTSIDE   1 '     h 
SANESUL SERVICE AREA
STATE OF BAHIA
MUNICIPALITIES SERVED BY EMBASA
E~MUNICIPALITIES SERVED BY EITHiER                                                                                                              Cb
C.p.Gr.ndo -d/
{,7._ *G~ ..oT Ws../.aa
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~5
Z            SELECTED CITIES
' 1~~~     ' .STATE CAPITAL
-  STATE BOUNDARIES
-      INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
\<> /                       \>J 5    150 
KILOMETERS
f /At Io c n t i c                       STATE OF SANTA CATARINA                                                     - 
9I (                                                               ,-ENtP 0                                                                                               '     :5.. 
IT   ()       -//._                 A/iofic Ocerl              SELECTED CITIES
*    STATE CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                            Soo
STATKRi REi sTAneBOUNDARIES  /                                   m   z MUNICIPALRITES SERVED BY CASAN
-.              f ',(P/e5~~                                                                                                         m   MUNMICIPATIJES SERVED BY EITHER THEIR OW NX
\.ACRIT - *-i\Ln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/t~~~~o      ( ~~~~WATER COMPANES OR THE FNS
PERU  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                              -   ~~~~~~~~~~~MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES OUTSIDE
/GOIAE~~~~~~~~~~.~~~   /    4.                  I ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~CASAN SERVICE AREA
B -   :>   * tsOLIrVA  - ,)     ,Pf.f3>  - SX                                 1                  I        A.l:::5z - WoMBo ii            e   SELECTED CITIES
r~~~~-~~~~ ~~~~wo                                                        *adS~~~~~~~~~~~d..i  *~FrtdO.      STATE CAPITAL
2 SITE1> Gr.p. T h .6 ;SoI Th.                                                                                                        *--   STATE BOUNDARIES                           DY.n i
0   >,;-b| { ARGENIIN;cArARsA        3fr                     ~~~~~~KILOMETERS  20,0     hj!                  o..db,j..                                 KILOMETERS           20gO   a
ARGEN4AIO' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Fdb.pl,6                                                           INTERNATIONAL_BOUNDARY
OCTOBER 199P



