Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21305
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34420; SCL-3442A; SCPD-3442S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 250 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
April 3, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 7 November 2000)
Currency Unit = Real
R$ 1 = US$ 0.513
US$ 1 = R$ 1.95
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDES        Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economnico e Social (National Bank for Economic
and Social Development)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CASAN         Companhia Catarinense de Aguas e Saneamento (State Water Company for Santa
Catarina)
LRAIC         Loan-run Average Incremental Cost Average Tariff in relation to average incremental
costs over time
EMBASA       Empresa Baiana de Aguas e Saneamento S.A. (State Water Company for Bahia)
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FGTS         Federal Govemment Employees' Pension Fund
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IPEA         Instituto de Pesquisa Economica Aplicada (Institute for Applied Economic Research)
PNS          Politica Nacional de Saneamento (National Policy for Water and Sanitation Sector)
PMSS         Prograrna de Modernizacao do Sector Saneamento (the Brazilian name for the Project,
which turned into a National Program)
PMSS II       Second Water Sector Moderzanition Project
PMU           Project Management Unit
SEDU/PR       Special Secretariat for Urban Development of the Presidency of the Republic
SANESUL    Empresa de Saneamento de Mato Grosso do Sul (State Water Company for Mato Grosso
do Sul)
SEPURB        Secretaria de Politica Urbana (Secretariat for Urban Policy)
SNIS.         Sistema Nacional de Infomiag6es sobre o Saneamento (National Water and Sewerage
Infornation System)
SWC           State Water Company
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yoko Katakura



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                11
9. Partner Comments                                                               13
10. Additional Information                                                        14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             34
Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to the ICR                                         36
Annex 9. Borrower Comments to the ICR                                             48
This ICR was prepared based on the findings of a supervision mission held between December 1999 and
June 2000 and an ICR mission, which included a project stakeholder workshop, held in September 2000, as
well as various contributions from the Borrower and the executing agencies. The missions were led by
Yoko Katakura (LCSFW) and Martin Gambrill (LCSFW). The report was reviewed by Messrs. Gobind T.
Nankani, Country Director (LCC5C), Carlos Velez, Lead Economist, and Abel Mejia, Sector Manager
(LCSFW).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006368                                        Project Name: WATER SECTOR
MODERNIZATION PROJECT
7'eamn Leader: Yoko Katakura                               TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: April 3, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT   L/C/7'I Number: CPL-34420;
SCL-3442A;
SCPD-3442S
CountrylDepartment: BRAZIL                                                Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: WU - Urban Water Supply
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/14/91                                 Effective: 06/08/93           06/08/93
Appraisal:  06/26/91                                  MTR: 03/19/95              03/19/95
Approval:  03/10/92                                 Closing:  12/31/97           06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/SPECIAL SECRETARIAT OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Other Partnlers:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Gobind T. Nankani                          Armeane M. Choksi
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                            Gobind T. Nankani
7'eam Leader at ICR:   Yoko Katakura                            Carlos E. Velez
ICR Primary Author:   Yoko Katakura; Nathalie van der
Poel
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: Hi
Instittutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the project were: (i) to strengthen the water sector's institutional capacity by
laying the foundations for a modem and efficient legal and regulatory framework and upgrading the
efficiency and competence of the sector financial model; (ii) to help the state water companies of Santa
Catarina (CASAN), Bahia (EMBASA) and Mato Grosso do Sul (SANESUL) to operate on a commercial
basis, with financial self-sufficiency, corporate autonomy and accountability for their actions; and (iii) to
improve environmental and health conditions in the project's urban areas.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions to the project objective. However, the targets for the performance indicators w,re
revised at the Mid Term Review, in full agreement with the Borrower and in line with Bank experience in
the sector in similar projects. The targets and the actual figures for the indicators are presented in Annex 1.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of: (i) an institutional strengthening component (1.6% of total project cost) to finanice
activities and studies related to sector institutional and regulatory reform and (ii) an investment component
(98% of total project cost) to help finance a time slice of the six year investment program of the selected
pilot state water companies, CASAN, EMBASA and SANESUL.
More specifically, the institutional strengthening component was composed of: (i) the regulatory model
sub-component, to formulate a proposal to set up a new regulatory framework for Brazil's water and
sanitation sector; (ii) the financing model sub-component to evaluate and reformulate the sector investment
programming and financing model at the Federal and local levels; (iii) institutional building sub-comporent,
to update Federal sector agencies' capacity to match the new regulatory model; and (iv) a project
preparation sub-component, to prepare a water demand management and rehabilitation project.
The investment component was composed of: (i) an investment sub-component, to expand and upgrade
water and sewerage systems; and (ii) an institutional and operational development sub-component, to build
capacity for better investment planning and operational efficiency, including unaccounted-for water
reduction program, information system upgrade, training, and project preparation.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no major revision of project components, although the loan allocation among components was
adjusted to reflect the changing demands and sub-borrower performance. The loan allocation to the
institutional component was increased to 4% of total project cost, reflecting the government's renewed
emphasis on urban development policy and the stronger than expected demand for technical assistance cn
institutional and regulatory reforms. The sub-loan allocation within the investment component was also
adjusted, so the better performing utilities received additional resources, while the worse performing ones
received reductions in loan allocation. A more detailed discussion on costs are presented in Section 5.4.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project responded to the Brazilian government's modernization
strategy for the water and sanitation sector, which consisted of (i) providing the sector with a firm
commercial basis, (ii) increasing service coverage levels, targeting in particular the needs of the poor, (i .i)
encouraging a more flexible institutional model, stimulating creation of municipal and regional consortia
and a larger participation and involvement of the municipalities and the private sector; (iv) increasing and
diversifying the sector's financial resources, (v) decentralization and increased efficiency in the sector aiid
(vi) placing greater emphasis on pollution control.
- 2-



The project also fully supported the Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil by encouraging economic growth
and social development through efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and
the appropriate targeting and delivery of services to the poor.
Reflecting the political environment of the time, the project was not designed to explicitly promote private
sector participation in the three pilot water companies, but to layout the foundation for a deeper sector
reform, which included private sector participation and establishment of a new sector regulatory
framework. In addition, the investment component of the project aimed at improving the operational and
financial performance of the three companies by creating a competitive environment among them. Those
who perform better would get more resources for investments.
At entry, the technical risk of the project was considered low. The main project risks identified at appraisal
were inadequate tariff adjustments in a continuously highly inflationary economy, as well as the
government's willingness to support the institutional refonns to strengthen the sector. The former (tariff
and inflation), turned out be a non-risk, as the Real Plan of 1994 stabilized the economy and tariffs were
adjusted adequately. The latter was the main project risk throughout the project, and still is a risk to the
sustainability of the reform efforts that were initiated by the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project outcome is rated satisfactory. The rating of the project is based on the assessments of
each project component as described below. The financial rates of return of sub-projects, re-estimated on
completion of the project, ranges from 34% to 42%, much higher than the appraisal estimate of 17%.
The project fully achieved its first objective to strengthen the water sector's institutional capacity.
Niumerous studies and consulting services implemented under the project's institutional component indeed
laid the foundations for the recent wave of institutional and regulatory reform in the sector and the
re-formulation of the sector financing model. The project also achieved its second objective to help the
three state water companies to operate on a commercial basis to a certain degree, although the results
varied among the three pilot companies. The third objective to improve environmental and health
conditions was also achieved through a substantial increase in service coverage.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Institutional Component - Highly Satisfactory
The institutional component is rated highly satisfactory. The project's outputs exceeded what was expected
at appraisal. Not only did the project fully achieve its objective of "laying the foundations" of a modem
and efficient legal and regulatory framework for the sector, the project contributed significantly to the
progress of the sector institutional and regulatory reform at all levels of the government.
The project was expected to address the following key issues in the sector: (i) clarifying Federal
Government responsibilities regarding the design and implementation of a broad national water policy
encompassing such elements as setting a national tariff policy, mandating quality of service standards and
defining and enforcing environmental standards, (ii) setting up independent regulatory commissions with
responsibility for monitoring and enforcement of license conditions, negotiation of license modifications,
control of prices, entry and exit, and financial structure, and (iii) evaluating and reformulating the sector
- 3 -



investrnent planning and financial model, including an effective decentralization of the sector's financial
responsibilities.
Under the project, a National Water and Sanitation Policy (PNS) was developed and issued in 1997. For
the first time the PNS laid out the role of the Govemment in the sector, the guiding principles for sector
development, objectives and targets, strategy, and specific instruments to implement the strategy. The
project was also instrunental in formulating and leading the debate on how to reform the sector, includirg
the drafting of the new sector law that is currently being discussed in Congress. The numerous studies and
consulting services financed under the project contributed to the formulation of sector policy and the
elaboration of the draft Law. The studies tackled a wide variety of issues on sector modemnization such is
sector regulation, private-public partnership, tariffs, financing, investment, environmental impact
assessment. As a result of these studies, a 15 volume series on water and sewerage sector modernizatior
was published under the project; these studies are often cited by policy makers and sector specialists as
reference books (see Annex 7 for the titles).
The project also provided direct technical assistance for the institutional and regulatory reforms in eight
states and municipalities. With project support, sector regulatory agencies in the states of Rio de Janeir')
and Rio Grande do Sul were established. Sector regulatory frameworks were designed for the states of Sao
Paulo, Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Mato Grosso, the municipalities of Angra dos Reis and Recife. Th-e
project also financed the development of sector institutional reform strategies, including private sector
participation for the states of Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, and Mato Grosso and for the
municipalities of Recife (PE) and Vitoria (ES). Although reform is still underway throughout the country, it
is safe to say that the project advanced sector reform to a point where it is irreversible. To offset the lack
of experience and culture of utility regulation, the project, in collaboration with WBI, financed a series cf
training seminars for the sector regulators.
The project-financed studies and services also contributed to the revamping of the sector financial model.
The Borrower restructured the use of FGTS (employee indemnity funds), the main local source for sector
financing, by applying more stringent eligibility criteria, which included operational efficiency indicators in
addition to financial indicators. They also introduced a more transparent mechanism to prioritize
investment projects at the State level, by creating "instancias colegiadas" (committees comprising
representatives from state, municipalities and civil society), and by making criteria for prioritization
clearer.
Furthermore, a comprehensive sector information system called "SNIS (Sistema Nacional de Informacao
sobre Saneamento)" was developed under the project, and has been updated and its annual reports are
published every year since 1995. The inforrmation system covers public as well as private providers, and
provides important data for policy and strategy formulation.
4.2.2  Investment Component - Satisfactory
This component is rated satisfactory on average. The project was successful in "modernizing" the three
pilot state water companies, by introducing commercially oriented operation, with financial self-sufficiency,
corporate autonomy and accountability, but to varying degrees for each company. In terms of specific
results by company, the EMBASA sub-component is rated "highly satisfactory", CASAN sub-componer.t
"satisfactory", and SANESUL sub-component "marginally satisfactory".
Key performance indicators, their targets and results, are presented in Tables 1-4 Annex 1.
- 4 -



EMBASA, the worst performer when the project started, made the most dramatic improvements,
surpassing many of the appraisal targets. EMBASA is now on its way to being privatized. CASAN was
the best performer at appraisal but suffered from frequent changes in management throughout the project
implementation period, improved somewhat, but not as much as expected. SANESUL, the smallest of the
three, suffered the most from weak top management team appointed by the State Government and a
consequent lack of strategic direction which left the company in financial despair. In 1999, after dwelling
on the idea of municipalization for nearly four years, SANESUL lost Campo Grande, the capital city of the
State, to a private concessionaire contracted by the municipality. The residual SANESUL was left with
high administration cost and less profitable systems, and took a while to adjust to the new situation.
In terms of commercially oriented operation, all three companies made progress. By the end of the project,
the metering rates for CASAN, EMBASA, and SANESUL increased to 930/%, 82%/o, and 86% from the
pre-project rates of 68%, 51%, and 72%, respectively. Customer data (cadastre) were updated and new
commercial information systems were implemented for CASAN and EMBASA. The "operational
development programs", which included a diagnosis and an action plan to reduce the unaccounted-for water
(UFW) rates, were prepared by a reputable consulting firn, but only towards the end of the project
execution period, and were not implemented fully. As a result, al three companies reduced the UFW rates,
but much less than expected at appraisal. On the other hand, all three companies experienced difficulties in
reducing the accounts receivable, which practically doubled with the inflation adjustments made when the
new currency Real was introduced (prior to that, little adjustments to compensate for inflation were made).
All three companies conducted a tariff study which came up with specific recommendations to adjust the
tariff structure. CASAN's tariff structure today is much simpler and equitable, with fewer customer
categories and lower minimum charges. SANESUL implemented a two-part tariff on a pilot basis, now
differentiates tariff by municipality, and is in the process of creating an investment fund for the poor by
collecting surcharges from customers. EMBASA, which is in the process of privatization, still has a fairly
complex tariff structure, and is studying the possibility of improving its tariff structure to be implemented
with privatization.
In terms of financial self-sufficiency, the results varied considerably, but in general, were below
expectations. EMBASA's working ratio (operating cost not including depreciation over operating revenue)
was reduced from 100% in 1991 to 68% in 1999, with practically no real increase in tariff during the
period, thanks to the reduction in personnel costs. EMBASA reduced the number of employees by nearly
30% from 5988 in 1991 to 4006 in 1999, though it still depends highly on state government transfer for
investments. The self-financing ratio (cash from operations over investments) of EMBASA also improved
from negative in 1991 to 29% in 1999, though it still depends highly on state government transfer for
investments. On the other hand, CASAN's working ratio stayed the same at 73%, despite the 20% real
increase in tariff between 1991 and 1999. Its self-financing ratio was 53% at the end of project.
SANESUL's working ratio actually deteriorated from 66% in 1991 to 72% in 1999, and its self financing
ratio turned negative, partly because of the loss of Campo Grande. It is important to note, however, that
SANESUL made major cost reduction and restructuring (19% reduction in number of employees) efforts
during 2000, and its financial situation has improved substantially.
In terms of corporate autonomy, the results were mixed. EMBASA enjoyed relative autonomy since around
1994, when the state government appointed a president with technical background, who stayed throughout
the project execution period. In a way, EMBASA's success was due to high-level political backing to the
project (and, as a result, the lack of negative interference in the operation of the project implementation).
The same president is now leading the privatization of EMBASA, which, combined with the establishment
of a state regulatory agency, is expected to enhance the company's corporate autonomy. On the other hand,
both CASAN and SANESUL repeatedly suffered (and continues to suffer) from political interference in
- 5-



their management and operations -- CASAN's president has changed practically every year -- and corpc rate
autonomy was not achieved in either case.
Finally, in terns of accountability to their actions, all three companies made substantial progress. All three
revamped their key information systems, including commercial, financial, and accounting systems. The
culture of client orientation was introduced, and the degree of client satisfaction are now measured through
periodic client surveys. EMBASA, which had repeatedly received qualified opinion from the external
auditors because of the outdated commercial, accounting, financial, and asset management systems,
updated the systems and received unqualified opinion from the auditors for the first time in many years.
All three companies introduced the practice of management by targets and indicators to enhance
accountability and overall performance.
Compared with other companies in the same region, the project companies did better, in terms of extending
water services, increasing productivity, metering, and reducing unaccounted-for water. On the other hand,
the project companies did the same or worse in terms of sewerage coverage, and reducing operating cos s.
(See table 5 of Annex 1)
In terms of the project's third objective to improve environmental and health conditions in the project's
urban areas, the project achieved substantial results. Water service coverage increased much more than
expected at appraisal in all three companies. The project financed a total of 104,400 new water
connections, constructed 228 km of water mains and 1852 km of water distribution network. This provi,led
3.64 million additional customers (52% of whom poor) with access to clean water. With respect to
sewerage services, the results were more modest. The project financed 48,448 new sewerage connections,
849 km of additional sewerage collection network, and a total of 889,000 people gained access to sewerage
services. There were no specific indicators to measure the project's impact on environment and health.
However, fecal coliforn concentration figures collected by CASAN before and after the sewage treatment
and collection projects in Florianopolis (partially financed by the project) shows a three to four log unit
reduction after the program at many of the sampling points. EMBASA also has a baseline and target data
for fecal coliform concentration. When its Bahia Azul environmental clean-up program (which includes the
project) is completed, these figures are expected to show major improvements as presented in Table 4.2,
Annex 1. Unfortunately, as of the writing of ICR, the ex-post data were not available, and would be an
important data to collect during OED audits.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Since the estimated financial rates of return (FRRs) were well above Brazil's opportunity cost of capital
(10%) and there are well known difficulties in quantifying benefits such as health and quality of life, the
FRRs were used as a low bound of the project's economic rates of return.
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn.
The FRR (thus the lower bound of ERR) estimated at appraisal for about one third of the project-financed
investment program was 17%. Upon completion, the FRRs were re-estimated using the actual investment
costs and revised revenue and cost assumptions. The revised estimate for the project was 42%. With a
few exceptions, the rates were much higher than estimated at appraisal, on average 39% for CASAN, 3"%
for EMBASA, and 42% for SANESUL for water projects, and 46% for CASAN and 34% for EMBASA
for sewerage projects, thanks mainly to higher-than-expected tariff levels and lower investment costs.
In addition to the ex-post analysis of the financial rates of returns, the marginal costs of the sub-projects
were re-estimated. The project's eligibility criteria were based on the calculation of marginal costs for each
system to be financed under the project. A sub-project in a city was eligible for project financing if the
- 6 -



average tariff for the city was higher than a given percentage of the marginal cost of the project. A
summary of the eligibility rules are presented in Annex 3. In all but three cases, average tariffs exceeded
the estimated marginal costs. In all but one cases, re-estimated marginal costs exceeded the eligibility
levels.
A more detailed description of the methodology and the results are presented in Annex 3.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact was substantial. The project contributed to the development of the
Government's capacity to fonnulate policy, promote sector reforms in the states and municipalities, and
utilize financial resources more effectively. The 170 studies and reports, as well as the national sector
information system developed under the project became the basis for such capacity, as discussed in Section
4.2.1 above. The project unit became the technical arm of the Federal line ministry responsible for the
sector, from which the Government could draw on its high quality staff and information for policy
formulation. At the state level, the institutional development impact was also high. The water companies
became much more accountable for their actions, with better information system, client service orientation,
and technical criteria for investment decisions.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major factors outside the control of the govemment or implementing agency that affected the
project performance.
5.2 Factors genierally subject to government control:
Several factors affected project performance.
Firstly, the macro-economic envirounment affected the project performance throughout the implementation
period. Earlier in implementation, the highly inflationary economic environment and the govenmment's
policy to freeze tariffs made it hard for the project companies to raise tariffs. With minimal tariff increases
and increasing operating costs, the losses were significant. After the new Real currency was introduced
and inflation subsided in 1994, the situation improved considerably. All water utilities raised their tariff
rates to more reasonable levels, and started to see positive operating incomes. Later in the project,
however, the sudden devaluation of the local currency (in 1999) affected the water utilities' cash flow, as a
substantial portion of their debts were denominated in US dollars.
Secondly, the new public utility concession law issued in 1995 had a substantial impact on both project and
general sector performance. The law stated that when an existing concession contract expires, the
conceding authority should bid out the concession openly in the market. The majority of the state water
companies (SWCs), including the project companies, were created in the early 1970s reflecting the sector
policy of that time which encouraged municipalities to delegate the water and sewerage services to the
SWCs through concession contracts, in exchange of Federal financing. After 30 years, these contracts are
now expiring. The Law changed the fundamental assumption that was made at the time of appraisal that
when the concession contracts expire they would be automatically renewed with the SWCs.
The application of the Law to the sector, however, is not straight forward. Many of the systems in the
metropolitan areas are shared by several municipalities, and the conceding powers of concessions (who call
for the bids) are not clear. The project contributed to the development of a draft sector law that clarifies
the conceding power, but the law is still under discussion in Congress. The indecisiveness of the Federal
govermnent on the Law's application to the sector delayed institutional and regulatory reform substantially.
- 7 -



On the other hand, the SWCs are now much more aware of the fact that the current institutional set up i
not sustainable, and have started to look for altemative institutional arrangements.
Thirdly, political interference in the management of utilities largely affected the project outcome. Frequ. nt
changes in the management of state water companies, especially at CASAN and SANESUL, affected thtz ir
operational and financial performance. Management changes were often disruptive to the project's time1v
execution, and investment decisions made on political criteria were sometimes devastating to the companies'
financial situation. On the other hand, the strong political commitment by the state government of Bahia to
this project contributed significantly to the success of the EMBASA subcomponent. It is, however,
important to note that the positive results could be threatened at any time should this beneficial political
interference be reversed by the changes in government administration, etc. Such threat can be eliminated
only through a more profound regulatory and institutional reform, such as the privatization strategy that
EMBASA is pursuing.
Fourthly, the shortage of counterpart funds was another factor that contributed to delay in the project's
implementation. The shortage was partly because of the difficult financial situation faced by the SWCs
and state governments, and partly because of the low priority placed on the project in some states.
Finally, the Federal Govermment's fiscal policy also affected project implementation. Because of the tighi
public expenditure limits instituted at the Federal level since 1998, project-financed works had to be
delayed or scaled back towards the end of the project execution period.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project's eventual success, despite the start-up delays and other implementation problems, can be
attributed to the good performance of the project management units, both at the Federal and at the state
water company levels. Notwithstanding the frequent changes in the line ministry and the management of
the water utilities, project implementation suffered minimum disruption, thanks to the dedicated and
capable staff who remained in the project management units throughout project execution.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Actual project cost was 98% of the costs estimated at appraisal. Overall, about US$ 3 million of the US$
250 million loan was undisbursed as of December 5, 2000. Because this was a sector investment loan to
finance a time slice of participating water companies' investment program, the cost estimates made at
appraisal were of indicative nature, and not the estimates for specific works or equipment purchase.
Although the overall project cost was not significantly different from appraisal estimates, project costs by
component changed, reflecting changing project needs and company performance. Loan allocation for the
institutional component was increased substantially from US$8 million to US$20 million. Loan allocatioi
to EMBASA was increased at Mid-term Review from US$99 million to US$122 million as the company
dernonstrated high technical capacity and significant improvements in performance. On the other hand,
loan allocations to CASAN and SANESUL were reduced from US$79 million and US$63 million to
US$65 million and US$41 million, respectively.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated highly likely. Over the course of the project implementation, the
project became a national flagship sector reform program called "PMSS (Programa de Modernizacao do
- 8 -



Setor Saneamento)". In 1997, the Federal Government turned "PMSS" into a permanent government
program through a Ministerial Decree. To continue the reform efforts started by the project, the
Government requested a follow-up project, the Second Water Sector Modernization Project (4292-BR),
which was signed and is in effect since 1999. Even if PMSS II disappears today, the concepts and ideas
developed by the program are likely to remain. In fact every operation with a multilateral or bilateral
agency is designed around the principles developed in this program. The lessons learned from the first
project were fully incorporated into the design of the follow-up project.
The sector institutional and regulatory reform efforts initiated by the project are most likely to continue. At
the Federal level, draft sector laws are being discussed in Congress, awaiting approval. At the state level,
the new regulatory and institutional frameworks developed under the project are either implemented or
under serious consideration. Even those states which chose not to implement the frameworks proposed
under the project, have taken major steps towards greater private sector participation and setting-up of an
adequate regulatory framework. Once the Federal sector law clarifies the issue of conceding power, sector
reform is expected to accelerate considerably throughout the country.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In general, the water and sewerage systems built under the project are operated and maintained by the same
state water companies which built them. In the case of SANESUL, however, the systems built in the
capital city of Campo Grande were transferred to a private operator contracted by the municipality of
Campo Grande and are currently being operated and maintained by them. In the case of EMBASA, which
is in the process of privatization, the majority of the systems will be transferred to the private operator once
transaction is completed.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. Seven missions visited Brazil
during the preparation, appraisal and negotiation phases. Appraisal was conducted by a high quality,
multi-disciplinary team consisting of the task manager, a financial analyst, an engineer, a procurement
specialist, a legal advisor and a disbursement specialist.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory. However, the limited supervision budget
restricted supervision missions to two or three per year on average, which for a project as complex and
geographically dispersed may be considered limited. The supervision team was in general proactive, gave
adequate advice and worked in close cooperation with the Borrower, the implementing agency and the three
state water companies.
Earlier in the project execution, the project faced numerous administrative bottlenecks. The sub-borrowers
took time to get accustomed to the Bank's procurement rules, as well as leam to develop appropriate terns
of reference for the consulting assignments, especially in English, the Bank's official language. The Bank
supervision team focused its effort in eliminating such bottlenecks by organizing a series of procurement
workshops and by working with the sub-borrowers on the development of the terms of reference.
The Bank supervision team was in general flexible, and responded well to changing circumstances. During
project implementation, the sub-borrowers faced a major liquidity problem which lead to the shortage of
-9-



counterpart funds. As a solution, the Bank team agreed to count works that were 1 00% financed by the
sub-borrowers that passed the eligibility criteria, as counterpart contribution, while increasing the financing
percentage of the Bank financed portion.
At the same time, loan proceeds were reallocated by decreasing the non-performing components
(SANESUL and CASAN) and increasing the better perfonning ones (EMBASA and the institutional
components). Targets for the monitoring indicators were also adjusted to reflect the reality. Some of th,.
original targets were too ambitious, and some were too conservative.
The Bank supervision team, on the other hand, stood firm on the project conditions, when necessary. Th.
fact that the Bank did not allow EMBASA to spend any of the loan proceeds until it achieved the eligibility
conditions provided incentives for EMBASA to strive for better performance, and lead to eventual success
of this sub-component. Unfortunately, during project implementation, the Bank introduced a policy of
closely monitoring loan disbursements to measure project progress and success. This policy was not
consistent with such a project design which did not allow the project companies to utilize loan proceeds
until certain benchmark targets were met. It also gave the project companies wrong incentives, prompting
them to focus their efforts on physical progress, which may have been at the expense of complex and far
reaching institutional reforms which involved relatively smaller amounts of money.
The Bank, as an institution, also could have responded more effectively and proactively to certain
procurement problems, such as the one concerning poor quality water meters manufactured in a certain
country and procured by all three companies as a result of following the Bank's Intemational Competitive
Bidding process. Despite the fact that this problem affected not only this project, but also other projects in
the region, the response by the Bank as an institution was slow. It was the project team that took the
initiative to organize the meeting on this issue, but the solution could have been provided much earlier.
7.3 Overall Bank perfrnnance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. The project team in general responded well, when
faced with numerous expected and unexpected political, institutional, legal and financial problems. In
addition, even though privatization and regulation were not high on the development agenda at the time ot
project design, the project incorporated these concepts gradually during project implementation, thus
paving the way to eventual private sector participation, and regulatory reform.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The Borrower provided a committed and
skilled technical team to prepare the project. Significant time was spent by the preparation team and Bank<
staff to complete the analysis and discuss project scope, objectives, components and implementation
arrangements, thus guaranteeing their sense of ownership and commitment.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Borrower and sub-borrower performance in project implementation was mixed.
At the Federal level, despite the frequent changes in its administrative structure, the government's
comimitment to institutional reform and project implementation remained high throughout project
implementation. During the project implementation period, the sector ministry changed from the National
Secretariat of Sanitation (SNS/MBS) to the Secretariat of Urban Policy (SEPURB/MPO), Secretariat of
Urban Development (SEDU/PR), and then to the current Special Secretariat of Urban Development
(SEDU/PR) which reports directly to the Presidency. The fact that the project management unit was
- 10-



placed in IPEA, an independent government research outfit, shielded the project from these political and
administrative changes.
At the state level, the performance was mixed. Some states placed higher emphasis on the project than
others. Frequent changes in management by the state government were highly disruptive to project
performance at CASAN. Earlier in project implementation, the state government of Santa Catarina placed
a lower priority on the project, which resulted in slow provision of counterpart funding and, in general,
slow execution of the sub-projects. Indecisiveness of the State Government regarding the municipalization
and privatization (desestatizacao) of SANESUL affected the morale of the employees and thus company's
performance over a considerable period, and lead to the eventual painful loss of the capital city of Campo
Grande to a private operator. The loss of Campo Grande created serious negative repercussions for
SANESUL and its new incoming management, and lead to the loss of staff expertise and even some of the
Project financed products and knowledge in the chaotic separation that ensued for a period of time even
though SANESUL managed to re-bounce in the recent years. The state of Bahia was a notable exception,
where the state fully supported the project and inserted the project into a larger state program called "Bahia
Azul", provided sufficient counterpart funds, and gave EMBASA sufficient corporate autonomy to
successfully implement the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated highly satisfactory. The Federal project
management unit (PMU) was staffed with competent staff throughout project implementation period, and
performed administrative and financial management of the project competently with adequate control.
Earlier in the project implementation, however, the Federal PMU focused more on the implementation of
the institutional development component, which lead to very limited supervision of the investment
component. Although more supervision was carried out toward the end of project implementation, the
project could have benefited more from the facilitating role of the PMU in the exchange of experiences
among the participating utilities. At the sub-borrower level, each company appointed a project coordinator,
who coordinated all activities related to the project. The project coordination units of the three water
companies periodically produced project progress reports of high quality, with physical, financial,
operational and other information. Despite the frequent changes in the management structure in some of
the sub-borrowers, very few changes were made to the project coordinators, which contributed largely to
the project's satisfactory performance.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower and sub-borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Throughout the implementation
period, the Borrower maintained strong commitment to achieve the project objectives. Once counterpart
fund shortage problems were resolved, implementation went smoothly, thanks to competent staff in the
PMU and close coordination between the implementing agencies.
8. Lessons Learned
Many of the lessons learned from the project as discussed below were incorporated in the follow-up project,
the Second Water Sector Modernization Project (Loan 4292-BR).
Project Design and Policy Implications
Public Utility Modernization and Incentives for Performance Improvements
Although the project companies did improve performance to a certain degree, further and sustained
improvements require better incentive mechanisms, combined with a more profound institutional and
- 11 -



regulatory reform. The project design included certain incentive mechanisms. First, the "performance
agreements", a condition for effectiveness, signed by the state govermments, the SWCs, and the Federal
government, outlined the responsibilities and commitments of each party in achieving the project objectihes.
Such agreements, however, were not effective or enforceable, and did not provide incentives for the
utilities. Second, the project created a limited competitive environment among the three participating
companies. Those who perform better can get larger loan allocation. Although this worked to some extent
(EMBASA got more resources allocated at mid-term review), the fact that a large amount of the loan
proceeds was allocated up-front to the utilities did not help utilities in striving for better performance.
Third, the supply-driven nature of sub-borrower selection also hindered further performance improvements.
Partly because of the pilot nature of the project, the water companies were selected based on regional
diversity, size, and different economic levels of the population they serve, and not by demand or level of
commitment shown by the water companies or the State governments. The supply driven approach to klan
allocation resulted in lack of commitment to the institutional reform, especially in the early years of project
implementation. The investments to be financed by the loan could have been competitively allocated,
driven by demand. Finally, accountability of the project companies could have been enhanced if a clearer
"rules of the game" -- regulatory frameworks and regulatory agencies that enforce the rules -- had been
established.
Disconnect between the Institutional and Investment Components
There was a certain degree of disconnect between the institutional (Federal) component and the investment
component (SWCs). The Federal institutional component promoted a profound institutional and regulatory
reform, including private sector participation and decentralization of services and worked with numerous
states and municipalities. On the other hand, the investment component focused more on the traditional
public utility modernization programs. Although the Federal institutional component provided limited TA
to the pilot companies in formulating institutional reform strategies, it stopped short of providing further
support for their implementation or bringing about complementary regulatory reformn, until much later ir
the project implementation period. One of the reasons for the disconnect was the limited involvement bf the
state governments in the project. Although the state governments signed the Shareholder's Agreements
with the Bank, in which they agreed to support the project objectives and to provide sufficient financial
support, both the PMU and the Bank teams contact with the relevant government officials was limited. In
hindsight, a more frequent sector dialog with the state govemments could have accelerated the institutional
and regulatory reform.
Follow-up Project
Reflecting the lessons as described above, in the follow-up project the participating utilities are selected
based on demand. Once selected, the public utilities have two options. The first option is to stay public.
and try to achieve certain performance targets. The better the utility performs, the more project resources
the utility will receive for investment. There will not be large up-front allocation of loan proceeds. Instead,
the loan will be allocated in phases, as the utilities achieve higher targets. The second option is to pursue
further institutional reform through private sector participation. Once the private operator is in place, the
utility will get the loan proceeds. The state (or municipal) governments are involved in the decision makng
process up-front. For both options, the state must have a regulatory framework in place, and the project
provides financial and technical support to develop their framework.
Sector Institutional and Rezulatorv Reform
Although the Project made a substantial contribution to the sector institutional and regulatory refonn
efforts, the implementation of the new institutional and regulatory models was slow. As discussed in
Section 5.2, the Federal Government's indecisiveness regarding the issue of conceding power was one of the
main factors that contributed to the delays. As mentioned in the Borrower's contributions (Annex 8), a
- 12-



better commnunication strategy to raise awareness of the Government decision makers at all levels (congress
members, sector ministries, local government officials) could have accelerated the process. In addition, the
project provided technical assistance to the local governments for state/municipal sector reform on a grant
basis but without any commitments from the governments. Clear commitments from these governnents,
including those of a financial nature, could have been sought up-front.
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
In general, a few simple and practical indicators make supervision more objective and efficient. The project
had numerous monitoring indicators (26 indicators), mainly focused on operational and financial efficiency
and service coverage. While these indicators are useful, the large number of indicators made Bank
supervision more cumbersome, and diffused the companies' efforts to improve them. All indicators, but
especially financial indicators, should be defined well, as different accounting practices in different
companies may make comparisons difficult. Furthermore, despite the large number of indicators, there
were few impact indicators that can demonstrate the project's impact on environment and health conditions.
A selected number of impact indicators could have been identified and baseline data collected before and
after project implementation.
Project Implementation
Procurement
The unfamiliarity of the sub-borrowers with the Bank procurement process contributed to the project's
stant-up delay. Although the sub-borrowers attended a general procurement senminar, and standard
procurement documents were provided, the sub-borrower nonetheless faced difficulties in preparing the
documents especially in a foreign language. A workshop organized by the Bank supervision team with a
procurement specialist answering specific questions helped accelerate the procurement process.
Furthermore, for major consulting services such as the operational development progamns (unaccounted-for
water reduction program) or the tariff studies, the terms of reference could have been developed during
project preparation with the sub-borrowers, so the contracts could start without delay.
Proiect Coordination Unit
The project originally foresaw the creation of a strong technical team in Brasilia which would manage the
institutional component and supervise and provide technical assistance to the state water companies. Pardy
because of the start-up delay of the investment component, the Federal technical team (PMU) placed less
emphasis on the supervision of the investment component until later into project implementation. The three
pilot companies, therefore, could not each benefit as much as would have been desirable from the
experiences and lesson leamned from the other companies in a systematic manner. Much of the exchanges
happened infonnally, through telephone conversations between project coordinators of each company or
through World Bank missions which visited the three companies, perhaps more often than the Federal
project management unit in the earlier years. The Federal project management unit could have played a
larger role in facilitating learning and introducing yardstick competition among the three pilot companies.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A sunmnary of Borrower's contribution to the ICR is presented in Annex 8. Borrower's comments to the
ICR is presented in Annex 9.
(1) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
- 13-



(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Not Applicable
- 14-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table 1: Physical Impact of the Project-Financed Investments
Units    CASAN                    EMBASA               SANESUL                 Total
Water Supply:
Incremnental intake capacity                    1/s            1,582                 870                 1,255               3,707
Incremental treatment capacity                  V/s            1,582                1,360                 209                3,151
Incremental pumping capacity                   I/s             4,042                2,591                  -                156,450
Incremental storage capacity                    NV             55,930              57,700               42,820                229
Incremental transmission line                  km               133                  75                   21                 1,852
Incremental distribution network               km               770                  679                 403
Incremental connections                                        15,813              69,724               18,817               104,354
Sewage Collection and Treatment:
Incremental connections                                        5,832               31,716                10,900              48,448
Incremental collection network                 km               123                  594          -       89                  809
Incremental interceptors/ outfalls             km               20.2                 17.3                  0                  37.5
Incremental pumping capacity                    I/s             241                 5,191                  0                 5,432
Incremental treatmnent capacity                 I/s              0                  4,160                  0                 4,440
Table 2. Indicators of Commercially Oriented Operation
CASAN                        EMBASA                       SANESUL
Unit   1991    Tar ets    2000        1991   Tar ets*   2000        1991   Tar ets*   2000
AM  _A M
Water connections with meters             %       61      90           93       51    75.6 69.2    82          72    91.1 86.7    K6
Unaccouoted for water (1)                 %       35      30  28.4    32        49    31.3  38.7    42        44    30.2 30.7   40
W&S connections per employee                      188    225          368       163    212  225    409        232    264 322    402
Personnel cost/Operating cost (2)         % /     73      74           62       70      64   67      38        53     63   _      56
' Targets at appraisal (A) and revised targets at mid-tern review (M)
(I) Volume of water produced/(volume of water produced-volume of water billed)
(2) Operating cost does not include depreciation
- 15-



Table 3. Indicators of Financial S  If-Sufficiency
CASAN                        EMBASA                         SANESUL
Unit       1991    Ta  e *    1999       1991    Tar, etS*    1999      1991    _   s'ts*  1999 (1)
A M                ___  A M                                  A M
Average water tariff              US$/n3       0.58   0.66 0.81    0.81      0.50    0.59 0.67    0.51      0.68    0.78  1.76   0.90
Average sewerage tariff           US$/m3       0.61    0.65 0.71    0.66     0.37    0.44 0.47    0.38      0.58    0.69  1.65   0.71
Working ratio (2)                              0.73    0.56 0.72    0.73     1.00    0.57 0.66    0.68      0.66    0.55 0.69   0.72
Compliance with NTL (3)                        1.04    1.23        0.97      0.84    1.23         0.87      0.91    1.00         0.72
Current ratio                                  1.67    1.15        0.65      0.29    0.57         0.91      0.63    0.39         0.47
Debt/(Debt + Equity) (4)                       0.32    0.40         0.38     0.47    0.34         0.29      0.54    0.50         0.45
Accounts receivable comparator (5)    Days     79      45   66      73        113     45   88      163       75     45   74      112
Rate of Retum (6)                              2 2.7    17.5        3.8      -2.0   13.0          -0.4      0.6    11.6          -0.4
Debt service coverage              Times       3.0    2.5   1 .     130      -1.80    3.4  1.2    2.50      2.2    1.50          -0.5
Net intemal cash/investment (7)      N         93      69   35      53       -155    35    5       29        26     40   35    -255
* Targets at appraisal (A) and revised targets at rnid-ternm review (M)
The adjustmnents made during MTR are provided between parentheses were appropriate.
(1) 1999 data for SANBSUL does not include Campo Grande.
(2) Operating cost not including depreciation/operating reVenue
(3) Operating revenuel(operating cost + depreciation + debt service)
(4) Long-terrm debt/(Long-tern debt+shareholders' equity)
(5) Account receivable doubled in 1995, with the new currency and inflation adjustments.
(6) RoR on average net fixed assets
(7) (Operating revenue - operating costs not including depreciation)/investments excluding interest during construction
Table 4.1 Indicators of Environmental and Health Conditions
CASAN                       EMBASA                      SANESUL
Water Supply                           Unit   1991   Tar ets*   1999        1991   Tar gets*   1999    1991   Targ ets*  1999(1)
_ A  M             __       A  M |                      AM 
Population served with water           *1000   2,04R   3,565       2,R19    4,566  6,545        7,077    1,322  2,001        1,680
Water coverage                          %        80    92.7  92     94        77    79.8 90.8    97       88     96          100
Number of water connections             1000    536    730  784    801       910   1,184 1,291  1,458     315    459  428    462
Number of water customers              *1000    690    941         1,05R     1,180  1,560       1 1,816    373    538   _    514
Sewage Collection and Treatment        Unit   1991   Tar et        1999     1991   T   et**   1999    1991   Tar ts*a  1999 (1)
A I_M   AM                                               A  | M
Population served with sewage disposal  1000    172    808          266      605    869         1,338     129    357          191
Sewerage coverage                       %        7      21  13.6     9        10    10.6 16.6   1R        9     17.1  10.3   11
Number of sewerage connections          1000    27    102  61       47        65     94  136    181       26     80   41      46
Number of sewerage customers           *1000    75    225 122.9   128        156    208 320.6   353       43    110  62.7    65
Sewage collected/waterconsumed          %        11    24           13        16     16          21       13    21  |         18
Sewage collection, indicator*           'I,      5           7.8     6        7          10.5   124        8          13.5   10
Sewage collected andtreated/water       %       N.A.    22          12       N.A.    24          47      N.A. |8
consumed                                                   I I  , 1                                                         _ .  _
* Targets at appraisal (A) and revised targets at rnid-term review (M)
** Number of sewerage connection/number of water connections (indicator added at MTR)
- 16-



Table 4.2 Reduction in fecal coliform due to Florianopolis Sewage Treatment and
Collection* (CASAN).
Collection points              Situation in 1992         Situation in 2000         Reduction
(1000 fc/100 ml sample)   (1000 fc/100 ml sample)         (%)
Baia Norte, point 10              250,000                      300                   99.88
Baia Norte, point I 1            35,000,000                    650                   99.99
Baia Norte, point 15              4,900,000                   1,500                  99.96
Baia Norte, point 20             35,000,000                   1,300                  99.99
Under new bridge                   13,000                      300                   97.69
*Partially financed by the project
Table 4.3 Expected Impact from the Bahia Azul (Bay area clean-up) Program**
(EMBASA) - Reduction in selected water quality parameters being discharged to the Bay
Parameters             Units          Data in 1995        Reduction
expected
COD                    Kgday           _27,247          24,692 (91%)
BOD                    Kg/day            22,946          18,727 (82%)
Amnmonia               Kg/day             1,524          1,376 (90%)
Oil and                Kg/day             7,28           6,948 (95%)
Solid Waste            Kg/day          6_ 1               53 (87%)
Phenol                 Kg/day              61             52 (85%)
Sulfate                Kg/day             109             90 (83%)
**Partially financed by the project
- 17-



Table 5 Sector vs. Proiect Comnanv Performance
_  N   NEi (0000000 MB0 lltASA   SE  S   CAA    CW    SSUL  Brazi
________  _________  ______  _______;;0  _______   _________ A verage
Water Service       1995  68%    88%       83%     89%    96%      86%    88%       95%      88%
Coverage            1998 98%    93%        91%     93%    96%      91%    89%       98%      91%
change 30%    85 S%               4%     0%      5       1%1      4%.0%     3%
Sewerage           1995  3%      15%       13%     52%    18%      7%     35%       11%      32%
Coverage           1998  14%    18%        17%     59%    20%      9%     42%       12%      36%
change  11%  73W         4%n,-4   7%     2%N 2%           %       INo1      4%
Working Ratio      1995 115%   106%        78%     61%    86%      86%    91%       77%      74%
(smaller the       1998  95%    89%        70%     52%    71%      77%    77%      84%       63%
better)          change -20%   -17%        8       -9%   -15%    -9% o-14%  .           i    - 11%
Water Tariff        1995  0.64    0.55     0.65    0.68   0.74    0.75   0.67       0.78     0.66
(R$/m3)            1998  1.01    0.84    04        0.88   1.19     1.21  0.94    1.04.0.92
Sewerage Tariff    1995  0.76    0.50      0.48    0.72   0.59    0.63    0.53      0.61     0.67
(R$/m3)            1998  0.88  0,69       0.5      1.01 t0.99   082                0.82      0.95
Productivity /1    1995  6.6    4.32       4.92    3.67   2.99    4.01    4.81      3.88     3.91
(smaller the       1998  5.80    3.90      3.50    4.60   3.40    3.30    5.60      3.70     4.20
better)          change  -0.80   -0.42    -1.42    0.93   0.41    -0.71   0.79    -0.18      0.29
Metering           1995  36%    49%        46%     83%    84%      87%    83%       79%      72%
1998  46%    66%       68%     90%    85%      93%    94%       88%      81%
change  10%                       7%      1%     6        1%      9%        9%
Unaccounted-for    1995  58%    50%        51%     39%    35%      35%    38%       47%      42%
water (smaller      1998  56%    48%       42%     38%    35%      32%    34%       42%      40%
the better)      change  -2%    -2%        -9%      1%     0%    t%        -5%      5%       -2%
1/ Employee per 1000 water connections
Table 6: Beneficiary Population
State Water                              Project Beneficiary   Of which Low Income
Companies                                    Population
CASAN                  Appraisal              1,500,000               660,000
Actual                763,636                 420,000
EMBASA                  Appraisal             1,950,000               1,170,000
Actual               2,509,804                1,280,000
SANESUL                Appraisal              800,000                 480,000
Actual                488,889                 220,000
Total                  Appraisal             4,277,778               2,310,000
Actual               3,692,308                1,920,000
- 18-



Table 7: Stmmary of Operational Pnd Institutional Development Activities Financed under the
Investment Component
Table 7.1 CASAN
Planned at Appraisal (As per Annex 14 of What was Implemented (As of June 30, 2000)
SAR)
Operational Development
*  Macro-metering and Pitometry -     143 units in 134 systems were installed. 82% of water produced is
increase reliability and coverage of  metered today, compared with 58% in 1996. Nine vehicles for
production metering; improve pressure  pitometry were purchased.
zoning, ascertain pipe roughness
coefficients and delivery flows
*  Micro-metering - Maintenance and  About 10,000 meters/year maintained or replaced. 440,504 meters
replacement of meters; install 36,000   purchased and installed. Metering increased from 70% in 1992 to
meters                             93% in 2000.
*  Physical inventory of 2,400 kmn of  To date, physical inventory of 2,641 km of water network in
network                           various areas of the state completed. To do so, project department
was modernized with Autocad, GPS, etc.
*  User's cadastre - assess and redesign the 544,000 residential connections (68% of total) re-cadastred.
basic classification of about 120,000
connections
*  Planning and operational control -  38 radio communication systems installed. Automatic systems
acquire and install 30 new        installed in 62 operating units.
radio-communications and automatic
systems in four operating units
Institutional Development
*  Restructuring of data processing area   Information System Master Plan was developed, and new
management system (commercial, administrative, fmancial,
operational, and intra and internet) was implemented.
Microcomputers increased from 40 units in 1992 to 650 units in
2000. With the new system, CASAN no longer depends on the
State Information Company's system.
*  Renovation of transportation vehicles  In 1992, CASAN had 367 operational vehicles (one vehicle per 6
users). In 2000, CASAN has 587 vehicles (one per 5 users) in
good condition.
*  Improvement of inventory system    Fixed asset revaluation was carried out, and a fixed asset
administration and control system was implemented.
*  Implementation of an inventory quality  Implemented a new inventory control program. Updated
control prograrn                  warehouse space totaling 4700 m2.
*  Construction and equipment of a   Constructed a training center totaling 3,586 m2.
training center
Table 7.2 EMBASA
Planned at Appraisal (As per Annex 14 of What was Implemented (As of June 30, 2000)
SAR)
Operational Development
*  Macrometering and Pitometry -      92% metering of production today. Improved reliability of existing
production metering of 100% by 1996;  ones. Implemented sectorized metering in Salvador, Itaparica,
create and train 30 pitometric teams and Feira de Santana, Ilheus, and water main of Feijao. Created and
implement 65 pitometric districts  trained 18 pitometric teams. Evaluation of Lysa concluded that it
is not economical to implement pitometric districts.
- 19-



*  Micrometering - 76% by 1997        83.6% in June 2000. Maintenance and replacement program
implemented. 308,500 meters purchased with project, without
counting 156,000 Chinese meters with quality problem.
*  User Services (SIP-SAP) - improve  Implemented computerized SIP-SAP. Construction and reform of
productivity and response to user  client service stations. Better telephone service. Internet based
complaints                         request and complaints. Service quality control program.
*  Physical inventory of 2,400 km of  As a part of geoprocessing program, networks are being digitized.
network
*  Maintenance and rehabilitation of  187 km of water network replaced in Salvador. Other activites
operational units, including electric and foreseen were not financed under Project.
electromechanical equipment.
*  Operational Planning and Control -    Acquired equipment to control water quality, and vehicles to
Acquisition of equipment to better  collect samples. Computerization of central laboratory to provice
control water quality, implement   database of quality control parameters for water and wastewater
operational control and revise technical systems throughout the state (with the plan to eventually link this
and operational manual. Reduce billing database to each of EMBASA's operational units by intranet) -- in
losses to 33% in 1996 from 47% in    the process of ISO 9000 certification. Contracted consulting
1992.                             service for diagnosis and implementation of water loss control
program in three pilot areas in Salvador. UFW reached on
average 38% in June 2000 in the whole state (of which Salvador
49% and 26% in the rest of the state). UFW program in Salvador
is still under implementation. Feira de Santana reduced UFW from
55% to 35%.
*  User Cadastre - evaluate and restructure All users of Salvador re-cadastred.
classification of users                                       _
*  Improve organizational methods to    Implemented "total quality program". Simultaneous reading andi
reduce billing time and improve    presentation of bills with portable collector implemented in
collection efficiency              Salvador.
Institutional Development
* Restructuring of data processing area,  Developed information system master plan. Acquired hardware
including new equipment purchase, TA, and software. Implemented intranet. Training of personnel.
and training.                      Implementation of geoprocessing. Computerization of central
laboratory for water quality control. Development of new systerns
for contract and loss control. Others not financed by project: new
commercial and accounting systems.
*  Telecommunications (not planned at   Purchase and installation of fixed and mobile radios. New
appraisal)                        telephone system
*  Revaluation of fixed assets        Fixed assets revaluated, which resulted in adjustments by R$46C'
million.
*  Total quality control program (not  Implementation of a total quality program, which resulted in
planned at appraisal)             training and motivation of employees, especially at the
management level. Each units now develops action plans to
achieve corporate goals set by upper management.
*  Sanitary and health conditions in the    The evaluation was conducted by consultants. The evaluation hid
state of Bahia (not planned at appraisal) important results on service coverage strategy. The work is novt
being used for the consultants working on privatization of
EMBASA.
*  Development of the design unit of  The work carried out by the consulting firm was of disappointing
EMBASA (not planned at appraisal,   quality with a substantial delay. Their recommendation to
recommended later by a Bank       restructure the project area is no longer relevant as EMBASA is in
consultant)                       the process of privatization.
* Re-engineering of administrative    Still under execution.
process (not planned at appraisal)
- 20 -



*  Training (not planned, except for  Ample training program implemented in operational, management,
information technology)            and information areas. 1,104 courses, 15,031 participants, and
1,1011,312 staff-hour. Improvements in the training facilities of
EMBASA (auditorium and equipment)
Table 7.3 SANESUL
Planned at Appraisal (As per Annex 14 of What was Implemented (As of June 30, 2000)
SAR)
Operational Development
*  Reduce losses to 30% in 1997.      UFW reduction program implemented in Campo Grande,
Dourados, Tres Lagoas, Corumba, Ponta Pora. UFW was reduced
from 43% to 39%. Rehabilitation and improvements of water
systems in Navirai, Rio Brilhante, Jardim, Aparecida do Taboado,
Pedro Gomes, Nova Andradina, Nioque, Corumba. Acquired
equipment for leakage detection, etc.
* Macrometering and Pitometry         Acquired pitometry equipment and macro meters for all major
cities.
*  Micrometering                      Micrometering increased from 72% to 86%. 182,000 meters
installed or replaced.
*  Physical inventory of water network    Water and sewerage systems in 80% of municipalities served by
SANESUL are now digitalized into AutoCad system. Based on
the digitalized information, tehnical and operational cadastre of
operational units and equipment are updated.
*  User cadastre to evaluate and redesign  Center of control of consumption was implemented in Campo
classification of users            Grande. User cadastre was updated.
*  Program to improve operational units to Operational quality control program was implemented. As a
develop and execute maintenance and  result, process control centers and service distribution centers, in
rehabilitation programs            Navirai as pilot and later in Campo Grande, and other major cities,
were established. Navirai pilot served as a model for other SWCs.
Institutional Development
*  Program to improve planning and    Purchase of equipment for leak detection, pitometry, training of
operational control to acquire and  staff, and establishment of leak detection unit in Tres Lagoas and
install equipment for better water  Ponta Pora.
quality control
*  Program to improve consumer services  Establishment of client service centers to receive complaints and
provide efficient service. More than 2000 clients were served.
* Program to improve billing and      Billing and collection system was replaced, including data
collection                         processing center, that improved the processing speed by 40%.
Since 1999, company wide review of administrative processes are
being revised, which resulted in revised manulas for inventory
control, materials purchases, etc.
* Technical Assistance and training   Implemented training programs to improve operational,
commercial, and administrative areas. Training sessions for
quality control in operations, sanitation, environment and
information technology. 14,535 courses offered, Acquired
materials and equipment for training.
*  Information technology (not planned at Developed information master plan to improve technical,
appraisal)                         administrative and operational areas. Purchased hardwares and
softwares.
*  Monitoring of raw water bodies     Implementation of raw water bodies monitoring program.
Developed a laboratory to measure water and sewage quality with
materials and equipment.
- 21 -



Table 8. Summary of Activities Financed Under the Institutional Component
Planned at Appraisal                   What was Implemented
A. Formulation of a New Regulatory
Model for Brazil's Water and Wastes    Contribution to the National Policy, Law, and Sector Managemont
Sector                                   *  Preparation of various studies on sector regulation, includi:ig
*  Institutional reformn                   tariff.
*  Drafting of proposed legislation     *  Preparation and approval of Brazil's National Policy for
*  Definition of functions and mechanisms  Water Supply and Sanitation
*  Participation in the elaboration of the new sector law
currently in Congress.
*  Establishment of the National Sector Information System
(SNIS) and publication of annual reports since 1995.
*  Organization and participation in various sector related
workshops and seminars.
Direct technical assistance to states and municipalities:
*  Rio de Janeiro - Development of institutional and regulatory
frameworks.
*  Sao Paulo - Development of a regulatory framework for water
supply, sewerage, and solid waste sectors.
*  Recife (municipality) - Development of a new management
and operation model for sewerage, and development of a
regulatory framework for water and sanitation services.
* Metropolitan region of Vitoria, Espirito Santo - Development
of a sector regulatory framework, development of service
provision.
*  Rio Grande do Sul - development of a regulatory frameworc,
and institutional arrangement for water and sanitation
services.
* Alagoas - Technical and operational diagnosis of water anc
sanitation services.
* Mato Grosso - development of institutional arrangements a-id
regulatory framework for water and sanitation sector.
B. Evaluation and Reformation of the   Studies on viability of a new sector financing system.
Sector Investment Programming and      Restructuring of FGTS application to the sector: (i) introduction of
Financing Model                        new eligibility criteria with emphasis on financial and operational
efficiency; (ii) establishment of a mechanism to prioritize
investments based on demand, especially for low income
population.
C. Institutional Building
* Upgrading of SNS's capacity to be in   SNS was replaced by SEPURB, then SEDUIPR. Because the
line with the proposed regulatory model regulatory model is still under discussion by Congress, there has
*  Updating of other federal agencies'  not been specific effort to align Federal sector agencies' capacity to
capacity to be in line with the proposed  a certain model. However, through various studies, workshops,
regulatory model                   and direct technical assistance, the project created a group of stalf
*  Training of sector's management in  well trained on sector issues, institutional and regulatory models
planning, marketing, and operational   PMSS practically became the technical arm of the Federal Sectoi
techniques, including cost reduction    Ministry (now SEDU). Many of the "graduates" of the PMSS
program are active contributors to sector policy formulation at
Federal and local levels.
- 22 -



D. Preparation Facilities for a Proposed   Not implemented through the project. Instead of preparing a
Water Demand Management and Systems demand management and rehabilitation project, a follow-up project
Rehabilitation Project                 Second Water Sector Modernization Project was prepared. The
Federal Government opted for executing this project with emphasis
on reducing unaccounted for water levels, financed with its own
resources. The Project provided technical assistance to the
definition, organization and lauhcing of activities. The project is
called "Programa Nacional de Combate ao Deperdicio de Agua".
Urban Development Policy Support (added at At Mid-term review, reflecting the new sector organization, which
Mid-term Review)                       created a water and sanitation Department under the Secretariat of
Urban Policy (SEPURB), and because of the importance of the
urban development policy for the sector, the Institutional
Component was expanded to actively support the organization of
the Secretariat and help re-launch a number of key activities
closely related to the water and sanitation and urban sectors.
IPEA Studies and Research Support (Added  Also at Mid-term review, the Institutional Component was
at Mid-term Review)                    expanded to include financing of selected studies and research
implemented under the guidance and supervision of IPEA (the
Federal Aplied Economic Research Institute).
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
1. Institutional strengthening                        5.90           19.40          329
2. Preparation of facilities projects                 1.50            0.00             0
3. Water supply                                     232.00          165.30          71.3
4. Sewerage                                         121.70          112.30          92.3
5. Institutional Development                         47.20          102.30         216.7
6. Projects                                          11.00           13.00         118.2
7. Sub-projects accepted by counter-parties           0.00           76.50
Total Baseline Cost                                 419.30          488.80
Physical Contingencies                              20.60
Price Contingencies                                 60.10
Total Project Costs            500.00          488.80
Total Financing Required             500.00         488.80
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
. ..... .ureme........f
1. Works                     92.90        139.30         0.00         0.00        232.20
(43.70)      (65.50)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (.09.20)
2. Goods                     185.90        46.40         0.00         0.00        232.30
(100.30)      (21.80)       (0.00)       (0.00)      ( 22.10)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         35.50         0.00         35.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (18.70)       (0.00)      1(8.70)
Total                     278.80        185.70        35.50         0.00       iO0.00
(144.00)      (87.30)      (18.70)       (0.00)      (2.50.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     60.70        134.60         8.00         43.70       247.00
(29.10)      (71.60)       (3.70)       (0.00)       ( 04.40)
2. Goods                     145.90        15.50         2.80         19.00        83.20
(86.60)       (8.60)       (1.60)       (0.00)        96.80)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00         58.60         0.00         58.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (46.30)       (0.00)       i46.30)
Total                     206.60        150.10        69.40        62.70       488.80
(115.70)      (80.20)      (51.60)       (0.00)      (247.50)
- 24 -



" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2h Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent units.
Project Financin  by Cor  onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
I'''"''';'DE   ~         ~        ~         " >' /B                         ;
_..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 11...  
Institutional Component   8.00      0.00      0.00      20.10      0.00      0.00    251.3   0.0    0.0
Investment EMBASA        99.30      0.00     102.70    121.50     126.20     6.00    122.4   0.0    5.8
Investment CASAN         79.30      0.00      81.80     64.80      10.60     62.60    81.7   0.0   76.5
Investment SANESUL       63.40      0.00      65.50     41.10      0.00      36.50    64.8   0.0   55.7
PROJECT TOTAL           250.00      0.00     250.00    247.50     136.80    105.10    99.0           42.0
N.B: Co-Financing as listed in above table, consisted of the individual water companies' Internal Cash.
nancinLy Am   nts  d Sources fo                           rog OmIniesv t Pf
nancmv oun r- rc~~~~esto   sment _ ro -am of te _nCoane
CASAN               EMBASA              SANESUL               TOTAL
Financinz Source     Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal   Actual  Appraisal  Actual
IBRD                   79.3       64.8      99.3       121.5     63.4       41.1       242      227.4
Other                   70        94.1       3.4       114.8     54.1        97       127.5     305.9
State Government       25.5       65.5      84.5      821.1      31.5       16.8      141.5     903.4
Internal Cash          185.4     208.4      216.5     134.4      78.7       82.2      480.6      425
Total                  360.2     432.8      403.7     1191.8     227.7     237.1      991.6     1861.7
Actual/appraisal ratio       1.2                 2.95                  1.04                 1.88
T All values in million US$
- 25-



Project Investments b  Size of Cities
CASAN                     EMBASA                      SANE :.UL
Appraisal     Actual       Appraisal      Actual       Appraisal      Actual
(1992- 1997)  (1992-2000)  (1992-1997)  (1992-2000)   (1992-1997)  (1992-2000)
US$    %     US$    %      US$    %     US$    %       US$    %     US$    %
mill         mill          mill         mill           mill          mill
Capital City              22.1   14   42.5   31    90.4   45   139.9   55    47.9   37   40.4   52
Medium-size cities       87.6   54   36.0   27    48.0   24    55.8    22    25.1    20    7.7    10
Small cities              15.2    9    8.8     7     0.0    0      0.0     0    17.4   14   12.0   16
Institutional Development   6.2   4    39.4   29    30.0   15   58.6    23    11.0    9    12.4   16
Studies and Projects      5.0     3    8.5     6     0.0    0      0.0     0     6.0     5    4.8      6
Subtotal                 136.1  85   135.2  100   168.4  83   254.3   100   107.4   83   77.3   100
Physical Contingency      6.8     4     --    --    8.4    4       --    --    5.4       4
Price Contingency         18.2   11                  25.2   12                   16.1    13
Total Investments        161.   100  135.2  100  202.0  100   254.3   t00   128.9  100   77.3   100
Project Investments b  Type of Subprojects
CASAN                     EMBASA                     SANESIUL
Appraisal     Actual       Appraisal     Actual       Appraisal       Actual
(1992-1997)  (1992-2000)  (1992-1997)  (1992-2 000)  (1992-1997)    1992- 2000)
US$    %    us$    %       us$    %     us$    %      us$  I %      us$    %
mill I       mill          Mill         mill          mill          mill  _
Water Supply              77.8   48   54.8   41   110.2  55    84.4   33    89.3    69   56.1   73
SewageCollectionand       70.1   44   32.5   24    55.8   28   111.3  44    19.2 rl           4.0     5
Treatment
Institutional Development   7.3   5    39.4   29    36.0   18   58.6   23    13.2    10   12.4   16
StudiesandProjects        5.9     4    8.5     6  1 0.0    0    0.0       0     7.2      6    4.8     6
Total Investments        161.1  100  135,2  100  202.0  100  254.3  100   128.9   100   77.3   100
- 26 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Since the estimated financial rates of return (FRRs) were well above Brazil's opportunity cost of capital
(10%) and there are well known difficulties in quantifying benefits such as health and quality of life, the
FRRs were used as a low bound of the project's economic rates of return.
The overall FRR for the project was calculated as 17% at appraisal, based on a cross-sectional sample of
approximately one third of the companies' 1992-1997 investment programs. The FRRs and NPVs for a
cross-sectional sample of completed projects from the different state water companies are provided in table
I below. Upon completion, the FRRs and NPVs were re-estimated for a sample of sub-projects selected
based on available information and on comparability with appraisal estimates where possible. The
sub-projects selected for the ex-post re-estimation represent 31% of investments and benefited 28% of the
total beneficiary population. FRRs and NPVs were re-calculated using the same basis as at appraisal: a
10% discount rate and a 30 year project life. Investments, operational expenditure and revenues were
expressed in constant market prices in June 1991 dollars.
In addition to the ex-post analysis of the financial rates of returns, we re-estimated the marginal costs of the
sub-projects. The project's eligibility criteria were based on the calculation of marginal costs for each
system to be financed under the project. A sub-project in a city was eligible for project financing if the
average tariff for the city was higher than a given percentage of the marginal cost of the project. A
sunmary of the eligibility rules are presented in Table 3.
Table 1: Ex-Ante and Ex-Post Financial Analysis for a Sample of Sub-Projects.
Subproject                   FRR (%)            NPV Ex-ante (Appraisal)       NPV Ex-Post (Actual)
Water                   Appraisal   Actual   Revenues   Costs    NPV    Revenues    Costs   NPV
CASAN
Criciuna                    12         55       31,812    29,072   2,740     25,744     10,602  15,142
Camboriu                    16         52       14,174    10,690   3,484     35,991     15,551  20,440
Taio                       11          5         2,187     1,989    198       1,424     2,050   -626
Rodeiro                     13         39       51,251    44,650   6,601     65,704    30,454  35,250
Total CASAN**               13         39
EMBASA
Salvador                    17         44      230,280   170,541  59,739    302,717    161,660 141,057
Ilheus                     46          13       34,409    13,444  20,965     t849 5     14,434   4,061
Totai EMBA SA**            17         39 ,9_
SANESUL
Canpo Grande**              14         42        N.A.      N.A.              220,217    128,879  91,338
Sewerage                Appraisal   Actual   Revenues   Costs   NPV    Revenues   Costs   NPV
CASAN - Carnboriu           17         46       10,666    7,277   3,389      11,158     4,730   6,428
EMBASA - Ilheus             14         34       38,566    31,521   7,045     42,789     20,372  22,417
All NPV values in US$ as per I June 1991
NPV and FRR is calculated over a 30 year project life time.
Discount rate r = 10%
** Appraisal value as estimated at tirne of appraisal (1991)
- 27 -



TaNe2: Ex-       ArbE4WairEA               TifraSmoS4i9
______            _____~~~~~             ~~~~WA1M  ___   __R ___
Et*    Aai   FAw,   A"i Eh Ad            EfadA"Rr A"lk A"                       A Esa*d AMEft  A"i
__________    Q061    OM       052   Q48  (46   1.17   052  09   NA   135  124  (172  (176  Q74  0Q38  0.45  OX3  Q33
194        Q'4   (179    054  0Q75  091   (177  0Q91 (177  MA  Q(60 58  0Q77 (181  121  (147  Of 1  Q.48   07
IS         t'054    0.96    054   (193  (191   (93   (191  194  NMA   1,00 58  (192  (181  07)  047  07i  058  0O4
1959       054    121    054   1.13 (191   1.14   0.91 1.15   NA   1.1  058  Q92(181   05 0.47 02  Q66  095
1997       054    124    054   123  (191   111   0.91  124  NA   1.16  058  Q91  (181  Q77  (147  0O82  0.67  096
SS8        054    125    054   123  091    12   (191  124  NA   121  058   12  (181  0P9  047  082  057  082
1999       054    127    054   124  0.91   128   (191  125  NA   121  058  Q87  (181  Q71  047  (182  058  083
20M        054    101    054  10   0.91   (199   (91  10l 1
TA1IFZFi ebCUI'                            _
154       M8c%   123%/  104%/  1M9I. 16)/o  65(   174%  V/I  NA   4P/,  107'/o  164%  107%  164%f  124%. 13"  1470  211%
1995       M.81%   15P/   1047/c  197% I/I/o   V/,  174%  104IOI  NA   74%  l0P/  1470%  107%  147%  124C  175M51  17V  253%/
1996      M8c/   18Pm%  104%/  238/o 1'I.  97%   174%  127%  NA    M./o  107%  115O 107%  11P/. 12411/ 1(3/%  21X/  207%
19S7      M8/0  197I%    MI./  2V/. 19P/I  9W'/o  174/c 13/o  NA   8P71/ I1P/, 104  107% 101 4 /, 12/c  1105'  2M/. 291/o
19n8      W81%   1951/n  1047  20o  1./c  107/   174'/  13P/o  NA   9P/o  107P/c 121%  107%  121%/  I24,/, 18!  174//I 2I85/,
1999       881in   19o/.  104%o  20o II/,  10%/a  17P/ 138/M  NA   97A  107%  9    10P/  lO/%  96%.  124MA  1MA1 1718/9 25P%
28          MP/'  1S7%   I/0  219%A    1968/  84%Mc  174  1IP/                                          _  _
E4_A__ _              t        __ _                         M          19hI _II_ I_                      Mt  _      Mt
Table 3. Sub-project Eligibility Conditions
Average tariff in relation to long-run average incremental cost
(LR   C)
Eligibility conditions                        I year           2  year           3r year          4t year
Water Projects                                            ___
Cities with population >500,000                75%               80%              85%               85%
Cities with population 50,000 -                75%               80%              80%               80%
500,000                                                                                                     ,_
Cities with population 5000-50,000             60%               70%              70%               70%
Rural communities                              60%               60%              60%               60%0/o
Sewerage Projects
Cities with population >500,000                60%               70%              80%               85%
Cities with population 50,000 -                60%               70%              80%               80%
500,000
Cities with population 5000-50,000             60%               65%              70%               70%
Rural communities                              60%               60%              60%               60%
Results:
As can be seen from the table above, the FRRs obtained ex-post substantially exceed the discount rate c f
10% and indicate substantial economic and financial benefits for all projects compared to the appraisal
estimates, except for the Taio-CASAN sub-project. High returns were obtained in the Criciuma and
Camboriu sub-projects, with FRRs in excess of 50%. In Camboriu, the results largely exceeded appraisal
estimates, with minor investments and benefiting a large population. In Criciuma, the positive results we-re
mainly due to an increase in tariffs and lower investment and operational expenditures, which compensated
for the lower-than-expected level of population served and billable volumes. The disappointing results in
Taio were mainly due to unforeseen investment requirements, which increased costs by 37%, a decreasing
population, and decreasing consumption per capita. These negative effects could not be compensated b% a
9% increase in tariffs, thus resulting in a low FRR of 5%. With respect to sewerage services, the high rates
obtained in Camboriu correspond predominantly to an increase in sewerage tariff from US$ 0.52/m3 to
- 28 -



US$ 0.83/m3. Other sub-projects for which the required financial infonmation was available, all provided
FRRs in excess of 10%.
The ex-post estimation of the long run average incremental costs (LRAIC) also demonstrated the
robustness of these projects. In many cases, average tariffs of the city exceeded the estimated LRAIC for
the system. In almost all cases, re-estimated LRAIC exceeded the eligibility levels. These results also
indicate an important change in the water and sewerage pricing policy in the last several years. Whereas at
appraisal, the tariffs barely covered operation and maintenance costs, and the SWCs did not believe in (or
thought possible) increasing tariff levels to cover costs, now they practice cost recovery and enjoy the tariff
levels that are in many cases higher than LRAIC.
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stagep oPoect Cycle                    No.~ of Persops AndS Spcit                 Performance Raio!
.9 2 Eco'nomists, I ES, Setc.)        mpltementatiion   Development
:::;|::0|;;;:;Q0;: t:  iMonth/Yeasrt   Cou: : aXnt:t;;l | ;000X: t S pecaltyE  :  Progress  Objective:
Identification/Preparation
01/14/91
04/01/91
06/21/91
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/26/91
12/16/91
01/21/92
08/17/92                     6   1E, IP, IFA, 1TM, IL, ID             HS              HS
Supervision
03/22/93                     1   ITM                                  HS              HS
03/24/93                     1   1TM                                  HS              HS
12/29/93                     2   1FA, 1TM                             S               HS
06/06/94                     1   ITM                                  S               HS
09/09/94                     2   IFA, 1TM                             S                S
01/06/95                     3   IE, IFA, ITM                         S                S
05/01/95                     3   IE, IFA, ITM                         S                S
08/29/95                     5   IE, 2EC, 1PA, ITM                    S                S
01/03/96                     4   IE, 2EC, ITM                         S                S
04/05/96                     3   IE, FA, IPM                          S                S
07/22/96                     4   IC, 1E, IFA, IPA                     U                S
12/20/96                     1   IFA                                  U               S
02/26/97                     1   IFA                                  S                S
09/11/97                     6   3E, IFA, IEC, lEnv. Spec.            S                S
12/29/97                     2   IFA, IC                              S               S
07/06/98                     2   lFA, IC                              S                S
06/04/99                     2   IFA, IEE                             S                S
ICR
12/23/99                    2    ISE, IFA                             S               S
06/30/00                     1    1SE                                 S                S
09/15/00                     1    1SE
TM=Task Manager; FA=Financial Analyst; E=Engineer; PM=Procurement Manager; PA=Procurement Analyst, EC=Econonist,
D=Disbursement specialist, L=Legal advisor, P=Procurement, C=Consultant; EE=Environmental Engineer, SE=Sanitary
Engineer
- 30 -



(b) Stqff
|    Stage of Project Cycie                    ActuaLatest Estmate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (7o0)
Identification/Preparation               70.8                       133.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                    33.0                       74.96
Supervision                             263.8                       512.6
ICR                                     17.56                        82.0
Total                                  385.16                      803.16
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Sector Policies                       * H  O SU OM   O N  O NA
Z Physical                              OH *SUOM ON ONA
X Financial                             O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development             0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                         O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  O SU OM  O N  0 NA
Z Gender                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
[I Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Private sector development            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                OH  OSU OM  O N  O NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U--Unsatisfactory, HU=-lighly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
* Lending                                            OHSOS OU OHU
F Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
I Preparation                                        OHS OS  O U  O HU
I Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U 0 HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1)    Relatorio de Conclusao do Projecto (ICR), Brasil, Projecto De Modemizacao Do Sector
Saneamento (PMSS I, 3442-BR); Borrower's close-out report, November 2000.
2)     Summary ofBorrower's close-out report, November 2000.
3)     Guidelines for Preparing ICRs, World Bank, June 30 1999.
4)     StaffAppraisal Report, Brazil, Water Sector Modernization Project, report no. 10024-BR, 12
February 1992.
5)     Relatorio de Avaliacao do Desempenho das Companhias Integrantes do PMSS I, final progress
reports for CASAN, EMBASA and SANESUL.
6)     Back to office reports, PSRs and Aide Memoires for supervision missions of May 2000 and
December 1999.
7)    ICR for the Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project (35540), Report no
20329,
May 2000.
8)     Relatorio Final de Execucao, PMSS I, CASAN close-out report, Setembro 2000
9)     Relatorio Final de Execucao do Projecto de Modernizacao do Sector de Saneamento-PMSS i,
SANESUL close-out report, September 2000.
10)    Various presentation materialfor the stakeholder workshop, September 2000.
11)   Politica Nacional de Saneamento , Ministerio do Planejamento e Oreamento, Secretaria de
Politica                                                                Urbana, Agosto de I 997
12)   AvaliaVao Ex-Post dos Projetos do PMSS I, IPEA, PMSS, UGP, Novembro 2000
13)    Seminario de Avalia,do dos Resultados do PMSS 1, SEDU-PR, IPEA, PMSS, UGP, Setembro
2000
14)   EMBASA, Relat6rio de Atividades No. 19, Maio 2000
15)   Avalia,do do Desempenho Financeiro da CASAN, SEDU-PR, IPEA, PMSS, UGP, Novembro
2000
16)   Avalia$>o do Desempenho Financeiro da EMBASA, SEDU-PR, IPEA, PMSS, UGP, Novembro
2000
17)   Analise Comparativa do Desempenhofinanceiro das Empresas Integrantes do PMSSI, CASAN,
EMBASA,SANESUL, SEDU-PR, IPEA, PMSS, UGP, Novembro 2000
18)    Serie de Moderniza,cao do Setor Saneamento (Water and Sanitation Sector Modeniization Series -
1 5                                                             volume)
1. Basis and proposal for the new institutional framework;
2. New financial (financing) model for the water and sanitation sector;
3. Flexibilization of the institutional model for the water and sanitation sector
4. Demand and supply and needs for the water and sanitation sector
5. Proposal for the regulation of water and sanitation services
6. Regulation of water and sewerage service provision - International comparison.
7. Diagnosis of water and sanitation sector - Economic and financial study
8. Contingency evaluation of the water and sanitation projects
9. Water and sanitation: Modernization and partnership with the private sector
10. Instruments for regulation and control of the water and sanitation service
11. Methodological proposal for environmental classification and evaluation of water and sanitation
projects
12. Guidelines and procedures for involuntary resettlement of famnilies in water and sanitation projects
13. Methodologies for economic and financial evaluation of project - PMSS II experience
14. Methodologies for economic and financial evaluation of water and sanitation utilities - PMSS II
experience
15. Solid waste: Proposals for economic-environmental instruments.
- 34 -



In addition, a full list of the 170 reports and studies prepared under this project, is available in the project
files.
- 35 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to the ICR (Unofficial Translation)
SPECIAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT SECRETARIAT OF THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC-SEI U/PR
INSTITUTE OFAPPLIED ECONOMIC RESEARCH - IPEA
WA TER SECTOR MODERNIZA TION PROGRAM - PMSS
I.    Project Objectives
1.    The PMSS I was a $500-million project, with US$250 million being provided by IBRD and the
other US$250 million being furnished in the form of counterpart funding by the three participating stat,
sanitation companies. The objectives set for the project in its preparation phase were the following:
a)    strengthen the sector's institutional capacity by means of establishment of the bases of a modern
and efficient regulatory and legal framework, in conjunction with modernization of the sector's financil
model to make it more efficient;
b)    assist the state companies CASAN, EMBASA and SANESUL to operate on a commercial basis
with financial self-sufficiency, including independence in the use of their funds, administrative autonomy
and responsible management, through financing of parts of their six-year investment programs; and
c)    improve environmental and health conditions in urban areas, through expansion of the supply c f
water and sewerage services.
2.    As of the mid-term review, which took place in 1995, new urban development actions were
incorporated into the project under the joint responsibility of the Secretariat of Urban Policy (SEPURB
and of the istitute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA). In the same way, certain actions conmected
widt the Comunidade Solidaria program were also included on a temporary basis. To carry out the aclions
defined in the preparation phase, together with those specified in the mid-term review, the project was
structured in two components: an institutional component and an investment component.
3.    The institutional component sought to achieve the following outputs: (i) formulation of a new
regulatory framework for the sector; (ii) assessment and reformulation of the sector's investment programs
and of the structure of its financing; and (iii) institutional development of the agents involved.
4.    The regulatory framework includes:
d)    formulation and implementation of a broad-ranging national sanitation policy;
e)    preparation of draft legislation and regulations creating independent regulatory agencies; and
f)    definition of functions and instruments at the level of the Federal Government and of the states.
5.    The reformulation of the sector's investment programs and financing structure was intended to
increase the efficiency of the sanitation companies and to improve their self-financing capacity by mean. of
programming of investments and changes in the financing structure, including effective decentralization f
financial responsibilities.
6.    The institutional development envisioned included: (a) technical assistance for the National
Sanitation Secretariat (SNS) and other federal and state agencies, in order to increase their institutional
capacity; (b) training of sector management in planning, marketing and operating techniques, including c ost
- 36 -



reduction; and (c) establishment of conditions for a proposal for management of water demand and for
system rehabilitation projects.
7.    The implementation of the institutional component was the responsibility of the Federal
Government through the Project Management Unit (UGP/PMSS) for the performance of studies on the
sanitation sector and supervision of the investment component, while SEPURB and IPEA were tasked with
the parts connected with urban development.
8.    The investment component, in its tun, aimed at promoting improvement of the commercial
performance of CASAN, EMBASA and SANESUL and was designed to: (i) support the investment
programs planned for the period 1992/97; (ii) enable the companies to mobilize funds for investment
purposes internally; (iii) help the companies to optimize allocation of scarce resources by means of better
planning of investments, and marginal cost and rate-setting analyses; (iv) further strengthen the planning
and programmning activities by means of adoption of a realistic six-year plan, backed by performance
agreements between the companies, the states and the SNS; (v) inprove the companies' operating and
financial efficiency, including cost reduction; and (vi) improve environmental and health conditions in
urban areas through the installation of water-supply and sanitary-sewerage systems. This component was
implemented by the state sanitation companies of the states of Santa Catarina (CASAN), Bahia
(EMBASA) and Mato Grosso do Sul (SANESUL).
II.   Implementation
9.    To finance the project, on December 9, 1992 the Brazilian Government signed Loan Agreement
No. 3442-BR with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), with the Federal
Government as the borrower. This loan agreement became effective on June 10, 1993, once the Brazilian
Government had satisfied the conditions for effectiveness set by the Bank.
10.   The distribution of the funds for the implementation of the two components had to be revised in the
course of implementation, on account of the need for funding to meet the revised objectives of the
institutional component and also in light of the performance and financial capacity of each of the
companies. The revisions were made in: first, June 1995 (Mid-Term Review); second, October 1997;
third, January 2000. The initial distribution of the funds and the subsequent revisions are presented in the
table below.
11.   The portion of the loan allocated to the institutional component remained under the responsibility
of the Federal Government. In addition to the performance of sector studies and research, a technical
assistance program was carried out for this component, the beneficiaries of which were the states and
municipalities, who received studies made by specialized technical consultants the cost of which was
covered by the Federal Government, which meant that they were free of charge to the beneficiary
authorities. A technical cooperation agreement was concluded between the Federal Government, through
SEPURB, and the respective state or municipal governments, with the involvement of the particular
provider of sanitation services, recording the responsibilities and commnitments of each party, in order to
provide protection for the support activities carried out by the UGP/PMSS.
12.   In the case of the investment component, the Federal Government transferred the funds to the three
companies by means of an on-lending operation on the same conditions as specified in the agreement with
the Bank, using transfer contracts signed with a financial agent for the purpose.
13.   The project activities were started immediately in the investment component, since there were no
- 37 -



conditions precedent that had first to be met. In the investment component these conditions were not
quickly satisfied, especially in the case of EMBASA, which held up the progress of the project since the
companies' participation depended on their meeting eligibility requirements specified by the Bank. As a
result, CASAN and SANESUL were able to start immediately but EMBASA was only declared eligible for
the Operational Development sub-projects in May 1994, and for the other sub-projects on September of
that year. Difficulties with alignment of procurement on Bank requirements caused delays in contracting
and, consequently, in disbursements, even for the companies eligible from the start.
14.    The funds allocated by source in each component and company underwent changes in the cour;e of
implementation of the project, with 97.9% of the total available being used as of the last reallocation in
January 2000. The table below gives a general overview of the movements in resource allocation, mak;ng
it possible to compare the projected and actual figures for the two project components. Taking into account
the problems encountered during the implementation of the project, it can be stated that the use made oi'the
funds was sufficiently satisfactory notwithstanding the balance remaining.
III.   Outputs
a)    Institutional Component
15.   The PMSS I was designed for the purpose of bringing order into the sanitation sector's transition
process. The strategies applied and actions carried out in the context of its institutional component
produced effective results in terms of all the objectives set, beginning with the creation of an environmenlt of
studies and discussions for the formulation of the policy and regulatory framework for the sector, and
expanding progressively through the participation in the redesigning of the financing structures; in the
technical assistance to the states and municipalities for the reorganization and implementation of their
respective sanitation sectors, including new forms of regulation and provision of the services; in the
gathering, systematization and publication of data on the performance and development of the sector; in the
technical training, including the preparation of projects and economic regulation; and in the widening of the
project's sphere of work, through the inclusion of activities in support of formulation of policies and
institutional organization of urban development, the context of which has a structural impact on the
development of the services and the handling of sanitation needs.
16.   As regards production of technical documents, the PMSS was responsible for the preparation of a
total of 170 studies that can be classified in four main groups; sector studies and research on sanitation
questions (UGP/PMSS); institutional strengthening of SEPURB; studies and research by IPEA; and
support for the Comunidade Soliddria program. In addition, investments were made in technical traininig
for the various levels of government in topics of interest for the sanitation sector, such as economic
regulation and project preparation and appraisal.
17.   Among the studies produced, special mention should be made of the 15 volumes published under
the "Modemization of the Sanitation Sector Series" heading, created for and in the context of the projec-,
the first eight volumes of which comprise the formulation by the Federal Government, in 1995, of the
National Sanitation Policy, which is still in force today, and of the Action Plan for urban Development, in
1999. Also worthy of note are the studies made by the IPEA on the topics Rio-Sao Paulo, World Cities
Challenges and Opportunities, already published, and Land Use Management and Dysfunctions of Urban
Growth, Characterization and Trends of Brazil's Urban Network, and Balance Sheets and Prospects of
- 38 -



Decentralization in Brazil, representing a further 15 volumes in course of publication.
18.    The PMSS I participated actively in the preparation of proposals for federal legislation on
sanitation in 1995, which were revised in 1996 and formed the bases for Bill No. 266 submitted to the
Senate by the Federal Executive; the program also participated in further revisions in 1999 and 2000. In
addition, it produced models for the state legislation that influenced the formulation of state laws setting out
guidelines for the services and establishing state regulatory agencies.
19.    Through the creation of the National Information System on Sanitation (SNIS) the PMSS I made a
significant contribution to the development of the sanitation sector by means of the annual publication of
the Diagnostic Study of the Water Supply and Sewerage Services, which provides a general overview of
the provision of the services in Brazil and highlights trends for the sector in the operational, financial and
service management spheres. The data gathered and the analyses produced by the SNIS have been used by
the Federal Government and have served to facilitate and support the formulation of policies, the planning
of actions and the monitoring of the programs' effects while also helping to refine the work of the service
providers, raising their efficiency levels by means of comparative performance analyses.
20.    The activities of the technical assistance program for states and municipalities covered: (i)
technical assessment, involving the technical and operational diagnosis and assessment of the need for
investments, of technologies and of assets; (ii) the service mnanagement-provision model, considering
evaluation of the existing model, the alternatives for provision of the services, and the instruments for
implementation of the changes (action plan); and (iii) the regulatory framework, covering the juridico-legal
diagnosis, regulation of assets and of the economic and social quality of the provision of the services, and
also the drafting of proposed legal instruments such as laws, agreements, regulations and so on. The
technical assistance work focused on preliminary proposals in the states of Para, Santa Catarina and Mato
Grosso do Sul; assessments and more detailed proposals in Angra dos Reis (RJ), Rio de Janeiro, Espirito
Santo, Mato Grosso, Recife (PE), Pernambuco, Sao Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul, Alagoas and ParanA; and
technical advisory services to the states of Bahia and Ceara and to the municipality of Itapernirim (ES).
21.    It should be underscored that at the evaluation workshop on the PMSS I held in September 2000,
which brought together participating players from the Federal Government, IBRD, and state and municipal
governments that received support from the project, as well as technical specialists and consultants, all
parties were unanimous that the institutional component had established a new pattern for debate and
institutional change in the sanitation sector, the fact being that these results surmounted, in a considerable
degree, the constraints on the effective use of the studies and technical assistance work carried out.
22.    As recognized by the evaluations made at the workshop, many of the component's objectives went
beyond the project's institutional capacity and their accomplishment was dependent on decisions by the
Executive and Legislative Branches. The project could have developed a more effective communication
strategy to bring the technical proposals to the center of political decision making process in a more incisive
fashion, an issue that will have to be overcome in the second stage of the program*. Nonetheless, the project
changed the conditions and agenda of the water and sanitation sector reform, definitively inserting the
concepts of a new institutional order into the debates, as is apparent in the new instruments and ordinances,
including those of a legal nature, that have been developed by the various echelons of government and
sector agencies.
* By Ministerial Order MPO No. 73 of 12/11/97, the project was made a permanent Federal Government program designated the Sanitation Sector
Modernization Program - PMSS, to be implemented in stages.
- 39 -



b)    Investment Component
23.   The implementation of the PMSS represented the financing of 25% of the three companies'
investment programs over the period, as can be seen from the following tables, with the IBRD loan funds
covering 12.2%. In declining order, the share accounted for by the PMSS was as follows: SANESUL -
32.7%; CASAN - 31.9% and EMBASA - 21.2%. Moreover, according to the program objectives, a
significant proportion of the PMSS's investments was used for operating and business development
purposes with a pronounced impact on the improving of the companies' efficiency.
24.   The tables below (refer to Project Financing Tables in Annex 2) provide a general overview of the
allocation of funds by source by each of companies, as compared with the allocation initially envisioned at
the time of writing of the Staff Appraisal Report, as regards their total planned investments and those
programmed under the PMSS 1.
25.   The total amounts allocated for the investment component underscore the efficiency of the
application of the funds. In point of fact, 95.3% of the amounts estimated in the appraisal were used, the
percentage for the IBRD funds being 93.8% and that for the counterpart funds 96.7%. These figures are
influenced most by the performance of EMBASA, which actually used 1.25 times the amounts estimated in
the appraisal, while CASAN used 0.86 and SANESUL 0.60 of said amounts.
26.   On the basis of the total used, EMBASA's performance exceeded the targets set and induced
reallocation of the funds over the duration of the project, the IBRD funds for EMBASA being increasec. by
22% compared with those initially estimated, while those for CASAN and SANESUL were scaled down by
18% and 35%, respectively.
27.   Table 3 demonstrates the companies' good capacity for managing the use of the funds. In fact, the
total investment figure reached US$1,861.7 million, with all three companies exceeding their targets.
28.   The physical accomplishments in water supply financed with PMSS I funds are presented ill the
following table (refer to Table 1 of Annex 1).
29.   Regarding the development of water supply services, the figures show that 104,400 iew
connections were put in with PMSS I funds, resulting in a total increase in population served of 3,728,000.
Assuming 5 persons served per connection, the project's contribution to the increase in population selved
was 14%.
30.   The increase in population served, in relative values, was at the level expected. The estimated
increase in population served by the three companies was 38% (initial population, in 1991, put at
8,776,000 inhabitants, and final population, in 1997, at 12,111,000). The actual outcome was an incre.se
of 46%, with a population rising frorn 7,936,000 in 1991 to 11,576,000 in 1999.
31.   The total physical data in the next table give an idea of the PMSS I's contribution to the expans:ion
of the three companies' sanitary sewer systems. As regards increase in the service, the figures show tha-
only 48,400 new connections were installed, increasing the population served by 901,000 persons.
Assumning 5 persons served by each sewer connection, the project's contribution to the increase in
population served works out at 27%.
32.   In percentage terms, the increase in the population with sanitary sewer service for the three
companies taken together reached the level expected. An increase of 86% in the population served was
- 40 -



estimated (initial population, in 1991, put at 1,091,000, and the final figure, in 1997, at 2,034,000). The
actual figure was a 99% increase, with the population rising from 906,000 in 1991 to 1,807,000 in 1999.
The factor that made it possible to exceed the total target was the outstanding perfonnance of EMBASA,
which increased its population served by 121%, while its initial target was in fact the lowest of the three
(36%). It should be emphasized, however, that, just as was the case with the water subprojects, the
EMBASA data for sanitary sewerage are strongly influenced by the volume of funds external to the PMSS
I applied by the company.
33.   The targets for connections and sewer systems were not met by CASAN and SANESUL, but were
comfortably exceeded by EMBASA. Even though the actual targets were not met, there was an increase in
the number of connections and systems. In CASAN, connections posted a 76% increase and systems 71 %,
while the population served only grew by 55%. In EMBASA, connections and systems grew by 176% and
126%, respectively, and the population served by 121%. And in the case of SANESUL, the percentages
were 65% and 49% for 57% growth of population served.
34.   Concerning the progress made, the low initial levels of sanitary sewerage service provided by the
three companies should not be overlooked; these levels were well below the national average for state
sanitation companies, which in 1998 was 36.4% (information from the Diagnostic Study of Water and
Sewer Service - 1998). Even with the PMSS I's contribution these levels have still remained very low.
CASAN moved up from 7% to just 9% (the appraisal target was 21%) and SANESUL from 9% to
12%--without excluding Campo Grande --compared with an appraisal target of 17%). Only EMBASA
achieved a greater increase, rising from 10% to 18% coverage (its target was 11 %).
35.   The main objectives of the three companies' action in the Institutional Development areas were
management improvement and adoption of a business-style approach in the administration of the
enterprises. Basically, the institutional development programs of the three companies adopted similar
measures, spread over operational and business development.
36.   The Operational Development sub-projects focused primarily on actions to combat losses, such as
installation of bulk and individual meters, control of pressure in systems, searches for invisible leaks,
improvements of the commercial system, and management information systems, among others. The
Business Development sub-projects concentrated on actions in the information technology area, personnel
training, telecommunications, reassessment of fixed assets and development of the project area, among
others.
37.   In all three companies, the investments made in Institutional Development grew appreciably during
the execution of the project. The total investments estimated at appraisal at US$47.2 million ultimately
amounted to US$102.3 million. In both Operational and Business Development, all three companies
reported major changes and advances that were reflected in significant improvements in the operating and
business indicators.
IV.   Sustainability
38.   The Federal Government's decision to proceed with a second stage of the PMSS (PMSS II), for
which negotiations were concluded in 1999 with the signing of IBRD Loan Agreement 4292-BR, was
prompted by the positive outcomes of the first phase and is strong evidence of the project's political
sustainability.
39.   Despite the constant changes in the Federal Government administrative structure connected with
- 41 -



the sanitation sector throughout the implementation of the first stage of the PMSS, three steps taken b, the
Federal Government were significant for the continuity of the project:
a)     by Ministerial Order MPO No. 73 of 12/11/97, the project was converted into a permanent Federal
Government program;
b)     by the Federal Government' s action in the sanitation field, coordinated up till then by a Secretiat
in the structure of a Ministry, was placed under a Special Secretariat linked directly to the Office of th,
President of the Republic; and
c)    the program was included in the Federal Government's Multiyear Plan for 2000/2003, which hias
been approved by the National Congress. The funding for the PMSS II is therefore assured in the budget
of the SEDU/PR
40.   The studies on regulation financed by the PMSS in the context of the program of technical
assistance to States and municipalities provide a basis for these levels of government to continue
developing instruments and structures necessary for institutional strengthening purposes and for increasing
the efficiency of provision of the services in the sector, which are essential conditions for achieving
sustained improvement of sanitation measures in the country.
41.    Because of the experience gained with the PMSS I, the institutional aspect is reflected with duc
importance in the studies for the PMSS II, now that meeting of requirements as to regulatory framework
and regulatory agency has been adopted as one of the eligibility criteria for inclusion in the program. T his
will ensure institutionalization of appropriate regulation and control of sanitation services throughout the
entire area covered by the PMSS II, namely North, Northeast and Center-West Brazil.
42.   From the standpoint of the new institutional set-up for the sanitation sector, the sustainability
conditions are now in place for the sector's future development in a framework that distinguishes the rniles
of public-policy formulaf4on and implementation from those of the provision and regulation of the services,
thereby ensuring the legal and institutional conditions for stable relationships and interests between
government, service provider and service users.
43.    Regarding the sustainability of the PMSS I's goals in the sanitation companies assisted through the
investment component, it can be affumed that these companies have transformed their management
approach, and are now applying a concept of strategic management and quality and making the monitoring
of results an instrument for their management action.
V.    Bank performance
44.    The World Bank made a total of 16 supervision missions throughout the duration of the projecr, in
general always sending technical experts highly qualified in their specialties and possessing extensive
intemational experience.
45.    The Bank's attitude both in the preparation phase and during implementation was always one c f
collaboration and a readiness to provide assistance, as was demonstrated by its constant concern to trar.sfer
experience gained in other operations, thus contributing not only to the general progress of the project but
also to the resolving of specific problems that arose during its implementation. The Bank's proactive
action spurred the borrower to undertake initiatives without prior precedent in the Brazilian context.
- 42 -



VI.   Borrower Performance
46.   In addition to the World Bank supervision missions, the UGP/PMSS conducted 13 supervision and
monitoring missions in the companies participating in the project.
47.   With respect to the institutional component, the borrower's performance was considered
satisfactory. It should be noted that this component received greater attention (and, as a consequence,
achieved better results) as of the mid-term review in 1995. That coincided with the elimination of the SNS
and the transfer of responsibilities for the sanitation sector mandated by the respective MPO, through the
establishment of SEPURB. The latter secretariat then embarked on greater efforts in terms of not only
making specific studies in the sanitation area but also studies focusing on urban development, including
housing. It was as of this point in the project that the PMSS obtained its best results in this component
through the performance/publication of important studies involving tariff, institutional, financial, legal,
regulatory and urban questions.
48.    The project encountered problems in the administrative/institutional and budgetary areas which
gave rise to difficulties for the implementation of the institutional component. Regarding the institutional
changes, the changes in the administrative structure of the Federal Government, with the elimination of
some ministries and creation of new ones, affected the borrower's performance since even the senior staff
responsible for running the project at the secretariat and ministry level were changed. The IPEA's
participation in the managing of the project and also SEPURB's own involvement in the most important
period of its execution, 1995 to 1998, helped to mitigate the adverse impacts of these changes.
49.   There were problems of a budgetary nature, particularly in 1999, and although they stretched the
borrower's capacity to resolve them, they were adequately dealt with and minimized by it at its level and
within the context of the prevailing constraints.
VII.  Assessment of Outcomes
50.   The general assessment of the project is considered satisfactory. The physical objectives of the
investment component were almost entirely achieved and the institutional objectives were fully
accomplished. The sustainability of the project is relatively high, while the performance of the borrower
and of the Bank can be rated as satisfactory.
VIII. Future Operations
51.   Responsibility for implementation of the actions undertaken by the PMMS I (and its continuation,
the PMMS I) will remain with the Special Urban Development Secretariat of the Office the President of
the Republic (SEDU/PR), with the support of the Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA), through
the Program Management Unit (UGP/PMSS). In addition, the project will continue to benefit from the
technical support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), a new technical cooperation
agreement (BRA/99/030) having been concluded in January 2000.
52.    For the monitoring and evaluation of the PMSS II's actions, the UGP/PMSS is designing, for
future implementation, a mnanagemnent information system (MIS) for physical and financial monitoring
purposes in accordance with the procedures and standards of the two financing agencies (IBRD and the
Japan Bank for International Cooperation - JBIC).
53.   The eligibility conditions for participation in the PMSS II have been redefined in light of the
- 43 -



experience gained in inplementation of the PMSS I, including much more consistent economic and
financial assessments and commnitments concerning the structuring of the regulatory framework and ol the
regulatory agency, providing for stage-wise access to the funds on the basis of satisfactory meeting ol the
commitments assumed plus the possibility of reallocation of the funds in accordance with ai:tual
performance.
IX.   Lessons Learned
a)     Lessons Learned with the Institutional Component
54.    Regarding the strategy adopted for implementing the institutional component the following lessons
were learned.
a)    Uncertainties as to the Federal Government's intentions concerning the new institutional set-up for
the sanitation sector, including differences between the positions adopted by federal agencies and entitie ;,
created obstacles to the implementation of institutional and regulatory reform actions proposed by the
PMSS;
b)    political communication between the three levels of government Federal Government, states andl
municipalities is a basic prerequisite for the efficacy of technical support programs for institutional
development, and for full technical understanding of the questions to be considered;
c)    no technical support action for the institutional development of the sector should be initiated
without first having obtained adequate decision space from the authorities possessing real power for the
purpose in the states and municipalities; in other words, there must first be a prior political understanding
to the effect that these authorities are genuinely committed to the technical assistance services that will be
contracted;
d)    the PMSS's relationship with the Caixa and BNDES, which took a long time to establish, has
produced good results, including development of mutual confidence and Federal Government backing for
project proposals and actions;
e)    it is necessary to improve the government's and society's level of knowledge about and
understanding of the PMSS;
f)     participation in the PMSS's institutional component was voluntary, entailing no consequences f'or
participants since no penalties of an economic nature were imposed for nonperformance, with the result that
the beneficiaries had a low level of conmmitment to their development;
g)    throughout the duration of the project difficulties persisted regarding understanding of the PMSS's
objectives, on the part of both the potential clientele and even among federal authorities, due to, among
other things, a lack of a truly effective communication policy and strategy;
h)    for the implementation of the PMSS II, it will be necessary to update the incorporation of the
program in the context of SEDU/PR and of the IPEA, reviewing the level and the form of their
participation and also the role of the Project Management Committee;
i)    the degree of autonomy and the boundaries between the structure of the program and that of the
ministerial agency to which the PMSS is attached must be clearly defined, so as to ensure objectivity,
44 -



promptness and flexibility, and responsibility in the actions;
j)    the great risk for the future sustainability of the PMSS's aims and goals is that the institutional
arrangements set up within the federal administration will be inadequate, which could even lead to loss of
the program memory;
k)    the states and municipalities need to ensure that the decision processes conceming execution of the
technical support work possess flexibility and allow of participation by the various sector players;
1)    the thematic studies made constituted important contributions to the changes in the sanitation
sector, and new and relevant themes will have to be defined and prioritized in the PMSS II for the
continuation of these studies; and
m)    it is necessary to review the present decision process involving SEDU/PR and the IPEA, so that
their procedures will not cause delays in the implementation of the PMSS and unfulfilled expectations
among beneficiaries.
b)    Lessons Learned with the Investment Component
55.   The lessons learned from the implementation of the investment component are detailed below by
project phase:
b.1) Preparation Phase
56.   Unlike what was done with the PMSS 1, where the companies were specified by the Federal
Government, participation should be determined by demand. In future projects it is advisable that selection
be prompted by demand and based on compliance with eligibility criteria agreed on in advance.
57.   In future projects, access to the funds for service providers will have to be associated with sector
reform measures by the local governments. Explicit commitment by the service provider to the project and
by the respective government to the reform measures envisioned will ensure swift and efficient
implementation. The dialogue engaged with local authorities prior to joining the program must continue
throughout the entire project implementation period.
59.   A smaller number of effectiveness conditions could improve the perfornance of future projects. It
is advisable that candidate entities satisfy these conditions in advance by careful preparation of planning
and implementation, so as to prevent delays after they have joined the program. A large number of
potential participants increases the possibility that some of them wi1l meet this requirement more quickly.
60.   For a project to be successful, the rules and conventions laid down in the loan agreement have to be
strictly adhered to. In this conmection, ranking of the participating companies by levels of eligibility for
access to different components and resources would facilitate the application of said rules and conventions.
61.    Competitive allocation of funds among the participants, based on the rate of requests for
disbursements, can be one way to improve project performance and to stimulate the participants' efficiency
while avoiding the rigid division of resources that occurred with the PMSS I.
62.   The preparation mission must secure the involvement of the key persons concerned so that the
project can be fully internalized and the responsibilities assumed by the company will be clearly
- 45 -



understood, while its management will be effectively committed to the project's objectives. Intemal
seminars (workshops), with participation of the Bank and the UGP/PMSS, prior to signature of the
contract, are a necessity.
63.   Indicators have to be selected that precisely reflect the variables to be tracked in connection with
specific objectives; the formulas for the indicators and their terms must be correctly defined and the
respective goals must be exhaustively discussed during the preparation mission(s) and the mid-term review.
b.2) Financing and Contribution of Funds
64.    The performance of a project, however well prepared, will be unsatisfactory if local counterpart
funds are not forthcoming. The arnount and scheduling of counterpart funding should be settled before the
project is contracted.
65.   The diversity of sources of funds for one and the same sub-project complicated the management of
the works or services concerned and also caused delays in the payment schedule and, consequently, hell up
the implementation schedule. Disbursements should be tied to meeting of targets and compliance with
contractual obligations.
b,3) Procurement Procedures
66.    Risks connected with procurement must be kept to a minimum. Procurement planning must he a
priority during the preparation of future projects. The companies must work toward the optimum "
packaging" of bids in order to reduce their number. Whenever possible, the supply and installation
contracts, or vice-versa, should be considered, or else similar works and/or purchase of materials should be
combined into a single contract, which is moreover one of the Bank's recommendations.
67.   It would be advisable to concentrate the investments in a few sub-projects and a limited number of
business development actions, selecting those of greater value and magnitude and those for which there is a
clear-cut advantage in using the procurement process as specified in the Bank guidelines rather than
following the customary national procedures.
68.   It is desirable that the companies should prepare themselves in advance to apply the Bark's
procurement guidelines which, in general, are different from those to which they are accustomed, and, to
the extent possible, they should make these new rules known to their main partners (contractors,
consultants and suppliers), and also to any inspection and audit offices involved.
b.4) Implementation
69.   The commitment of company boards and management is vital to the success of a project. The
officers responsible for coordination within the companies must maintain a permanent information and
publicity program on the project for company staff and all parties involved. The UGP/PMSS and
representatives of the Bank and of the Federal Government must maintain frequent contacts with the higl-er
authorities of the state concerned and, if possible, with the governor.
70.   The national economic plans, the exchange rate and the budget cuts imposed all affected the
companies and the outcomes of the project. The devaluation of the real, which coincided with the start of
the loan repayments, upset the companies' cash flows. It would be advisable for the companies to prepare
their short, medium and long-term plans taking different economic scenarios into account, so that
- 46 -



preventive or even corrective steps can be taken in good time to minimize negative impacts of any
unfavorable cyclical and/or economic development.
71.   No project document, whether produced by the Government or the Bank, and no declaration by
their representatives, made any reference to privatization of the companies as being one of the PMSS's
objectives. Nevertheless, positions assumed by the Federal Government and documents produced by
consultants contracted by the UGP/PMSS were interpreted by the employees of some companies as
meaning that privatization was a project goal, which generated a strong internal reaction and resistance to
the proposed changes.
72.    Bearing in mind that in general the environmental question and the impacts of the actions on
poverty and health conditions are still something new for part of the sanitation companies' technical staff (a
fact that was apparent in the course of the PMSS 1), it would be desirable for both the PMSS H and future
sanitation projects to include training for company techrical staff with the aim of familiarizing them with
this aspect and also with appropriate techniques and methodologies for obtaining the data needed for
analyzing these impacts.
73.   The experience gained with the PMSS I rnade it possible to ascertain that supervision is more
objective and efficient when the performance indicators that will be tracked throughout the implementation
of a project are carefully planned. Correct and focused selection of these indicators is fundamental for
proper monitoring of the achievement of a project's specific objectives. The better these indicators express
the variables conmected with the objectives, the more accurate and precise will be this measurement. It will
be desirable to have indicators for measuring the company's performance in the implementation of its
investment program and, in light of the execution of said program, also for tracking the progress of each
subproject individually.
-47 -



Additional Annex 9. [Borrower's Comments to the ICRI
Presidencia da Republica
Secretaria Especial de Desenvolvimento Urbano
Ref. Projeto de Moderniza(do do Setor Saneamento - PMSS
Brasilia, 12 de mar,o Je 2001.
Assunto: ComentArios sobre o Relat6rio de Conclusao da 1mplementavlo do PMSS (tl
Prezada Senhora,
Considerando o carater de reforma setorial do Projeto e a sua importancia como trincipal
instrumento do Govemo Federal para promove-la, a SEDU/PR dedicou esfor,o significativo na
avalia,co dos resultados de sua implementa,co e na identifica,co das li,6es aprendidas, o qual
resultou em extenso relat6rio com grande riqueza de informa,ces.
2.    Com  base nele, a SEDU/PR e os co-executores do Projeto - CASAN, EMBASA e
SANESUL - analisaram o Relat6rio de Conclusao da Implementa,co do PMSS (1), elaborado pelo
Banco Mundial, e concordam com as informasoes e as avalia,ces nele contidas.
3.    Contudo, um aspecto relacionado a SANESUL merece uma ressalva. Entende-se que a
classificac,ao do desempenho da companhia como "insatisfatorio" decoTreu, em parte, da saida do
sistema de Campo Grande, que resultou, de inicio, em reduc,ao de receitas em proporc,ao mais
elevada do que a redu,co de custos, refletindo-se negativamente em seus indicadores finalceiros,
daquele periodo.
4.    Essa situa,co, vigente em 1999, vem sendo modificada pela companhia, por meio de um
programa de reestruturac,o da empresa cujos resultados, em termos de melhoria da situacdo
financeira, ja podem ser verificados no balan,o referente ao ano de 2000.
A
- 48 -



Sua Senhoria a Senhora
Yoko Katakura
Task Manager do BIRD para o PMSS (I)
Washington, DC, USA
5.    Alem disso, no tocante A modemizacao institucional, a implementacao do Projeto na
SANESUL  deixou impactos positivos, nao quantificaveis, que podem  ser percebidos.  0
desenvolvimento alcancado nas areas gerencial, de gestao financeira, de planejarnento, operacional,
de informatica e de projetos esta contribuindo de forma importante no processo de reorganizacao da
companhia.
6.    Por sua importancia individual, e complementando nossa analise, alguns pontos do Relatorio
merecem comentario especifico e destaque:
-     Sistema Nacional de Informacoes sobre Saneamento - SNIS
7.    0 SNIS e uma das mais importantes e concretas contribuicoes do Projeto A reforma do setor,
constituindo-se, hoje, na principal fonte de informacoes sobre o setor no pais e em instrumento
essencial para a formulacao e a execucao da politica nacional de saneamento. Dele tem feito uso os
diferentes agentes envolvidos com a prestacao de servicos, tais como os pr6prios prestadores de
servi9os e suas associacoes corporativas, os orgaos de govemo das esferas federal, estadual e
municipal, agencias reguladoras, instituicoes financeiras e agentes privados interessados em participar
da atividade, bem como instituic6es de ensino e pesquisa.
8.    0 SNIS apoia-se num banco de dados que contem informac6es de carater operacional,
gerencial e financeiro, alem de dados de balanco e informacoes sobre a qualidade dos servicos, e e
atualizado anualmente, desde a sua criacao em 1995. Em 1999 foram 64 informacoes primarias e 63
indicadores calculados para cada um dos 198 prestadores de servicos participantes da amostra
analisada, a qual corresponde, para os servicos de agua, a 92,8% da populagao urbana nacional.
9.    Dele e extraido o Diagn6stico dos Servi9os de Agua e Esgotos, publicacao feita em edig6es
consecutivas desde 1995 e cuja tiragem atual e de cinco mil exemplares, estando, ainda, disponivel
em meio magnetico via Internet.
10.   0 SNIS tem  evoluido a cada ano e hoje se constitui em  ferramenta consolidada de
planejamento e gestao no setor. Alem disso, tem inspirado e ate servido de base para a montagem de
outros sistemas de informag6es, como, por exemplo, o Benchmarking Water and Sanitation Utilities,
do BIRD.
-     Serie Modernizacdo do Setor Saneamento
11.   Em seu Componente lnstitucional, o Projeto constitui-se numa grande seqiiuncia de estudos e
servicos de consultoria sobre a modemizacao do setor de saneamento, desenvolvidos no bojo da
atividade de assistencia tecnica a estados e municipios ou com o objetivo especifico de investigar
temas relevantes para o setor.
- 49 -



12.   De um conjunto de 170 estudos elaborados, um grupo de 15 foi selecionado, pelo seu carater
prospectivo ou orientador, para ser publicado na forma de uma serie.
13.   Essa publica,co veio preencher uma lacuna existente no setor e os debates que se seguiram a
mesma foram importantes para a propaga,ao de novas ideias e conceitos, subsidiando a fonnula,co
da Politica Nacional de Saneamento e criando um  ambiente proficuo e maduro no qual as
transforma,6es do setor se desenvolvem.
14.   Embora lan,ada em 1995, a Serie e ate hoje procurada como documento de referencia pelos
agentes do setor. Alguns de seus volumes ultrapassam a casa dos 1400 exemplares distribuidos.
-     Continuidade das aoes
15.   0 PMSS I contribuiu de forma decisiva para o inicio do processo de transforma,cao en curso
do setor de saneamento do Brasil. Seus bons resultados fizeram com que o Govemo B-asileiro
transformasse o PMSS em programa permanente do Govemo Federal e buscasse a parceria do Banco
Mundial para a segunda etapa - o PMSS II - que se encontra em andamento (Acordo n 4292-BR).
16.   Incorporando as li,ces aprendidas com a primeira etapa, o PMSS 11, por meio das atvidades
de assistencia tecnica a estados e municipios, de desenvolvimento de estudos, de apoio A forrnulac,ao
de politicas setoriais, de capacita,co de tecnicos do setor, especialmente em regula,co e de
aprimoramento do SNIS, constitui importante instrumento para assegurar a continuidade das a,oes
da SEDU/PR com vistas a reforma do setor.
-50 -



(Unofficial Translation of the Borrower's Comments to ICR)
Office of the Presidency of the Republic
Special Secretariat of Urban Development
Correspondence N 298/2001 - GABIN/SEPURB/SEDU/PR
Ref;: Water Sector Modernization Project - PMSS I
Brasilia, March 12, 2001.
Subject: Comments to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of PMSS I
Dear Madame,
Considering the sector reform characteristics of the Project and its importance as the
Federal Government's main instrument to promote the sector reform, the Special Secretariat of
Urban Development (SEDU/PR) dedicated significant efforts in the evaluation of the results and
identification of lessons learned. This resulted in the production of a large volume of rich
information on the Project.
2.    On the basis of such information, SEDU/PR and the implernenting agencies of the Project,
- CASAN, EMBASA e SANESUL - analyzed the ICR elaborated by the World Bank and agree
with the information and evaluation contained in the Report.
3.    Nonetheless, one aspect related to SANESUL deserves a qualification. We need to
understand that the "unsatisfactory" rating of this component is due partly to the loss of Campo
Grande, which resulted initially in a large loss of revenue and proportionately smaller reduction in
costs, which negatively affected the financial indicators at that time.
4.    This situation in 1999, has been modified by the company through a company
restructuring program, whose results, in terms of improvements in financial situation, can already
be seen in the year 2000 financial statements.
- 51 -



To
Ms.
Yoko Katakura
Task Manager do IBRD for PMSS (1)
Washington, DC, USA
5.    In addition, in terms of institutional modernization, the implementation of the Project in
SANESUL left positive impact not quantified. The progress made by the Project in the areas of
management, financial management, planning, operations, and information, constitutes an
important part of the reorganization of the company.
6.    Because of their importance, and complementing our analysis, some points in the lCR
deserves specific comments or emphasis
-     National Water and Sanitation Information System - SNIS
7.    The SNIS is one of the most important and concrete contribution of the Project to the
sector reform. Today, SNIS is the main source of information on the sector in the country and an
essential instrument for the formulation and implementation of the national sector policy. Many
agencies related to the sector have utilized the system, including water and sanitation seriice
providers, Federal, state, and municipal government organizations, regulatory agencies, financial
institutions, private agencies interested in participating in the sector activities, as well academic
and research institutions.
8.    The SNIS is a data bank which contains operational, managerial, financial data, in addition
to service quality information, and has been updated annually since its establishment in 1995. In
1999, there were 64 raw data, with 63 indicators for each one of 198 service providers, wLich
corresponds to 92.8% of the urban population in the country.
9.    Using the data from SNIS, the "Diagnosis of Water and Sewerage Services" reports have
been published every year since 1995. 5000 copies of the reports have been distributed so far, and
are available in electronic form through Intemet
10.   The SNIS evolved each year, and today, evolved into a consolidated tool for sector
planning and management.  Furthermore, it inspired and even served as the base for the
development of other information system such as the Benchmarking Water and Sanitation
Utilities, of IBRD.
-     Water and Sanitation Modernization Series
11.   Through the Institutional Component, the Project produced a large volume of studies and
consulting services on sector modernization, either for the purpose of providing technical
assistance to the state and municipal governments or of studying themes that are relevant to -he
sector.
- 52 -



12.   Of the 170 studies conducted, 15 were selected for their prospective or "guiding"
character, and were published as a Series.
13.   This publication filled the gap that existed in the sector, and the debates that followed
were important for the promotion of new ideas and concepts, helping the formulation of the
National Water and Sanitation Sector Policy, and creating a mature and positive environment in
which sector transformation can develop
14.   Launched in 1995, the Series to date has been sought as reference documents by sector
agencies. Some of the volumes were distributed in excess of 1400 copies.
-     Continuity of Actions
15.   The PMSS I contributed in a decisive form the initiation of the sector reform that is now
in progress in the sector in Brazil. Because of the positive results, PMSS was transformed into a
permanent program of the Federal Govemment, and the Government sought for the second phase
of the Project - PMSS ll, which is under implementation (Loan 4292-BR).
16.   Incorporating the lessons leamed from the first phase, PMSS It -- through technical
assistance to the states and municipalities, studies, assistance for the formulation of a sector
policy, training of sector staff, especially in the area of regulation, and refinement of SNIS -- is an
important instrument to ensure the continuity of actions of SEDU/PR oriented towards sector
reform.
Yours sincerely,
Paulo Roberto Costa Ferreira
Director of Programs of SEDU/PR
President of Program Management Committee
Marcio Tagliari
Coordinator of UGP/PMSS
- 53 -






IBRD 23322
STATE OF MATO GROSSO DO SUL
B  R  A    Z  I L                                                                            r ,1 MUNICIPALITIES SERVED BY SANESUL
WATER SECTOR MODERNIZATION  PROJECT                                                                                                   W  ,,-                                                  ,,, mMUNICIPALITIESMSERVED BY THE FNS
WATER SC RM E IA OSANESUL SERVICE AREA
STATE OF BAHIA
MUNICIPALITIES SERVED BY EMBASA
MUNICIPALITIES SERVED BY EITHER
THEIR OWN WATER COMPANES             <,                         ,,                     J      )) t                                                   .: '2                                              ),
- MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES OUTSIDE            \       \ -                        ,      \/I                                     .P-'                           f          
EMBAS SRICE AREA .\  r ,
E2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
7 :t ^ ir ^ 2 @   S   7   r   i  j   *      s S I E C E D  C  T                  *    ,                                   |                                      :                  <                                 S E L E C T E D   C IT IE S
B     STATE CAPITAL
iOr/~      --P/      p ~- '~ STATE BOUNDARIES
---INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
S               T              150       ". "
KILOMETERS                   ....
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
OMA Aof LVINi A                              C( FR l   A - FR    *     SBLECTED CIE S
l     STATE CAPITAL
gi  jILEg    _                    Tb                                             \ 4~~~ 7   w                           L_                  -    INTERNATIONALBOUNDOUNDARIS                                              st.  A-   d. 
INA                E                     D               0Iy02qc/ STATEr BOUNDARIE                                                                         MUNICIPALITIES  SERVED   BY  C                                                     ER             1991
MUNICIPALITIES SERVED BY EITE  HI   W
------  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IWATER COMPANES OR THEF NS
PERU  MA"o   r                                                                                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUNICIPALBONAISUT E
'-'. GEOSSD / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASNSERVICE AREA
BOLIVIA        GCAE.              ~Thhllo.,b-..dp~.by
BO _VIA-i~ i.                                                                                                 FE.   M.M.  RTRIBOIR, '* SELECTED CITIES
GIV  S                  -    N00~E   STATE CAPITAL
2R~~~   -~~~( ~~0. LAFIT SIlL'  -\                                                                 OFORP~~~~~~~~~IA  .d  .            d   STATE BOUNDARIES                                                      C.~
Cy,                                               \~~AFIRFCOO                                                                              INTERNFATRIONALoBEOUNDARY
ARGENTINA             CA10 A0                                        10             200                                                             0 4F.RonElIgo
ED $111                                                                                ,RREEORO,dRrI.~~KLOMTER                           KILOMETERS
1~~~~~~,  60-  4p-  VI                                                                                                                                                                  OCTOBER 1991~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTBE  9



