Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3442 BR
Project Agreement
(Water Sector Modernization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA CATARINENSE DE AGUAS E SANEAMENTO
Dated December 9, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3442 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 9, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA CATARINENSE DEAGUAS E SANEAMENTO (CASAN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred and fifty 
million dollars ($250,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but on condition, inter alia, that CASAN agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CASAN, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be relent to CASAN on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS CASAN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the terms "State" means the State of Santa 
Catarina; "Shareholder Agreement" means the Shareholder Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Bank and the State; "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the 
Agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement to which CASAN is a 
party; and "Management Improvement Plan" means the plan of action aimed at improving 
CASAN's commercial performance (including specific operational and financial targets), 
set forth in the letter of even date herewith from CASAN to the Bank, (hereinafter the 
MIP Letter) as such plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Bank and CASAN.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CASAN declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Eligible Subprojects under Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, sanitation, financial, engineering, 
environmental and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for such purposes.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. CASAN shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and the Eligible Subprojects 
carried out by CASAN.
Section 2.04. CASAN shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CASAN shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) CASAN shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
CASAN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CASAN of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. CASAN shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1993, carry out a 
study on the levels and structure of its rates based on the long-run marginal cost 
structure of its water supply
and sewerage system; (b) promptly upon the completion of such study, furnish to the 
Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations; (c) allow the Borrower and the Bank a 
reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings and recommendations; and (d) put 
into effect not later than June 30, 1994, such recommendations which are acceptable to 
the Bank and the Borrower.
Page  3
Section 2.07. (a) CASAN shall: (i) not later than October 15 of each year, 
starting not later than October 15, 1992 prepare and furnish to the Bank a general 
financial projection (as required under Article IV of this Agreement) for the 
following six years and CASAN's detailed investment plan (including but not limited to 
investments under the Project) for the following calendar year; (ii) prepare and 
furnish to the Bank not later than January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of 
each year, starting not later than October 15, 1992, a report of such scope and detail 
as the Bank shall reasonably request (including the monitoring indicators set forth in 
the Management Improvement Plan) on the execution of Part B of the Project and the 
compliance by CASAN and the State of their respective obligations under this 
Agreement, the Shareholder Agreement and the Letter of Agreement.
(b)
CASAN shall carry out each investment plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
(i) of this Section with due diligence and efficiency and, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, shall not
amend any such plan or any part thereof by more than 20% of its total expected cost, 
as set forth in such plan.
Section 2.08. CASAN shall: (a) carry out its obligations under the Letter of 
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency; (b) take all action required on its part 
to update annually the investment program and other obligations therein contained in 
terms satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, not 
amend or abrogate the Letter of Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. CASAN shall carry out the Management Improvement Plan with due 
diligence and efficiency and substantially as set forth in the MIP Letter.
Section 2.10. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, not later than June 30, 1994, CASAN shall exchange views with the Borrower, 
the Bank, the States and the other Companies as provided in Section 3.09 of the Loan 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CASAN
Section 3.01. (a) CASAN shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, sanitation, public 
utility and ecological practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
CASAN shall carry out economic feasibility studies on the basis of 
criteria substantially similar to those set forth in paragraph II of Schedule 6 to the 
Loan Agreement, to select design and carry out investments other than those included 
in Part B of the Project.
Section 3.02. CASAN shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. CASAN shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices.
Section 3.04. In order to improve its operational efficiency, CASAN shall carry 
out an action plan satisfactory to the Bank to: (a) increase the number of consumers 
per employee to at least 195 by December 31, 1993 and at least 225 by December 31, 
1997 and thereafter; and
(b)
reduce salaries and other personnel costs as a percentage of total costs 
to no more than 75% by December 31, 1993 and no more than 74% by December 31, 1997 and 
thereafter.
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CASAN shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial conditions, 
including separate accounts to reflect all resources and expenditures in respect of 
the Project. 
(b)
CASAN shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements)  for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts  
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, CASAN shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CASAN shall produce 
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1992, total 
revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its: (i) total operating expenses; 
(ii) dividends; (iii) debt service requirements; and (iv) at least a percentage of 
investment expenditures (excluding interest during
construction) incurred and expected to be incurred under, or related to, Part B of the 
Project and the other investments included in the investment plan referred to in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement, equivalent to 20% in 1992, 22% in 1993, 24% in 1994, 
27% in 1995, 31% in 1996 and 35% in 1997 and every year thereafter.
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, CASAN shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by CASAN and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that CASAN would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) above for CASAN's fiscal years covered by such review, CASAN 
shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, inter alia, adjustments of the structure or levels of 
Page  5
its rates and/or a revision of its investment plan) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net 
non-operating income.
 
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations 
(despesas de exploracao), including administration, adequate 
maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision 
for bad debts (provisao 
para devedores duvidosos) and 
amortization of capitalized operating costs 
(amortizacoes de 
despesas), but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
(other than 
capitalized interest) and other charges on, debt.
 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CASAN shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of CASAN 
shows that the estimated net
revenues of CASAN for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred 
shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of CASAN in such 
year on all debt of CASAN including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of CASAN maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A) the sum 
of revenues 
from all sources related to operations and net non-operating 
income; and (B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt.
 
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) revenues 
from all sources other than those related to operations; and 
Page  6
(B) expenses, 
including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest (other than 
capitalized interest) and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by CASAN 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and CASAN accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified 
CASAN of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or 
may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results
of CASAN.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) CASAN shall carry out: (i) under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and not later than June 30, 1993, a study on the amount and 
fiscal implications of a fixed assets revaluation on the basis of current replacement 
costs and useful assets life; and (ii) not less frequently than every three years 
thereafter, similar studies satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
CASAN shall: (i) in its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1993, revalue 
its assets in accordance with the methods of valuation recommended by the study 
carried out pursuant to paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, such methods to be 
consistently applied in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) update in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank such assets revaluation as recommended by the studies 
referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, but not less frequently than every 
three years. 
Section 4.05. (a) CASAN shall take all action necessary to not later than 
December 31, 1992 make adjustments in real terms on all overdue bills, or take 
equivalent or additional measures which may be required, to reduce the financial 
losses resulting from such overdue bills.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"overdue bills" means bills for water and sewerage services which 
are unpaid 
on their due date; and
 
(ii)
"real terms" means no less than inflation, as measured by the 
National Index 
of Consumer Prices (Indice Nacional de Precos ao 
Consumidor - INPC) as 
published by the Fundacao Instituto 
Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica or 
other index acceptable to 
the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CASAN 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CASAN thereof.
Page  7
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable addres:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For CASAN:
Companhia Catarinense de Aguas e Saneamento
Rua Emilio Blum, No. 83
88020-Florianopolis-SC
Brazil
Telex:
CASN (0482)243
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CASAN, or by 
CASAN on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
its Director President or such other person or persons as the Director President shall 
designate in writing, and CASAN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  8
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA CATARINENSE DE AGUAS E
   SANEAMENTO
By /s/ Licio Mauro da Silveira
Authorized Representative
