Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3442 BR
Bahia Shareholder Agreement
(Water Sector Modernization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF BAHIA
Dated December 9, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3442 BR
SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 9, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and STATE OF BAHIA (hereinafter called 
the State).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the 
Loan Agreement) between Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred and fifty million dollars 
($250,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(B)
the State is the owner and holder of about 99.7% of the issued and 
outstanding voting shares of stock of the Empresa Baiana de Aguas e Saneamento S.A. 
(EMBASA);
(C)
the proceeds of the Loan will be utilized by EMBASA for purposes of 
carrying out Eligible Subprojects in the territories of the State, as provided in the 
Loan Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
EMBASA (hereinafter the EMBASA Project Agreement);
(D)
the Bank has agreed to make the Loan, inter alia, on condition that the 
Page  2
State agree to undertake such obligations towards the Bank as are herein set forth;
(E)
the State warrants and represents that it is authorized, under the laws 
of the State, to undertake the obligations contained in this Agreement; and
(F)
the State in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall 
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to 
this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The State shall: (a) take all such action as shall be necessary to 
enable EMBASA to carry out Part B of the Project and its other obligations under the 
EMBASA Project Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices; and 
(b) the State shall not take or cause or permit any of its agencies to take any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the performance by EMBASA of its covenants, 
agreements and obligations contained in the EMBASA Project Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the State specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to EMBASA will be inadequate to 
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of Part B of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide EMBASA or 
cause EMBASA to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
(b)
As part of the foregoing, the State shall take promptly all such action 
as shall be necessary or appropriate: (i) to increase the State's contribution to the 
EMBASA's equity by an
amount equivalent to not less than eighty four million five hundred thousand dollars 
($84,500,000). The proceeds of such State contribution shall be made available to 
EMBASA as and when needed for the purposes of Part B of the Project, and shall be 
fully paid-in not later than December 31, 1997; (ii) to authorize, permit or promote 
any improvements in EMBASA's management and operational  systems and, if necessary, 
adjustments to EMBASA's rates for water and sewerage services and the establishment of 
adjustments or additional charges for overdue bills or any other measures as may be 
required to attain the financial and operational performance set forth in the EMBASA 
Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. At least until the Closing Date, the State shall reinvest in 
capital stock of EMBASA all dividends paid to the State by EMBASA.
Section 2.04. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this
Agreement and of EMBASA under the EMBASA Project Agreement, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the State of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
Section 2.05. The State shall: (a) carry out its obligations under the Letter of 
Page  3
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency; (b) take all action required on its part 
to update annually the
investment program and other obligations therein contained in terms satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (c) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend or abrogate the 
Letter of Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, not later than June 30, 1994, the State shall exchange views with the 
Borrower, the Bank and other States and the Companies as provided in Section 3.09 of 
the Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.07. The State shall take all action required on its part to strengthen 
the agencies which are in charge of the review and approval, and the environmental 
supervision, of water and sewerage projects and services in the territories of the 
State, including the participation of such agencies in the technical assistance and 
staff training programs of the Borrower referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any suspension or cancellation under the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the State 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the State thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the State:
Gabinete do Governador
Av. Tancredo Neves S/N
Edificio Desenbanco, 5o andar
CEP 40000, Salvador, Bahia
Page  4
Brazil
Telex:
711031 or
712486
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of the State, may 
be taken or executed by the Governor of the State or such other person or persons as 
the Governor shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who will, 
on behalf of the State take any action or execute any documents required or permitted 
to be taken or executed by the State pursuant to any of the provisions of this 
Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF BAHIA
By /s/ Cesar Augusto Rabello Borges
Authorized Representative
