Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14054-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
MAY 3, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
Central African and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency UJnit  =      Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00=               FMG 4200 (April 1995 - average for 1993/4 FMG 2475)
SDRI.00        =       FMG 6510 (April 1995 - average for 1993/4 FMG 4000)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AMRT                   Monthly technological review^ workshop
(4telier mnensuel de revue des technologies)
AVB                    Field level extension agent (Agent V'ulgarisateur de Base)
CFD                    C'aisse francaise de developpemnent (formerly CCCE)
CIRAGRI                Agricultural extension district (Circonscription agricole)
DA                     Directorate for Agriculture (Direclion (le l Agriculture)
DGRH                   lluman Resource Management Directorate
(Direction de la gestion des ressources humaines)
DNVA                   National Directorate of Agricultural Extension
(IDirection Vationale de Vulgarisation Agricole)
FMG                    Malagasy Franc (Franc. Nalgache)
FOFIFA                 National Applied Research Center for Rural Development
(Centre national (le recherche appliquee pour le developpement rural)
GC                     Contact group (Groupe de contact)
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product (Procluit national hrut)
HASYMA                 Parastatal cotton company (Hasy valagasyv)
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding (A4ppel d'offre international)
IDA                    International Development Association
(Association pour le developpernent international)
MEADR                  Ministry of Rural Development and Land Affairs
(,kiinistere au Developpement Rural et a la Reforme Foncie;re)
ODR                    Highlands Rural Development Operation
(Operation de developpement rural)
ONG                    Non-Governmental Organization (O(rganisme non-gouvernemental)
PIP                    P'ublic Investment Program (Program d 'investissement public)
PNRA                   National Agricultural Research Program
(Programme national de recherche agricole)
PNVA                   National Agricultural Extension Project
(Programme national (cle vulgarisation agricole)
PREFTEC                Manpower Training Project
(Projet de renforcement de la formation techinique et professionnelle)
PROVAGRI               Provincial agricultural service (Service provincial de /'agriculture)
SDR                    Special Drawing Rights (Droits de tirage spccial)
SE                     Monitoring and Evaluation (Suiivi et evaluation)
SOE                    Statement of Expenditure (Etat (le dcepenses)
SOP                    Farmer organization specialist (Specialiste en organisation pav.sanne)
TS                     Subject matter specialist (T7chnicien .specialise)
VQ                     Fortnightlv farmer visit ( Visite dle quinzaine)
WUA                    Water Users' Associations (.4'ssociations cles U.'sagers d'Eau)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



oz ..........39U...    .N3.N'....9 ,..                                                          .L.JVdVq .L;q.O..d  f
61                                                       Si DflU33gOd dDNllIOd3}d (NV )NIJ.lClyV  SIN.10)DV  '
61.''''''''-''''''''' ' ' '' '' '''''''''''''''''                     s1Uuiu sInqs4a vul paXwunwl 4      l
81 ...                                                                 i v(11[o juawsmqsiC :t t. DlqeL
Ll*-. --                                                                                        LM'IN:qs~huISIl    H
91............I                                  SUUU V    uanmold pasodoid Jo d'0   hU WIS  £ L Dlq,.
. I                                                                                          -   I.NMAN-UIlDOlid  D
Sl''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''.....'..'..'.......'...... -  uld SuOllteul,,l  zqaqej
t................. . ........   -O IoDfOd PgltuSllsH lOafOld lioddnS U1i1UOId UOiSUalX- l Ipu11inMuTV  I  o qu0L
H.                                                                             9  - -  ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '9NIJ)NVNXU CINV SISOD ..:1-iYrOd  'A
0  .SIMlUVJ GA 11V3AC -
6.                                                                           NOIl'V?vd3sd -LYIfO?id :[( S!VlVlS ' 
6                                                                                   . ' 'S]AI.LILf£IO -.L3)'.:ff d  *g
8                                                                  '.             ''        IVNOIV-J J.JD'Af(3sd  '
9.............................13afOId MOISNM3IXA '1VWHlI1lIH9W VO'd  7HIZ *
..                                                               uawdo/dAd(I / IDv Anio.if .AXSIv.4jS  UdU(Udd,10t)
.q     ''''''       l4AAtil ) I R4flhIfld!ia3  VC  UI1'a/Oc
. .................../-.. .lI/f..    .   .    .  .   .   .  . ./                                            a.)ay.. ................
f. --                                    ''''''''''''''''''''d)I0.LXS fV?H.~1 1J1?JDVIM! .41                       J
.                                                                    ----s'lns'dg pUt7 .s'dlJOJ0 IUdlU4,Sflpt ' Inz 78m,sw
I.--UNA01 0N)M3V8.DW.)NC3d  V
SIN3INO3
I3OUroJ 1sIoJLfS NVH9OoH NOLSN3JJX3 rIVUfIYIDRI9V
fIV3SV9VUVA4



4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND  IMPLEMENTATION .......................................................... 21
A.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION .............................................................................. 21
B. EXTENSION/RESEARCH LINKAGE AND SUPPORT FOR FARMERS' ORGANIZATIONS ................................... 21
Table 4.1:  Impact of Improved Techniques Recorded in Six Pilot Districts under the Pilot Project .............. .. 22
C.  TRAINING  AND  HUMAN  RESOIJRCES MANAGEMENT .............................................................................. 22
D.  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, ACCOUNTING  AND  INTERNAL AUDIT .......................................................... 23
E. MONITORING  AND  EVALUATION ........................................................................................................... 23
F.  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT, PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY, BENFFITS ANI) RISKS  ...........                                                       ..............................   24
5. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED WITH THE BORROWER, CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................................... 27
Annexes
A N  N E X     I  ..........................................                                    ....................................... ..................................  2 8
Table  1: Project Components by Year - Base Costs ..........................................  28
Table 2: Components Pro;ec                   t Cost Summary ..........................................  29
Table  3: Expenditure Accounts by Project Cost Summary ............................... ...........                                                                    30
Table 4: Expenditure Accounts by Year - Base Costs ................................                                  ...........   31
Table 5: Extension, Research  Linkages and  Support for Farmer Organizations ..................................................  32
Table 6: In-Service and  13asic Training ..............................................................................   33
Table 7: Administration  and  Finance    ..............................................................................  34
Table 8: Monitoring and Evaluation ..................................................... .                          ........................  35
Table 9: DNVA  - Detailed  Costs ..............................................................................  36
ANNEX  11 ..............................................................................                                                                                   37
Figure  1: Organigram   of DNVA  at the Central and Regional Levels ................................................................ 37
Figure 2: Organigram   of DNVA  at the CIRAGRI Level ................................                                    .............................................. 38
ANNEX Im: LETTER TO DONORS CONFIRMING GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR EXTEMNSION
POLICY ............................................................................... 39
ANNEX IV: TIMETABLE FOR COUNTRY COVERAGE BY AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION DISTRICT ... 40
ANNEX V: TABLE OF PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR RICE PRODUCERS                                                                                        . .    42
ANNEX   VI: ESTIMATED) SCHEDULE  OF  DISBURSEMF NT'S .................................................. .......................... 43
ANNEX VIl: INCREMENTAL RICE PRODUCTION - TARGETS FOR EX1TENSION DISTRICTS ..... ................. 44
ANNEX  VIE: SCHEDULE  OF  MAJOR  PROCURE'MENT  ACTIONS ........................................ ..                                                  ........................ 45
ANNEX  IX: SUPERVISIO                        N I'LAN  ............................................................................... 46
ANNEX X: SELECTED D)OCUMENTS AND DATA AVAI.ABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE ..... ......................... 47
1   -     .: .:    T:  ::  :  TR  :    ::    .::t:i:    ::i:-:  :i .. . ...: i--:   ..         xxi!   :-:      :::X: ::.M
,ois ~ .''s#    i-:- t-itr T-a                                    n (AF3E  'Tas1- Mf... ....er) 0 C .Ft -                                y (AFTA ,'
Agri~dtut~a1 Tra~g ~ecialist), I tt~42~t~Is *dei=04                                                                                ..PaeaiM.OI
.'A                diVis                                                                                 K r     .g~sn   .Hr Paa  iN    Tcheyan,. Ceptiv1



MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:           Ministry of Rural Development and Land Reform (MEADR)
Poverty:               Program of Targeted Interventions
Credit Amount:         SDR 16.2 million, equivalent to US$25.2 million
Terms:                 Standard IDA tenrs, with 40 year maturity
Financing Plan         See Para 3.25
Economic Rate
of Return:             Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report  14054-MAG
Maps:                  IBRD Numbers 26873 and 26905



ii
Estimated Project Costs a\
US$ million
Local   Foreign   Total
A. Extension, research linkages and support for farmer     18.3       10.3   28.6
organizations
B. Training and Human Resource Management                   2.0        1.0    3.0
C. Financial Management, Accounting and Internal Audit      0.1       0.1    0.2
D. Monitoring and Evaluation                                0.3        0.2    0.5
E. Directorate of Agriculture and National Extension        1.6        0.5    2.1
Base Cost                                                  22.3       12.1   34.4
Physical Contingencies                                      0.1       0.1    0.2
Price Contingencies                                         1.6        0.4    2.0
Total Project Costs                                        24.0       12.6   36.6
al Includes US$ 4.9 million of taxes and duties
Proposed Project Financing
US$ million        Percent
IDA Credit             25.2                69
Government             11.5                31
Total                  36.6               100
Estimated IDA Disbursements
US$ thousand
FY96       FY97       FY98       FY99        FY00
Annual                                   755       4,781      7,550      6,540      5,536
Cumulative                               755       5,536     13,088     19,629     25,165
Percentage                                 3         22         52          78        100
Agricultural Sector Disbursement           6         18         34          46         66
Profile for 5 Year Projects



MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM
SUPPORT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.1    Madagascar is a country with considerable unfulfilled growth potential.  With low
population density, and available supply of labor, it has good soils and climate and an environment
and ecosystem  potentially attractive to tourism.  However, poor economic policies since
independence in 1960, coupled with population growth of about 2.8 percent per annum have
resulted in the persistence of low, and recently declining, per capita income (US$240 in 1993),
making Madagascar one of the world's poorest nations.
1.2    Madagascar does not figure among the top performners in Africa in terms of annual
agricultural growth (which averaged 2.8 percent between 1986-91). Although the recent history of
economic development in Madagascar has been mixed, the country does possess today some of
those characteristics which allow for a certain optimism in terms of longer term successful
agricultural sector performance. The macro-policy environment for the agricultural sector has
begun to improve, there are few price distortions, the marketing of agricultural production is no
longer regulated, and there is a relative openness to private sector investment in agricultural
marketing and processing and liberal support for farmners' groups and associations. With these
factors in place in Madagascar, the agricultural economy has begun to grow after a period of
decline.
1.3    Over past years, attempts to redress the weaknesses of poor government services in the
agricultural sector by extemal donors have resulted in the creation of a plethora of projects (more
than seventy in the 1994 PIP), exacerbating problems of coordination and sustainability. In the late
1980s, the Government successfully tested the introduction of pilot extension and research
management and field level training systems, to reduce the reliance on, and the wastefulness of, a
multiplicity of autonomous operations. The Bank supported this initiative through the National
Agricultural Research program (Cr. 2042-MAG) and the National Extension Pilot project
(Cr. 2150-MAG).
B. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
General
1.4    Madagascar is the world's fourth largest island, 1,500 km long, with an area of 590,000
km2 (slightly larger than France). It is characterized by a rough topography, variations in soils and
climate, some mineral endowment and unique flora and fauna. Rice is the country's main staple
and the major exports are coffee, vanilla, cloves and shellfish. The population in 1995 is estimated
at about 13.0 million inhabitants, growing at a rate of 2.8 percent per year; its distribution is very
uneven, with an average of 18.5 per kM2, but exceeding 100 per km2 in the central highlands.
Close to one-half of the urban population of 3 million lives in the capital, Antananarivo. Poor



2                  MADAGASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
economic performance characterized the 1970s and early 1980s and stemmed largely from
inappropriate economic policies, with emphasis on public investment financed from external
borrowing - mostly for economically non-viable projects, with nationalization of foreign-owned
enterprises, extensive consumer subsidies and pervasive controls over private economic activity.
The predominantly agricultural economy, which had grown modestly in the late 1980s, following a
decade of decline, has been disrupted by political developments since 1991. Output fell by almost 6
percent in 1991, recovering to a growth of only 1 and 2 percent respectively in 1992 and 1993.
Annual inflation which remained at about 13 percent over the same period increased significantly
in late 1994 to almost 50 percent.
Structural Adjustment Policies and Results
1.5    The govermment's reform program has been supported since 1985 by four IDA sector
adjustment credits covering industry, agriculture, trade, and the public sector. A number of
important reforms were undertaken with the support of these credits. In industry, the government
eliminated most price controls and export taxes, reduced controls on profit margins, and began to
dismantle the heavy administrative regulations, which were a disincentive to private activity. In
agriculture, it liberalized the pricing and domestic marketing of rice, eliminated most state
monopolies, and abolished export taxes, except for vanilla. In the external sector, the government
substantially eased administrative export restrictions, greatly enhanced the country's international
competitiveness through a series of devaluations of the Malagasy franc (FMG), ended quantitative
import restrictions, introduced an automatic allocation of foreign exchange for merchandise
imports through an open general licensing (OGL) system, and initiated major tariff reform to
reduce effective protection. An improved budgetary system and process for public investment
programming was introduiced. Steps were taken to withdraw the state from productive activities,
and to close down a number of long-standing projects which absorbed an inordinate amount of
domestic financing. Financial institutions were partially privatized, and the sector was opened to
privately-owned banks.
1.6    During the period of political change between 1991 and 1993, while the country was
achieving a successful transition to multi-party democracy, Madagascar's economy encountered
difficulties. Budgetary discipline deteriorated, monetary management was lax, external arrears
accumulated and GDP grew at less than the population growth rate, underscoring the need for
reform. It was only in April 1994 that the Government committed itself to resume the economic
reform process and took some initial steps. A floating exchange rate was introduced, import
restrictions were lifted and a new value-added tax was introduced to replace a regressive indirect
tax introduced in late 1993. Time was lost however in firming up negotiations with the IMF, when
some officials pursued ill-advised parallel financing deals, portrayed as an alternative to agreement
with the Bretton Woods Institutions. It was not until early 1995 that the government finally
reached a new agreement with the IMF on a program to bring down the rate of inflation. Up-front
measures under this program have been implemented including sharp price increases in energy
products and increases in excise taxes. The Government has also revised the 1995 budget and PIP
to make them consistent with the agreed strategy. These moves have helped to restore the
Government's credibility and prepare the ground for further IMF and Bank support and possible
debt relief from the Paris Club.



Chapter J. Background                                                                    3
C. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
1.7    Agriculture is the most important contributor to the national economy (33 percent of
GDP). The sector employs over 80 percent of the active population and, with agro-industries,
accounts for 60 percent of export earnings. The sector supplies the primary inputs to the food and
textile industries which together account for 75 percent of the value added of the industrial sector.
1.8    Although most tropical and temperate climate crops can be found in Madagascar, only
about 2.3 million ha, i.e. about 6 percent of the country's arable land, are cultivated. Rice
production is the most important agricultural activity, accounting for 41 percent of agricultural
output (1992).  Fishing is the second most important activity (20 percent of agricultural
production). The traditional export crops (coffee, vanilla, cloves and pepper) together account for
7 percent of agricultural output. Root crops and maize contribute 11 percent. Vegetables and
fruits contribute 10 percent, industrial crops 3 percent and livestock 5 percent. During recent
years, there has been a shift in the relative importance of export products. The share of traditional
exports has declined to about 40 percent in 1991, while the share of non-traditional products, such
as shrimps and lobsters, which now account for about 15 percent of total exports, has been rapidly
growing by over 20 percent per year since 1986.
Recent Agricultural Developments
1.9    The response from the agricultural sector to the adjustment measures of the 1980s has
been mixed. Fisheries and non-traditional exports, which benefited from early trade liberalization
and adjustment measures, expanded significantly after 1983 (industrial fisheries more than doubled
over the next decade); similarly, non-rice agricultural activities (dairy products, potatoes, sweet
potatoes, maize, barley, wheat) in the central highlands - wvhere communications are more
favorable (proximity to large urban markets, adequacy of physical infrastructure and agricultural
services) - responded positively to improved price incentives. On the contrary, the traditional
exports (coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper) and the cotton sub-sector and their corresponding regions
(East Coast, Northern region, South West Coast) did not respond to the adjustment measures,
partly because of the drop in world market prices (coffee, cloves) and partly due to the continued
deterioration of communications and the absence of full trade liberalization (vanilla).  The
production of rice, after first responding to the market liberalization measures in 1986, has
stagnated because of ineffective agricultural advisory services, dilapidated irrigation infrastructure,
poor market infrastructure, and the lack of price incentives. encouraged by the artificially high
value of the FMG (until 1994), favoring cheap imports.
Potential for Agricultural Growth
1.10   Madagascar possesses a considerable potential for agricultural growth. It has a
comparative advantage in agricultural production based on low labor costs and availability of land
in different ecological zones. It can produce a variety of temperate and tropical crops for the
domestic and export markets.  It possesses an extensive irrigation infrastructure requiring
rehabilitation, but largely underutilized and representing an important asset to enable
intensification and diversification. Moreover, crop yields are uniformly low and the potential to
increase yields on the basis of known technologies is high.



4                  MADAGASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
Constraints to Agricultural Development
1.11   Sustained growth of the sector has been constrained by macroeconomic policy and poor
agricultural services (research and extension) to encourage the transfer of technology, the lack of
reliable transport and communication infrastructure linking farmers with a market, poor control
and lack of management of water resources and inadequate protection of watershed areas. Public
investment m the agricultural sector has concentrated too heavily over recent years on undertaking
activities which could be carried out by farmers themselves and too little on providing basic
services and creating an environment which would enable farmers to fend better for themselves.
The Government has invited donors to contribute to finding a solution to these constraints, and the
Bank's current lending portfolio includes support to five major programs (Research, Extension,
Livestock, Environment, Irrigation Rehabilitation), a pilot rural credit scheme and an agricultural
export promotion project, which is yet to be negotiated. The Government is also developing, with
Bank support, approaches to rural infrastructure, focusing on feeder roads and market
infrastructure improvements, working through local decentralized organizations.
Government Strategy for Rural Development
1.12   Government recognizes that a rural development policy based on the intensification of the
small farm sector in the high potential areas of Madagascar would accelerate the development of
the entire rural non-farm economy, increase the size of the domestic market and provide sizable
farm and off-farm employment opportunities, thus reducing poverty. The driving force for
agricultural growth and development would be the increased integration of the agricultural sector
into the market economy. Government's rural development policy aims to achieve the following
objectives: (a) reduce poverty and improve the conditions of life in the rural areas; (b) improve
agricultural productivity: (c) optimize the use of available resources; and (d) protect the
environment.
1.13   To achieve the objective of increasing integration of the agricultural sector into the market
economy, the Ministry of Rural Development published a policy statement in February 1994,
which targets (i) the creation of an environment (economic, technical, institutional and
infrastructural) to favor economic activity in the rural areas and to optimize the conditions for
savings, investment and production within the framework of economic liberalization; (ii) the
redefinition of the role of the state in activities of promotion, support, coordination, monitoring and
control, leaving production activities and marketing to farmers, farmers' organizations and the
private sector; and (iii) the encouragement of producers to associate to undertake projects of
common interest and to improve their collective bargaining power. A key element of Government's
rural development strategy recognizes that the establishment and effective operation of a
professional agricultural extension service can contribute to increasing incomes for a large number
of rural farmers, thus making a significant contribution to national output and growth.
National Agricultural Extension Strategy
1.14   The objectives of the national agricultural extension program are to increase agricultural
productivity and farmers' incomes in an environmentally sustainable manner and to rationalize the
use of public resources in support of agricultural services.
1.15   The principles guiding the implementation of a national agricultural extension progran are
based on the successful experience of the National Extension Pilot Project (paras. 2.1 - 2.7). They



2. THE PILOT AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
2.1    Objectives. The pilot project (Credit 2150-MAG) was to test a sustainable extension
strategy in five pilot extension districts, which, if successful, could be replicated in the remainder
of the country. Its objective was to define a cost-effective approach to improving the quality of the
field services for the effective transfer of agricultural technology to farmers throughout
Madagascar.
2.2   Implementation. During the 4-year pilot phase, started in 1990, an improved extension
management system linked with tested principles of extension was introduced in six extension
districts, of the country's 28 districts, with a farming population of 260,000. The project started
slowly due to internal constraints (lack of local funding, delayed  procurement, poor staff
selection), exogenous constraints (political upheaval and a civil service strike) and insufficient
farmer and management oriented supervision. Major improvements in project performance were
achieved in 1993 following the nomination of key staff to positions of responsibility at the central
and provincial levels and the effective application of the management principles upon which the
project had been originally launched. Regular links between researchers and extension agents at
monthly technological review meetings were confirmed through agreements drawn up between
national and regional research and extension institutions. Training and field level diagnosis of
farmers' real needs were intensified and the number of field level demonstration plots was
increased from 3,120 in 1992 to 13,750 in 1994.
2.3    Lessons from the Pilot Project. The proposed project is based on the experience and
lessons of the pilot extension. Less than satisfactory results in the first two years of the pilot
project were due (i) a poor national coordination team and (ii) lack of commitment to implement
the detailed stages of an extension management approach, which although relatively new in
Madagascar, had produced impressive results elsewhere.  Once the new management team,
appointed in 1992, had defined and applied the principles of the management system in place
today, results and feedback from farmers and field staff increased significantly. Poor coordination
with ongoing projects and other extension activities in the pilot areas led to a misunderstanding of
the program's objectives. This has been redressed in the launch of new districts under the
proposed project.
2.4    The pilot project demonstrated that good results can be obtained at a low cost by a large
number of farmers from existing agricultural staff, using systematic work programming, regular
training, and diagnosis of results between farmers and field staff. As an example, rice yields on
some 1,700 demonstration plots in farmers' fields, with good water control, increased by an
average of almost 100 percent compared with control plots using traditional techniques. On more
than 1,350 separate demonstration plots where the technical improvement was early transplanting
(without improved water management), yields were on average 53 per cent higher than on control
plots. (For fuller details see Table 4.1). In both cases, these results were achieved without any
cash investment, using techniques adopted directly by the farmers. The gross margins generated by
application of these techniques represent approximately US$300 and US$125 per hectare
respectively. Extension staff work with contact groups, with an average of 11 farmers per group
and three demonstration plots per group. About 15 percent of all farmers in the pilot areas have
adopted a new technique within the past three years. The incremental production in rice alone for



Chapter 1: Background                                                               5
include: (a) a single line of command, through the field level officer (AVB) who can respond to
farmners' felt extension needs. Each agent has a clear line of responsibility to a single chief The
main objective of each person working within the system is to provide technical support and
training to the AVB; (b) extension staff efforts concentrated on the sole objective of advising the
farners on how to improve their techniques and revenue, free of other functions, which should be
delegated to qualified staff specifically recruited to handle them; (c) regular training. Two levels
of training are critical - the fortnightly training for the AVB and the monthly technological review
(AMRT), associating research staff, subject matter specialists and farmers; (d) close links
between extension and research to renew technical advice; (e) monitoring and evaluation of
extension to ensure that the extension system is operating as designed; and (f) the preparation of a
work program as the key to ensuring regular farmer presence during extension visits and as an aid
to supervision and training.



3.  THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT RATIONALE
3.1    Government strategy recognizes that growth and income increases are possible for a large
number of farmers in Madagascar, if supported by professional agricultural services. Government
also recognizes that the multiplicity of efforts in support of agricultural extension, under numerous
projects supported by different public and non-governmental agencies throughout Madagascar has
achieved few sustainable results over past years and does not make the best use of scarce resources
provided in the public investment program. By introducing a national system, to which different
donors can contribute over time, the Government intends to reduce the number of separate efforts
being made to bring technical advice to farmers. In a letter addressed to all donors in February
1995, Government has confirmed its policy to follow a national program approach and invited
donors to contribute accordingly (Annex 111).  The proposed Agricultural Extension Program
support project provides funding for the next four years to ensure that the program is launched
nationwide.
3.2    One of the basic principles of the national program acknowledges that the provision of
agricultural extension information is by nature a public good. Delivery of this good may be carried
out by private, NGO or public services. Payment for extension services is expected to be
principally from public funds, whatever agency is responsible for extension. The project will
support extension currently being provided by private and semi-public institutions, (such as the
national cotton company) and will encourage (and fund) pilot initiatives providing agricultural
advice to farmers, on the condition that such initiatives are cost-effective. A number of agreements
have already been drawn up between the DNVA and private/parapublic partners. The current
environment in Madagascar and the value of individual output of the majority of Madagascar's
farmers does not permit a wholly market driven provision of extension services at this stage.
3.3    Project Design and the Recent Operations Evaluation Department (OED) Study on
Agricultural Extension. A recent OED study of agricultural extension experience by the Bank
underlined the following major considerations for successful extension projects: (i) careful
definition of institutions and farmers in the design of extension strategy; (ii) past support for
extension and government commitment; (iii) a system which acknowledges the specific
requirements of farmers; (iv) full involvement of clients in planning and program implementation;
(v) a technology stock and capacity to generate new relevant technologies; (vi) the capacities of
agencies and staff to deliver different services and the potential for private agencies to provide
services; (vii) the importance given to gender issues; (viii) the potential of mass media for
complementing other forms of extension; (ix) the importance of needs-based staff training
programs; (x) accountability of the service providers to the clients and a system to monitor its
effectiveness. The proposed project responds positively on nine of the ten foregoing points.
Malagasy extension strategy is based on a close evaluation of experience over the last thirty years
and a process of consultation between farmers, researchers, extension staff and NGOs in the
expansion of the current pilot effort. Government commitment has been reiterated in a recent
public policy statement, addressed to external donors, while 41 percent of the Ministry of Rural
Development's 1995 budget is currently devoted to projects with a vocation for agricultural
extension. The extension system is based on a process of diagnosis of farmer needs, jointly



Chapter 2: The Pilot Agricultural Extension Project                                    7
1994 was about 15,000 tons or the equivalent of US$1.9 million from about ten percent of all local
rice producers.
2.5    The pilot project has demonstrated that the application of a structured and systematic
approach to agricultural extension, using existing resources and applying low-cost and simple
techniques, readily accessible to national technicians, can have a rapid and significant impact on
farmer incomes and productivity and contribute to reducing rural poverty. The system can be
managed independently from the central coordination unit in the rural extension districts, provided
there is a sufficient budget and a regular flow of funds. The role of the central coordination unit
becomes one of ensuring regular supervision, monitoring and evaluation, providing material
support and training for launching new areas and centralizing budget and financial accounting.
The experience of the 6 initial pilot areas can be replicated on a national scale - to all 28 extension
districts - with appropriate programming.
2.6    The pilot project has also demonstrated the efficacy of certain other principles to be
respected in order to achieve contact with a maximum number of farmers. These include (a)
regular and progranumed contact with farmers, through regular visits with contact groups (rather
than individual farmers) according to a fixed itinerary and timetable, joint diagnosis of problems
encountered and the use of demonstration plots for farmers to prove to themselves the effectiveness
(or ineffectiveness) of recommendations: (b) a clear organization chart with manageable ratios of
supervisory and training staff and farmers per extension agent; (c) extension advice which can be
readily adopted by farmers, without supplementary investments, to ensure rapid impact; and (d)
regular supervision to observe technical results, to assess work organization, to evaluate the
relationship between farmers and field staff and, above all, to design future technical messages on
the basis of farmers' needs.
2.7    The pilot project has also shown that, in order to carry out the above, a certain minimum
material support is necessary for the different levels of staff within the system, including means of
transport, operating costs of such transport, equipment and materials for extension and training and
subsistence allowances for staff who are required to spend a high proportion of their time away
from their base.



Chapter 3: The Project                                                             9
undertaken by subject matter specialists, farmers and extension agents. Very close involvement of
clients has been ensured during project preparation and 30 percent of project preparation time has
been spent in the field. Over 80 simple technical messages were introduced during the past year
under the pilot program. T'he extension system envisages the association of non-governmental
agencies in the shared delivery of services and will select the best of available staff. Almost fifty
percent of the central staff of the national service are women, as an indicator of the importance
given to gender issues. Investments in on-the-job and long termn training figure prominently in
project design. Both internal and external monitoring of the extension delivery system are
envisaged. Although use has been made of mass media during the pilot phase, no major investment
is currently envisaged for complementary support to such activities. The demand on management
to ensure training, research linkages, support to farmer organizations, logistical support and
monitoring and evaluation is such for the next four years that the Ministry of Rural Development
considers it too early to invest in a major mass media effort. During the course of the project, such
proposals will be prepared for the next stage of the program.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.4    The objectives of the national agricultural extension program are to increase agricultural
productivity and farmers' incomes in an environmentally sustainable manner and to rationalize the
use of public resources in support of agricultural services. The proposed program is central to the
Government's strategy to (a) reduce poverty and improve the conditions of life in the rural areas,
(b) improve agricultural productivity; (c) optimize the use of available resources; and (d) protect
the environment by generalizing the delivery of professional agricultura'. services to all levels of the
fanming community. The project will fund actions to ensure the realization of these objectives.
C. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
3.5    Government and Bank staff provided a commitment to rapid preparation and processing of
a national extension program in June 1994, while ensuring that beneficiaries and stakeholders were
closely associated in the process. For its part Government circulated for comment its national
extension policy proposal in June 1994, undertook an evaluation of the pilot extension experience
and moved immediately to launch three new extension districts. The Bank fielded three missions in
October 1994, January and March 1995 and appointed a new extension specialist to the resident
mission to provide full support on the ground. A three-monthly progress review workshop, bringing
together the majority of key staff from the pilot areas, in Antananarivo in October 1994 provided a
visiting Bank mission with the opportunity to appreciate the strengths and weaknesses of the
implementation of the national agricultural extension program to date. A launch workshop to
introduce the principles of the national program to the extension districts of Toliary, Diego Suarez
and Mahajanga and systematic visits to discuss extension needs with farmers followed in October
1994, January and April 1995 respectively. Representatives of all local institutions, both public
and private, involved in rural development were invited to exchange views on how agricultural
extension could be improved in their area.  Representatives of the Ministry responsible for
Agriculture met with Bank officials in March 1995 in Washington to review and contribute to an
early draft of this report. All these actions favor brisk project start-up. Launch workshops and
consultation with farmers will continue during 1996, 1997 and 1998 in an attempt to define the
nature of the extension structtire to be adopted for each new region. Since program planning is an



10                  MADA GASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
integral part of these workshops, detailed project preparation will continue during project
implementation. Intensive supervision by the Bank during implementation will be assured by the
full-time extension specialist based in Antananarivo and regular supervision from Headquarters
staff of the Bank.
3.6    Close coordination with staff involved with ongoing IDA projects supporting manpower
training (Cr. 2382-MAG), Agricultural Research (Cr. 2042-MAG), Livestock Sector Development
(Cr. 2243-MAG), Irrigation Rehabilitation (Cr. 2644-MAG) and Environment (Cr. 2125-MAG)
has been ensured throughout the project preparation cycle. Activities of all five projects are closely
linked and will contribute to the implementation of the proposed project. Where the Food Security
and Nutrition project (Cr. 2474-MAG) provides support for agricultural production activities in
the new extension districts, coordination will be ensured with this project too.
D. SUMMARY OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.7    The project would build on the experience of the pilot agricultural extension project
(funded under Cr. 2150-MAG). It would fund the first four-year phase of a long-term (15-20
years) national agricultural extension program to upgrade agricultural services countrywide. The
project would also strengthen the training capacity and key management systems in the Ministry of
Rural Development and Land Reforrn. The main project components are:
(a)    Strengthening the delivery of the agricultural extension services and
providing support for farmers' organizations through the provision of
transport, equipment, rehabilitation of facilities and incremental operating
costs;
(b)   Improving the technical and management capacity of agricultural staff
through training by the provision of equipment, supplies, facilities and
transport for regular in-service training of extension staff and the
rehabilitation of at least two agricultural training colleges;
(c)    Support for financial management, accounting  and  auditing,
monitoring and evaluation and regular supervision at all levels of the
national agricultural extension system.
E. DETAILED FEATURES
3.8    Agricultural extension, research linkages and support for farmer organizations
(estimated cost US$30.5 million, including contingencies). The national agricultural extension
program will be introduced to the country's 28 extension districts over a four-year period. Details
are shown in Annex IV and in the attached Map I (IBRD Number 28673). In addition to the six
pilot extension districts, three new districts will become operational in 1995. A further seven
districts will be operational in 1996 and 1997 respectively, with the remaining five districts to be
launched in 1998. Criteria for selection of the districts include (i) the desire to achieve national
coverage (at least one district in each of the 6 regions) in the early years; (ii) consistency with the
evolution of the national agricultural research program, to ensure good extensionlresearch



Chapter 3: The Project                                                              11
linkages; and (iii) recognition of the closing dates of ongoing extension projects, to ensure a smooth
transition, when current external funding ceases.
3.9    As defined in the document "Le Systeme National de Vulgarisation Agricole a
Madagascar" dated February 1995, the main agricultural extension delivery mechanism would be
regular visits by field level extension staff (AVB) to contact groups of farmers under a system of
extension management involving a fixed schedule of visits to farmers, regular training of extension
staff and clearly defined training and supervision responsibilities. Extension recommendations will
be developed for crop, animal husbandry production and natural resource management practices
through a process of diagnosis of farmer needs involving researchers, subject matter specialists,
extension staff and farmers themselves.
3.10   Extension management would be decentralized, enabling the regional extension units to
function largely independently in diagnosing local farmer problems and in defining appropriate
extension recommendations. The capacity of staff to deal with specific sociological aspects such
as the selection of contact farmers/contact groups and intensifying contact with women farmers
will be improved through training and short-term consultancy support.
3.11   Almost 3,000 field level extension staff will be involved by the fourth year of the project
with the objective of making extension services available to the country's approximately 1.5
million farm families. Extension agents will be expected to cover between 400 and 600 farm
families each, depending upon local population density and constraints imposed by poor rural
infrastructure and communications. Current ratios are lower than this, in the absence of field staff
transportation means. Training and redeployment will be required to ensure more cost-effective
use of existing resources. Approximately 1,200 staff are already employed as field extension
workers under the Directorate of Agriculture. At least as many more are employed by individual
projects or other Directorates of the MEADR, such as Livestock, Protection des Vegetaux or Eaux
et Forets, either as field extension or as technical support staff. Field staff working for parastatal
organizations, or for NGOs in the rural areas would also provide the complement of staff to
provide full national coverage. It is not expected that there will be a net increase in the numbers of
extension staff, although a net improvement in the quality of such staff can be expected. Formal
agreements would be drawn up between providers of extension services (NGOs, private sector,
parastatals) and the DNVA. defining the terms and conditions for the provision of extension
services, where the former are prepared to substitute for direct state-provided services.
3.12    The process of integrating ongoing donor-funded activities under the national extension
program umbrella has already begun. During the workshops held to launch the national program
in each new extension district, the representatives of ongoing projects and donors have participated
to review the relevance of the national program to their ongoing activities. Several ongoing donor-
funded projects, especially those targeted at specific commodities (maize, groundnuts, oilseeds)
view the national program as an opportunity to broaden the dissemination of technical messages to
a wider audience. Because of this advantage and the cost/effective approach, these projects have
already reoriented their activities and agreed to assume extension responsibility for a given
geographical area in the new districts. Over time, as agreements for the funding of separate
projects come up for renewal, it is expected that independent project structures, with separate
management and financial services, will be integrated into the national program management
structure.



12                   MADAGASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
3.13   To enable the extension system to function effectively, the project would fund vehicles,
equipment and incremental operating costs during an initial four year period. Offices of the
regional and district extension services would be rehabilitated using simple techniques and local
building firms. Most field staff would be provided with motor bicycles. Headquarters and regional
staff would be provided with four-wheel drive vehicles.
3.14   Launch workshops would be held in each new extension district to evaluate the strengths
and weaknesses of the existing extension services being offered to farmers from different sources.
The launch workshops, which have already been undertaken successfully in three districts, would
associate institutions, projects, NGOs and private operators with an interest in agricultural
extension, training and research and support to farmers' associations. These workshops would
provide an opportunity for the different participants to exchange their experiences and prepare
together the content and the program for setting up a more effective field advisory service to
farmers, based on the principles defined under the national program. A detailed action program
would be drawn up as an output of these workshops. Training of all staff would follow. Services
to be subcontracted to non-government agencies would be governed by a specific agreement
identifying the roles of each party and the resources to be funded by the Directorate of Agriculture.
3.15   If extension staff are to concentrate their activities on field advisory work, there is a need
to ensure the provision of other farmer support functions, which have traditionally also been the
responsibility of the extension agents. These include assistance in marketing, access to credit, seeds
improvement and multiplication, and organizing to ensure commercial input deliveries. Drawing
on the experience of the Conseiller Animateur under the Irrigation Rehabilitation project, farmer
organization specialists (SOPs), working at the same level in the organizational structure of the
DNVA as subject matter specialists (TS) will provide practical advice to farners in organizing and
managing groups and associations. They will provide a liaison between farmers groups and
commercial marketing and supply outlets, with credit institutions, and with seed producers, plant
and improved livestock breeders. They will support the work and activities of groups or
associations such as Water Users' Associations (WUAs), marketing associations and seed
multiplication groups. Recent experience with the spontaneous creation of farmers' groups has
been encouraging throughout Madagascar. WUAs on irrigation schemes now number almost one
hundred against zero eight years ago. Groups and associations are being established in areas
where credit and marketing structures have improved. Both crop and livestock producers are
increasingly seeing the advantages of voluntary association.
3.16   While the national extension program aims to rationalize public expenditure on farmer
advisory services and coordinate closely with agricultural research, it makes no pretcnsion to unify
all Government services in the rural areas. Services such as quarantine, livestock health, quality
control, agricultural statistics collection, information diffusion and control of hazardous products
will remain under the responsibility of separate directorates. Continuing support for such services
is important.
3.17   Training and Human Resource Management (estimated cost US$3.3 million including
contingencies). Training is critical to improving the capacity of extension staff and farmers to
adopt new technology. Many field staff have received no formal technical education after leaving
school and very little service training has taken place over the past 15 to 20 vears. The project will
support the technical training of extension agents, staff of the national agricultural extension
system, researchers and farmers. During project appraisal, a training program has been prepared,
identifying staff and training courses to be organized during the next four years (annex in the



Chapter 3: The Project                                                              13
Implementation Volume refers). A total of almost 3,000 extension agents will be i place at the
end of 4 years (see Annex MV). Fortnightly on-the-job training of these staff will be undertaken by
subject matter specialists, who will in tum receive regular training from research and other
specialist staff. Monthly technology review meetings (AMRT) will bring together extension staff,
researchers and farmers to review the relevance of technical messages which have been introduced.
3.18   Following initial launch workshops (par. 3.14), training of key staff in the elements of the
extension management system will be provided by trainers from the national coordination team.
Initial training has already been provided to key staff of the first three new extension districts.
Similar training by up to three teams of trainers is programmed for key staff between March and
October each year, for 7 districts in 1996 and 1997 and 5 new districts in 1998. Staff who receive
initial training (about 40-50 per district) will then share that training with the remainder of staff
from their district, thus ensuring that all staff are aware of the new system within a relatively short
period of time (2-3 months) (for details of programming see Annex IV) . Specific training is also
programmed (i) for farmer organization specialists; (ii) in field diagnosis; (iii) in monitoring and
evaluation and surveys; (iv) for training of trainers; (v) in human resource management; (vi) in
supervisory techniques; (vii) in internal audit; (viii) in computer use; (ix) in management; (x) in
techniques for carrying out tests in farmers' fields; and (xi) in documentation. Provision has also
been made for overseas study tours.
3.19   In the longer term, sustainable agricultural production will require more sophisticated
techniques to achieve higher levels of productivity, to maintain soil fertility and to adapt to
changing market conditions. Currently few agricultural field staff have more than a basic training
in agriculture. In order to prepare for the longer term need for more qualified staff, provision has
been made for the rehabilitation of the Agricultural Colleges at Bezaha and Ambanja, which have
been virtually inoperative for the past three years, to provide skills upgrading training for field staff
and also initial training fox staff who will be joining agricultural services in years to come. The
rehabilitation of these two colleges, which includes repairs to buildings, reequipping and
refurbishing, will be considered a pilot experience and work on rehabilitating the remaining four
colleges, during the final two years of the project, will only start on condition that the first two
colleges are completed and operating effectively.
3.20   The Human Resources Management Directorate (DGRH) of the Ministry of Rural
Development responsible for agriculture will be closely associated with the implementation of the
national program and will provide support and advice on staffing and training decisions to the
national extension services director. Provision is made for computers to strengthen the capacity for
handling data on personnel of the Ministry responsible for agriculture both at the regional and
central levels.
3.21   Financial Management, Accounting and Internal Audit (estimated cost US$0.2 million
including contingencies).   The project will make a significant contribution to increasing the
degree of financial autonomy in the decentralized regions and extension districts of the Ministry
responsible for agriculture. A system of financial management will be introduced which will
respond to modern management information requirements, improving upon the regulatory
framework set by the Malagasy public accounting laws. Existing budgeting and accounting
procedures will be improved in two ways: setting up budget preparation, monitoring and evaluation
systems that meet the project's operational and management information requirements, and



14                  MADAGASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
introducing double entry and accrual-based accounting as recommended under IASC's guidelines
applicable to public accounting. The system's architecture will be based on the concept of
integrated financial management, capturing accounting data at source and once only. Appropriate
PC based computer software will be used to support the system. The system's functional process is
presented in a separate annex of the Implementation Volume.
3.22   Monitoring and Evaluation (estimated cost US$0.5 million including contingencies).
The project will support monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the extension program in each
district and will ensure regular feed-back to regional staff and to central coordination staff. Details
of program monitoring indicators are included at Annex V. Although more diverse data are being
and will continue to be collected by the M & E teams, the monitoring of the effectiveness of the
project will be based upon its impact on rice production. Since rice is grown in all regions of
Madagascar, this is an appropriate criterion for monitoring purposes and will help simplify data
collection requirements.
3.23   Supervision by the National Agricultural Extension Service Directorate (estimated
cost US$2.2 million including contingencies). The project will fund transportation and office
equipment to facilitate supervision and internal auditing functions by the central extension,
training, financial management, farner organization and support services. Office rehabilitation
both in Antananarivo and at the provincial and district headquarters will be funded under this
componet, as'Il be the sub-contracting of extension activities to be carried out by third parties.
component, as wil be th   u-otatn fetninatvitetobcardoubyhidptes
F. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.24   Project Cost. The project would be implemented over four years. Total project costs,
including price and physical contingencies, are estimnated at FMG 211,668 million (US$36.6
million) of which 34 percent is estimated as foreign exchange costs and 13 percent taxes. Base
costs are estimated at US$34.4 million equivalent and contingencies amount to US$2.2 million
equivalent ( 6 percent of total costs). Project costs by conmponent are summarized in Table 3.1
below and detailed cost tables by year and by component are provided in Annex I. Unit costs are
based on early 1995 prices and/or the most recent actual costs incurred under the pilot project.
Table 3.1: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
Estimated Project Costs
USS million a\
Local   Foreign   Total
A. Extension, research linkages and support for farmer organizations    18.3  10.3   28.6
B. Training and Human Resource Management                   2.0        1.0    3.0
C. Financial Management, Accounting and Internal Audit      0.1        0.1    0.2
D. Monitoring and Evaluation                                0.3        0.2    0.5
E. Directorate of Agriculture and National Extension        1.6        0.5    2.1
Base Cost                                                  22.3       12.1   34.4
Physical Contingencies                                      0.1        0.1    0.2
Price Contingencies                                         1.6        0.4    2.0
Total Project Costs                                        24.0       12.6   36.6
a/ Includes USS4.9 million of taxes and duties.
International Accounting Standards Committee.



Chapter 3: T7he Project                                                         15
3.25   Financing.    No cofinancing of the project had been negotiated at the time of appraisal.
However, funds from ongoing projects in support of agricultural extension may be available in
specific areas as the program expands. The Government has invited external donors to make
proposals on howv they might support future stages of expansion of the national program and plans
to ensure the necessary coordination to bring about the integration of different individual efforts
into the national program. During project preparation and appraisal, emphasis was placed on the
responsibility of Government in donor coordination. Discussions have started with donors on
possible forms of support for the program once on-going donor-funded extension research and
training projects have come to a close.
3.26   The proposed IDA Credit of US$25.2 million equivalent would finance 100 percent of
foreign expcnditures and 75 percent of local costs for equipment, vehicles and civil works and
would also finance 100 percent of training and consulting services, excluding duties and taxes.
The Credit would fund 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 95 percent of the local costs of
field allowances and incremental operating expenses, excluding salaries. The Government would
meet the salaries and social costs of all personnel employed in the extension program, whether civil
servants or contractual staff. Agreements drawn up with agencies subcontracting extension and
research tasks would specify the proportion of staffing costs to be borne by the Government. The
project would finance part of the rehabilitation] costs of the agricultural colleges at Ambanja and
Bezaha (the ongoing Manpower Training project (Cr. 2382-MAG) will finance the balance
needed). The operating costs of these two colleges would be fully met by the Government. The
resulting share between IDA and the Government of Madagascar would be 79 percent and 21
percent, respectively, net of taxes and duties. The financing plan, which includes taxes and duties,
is presented in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2 Financing Plan
US$ million
Local               Foreign               Total
Government                   11.5                  0                   11.5
IDA Credit                   12.5                 12.6                 25.2
TOTAL                       24.0                  12.6                 36.6
G. PROCUREMENT
3.27   The main project elements, their estimated costs and methods of procurement are
summanized in Table 3.3. The proposed timetable for the procurement of major goods and services
is included in Annex VHIl. During and following project appraisal, the main procurement
documents for the procurement of goods in Year 1 of the project were finalized, to ensure efficient
project start-up.



16                   MADAGASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
Table 3.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
US$ thousand equivalent
Procurement Method
International   National
Competitive  Competitive           Consulting
Bidding    Bidding      Other      Services  N.B.F.   Total
Vehicles and Equipment               15,121       471         157          -      -   15,749
(11,769)     (366)       (122)                   (12,257)
Civil Works                           1,011      1,627          -          -      -    2,638
(842)     (1,356)                               (2,198)
Consultants, Subcontracts and Audits     -          -           -        525      -      525
(496)          (496)
Training                                 -          -         921          -      -      921
(921)                      (921)
Operating Costs, excluding Salaries      -          -       10,401         -   338   10,739
(9,293)                   (9,293)
Salaries                                 -          -           -          -  6,009    6,009
Total                                16,133      2,098      11,478        525  6,347   36,581
(12,611)    (1,722)    (10,336)     (496)     -  (25,165)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amountsfinanced by IDA
3.28   Civil Works. Contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more should be carried out
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Bidding documents for such contracts
will be sent to the IDA for prior review and non-objection. The main item of civil works will be
the rehabilitation of the two agricultural colleges at Ambanja and Bezaha. At an estimnated cost of
US$574,000 and US$497,000 respectively, the renovation of buildings and annexes for each
college will be subject to ICB procedures, in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). Other rehabilitation work of regional and
district agricultural extension offices is not expected to exceed US$40,000 per building and will be
carried out using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.  Civil works contracts
procured using NCB procedures would not exceed US$ 1.7 million in aggregate.
3.29   Goods financed under the project include vehicles and spare parts, office furmiture,
outfitting and extension materials, demonstration equipment and teaching tools. Most of these
goods would be grouped into packages costing more than US$100,000 equivalent and procured
through ICB procedures, in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). Bidding documents for such contracts will be sent to
IDA for prior review and non-objection. Contracts for goods procured under ICB would total
US$15.1 million, of which a significant proportion (82%) would be for motorcycles and vehicles.
Where ICB procedures are used, a preferential margin of 15 percent, or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f prices of competing goods would be given to domestic
manufacturers in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts for furniture and other small items
below US$100,000 each, totaling US$500,000, required over a period of time and available locally
at competitive prices, for which foreign firms would not be interested, would be procured by NCB.
Goods contracts each estimated at US$30,000 or less and not exceeding US$200,000 in aggregate
would be procured by National Shopping. Procurement would be spread over the four years of the
project. Details are included in a separate annex in the Implementation Volume to this report.
3.30   Consultancies and Training. The details of the training program have been summarized
in the Implementation Volume. As part of the annual work program, MEADR would submit for



Chapter 3: The Project                                                            17
IDA review and approval annual training and study tour programs for each of the courses. From
the second year the program would include an evaluation of the previous year's training program.
Contracts for short term consultants (including auditors and external trainers) to be hired under the
project would be awarded following Bank guidelines with terms of reference, qualifications and
conditions of service satisfactory to IDA. No external long term consultants are envisaged.
Contracts for consultants/training expected to cost more than US$ 100,000 for consultant firms and
US$50,000 for individuals should be sent to IDA for prior review and nonobjection.
3.31   Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(b) comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA by the Borrower indicating:
(i)  updated cost estimates for individual contracts and for the total project,
including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies:
(ii) revisecl timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
H. DISBURSEMENTS
3.32   The IDA Credit is expected to be effective by October 1995 and the project will run over
the following four years. Prior to effectiveness, in order to maintain the momentum started under
the Pilot Extension project (Cr. 2150-MAG), which closes end June 1995, eligible operating costs
of the project incurred between July 1, 1995 and the date of credit effectiveness will be prefinanced
from the local budget and reinsured out of the credit up to an amount not exceeding the equivalent
of US$500,000. Once the proposed credit is effective, these expenses will be reimbursed by the
credit.
3.33   Once agreement has been reached on the annual work program and budgets, withdrawals
from the Credit will be claimed using the standard procedures, including reimbursement of
expenses prefinanced by the Ministry responsible for agriculture against presentation of a
withdrawal request, direct payment to suppliers or replenishment of the special account. To
facilitate disbursement locally, IDA will advance the sum of US$300,000 into a special account
with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA in convertible currency to be opened by the PNVA.
Upon effectiveness US$200,000 will be deposited to the special account. The remaining balance
of US$100,000 will be paid as needed. Expenditures should be grouped for replenishment of this
special account and submitted for reimbursement every month or more frequently, if necessary,
through the standard channel of the Ministry of Finance. The account may be used to pay for
expenditures in either local currency or foreign exchange through the commercial banking system,
against any category of eligible expenditure. All expenditures less than 20 percent of the initial
deposit would be paid from the special account. All replenishments should be fully documented
except in cases where Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are authorized. Monthly bank statements
and reconciliation of the Special Account statement would accompany replenishment requests.
3.34   A project advance account in local currency, operated by the Deputy Director of
Agriculture, would be established in a commercial bank with an initial deposit equivalent to
US$100,000 to cover Government's contribution to project expenditures during start-up. This
advance account would be replenished from a deposit account opened either at the Treasury or the
Central Bank, which would be created to receive the totality of the Government's counterpart



18                  MADAGASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
contribution each year. The advance account would be replenished by Government, against
presentation of supporting documentation, every two months or whenever the balance falls to one
third of the original amount, whichever comes first. The deposit of an initial amount equivalent
to US$100,000 shall be a condition of effectiveness of the credit (para 5.2).
3.35   Disbursement by IDA against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).   Appropriate
arrangements for accounting and auditing are in place and the MEADR possesses the ability to
process and maintain SOE documentation in a manner satisfactory to IDA.  The project
coordination unit would claim reimbursement on the basis of SOEs for: (i) civil works costing
less than US$200,000 equivalent; (ii) goods and equipment contracts less than US$100,000. (iii)
contracts with consulting firms valued at less than US$100,000; (iv) contracts with individual
consultants costing less than US$50,000 (including amendments); and (v) all operating costs and
training.
3.36   The project will retain all the relevant supporting documentation for reimbursement claims
under SOEs for inspection by supervision missions. During the course of the annual audit of the
project's accounts, the auditor will certify that all expenditures claimed under SOEs during the
year have been properly incurred for the project.
Table 3.4: Disbursement of IDA Credit
US$ thousand
Category                           Amount   Percent of        Percentage of
Foreign          Local
Expenditures    Expenditures
Funded by IDA   Funded by IDA
1. Vehicles and Equipment                        12,257              100              75
2. Civil Works                                    2,198              100              75
3. Consultants, subcontracts and audit              496              100              100
4. Training                                         921              100              100
5. Operating Costs, not including salaries        9,293              100              95
Total Credit                                     25,165
3.37   The Credit closing date is fixed as December 31, 2000, which provides five years for the
disbursement of expenditures under this four year project. The disbursement categories for the
Credit are presented in Table 3.4. IDA will finance 100 percent of all categories of foreign costs,
expenditures, excluding identifiable taxes and duties, 75 percent of local costs of vehicles,
equipment and civil works, 95 percent of local operating costs and 100 percent of costs of
consultants, subcontracts, audit and training, excluding identifiable taxes and duties, up to the
amount agreed in the annual work program. The annual work program will be subject to approval
by IDA. The expected disbursement profile is given in the Table 3.5 below. Disbursements are
expected to proceed more briskly than the standard disbursement profile for the agricultural sector
in Madagascar since a large proportion of expenditure will be disbursed against a few major
contracts or incremental recurrent expenditure. Thirty months after project effectiveness, if the
experience of the first phase is conclusive, preparation will begin on a second phase to provide
continued support to the program.



Chapter 3: 7he Project                                                            19
Table 3.5: Estimated IDA Disbursements
US$ thousand
FY96    FY97       FY98    FY99       FY09
Annual                                   755    4,781     7,550    6,540     5,536
Cumulative                              755    5,536      13,088   19,629    25,165
Percentage Agriculture Sector              3       22        52       78       100
Disbursement Profile for 5 Year Projects  6        18        34       46        66
I. AccouNTs, AUDITING AND REPORTING PROCEDURES
3.38   Accounting.  The project's key functional processes, budgeting, purchasing, paying,
recording and reporting have been designed to operate in line with the Government of
Madagascar's decision to decentralize day-to-day management of operations to the regional level,
and were applied for Credit 2150-MAG, for which audit reports have been satisfactory. Further
simplification of accounting systems is to be introduced with the support of financial management
consultants.  The improvements should be in place by September 1995.  Financial and
administrative functions will thus be represented at three levels, central, provincial and district,
with the lowest management unit being the agricultural extension district (circonscription
agricole). A fully detailed annex in the Implementation Volume, together with the organization
chart for the Finance and Administrative department, reflects this process. Functional relations
between the national extension director's finance department and the regional management centers
will be established through financial rules and procedures. Their application will be monitored with
the support of the newly created Internal Audit (IA) unit staffed initially with four experienced
accountants. Each regional management unit will be visited by them and reports will be sent to the
Deputy Director of Agriculture on a monthly basis. The IA staff will combine control functions
with on-the-job training functions. They will themselves be trained as trainers at the outset and
benefit subsequently from technical advice on a regular basis from subject matter specialists
recruited from the private sector. The IA unit will thus function on principles similar to those of the
national extension system Terms of reference for the IA unit are included in the Implementation
Volume.
3.39   Audit of the project accounts will be facilitated by the IA's year round verification of
internal controls, and by the application of IASC guidelines on accounting. The project's accounts
will be audited by private audit firms recruited under ICB procedures, having demonstrated
professional training and applying auditing standards recognized under LASC's auditing guidelines.
Financial reporting standards will be in conformity with recent Bank's guidelines on financial
statements and norms of the IASC. Financial statements submitted for auditing will comprise as a
minimum, a statement of net position (balance sheet equivalent), source and application of funds, a
summary budget execution statement, a summary statement on the IDA Special Account and
withdrawals claimed on the basis of SOEs. Audit reports will be submitted within six months of
the end of the fiscal year to which they refer. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations (para 5.1 (i)).
3.40   A draft annual work program, a budget and financing plan incorporating the annual
training program, details of procurement and other agreed project details would be prepared and
submitted to IDA for comments and approval by the end of September of the preceding year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para 5.1 (ii))



20                  MADAGASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
3.41   Reports on project implementation progress would be submitted to IDA semi-annually at
the end of March and at the end of September each year. The September report would be
submitted to coincide with discussion of the draft annual work program for the following year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para 5.1 (ii))
J. PROJECT IMPACT ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET
3.42   Overall Program Costs and Financial Sustainability. The counterpart contribution from
the Government to the project is the equivalent of US$2.8 million per annum, mainly comprising
salaries and social security costs of the staff of the national extension system. The 1995 budget for
salaries of the Directorate for Agriculture was US$1.8 million equivalent. Since the majority of
staff for the extension system will come from the existing establishment of the Directorate of
Agriculture, there will be no incremental salary costs in the Directorate's recurrent budget. In
1994, the Directorate of Agriculture was responsible for the management of fourteen projects
under its investment budget (PIP), either directly concerned with agricultural extension or with
agricultural extension components. The total cost of these projects as reflected in the 1994 PIP
was US$12.9 million of which Government's counterpart contribution for project activities was
US$2.3 million equivalent. As these projects close down, counterpart funds will be released to
meet the national program's funding needs. Expenditure on agricultural extension under other
directorates represents a further call on counterpart funding. A large proportion of the activities
undertaken by these projects will be integrated under the national agricultural extension program
over the next four years. At full development, the annual cost of extension would be US$7.5
million per annum, of which US$3.85 in recurrent costs (salaries, field allowances, maintenance
and operating expenses). This represents about 8 percent of total public expenditure for the
agricultural sector in 1994. The program would not represent an incremental charge to public
funding (aggregate national and external funding), but it would result in some savings. In view of
current budgetary difficulties, in the interests of simplicity and given the lead time necessary for
ongoing projects to terminate or be integrated into the national system, IDA will fund a fixed
proportion of recurrent costs over the first four years of the program. Thereafter, Government will
assume an increasing proportion of such costs.
3.43   Unit costs of extension services per farm family provided by ongoing projects vary from
twice to eighty times that of the pilot agricultural extension project, according to a recent study.
Use of the guideline figure of limiting extension service costs to around US$5 per farm family will
facilitate the budget review process and provide a benchmark for establishing how well the project
is meeting cost-effectiveness criteria.
3.44   In support of the rationalization of ongoing extension projects as part of the national
extension program, the Government shall, no later than October 31 each year carry out, an
annual review of the Public Expenditure Program for the agricultural sector (para 5.1 iii)).
2
Evaluation du systeme d 'enseignement de recyclage et deformation agricoles. BEST/CINAMfor
PREETEC/MEADR February 1994



4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
4.1    The national agricultural extension program  will support the existing organizational
structure of the Ministry of Rural Development and be managed by the Deputy Director of
Agriculture, who is responsible to the national Director for Agriculture. He will be supported by
three central services (Extension and Research Linkages, Training and Human Resource
Management and Support for Farmer Organizations), one division responsible for Administration,
Logistic Support and Finance and two operational units (Internal Audit and Monitoring and
Evaluation). Details arc presented in Annex II. The responsibilities of the national director for
extension includc decision-making on: (a) technical matters; (b) financial matters; and (c) jointly
with the Director for Agriculture, the nomination and posting of staff working within the national
agricultural extension system. He will be the main interlocutor for all partners involved with
research or extension under the program. He is responsible for the preparation of the annual work
program, for progress reports, for the bidding process of the main contracts under the program and
for the coordination of the program's accounts.
4.2    At the regional level, the head of the extension district (chef de circonscription) will be
responsible for the dailv implementation of the program, under the auspices of the head of the
provincial extension service, who in turn is responsible directly to the Deputy Director of
Agriculture. The head of the extension district will be supported by one or more assistants,
depending upon the number of extension supervisors under his control.
4.3    Expansion of the extension system to new districts will be based on careful organization
and programming by the central training team and on close liaison between the national research
center (FOFIFA) and the Extension and Research Linkages Division.  The capacity and
effectiveness of these teams at work were witnessed and confirmed by the Bank appraisal team
during the October 1994, .lanuary and April 1995 launch workshops.
4.4    To ensure efficient mobility and maintenance of equipment provided, motorcycles will be
provided provisionally to field staff as their personal property. Full personal title will be confirmed
at the end of four years. when the motorbikes will be replaced. The terms under which these
motorcycles will be provided to staff and the details of how they will be maintained were
agreed during negotiations. The details of how such equipment will be provided to third partv
institutions such as NGOs, private agencies or parastatal companies will be included in agreements
to be negotiated on a case by case basis with such institutions.
4.5    The Madagascar Agricultural Extension Program is already very much aware of the
important role of women in the effective achievement of results. Already half of the key posts in
the central services are filled by women (24 women), and female members of the staff of regional
teams have already played an active role in efforts to launch new districts. Specific extension
themes concerned with the needs of women will be identified by women themselves, in the process
of diagnosis of farmer needs.



22                   MADAGASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
B. EXTENSION/RESEARCH LINKAGE AND SUPPORT FOR FARMERS' ORGANIZATIONS
4.6    On the basis of a diagnosis carried out jointly by the farmers, the extension and the
research staff, priority listing of technical recommendations will be renewed each season. The
monthly technology review workshops (AMRT) will be held in each extension district and will
facilitate leaming and exchange of experiences between subject matter specialists, researchers and
farmers. Trials undertaken in farmers' fields will provide validation of research results under local
conditions and will provide an opportunity to identify rapidly the problems limiting the application
of recommendations for problems earlier identified. Demonstration plots will be used to compare
new methods proposed by extension staff with farmers' existing practices as control plots.
4.7    Farmer Organization Specialists (SOPs) would participate in monthly training organized
by the regional heads of service for support to farmer organizations, at which representatives of
private sector suppliers, credit institutions and NGOs would be invited. In particular, SOPs will
help farmers identify: (i) the justification for their working together, such as undertaking a
common project, bulk purchasing, collective transportation or sales; (ii) how to mobilize savings or
capital for an investment project; (iii) how to obtain credit. (iv) how to prepare the necessary
documentation to ensure sound operation as a group; (v) how to prepare a work program to ensure
the optimum benefits from those services which exist to support them; (vi) how to give specific
attention to the needs of women or young members of their community; and (vii) how to negotiate
purchase or sales contracts.
4.8   Improvements in agricultural practices among farmers in the pilot areas have demonstrated
the potential for improving yields in a variety of crops and production techniques. Table 4.1 shows
a summary of a selection from some of the eighty different technical messages which have been
outreached in the pilot area and the upper and lower limits of the impact they had on farmers'
yields in 1993/4. The significant differences between yields on control plots using the farmers'
traditional practices and yields by farmers who have adopted the technique underline the potential.
Similar results are anticipated as the program develops nationwide.
Table 4.1: Impact of Improved Techniques Recorded in Six Pilot Districts
under the Pilot Project 1993/4
Crop and Recommendation             Yield Increase   Difference between Control
Variation (t/ha)    and Adoption Plot (%)
Rice - intensive rice system (transplanting at 8 days)  2.24 - 4.4  69% - 258%
Rice - early transplanting of young plants      0.60 - 3.0          43% - 251%
Rice - rainfed in-line planting and manure      0.5 - 1.0           55% - 111%
Potatoes - sowing density with manure           5.0 - 10.6          100% - 273%
Maize - improved density and weeding             0.6 - 2.3          75% - 276%
Cassava - improved density and manure           8.0 - 10.0          114% - 200%
Beans - density and manure                      0.2 - 1.3           40% - 216%
Ground Nuts                                      0.3 - 0.6           16% - 72%
Pasture Crops                                      5.0               Innovation
Rice - Compost                                  0.3 - 0.5            Innovation



Chapter 4. Project Organization and Implementation                                  23
C. TRAINING AND HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
4.9    The details of the training courses to be carried out under the project are presented in the
Implementation Volume The basis for the success of the agricultural extension program is the
fortnightlv training provided to the agricultural extension staff  This training will have an
immediate impact on the level of technical competence of the field level staff. In the longer term,
the more promising of these staff will receive training in the agricultural colleges, which will also
ensure basic agricultural training for new staff who will join the technical services in years to
come. Rehabilitation of the first two of six existing agricultural colleges at Bezaha, in the Tulear
province and at Ambanja in the province of Antsirananana will be completed during the first year
of the project.
D. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, ACCOUNTING AND INTERNAL AUDIT
4.10   The organization of the financial and administrative services will take account of the
functional demands of the integrated financial management system proposed for the project. The
system favors the production of budget and accounting information for use by the project
management, in the place of the existing demotivating bureaucratic financial control system, which
is administratively slow and based on outdated principles. The details of the organizational
structure are presented in the Implementation Volume to this report. The different elements of the
system will include analytical and budget accounting, general accounting, fund management and
the management of purchases and inventory. The requirements of the public finance system will be
taken into account. An accelerated training program to ensure staff capacity to handle the new
system will be implemented shortly after credit effectiveness anid be followed by in-service training
throughout the project to ensure that the principles of the system are fully applied.
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.11   Experience has shown that two principal indicators provide a measure of the external
effectiveness of any extension service: (a) the level of participation of farmers (men and women),
which provides an indication of the level of interest of farmers and thus of the relevance of the
technical messages and/or the capacity of the extension work to persuade the farmers to undertake
demonstrations on their own farms; and (ii) the rate of adoption of the technical messages being
promoted. The rate of adoption is an excellent measure of the effectiveness of extension and
research staff to propose innovations which provide solutions to the real needs of farmers and
which can be adopted with the means at their disposal. Thus, monitoring and evaluation indicators
will include, in addition to the rate of adoption: (a) the participation rate of farmers (men and
women) potentially interested in a given extension theme attending fortnightly meetings; (b) the
total number of contact groups; (c) the number of demonstration plots and trial plots; (d)
comparison of yields on demonstration plots and on control plots; and (e) the evolution of the
national production of rice.  Quarterly meetings of extension agents, using data provided by
farmers, are held to review changes in indicators and to determine what remedial actions are
needed. In addition, an independent beneficiary assessment focused on farmners and field staff will
be carried out two years after project start-up to determine the cffectiveness of the extension
services and of these simplified monitoring and evaluation criteria



24                   MA DA CASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
4.12   The monitoring and evaluation unit will ensure rapid centralization of data generated by
the monitoring units at the regional level on the evolution of the performance indicators, to measure
the effectiveness of extension. A first round of analysis of data collected by the survey staff will
take place with field level extension staff during their fortnightlv meeting with their supervisors.
Data will bc transmitted to the provincial monitoring and evaluation units and fonvarded to the
central service after having been summarized. The three monthly review meetings held among staff
responsible for the national program will provide an opportunity to distribute and analyze the data.
Appropriate recommendations will be made and steps taken by all levels of staff concemed.
4. 13   An independent evaluation of the impact of extension will be undertaken two years after
project start-up. The Bank's resident staff will provide special support to the monitoring and
evaluation effort. If implementation slows for any reason. these will be reflected in a modified
annual work program.
4.14   Approximately thirty months after credit effectiveness and in no case later than October
31. 1998. a mid-term review of the project would be carried out to evaluate results and make
recommendations for the preparation of the next phase of the program, including proposals for
such changes as mav be necessary. The review will be based on the progress report on project
implementation (para. 3.41) and the annual work program, budget, financing plan, etc. (para 3.40)
to be prepared by September 30, 1998. The documentation prepared for the mid-term review will
present an analysis of project implementation experience and will contain proposals for a new cycle
of investments in support of the next phase of the agricultural extension program. Assurances to
this effect were received during negotiations (par. 5.1 (iii)).
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY, BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.15   Environmental Impact.  In the light of the neutral or marginally positive environmental
impact of the projcct, a category C rating has been assigned to it for environmental assessment
purposes.  No separate environment assessment has therefore been prepared.  Technical
recommendations, including environmental protection measures such as the adoption of soil
protection recommendations on the hill slopes and catchment areas above irrigation schemes, and
the integration of livestock husbandry' and fertility maintenance through composting, which have
already begun to be adopted under the pilot extension project (Credit 2150-MAG), will continue.
Field staff training already emphasizes environmental conservation, which will be intensified as
the program expands. An efficient agricultural extension service could be one of the key elements
of a national environmental monitoring system, which is currently being developed under the
National Environment Progyram. The project will ensure close collaboration with the national
agencies (Ministry of Environment/ONE) responsible for environment control and monitoring.
4.16   Project Sustainability.  The cost of ongoing extension projects in the 1994 budget was
over US$12.9 million, of which Government counterpart funding was US$2.3 million. As ongoing
projects integrate the national extension program, these funds will be available for funding the
national program. The proposed funding for four years is expected to be a first tranche in support
of this effort and additional Bank funding for extension could be considered if the program is
successful and it remains as a priority in the CAS. To ensure long term sustainability, the annual
cost of extension services wvill be limited to the equivalent of US$5 per farm family per annum,
which is considerably lower than the unit cost of ongoing extension initiatives. Through more



Chapter 4: Project Organization and Implementation                                25
professional and regular farm extension services, which will require a continuing financial
commitment from the Government, the project will also contribute to reestablish a degree of
confidence between the administration and the farming community, which is currently lacking and
which should, if successful, ensure longer term sustainability of project efforts. Over time,
improved prosperity of the farming sector may permit cost recovery and generate a demand for
extension services from sources other than those funded publicly.
4.17   Benefits. The project is expected to result in: (i) sustained increases in the production and
productivity of crop and livestock activities and thus improved farmer incomes; (ii) access to
improved agricultural services for a significant proportion of the country's 1.5 million rural
agricultural families. This population comprises several of the poorest segments of the rural
population including women; (iii) improved extension-research-farmer linkages, with research and
extension being more demand-driven and oriented to the farmers' needs through farmer contact and
the AMRT process; (iv) better coordination and complementarity in the delivery of agricultural
services between the public and private sectors; and (v) human resource development, as a result of
continuous training and education programs for farmers, herders and government staff; (v) greater
environmental sustainability of agricultural practices. A number of independent extension and
training projects will be brought together over time to support the single national program, thus
rationalizing the use of scarce resources. This will result in a net reduction of public expenditure
in the agricultural sector.
4.18   Expected increases from the adoption of simple improved techniques for rice production,
requiring little or no incremental monetary investment, as well as increases in acreage, are
anticipated to represent a cumulative increase in production of 460,000 tons by the end of Year 4,
or an incremental production of 30,000 tons in 1995, 65,000 tons in 1996, 140,000 tons in 1997
and 225,000 tons in 1998 . This represents a gross margin of approximately US$55 million to
farmers at a farm gate price of FMG 500/kg (Annex VII) for rice alone. Response to improved
techniques for off-season production or production of dryland crops has been impressive under the
pilot project, with returns rivaling those from rice production. Increases in average yields recorded
in the six pilot districts in 1993/94 from adopting intensive rice production techniques vary from
2.3 to 4.4 tons/ha or the equivalent gross margin of US$275 to US$525 per ha. Average
incremental yields of rice applying less labor intensive recommendations have varied between 1.0
and 3.0 tons/ha in irrigated rice and 0.9 and 1.4 tons/ha for rainfed rice. Maize yields have
increased from 0.60 to 2.0 tons/ha, yields of beans from 0.2 to 1.3 tons per hectare, yields of
groundnuts from 0.3 to 0.6 tons/ha and cassava from 8 to 10 tons per hectare. Similar results may
be expected as the program expands to other areas of the country.
4.19   A most detailed and independent evaluation of the benefits of the agricultural extension
system which is being introduced in Madagascar was carried out for Kenya and Burkina Faso in
3
1993. Results showed that (a) about 45 percent of farmers surveyed in both countries receive
direct extension advice within 10 years of system introduction; (b) about 70 percent of all farmers
had adopted simple new technologies; and (c) crop yields in Burkina were 30 percent higher for
farmers who belonged to extension groups than for farmers who did not. Rates of return for the
investments in both countries were estimated to be in excess of 100 percent. Similarly, a high
return on the proposed investment is expected for this project. A subsequent evaluation estimnated
3
Evaluation of T&V-based Extension in Kenya - Bindlish, V. and Evenson, R. 1993 World Bank
Technical Paper No. 108, Africa Technical Department Series.



26                   MADAGASCAR: Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
that well managed, well disciplined and competent extension programs, such as those being
pursued across Africa, could contribute as much as 2 percent to the gross domestic product over
the next ten years.
4.20   Madagascar has already benefited from the accumulated experience of the agricultural
extension systems initiated elsewhere in Africa and recent progress under the pilot project has
shown the potential for emulating these successful experiences. Benefits will be closely monitored
to provide further substantive evidence of the effectiveness of agricultural extension delivery, as
described in the document "Le Systeme National de Vulgarisation Agricole Li Madagascar",
reproduced in the Implementation Volume to this report.
4.21   Risks. Pilot project experience suggests the following risks, but various elements of the
proposed project are expected to reduce their impact: (i) good management is essential to
successful project implementation.  The present management team  has demonstrated sound
capacity. Nomination of staff for key regional posts will be closely monitored. (ii) In the new
extension districts, representatives of all ongoing projects, government services, NGOs and private
companies with a vocation in extension or research will be associated to reduce the risk of poor
collaboration between different services. (iii) As regards the risk of shortage of counterpart funds
and long term fiscal sustainability, provision of an initial contribution of local funds will be made a
condition of effectiveness. Thereafter, the reduction of independent projects will increase the
capacity of the Government to fund the single national program. More than forty percent of the
public expenditure in the agricultural sector is currently being devoted to agricultural extension
activities through a plethora of separate and uncoordinated projects. (iv) Monitoring of close
collaboration between research and extension and programming of training will be major themes
for project supervision to ensure longer terrn improved technical capacity. The case for funding the
rehabilitation of the country's six agricultural colleges is based on the need to meet the anticipated
risk of longer term insufficient supply of qualified agricultural staff. (v) There is finally the risk
that integration of other projects into the national system may not take place, thus reducing the cost
savings envisaged from reducing demands on counterpart funds.  The Government will be
encouraged to continue to coordinate efforts among donors to ensure maximum support for its
national policy.



5. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED WITH THE BORROWER,
CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1    The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
i) The project's accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, consistently applied (para 3.39);
ii) A draft annual work program, a budget and financing plan incorporating the annual
training program, details of procurement and other agreed project details will be prepared
and submitted to IDA for comments and approval by the end of September of the
preceding year (para 3.40); and half-yearly progress reports will be submitted to IDA at
the end of March and at the end of September each year (para 3.41)
iii) Government shall, (a) no later than October 31 each year carry out an annual review,
including a review of the Public Expenditure Program for the agricultural sector (para
3.44); and (b) not later than October 31, 1998, a mid-term review of the project (para
4.14);
5.2    The following would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit:
The deposit of an initial amount equivalent to US$ 100,000 by Government to the project
advance account (para 3.34).
5.3    With the above assurances and conditions, the above project is suitable for an IDA Credit
of SDR 16.2 million.






ANNEXES
ANNEX I
Table 1: Project Components by Year - Base Costs
MADAGASCAR
Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
(USS '00)
Base Cost
1995     1996      1997     1998      Total
1. Extension and Research Linkages             5,590     8,180    7,862     6,994    28,626
2. Training and Human Resource Management        780     1,147      565       539     3,030
3. Financial management, accounting and audits    69        32       22        22       145
4. Monitoring and Evaluation                     127       133      113       100       473
5. Directorate of Agriculture and DNVA           646      428       579       383     2,035
Total BASELINE COSTS                               7,212     9,919    9,141     8,039    34,310
Physical Contingencies                            69       60        32        27       188
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                       443      1,654    3,083     4,801     9,981
Foreign                                       44       123      150       126       443
Subtotal Inflation                            487      1,777    3,233     4,927    10,423
Devaluation                                   -513    -1,461    -2,547    -3,817    -8,339
Subtotal Price Contingencies                     -26      315       686      1,109    2,084
Total PROJECT COSTS                                7,254    10,294    9,858     9,175   36,581



MADAGASCAR
Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
Components Project Cost Summary
0
(Local 't00)                                            (I1S$ '000)                          V
%      % Total                                      %       °Total
Foreign    Base                                     Foreign    Base
Local         Foreign          Total       Exchange   Costs      Local    Foreign      total   Exchange   Costs
1. Extension and Research Linkages                76,635.781     43,593,455      120,229,236        36        83     18,247     10,379    28.626         36       83
2. Training And Human Resource Nanagement          8,266,710       4,461;200      12,727,910        35         9      1,968      1,062      3,030        35         9
3. Financial management, accounting and audits       445,686         165,240         610,926        27         -        106         39       145         27-
4 hMonitoring and Evaluation                       1,310,401        674,442        1,984,843        34         1        312        161       473         34         1
5. Directorate of Agriculture and DNVA             6,580,635       1,967,500       8,548,135        23         6      1,567       468       2,035        23        6
TotalBASELINECOSTS                                    93,239,213      50,861,831     144,101,050        35       100     22,200     12,110     34,310        35       100
Physical Contingencies                               477,628        310,510          788,138        39         1        114         74       188         39         1
Price Contingencies                               47,031,209      19,748,402      66,779,610        30        46      1,641       443       2,084        21        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  140,748,050     70,920,749      211,668,798        34       147     23,955     12,627    36,581         35       107



00
Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sununary
(Local '0)0)                                          (USS '000)
%      % Total                                    %       % Total
Foreign    Base                                    Foreign    Base
local         Foreign         Total       Exchange   Costs    Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
I. Investment Costs
A Equipment and Vehicles                  19,100,978    44,651,637      63,752,615        70       44      4,548    10,631     15,179        70       44
B Civil Works                              5,97i,000     4,265.000      10,236,000        42        7      1,422      1,015     2,437        42        7         se
C. Training
Local tratning                           1,826,760             -       1,826,760         -        1        435         -       435          -        I         °.
Overseas training                               -       1,686,000      1,686,000       100        1          -       401       401        100        1         ^
Subtotal Training                          1,826,760      1,686,000      3,512,760        48        2        435       401        836        48       22
D. Consultant services
Local Technical Assistance                351,000              -         351,000         -         -        84          -       84          -         -
International Technical Assistance         28,800        259,200         288,000        90                   7        62        69         90         -
Agreements vith Third Parnies            1,000,000             -       1,000,000         -        1        238         -       238          -         I
External Audits                           375,000              -         375,000         -         -        89                   89         -         -
Subtotal Consultant services               1,754,800       259,200       2,014,000        13         1       418        62        480        13         1
Total Investment Costs                      28,653,538     50,861,837      79,515,375       64        55     6,822     12,110    18,932        64        S5        ,
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Salares
Personnel SNVA                         23,160,000              -      23,160,000         -       16      5,514          -     5,514         -       16
B. Field Allowances                       24,995,300             -      24,995,300         .        17     5,951          -     5,951         -        17
C. Maintenance and operation costs        16,430,375             -       16,430,375        -        If     3,912          -     3,912         -        11
Total Recurrent Costs                       64,585,675             -       64,585,675         -       45    15,378          -    15,378          -       45
TotalBASELINECOSTS                           93,239,213     50,861,837     144,101,050        35      100    22,200      12,110    34,310        35      100
Physical Contingencies                      477,628        310,510         788,138        39         1       114        74        188        39         1
PriceContingencies                       47,031,209     19,748,402      66,779,610        30       46      1,641       443      2,084        21        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                         140,748,050     70,920,749     211,668,7983       34      147    23,955    12,627    36,581          35      107



Annex !                                                                                                       31
Table 4: Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
Base Cost                                 Foreign
Exchange
1995      1996       1997      1998       Total      %       Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment and Vehicles                    4,161     5,308      3,759      1,950    15,179      70.0    10,631
B. Civil Works                               1,076       733        343       286      2,437      41.7      1,015
C. Training
Local training                               96        168       105         66        435         -         -
Overseas training                            71        127       101        101        401     100.0       401
Subtotal Training                             167        295        207       168        836      48.0       401
D. Consultant services
Local Technical Assistance                   15         64         4          -         84         -         -
Intemational Technical Assistance            34         34          -         -         69      90.0        62
Agreements with Third Parties                60         60        60         60        238         -         -
External Audits                              22         22        22         22         89         -         -
Subtotal Consultant services                  131        180         86        82        480      12.9        62
Total Investment Costs                         5,535      6,517     4,395      2,485     18,932     64.0    12,110
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries
Personnel SNVA                              643      1,143      1,681     2,048      5,514         -         -
B. Field Allowances                           625      1,341      1,854      2,131     5,951
C.Maintenanceandoperationcosts                409        918      1,210      1,375     3,912
Total Recurrent Costs                          1,677      3,402     4,746      5,553     15,378                   -
7,212     9,919      9,141      8,039    34,310      35.3    12,110
Physical Contingencies                         69         60         32        27        188      39.4        74
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                     443      1,654     3,083      4,801      9,981         -         -
Foreign                                    44       123        150        126       443      100.0       443
Subtotal Inflation                          487      1,777      3,233     4,927     10,423       4.2       443
Devaluation                                -513     -1,461     -2,547     -3,817    -8,339         -          -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                  -26        315       686       1,109     2,084      21.2       443
7,254    10,294      9,858      9,175    36,581      34.5    12,627
Taxes                                        1,206      1,547     1,212       847      4,812         -          -
Foreign Exchange                            3,536      4,327      3,039      1,723    12,627



MADAGASCAR
Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
Extension, Research Linkages and Support for Farmer Organizations
Detailed Costs (USS'000)
Quantities                                          Bse Cost                       Totals Includin Contin enCIes I.w
Unit      1995   1996    1997    1m9   Total  UnitCost  1995   1996           1997      1993   Total  1995   1996  1971                Total                 t
1. Investrnent Costs
A. Mows
Motos I0Occ                         unites           554  1,197       772    406  2,929        2.815  1,559  3,369         2,173  1,143   8,244  1,573  3.469  2,293   1,241   8,577
Motos 125cc                         unites            152    193       153     81    584       3.534   537    6S2           55S    286   2,064    542    702    589    311   2,144
Subtotal Motos                                               4                                                   ,0        5       1  2,7311,429T ;TT7T  U T1,355 7S T
B. V6hicuJes
VWhicules 4x4                       unites            26       S         7      5     46      35.338   919    283           247    177   1,626    927    291    261    192   1,671          .
C. Equlpenent de buresax u
Machineiecrire                      unites             14      S         7      5     34        1.224    17      10            9      6      42      17      10      9       7      43   9
Calculatrice                        unit6s            193    203       165     90    656       0.061    12       13           10      6      40      12      13     11       6   *42
Photocopicuse                       unitls              6      -         -       -     6         9.79    59       -            -      -      59      59       -      -       -      59    t
Roneo                               unites             14      S         7      5     34       2.448    34      20            17     12      33      35     20      18      13      S6    ¢
Microordinnateurfixe                unites            23      15        14     10     62       9.179   211    138            129     92     569    213    142    136    100        590    S
Microordinnuteur portable           unites              -      -                          -      -                             -      -        -      -       -      -       -        -
Uniformes                           unite           1,470  2,312     1,834  1,092  7,258        0.031    45      36           5S     33     222      45      39     61      36     231    r
Casquemoto                          unit6s            706  1,390       930    531  3,557        0.092    65    123            35     49     326      65    131      90      53     340    r
Bibliotheque                        prevision          14      8         7      5     34        1.9S9    2S      16           14     10      63      23      16     15      11      70
Supportpedagogique                  prevision          93    143       105     56    402        0.612    57     91            64     34     246      57      93     63      37     256
Audio-visuel                        unites                                       -      -                         --                           -              -       -      -        -   g
Retroprojecteur                     unite              14      S         7      5     34         3.06    43      24           21     15      104     43      25     23      17     103   Wk
Petitsmat6rielstechniquesAVB        lots              554  1,197       772    406  2,929        0.076    42      92           59     31      224     43      94     62      34     233    -
Petit natriel TS/SZ                 lot               122    160       124     64    470        0.422    52      63           52     27      198     52      70     55      29     206    "
Subtotal                                                     6  51S 218            1                                                                          7T 342 5T °
D. Rebabttillom de bureaux                                                                                                                                                                   U1
Bureauxprovinciaux                  forfait/bureau      5      1                 -      6      57.143   286      57                    -    343    293       62       -       -    360    C
BureauxCiragri                      forfLit/bureau      9      7         7      5      23      28.571   257    200           200    143      300    268    217    225    167        877   '
Groupesdlectrogene                  unites              2       -        -       -      2      12.233    24                    -       -      24     25       -       -       -      25
Subtotal                                                                                                   567 200                    =     TT=        591  T7W  -3          T7W    2 1,.61
Total Investment Coats                                                                                     d7;4- -M 3,T69T 20W   -I3   -3 43 ,§
IL Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                                                             °
A Salares du personnel PNVA            estiration                                                          643  1,143         1,6S1  2,04S   5,514    624   1,132  1,333   2,370   6,009    s
B. Frals de vlsItsa et supervision                                                                                                                                                            T
AVB                                 frais amuel       554  1,751    2,523  2,929  7,757         0.471   261    325         1,139  1,331   3,657    253    354  1,297   1,593   4,002    -
SupeviseunrdeZone                   fraisannuel        79    219       317    363    933        0.629    50    133           199    231      613     43    142    217    263       676    8
T6acicienssp6cialises               fraisannuel        43     63        39    102    297        0.833    36      53           75     35      249     35      55     31      99     270      g
AssistantChefdeCirconcription       fraisannuel        13     34        53     61    161        0.943     12     32           50     53      152     12      33     54      67      166
Chefde CIRVA                        frais annuel        9     16        23     23      76       1.043     9      17           24     29       S0      9      17     26      34       87    0
Chefde ServicesRegionaux            fraisannuel         5      6         6      6      23       1.048      5      6            6      6       24      5       7      7       7       26   VI
Equipe regionale de vulgarisation   fris snuel         35     38        IS      I3     69       1.043    16      19           19      19      72     15      20     21      22       77    t
Sp6cislisteenOrganisationPaysanne    frais nnuel       17     29        44     53    143        0.833    14      24           37     44      120     14      25     40      531     131      .
SOP equipe regionsle                friis amuel        15     13        IS      I3     69       1.043    16      19           19      19      72     15      20     21      22       77    s
Fraisde uivi-FOFIFA                 frais nnuel        27     36        46     67    176        1.043    23      38           48     70      184     27      39     53      31      200    C.
Fraisdedeplacem    -ch auffeurs     annuel             29     40        47     52    163        0.833    24      34           39     44      141     24      35     43      50      152    C)
Subtotal 7T 1,7 06 197 g    ,8 {                                                                                                                                  -r;ur                T
C. Fis de fonctonaement
Motos100cc Innuel                                     554  1,751    2,523  2,929  7,757         0.208   115    365           526    610   1,616    112    377    573    706    1,769
Motos 125cc                         annuel            152    345       503    584  1.584        0.298    45    103           150    174      471     44    106    163    201        515
VeiiculesCIRAGRI                    anuel               9     16        23     23      76       1.756    16      28           40     49      133      15     29     44      57      145
Vehicule Region                     annuel             25     30        30     30    115        2.033    52      63           63     63      240     51      65     63      72      256
Subtotl                                                                                                                ---T    --          J           222    577         8    962 617 T.
Tol Recurrent Costa                                                                                        TTw T                                                                     14,616  43   133   3,005 57K 
Total                                                                                                      5,9   8180           7,86T  6,9 -94  28,626                       *7w 8RW47T



MADAGASCAR
Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
In-Service and Basic Training
Detailed Costs (US$ '000)
Quantities                   Unit                Base Cost                 Totas Including Contingencies   V
Unit       1995   1996       1997       1998   Totad   Cost  1995  1996    1997   1998  Total  199S  1996   1991  199g  Tota  
1. Investment Costs                                                                                                                                                                              0%
A. Local training                                                                                                                                                                               -
Atelierde lancement                             atelier              3      10            7      5       25  5.952     18      60       42    30    149    18      65      48    36    167 :
Orientation au PNVA - formation initiale        personne/jours    4,395  7,130        4,790  2,520  18,835   0.01      42      68       46    24    179    43       74     52    29    198 V;
Formationaudiagnostic                           personne/jours     265    120           135     75      595   0.01      3       1        1     1      6      3       1      1      1      6 e
Ateliernational sur le Diagnostic et I'AMRT     personne/jours     714    714             -       -   1,428   0.01      7       7        -      -     14     7       7             -      14
AtclierdeformationS/E                           personne/jours     195       -            -       -     195   0.01      2       -        -     -      2      2       -       -     -      2 -.
Formationdesformateurs                          personne/jours     440    560           420    300    1,720   0.01      4       5        4     3      16     4       6      5      3      1 8
FormnationenGestiondesRessources Humaines       persorine/jours    602    238            98    168   1,106   0.01       6       2        1     2      11     6       2       1     2      1 1
ForrnationdesSuperviseurs                       personne/jours     810    930           610    315   2,665   0.01       8       9        6     3     25      8      10      7      4     28 :
Formation DAF,BAF et Audit Inteme               personne/jours     365    165           140    100      770   0.01      3       2        1     1       7     4       2      2      1      8 O.
Formationentechniquesd'enquEtes                 personne/jours      30      60           60     35      185   0.01      0       1        1    0        2     0       1      1      0      2 a
Formnationeninformatique                        personne/jours        -   780           420    300    1,500   0.01       -      7        4     3      14      -      8      5      3     16 to
Formation en Management                         personne/jours        -   245             -       -    245   0.01        -      2        -     -      2       -      3       -     -      3
Fornation EMP/TMP                               personne/jours        -   155             -       -     155   0.01              I        -      -      I      -      2       -      -     2
Forrnationendocumentation                       personne/jours      45       -                           45   0.01      0       -        -      -     0      0       -       -            0 O
Atelier deformation pour chercheurs sur AMRT    personne/jours     300    300             -       -    600   0.01       3       3        -      -      6     3       3       -     -      6  |
Subtot  Local training                                                       9                                                     10  T _66     435 7   Ig3T                    -- 4I  -    r
B. Overses traiing
Study travel/Regional workshops                 personne/jours     120    225           135    135      615  0.286    34       64       39    39    176    36       69     43    44    192
SiudytourPNVAILRVEA                             personne/jours      40      40           40     40      160  0.286      11     11       11    11      46    12      12     13    13       50 1C
Shorttermtraining                               personne/jours      90    180           180    180      630  0.286    26       51       51    Sl    180    27       56     57    58    198
Subtotal Overses training                                                127   101  1---  TU V  _ r                                                                     r 112 1 1 5  T 4 4 0
C. Trainers and Facilitators
Formateur pour l'Atelier National Diag/AJRT     personnes/jour       10     10             -      -      20  0.571      6       6         -     -     I1      6      6       -        -   12
Formateur GRH. (BIT, Turin)                     personnes/jour      50      50             -            100  0.571    29       29         -     -    57    30       31                    61
FofnateurGRH(consultantCEFA)                    personnes/jour      50      50             -      -     100  0.214      11     11         -     -    21      11     12       -      -    23
ConsultantenAuditlnteme                         personnes!jour       10     10           10       -      30  0.429       4      4        4      -     13      4      5       5      -     14
Fonnateureninformatique                         personnesljour        -     15             -      -      15  0.214       -      3         -     -      3      -      3       -      -      3
Formateurs en management                        personnes/jour        -    20              -      -      20  0.643       -     13         -     -     13      -     14       -            14
FomiatetrCIDSTendocumentation                   personnes/jour        -     10             -      -      10  0.643       -      6         -     -      6      -      7       -      -      7
Subtotal Trainers and Facilitators                                                                                        4                           -=      125 52          T 5         -
D. Bezaha Agricultural College
Rehabilitation of buildings and annexes         montant forfaitaire                                                    219    219         -     -   437   228    237         -      -   465
Vehicles and equipment                          montant forfaitaire                                                      -    44          -     -    44       -    46        -      -    46
Office and classroom finmishings                montant forfaitaire                                                      -     15         -     -     15      -     16       -      -     16
Subtotal Bezalsa Agricultural College                                                                                    1      77          -     -    7    22       29W        -     - 52
E Ambanja Agricultural College
Rehabilitation of buildings and annexes         montant forfaitaire                                                    257    257         -     -   514   268    279         -           547
Vehicles and Equipment                          montant forfaitaire                                                            44                     44      -    46                     46
Office and classroom furnishings                montant forfaitaire                                                      -     1         -     -     15      -     16       -      -     16
SubtotalAmbanja Agricultsua College                                                                                      237T    T          -     -  7U 4                       -60
F. Rebabliltaton of 4 Agricultural CoUeges
Allocation for rehabilitation                   montant forfaitaire                                                      -       -     143   143    286       -       -    160   167    328
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                     692      T       35T4   3      T1    7T             398
11. Recurrent Coats
A. Visit and supervision expenses
ProsincialDFteams                               provisionannuelle    27     48           69      84     228    1.31    35      63       90   110    299    34       65      99   127    325
B. Operating costs
LEASTA de Bezaha                                provision annuelle                                                       -    51        50    54    154             52      54    63    169
LEASTA d'AhiBANJA                               provision annuelle                                                       -    51        50    54    154       -    52       54    63    169
Indemnith formateurs en Diagnostic - FOFIFA     provision annuelle    50    20           20      10     100  1.048    52       21       21    10    105    51       22      23    12    107
Subtotal Operating costs                                                                                                -5    1T2        T     119   414T   5        T       TTr   1   44
Total Recurret Costs                                                                                                           f -                      *211               29T    8       677T
Total                                                          I7RWT 5657 539373  X06 3,                                                                                             -T 28X



~-3 
-01
MADAGASCAR                                                                                o.
Agricultural Extension Program  Support Project
Administration and Finances
Detailed Costs (US$ '000)
Quanmttes             Unit              Base Cost               Totals Including Contingendes
Unit  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total  Cost  1995  1996  1997  1998  Total 1995  1996   1997   1993  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Audit
Audit extene                  forfait                                          22    22    22    22    89    23    24         26    27    100
IL Equlpenent
Calculatrice                  unit6    15      3      -     -    18  0.061      1     0       -     -      I     1     0        -     -
Microordinateurfixe           unite      5     1      -     -      6  9.179    46      9      -     -    55    46      9       -      -    56
Subtotal Equipement                                                              47      9      -     -    56    47    10         -     -    57
Total                                                                                69    32    22    22   145    70    34         26    27    157



e.
MADAGASCAR                                                                                    0
Agricultural Extension Program  Support Project
Monitoring and Evaluation
Detailed Costs (US$ '000)
Quanties               Unit               Base Cost                Totals Including Contingendes
Unit   1995  1996   1997  1998  Total  Cost  1995  1996   1997   1998  Total  1995  1996  1997 1998   Total
I. Investnent Costs
A. Evahation d' impact du PNVA
Cabinet d'6tude exteme                 forfait                                               -    27        -      -    27       -    29      -     -       29
B. Moto$
Motos 125                              unit6      15    12      12    7      46  3.534    53    42         42    25    163    53    44    45   27          169
C. Equipement
Calculatrice                           unite      25    14       12    7      58  0.061     2      1        1      0      4     2      1      1    0         4
Microordinateurportable                unite       5      1       -     -      6  6.119    31      6        -      -    37    31       6      -     -       37
Uniforme                               unite      30    24      24    14      92  0.031      1     1        1      0      3      1     1      1    0         3
Casquemoto                             unite      15    12       12    7      46  0.092      1     1        1      1      4      1     1      1     1        4
Petitsmattriclsttchniques               lot       15    12       12    7      46  0.422     6      5        5      3     19     6      5      5    3        20
Subtotal Equipement                                                                           41    14        8      4     67    41    14       8     5       68
Total Investment Costs                                                                          94    83        50    29    256    95    87    53   32          266
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Fras de suhl
Enqueteurs                            annuel      15    27      39   46    127  0.838    13    23          33    39    106    12    23    36   45          116
Equipesregionales                     annuel      15    18       18   18      69  1.048    16    19        19    19      72    15    20    21    22         77
Subtotal Fras de sulvl                                                                        28    41       52    57    179    27    43    56   66           193
B. Frais de fonctionnement
Motos 125 cc                          annuel      15    27      39   46    127  0.298        4     8       12    14      38     4      8    13   16         41
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                           33    50        63    71    217    32    51    69    82         234
Total                                                                                               127   133      113   100   473   126   138   122  114           500



MADAGASCAR
Agriculural Extesion Program Support Project
SNVA Centrale et DireeaL de l'Agrlcultur
Detailed Cosb (US$ '000)                                                                   t 
Quantities                                    Base Cost                Totals Inclut Coatingencis
Unit  1995  1996  1997  1998  Totd   Unit Cost  1995  1996   1997   1998  Total  1995  1996  1997 1993  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Velcales                                                                                                                                                            _
Vehicule l6gere                        unite      2      -      5      -     7       28.27    57      -      141      -   198    57       -   149     -   206
Voitures 4X4                           unite      3      3      2      -     8      35.338   106   106        71      - 283   107   109    75         -   291
Subtotal Vedcults                                                                               163   106      212      -   481   164   109   224       -   497
EL Eqaipement
Calculatrice                           unite     36      -      -      -    36       0.061     2      -        -      -     2      2      -     -    -       2 
Photocopicuse                          unite      2      -      -            2        9.79    20      -        -      -    20    20          -        -    20
Microordinalurfixe                     unite     10      -      -      -    10       9.179    92      -        -      -    92    93       -     -    -    93
Microordinatlurportable                unit6      5      -      -      -     5       6.119    31      -        -      -    31    31       -     -     -    31
Materiel de brousse                     lot      44      -      -           44       0.229    10      -        -      -    10    10       -     -     -    10
Subtotal Eqalpement                                                                             154     -         -     -   154   156       -     -    -   156
C. Renovation des bureaux                forfait                                                 57      -        -     -    57    60       -     -    -    60
D. Constuction de centre de formation    forfait
E. Contis de collaboration               forfait                                                60    60        60    60   238    61    65    68   72   266
Total Investment Costa                                                                            433   166      272    60   930   440   174   292   72   978
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Fras de Visit et de Supervision
ChefdeService                         annuel      9      9      9     9    36        1.833    17    17        17    17    66    16    17    18   19    70
Responsables VAR,ARMP,Forr,AOP        annuel    26    26       26    26    104       1.467    38    38        38    38    153    37    39    42   44    162
Audit Inteme                          annuel      5      5      5     5    20        1.467     7      7        7     7    29       7     8      8    8      31
Fraisded6placement-chauffeurs         annuel    12    15    17    17    61           0.838    10    13        14    14    51    10    13    16   16    55
Subtotal Fris de Visits et de SupervIsion                                                        72    75       76    76   299    70    77    83   88   318
B. Fran de fonetonnement
Vehicule legere                       annuel      2      2      7     7     18       0.982     2      2        7     7     18      2     2      7    8      19
Vehicule 4X4                          annuel    11    14    16    16    57           2.083    23    29        33    33    119    22    30    36   39    127
Frais transport pour supervision     rfait annuel                                              5      7        8     8    28       5     7      9    9      30
Fournitures de bureau                rfait annuel                                             41    57        70    79   246    40    59    76   91    266
Reparstionetenfretienv6hicule          unite     47    62      76    81   266        1.488    70    92       113   121   396    68    95   123  140   426
Subtotal Fraa de fonctionnement                                                                 141   188      231   247   806   136   194   252  286   868
Total Recurrent Cost                                                                              213   262    307 323  1,105   206   271   335  374  1,187                          i
Total                                                                                              646   428       579   383  2,035   646   445   627  447  2,164



Direct9Eionj       -- d Natiiis.alez'DirectionNalionale
- . - E<S                                                                           |      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~de l'Agricullure
S "''ti'Z59is''g9 zzgiA'-  -   9,t'V5&,.''Zi6Z-.i-,,,.,'\;'Z.Zz:g':   | Direction Nationale dc                                          DirectionNationale              
Vulgarisation Agricole                                                d'Appui aux Producteurs
Servie dApwui et       |Service de Coord. Secdriefle d 
Contptabiktd                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Codtr&e des InirarB    |  de Projets  
|   Cmptbikt6       l 
= -1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Evaluattion   )
Division                                  Service crAppui                                                                                                      Service de Vulgarisation et
Adnsinistration Logistique                       aux Organisalioeis                              de la F              lajnAppui I Is Rcrherchc
et Finances                                   Payanes
Administration         iCoptab                 Oranisalion              Spptui  I Rehed
Support               Vulgasisation      en Milieu P.ysn'
NIachs                      I3Banquc FINEX                                          ogranenal                                          i               ____I
_|   Ma-t Irnob                      Conipt. (                                                                                           -------- | o
Ccntralis;ttion Conipt.
Secr<tarii  Compt. D te    I                                                                              aocumentation                                           Resp Fiche
t   I     Con,pa A,saISiqie ques                                                                                                                          Techniques
Senie ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dvso de Vulgatidet|o-
I'Agr1culture    |
Suivi et                                                          (tatins FFF 
| Evaluation      |                                                            <
[ -Division Administration    |        |Division Administration aux  ||                        Division de                                                     Division deVugrsto 
|   Logistique et Financi6rele    |    Organisations Paysannes   0                   |    Fomuttion       |                                                 et Appui IL Recherchela
IAdminisMt                       Ih                    uestio                                                           PdSuportiq|                         Vulgarisation           Appui i la Recherche en
an           abilit           Organisation        Gestion                                                   Pdagogque                                                          ilieu Paysan
Paie Indemnite       Comptabilitd Caisse
CIRlA6



38                 MADAGASCAR. AgriculturalExtension Program Siupport Project
Figure 2: Organigram of DNVA at the CIRAGRI Level                        ]
-'I~~~~~~~~~I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-a  .2                    2t1= 
.ta,                             7  1'               
I             C,
00                               2~7 0 ~



Annex III                                                                                    39
ANNEX m: LETTER TO DONORS CONFIRMING GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR
EXTENSION POLICY
Ministry of Rural Development
and Land Reform
General Secretariat
Directorate of Technical Minister of State,
Minister of ServicesRural Development and Land Reform Agriculture Department
To: Addressees listed after signature
No. 594-95/MEADR/SG/DGST/DA                                 Antananarivo, February 22, 1995
Subject. Aide-memoire of World Bank supervision mission for the
National Agricultural Extension Program (October 7-21, 1994)
MEADR extension policy
Reference: CFD's letter No. 3990 of September 27 and December 1994 letter bearing joint signature
Gentlemen,
In June 1994, the representatives of your respective delegations attended the working meeting that I convened
for the purpose of presenting both my Government's agricultural extension policy and a proposal for setting
up a national professional agricultural extension system. The details of this system are set down in the
document sent to you prior to the June meeting. Following that meeting, at which few substantive comments
were offered, my staff proceeded to implement the new national system, taking as a basis the positive
experiences acquired during the Agricultural Extension Pilot Project financed by the World Bank in the six
extension districts of the Faritany of Toamasina and Antananarivo.
As part of the implementation process, a workshop was held at Toliary, attended by representatives of your
respective delegations and of the World Bank  The Director of Agriculture, who chaired the opemng
sessions, presented the guidelines of the national agricultural extension policy and listed the workshop's
objectives. This was a good opportunity for the representatives of all projects, agencies and services in the
region connected with technical training, research or extension to come together and formulate joint
proposals for the components and various stages of implementation of a cohesive and harmonized system
enabling all actors and beneficiaries concerned to make mutually productive use of their individual
experiences and resources.
In your letter to me of December 1994 concerning the aide-memoire of the Bank's supervision mission, you
mention the reservations expressed by your three institutions concerning the approach agreed at Toliary
within the PNVA framework. Your reservations have been noted by my staff, and will be borne in mind
whenever the program is launched in any of the regions concerned.



40                                                                                Annex III
Once again, I wish to confirm my department's decision to set up a national agricultural extension system
based on principles that were clearly expressed during the various interviews at the Ministry and in the field
and specifically outlined in the documents forwarded in June 1994. As you know, the system is based on the
following principles:
-well-organized work plans
-systematic and continuing training of extension agents
-close links among research, extension, and farmers
-monitoring and evaluation of the system's costs and performance under real conditions
I should emphasize that the harmonized extension system comprises three sets of activities: conveyance of
technical messages concerning agriculture in the broad sense (fanning, stodcraising, fruit and vegetables,
environment, fish fanning) to contact farmer groups; fanming research, developed through close
collaboration among researchers, extension agents and farmers; and advice on business organization and
management for professional fanmer associations and groups. It is my sincere hope that the experience
gleaned and know-how demonstrated in the projects you finance will contribute to the success of this
program, particularly by serving as support for the associations and groups, and that the actions undertaken
will help to curtail duplication of efforts and costs while producing rapid and effective results within the
farming community. I trust that the meeting chaired by the Director General of Technical Services on
January 31, 1995 has succeeded in removing the "question marks" concerning implementation of the
niational extension system and will trigger the appropriate consultations on the subject.
As you will realize, the national system is to be implemented with a high degree of participation by all actors
on the development scene. Its aim is not to monopolize the services provided to the fanmers or to subsume
other projects or service providers, but rather to maximize the effectiveness of the public extension and
research services in close liaison with the various projects, private firms and NGOs, seeking the highest
return on the respective investments while making optimum use of available human, material and financial
resources.
I should be happy to receive any proposals relevant to our policy that could supplement the national system,
now being progressively implemented in all regions
I wish to reiterate my sincere appreciation for the assistance you are providing for the development of my
country's agriculture sector, and to assure you that I am at your disposal for any further information.
Very truly yours,
/sl Emmanuel Rakotovahiny
Addressees:
Chief, European Commission Delegation
Chief, Mission Francaise de Coopdration et d'Action Culturelle
Director, Caisse Francaise de Ddveloppement
Copies:
The Ambassador of France
The Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany
The Minister of Economy and Planning
The Director General of FOFIFA
The UNDP Resident Representative
The FAO Representative
The World Bank Resident Representative
The USAID Representative
The Director General of Techrucal Services



Annex IV                                                                                                                  41
ANNEX IV: TIMETABLE FOR COUNTRY COVERAGE BY AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION DISTRICT
1995                     1996                            .  .    . ... ..............   1998
..:Tana Nord*            Ambanja                 .Artsirabe                 Tsiroanomandidy
T Ana Sud*              Sambava                  Fe nu.ar'v,bc             Antalaha
Marmnarvo*             Ihos                      F  'a 'ar"s.a' Toamasin
* Ambatcrndra zakait   Fenerive-Est               Mana-''.k.. r ....k........... ..,.
AxararavolA Taolagnaro                                    ......   .......    orond
E    iS.E E . i . - - i - 7 iEE-: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .   :#.E , E-.: : E E E Ei - E E .     -  . . . ... . . . . . . . ... . . . . .   -.-: S-.-Ei
MomA                              Sngaamangokv
l aa :}:  000::  ','.0.-g.f.'.'.....-'                     ..... .'. .. '--" '-''""
*      Districts covered in th  pilot project (Credit 2150-G)
TIMETABLE FOR INITAL TRAINING
(NUlIMBER OF EXTENSION STAFF CONCERNED)
1995                    1996                    1997                     1998
In;t;al Training      Q I  Q2   Q3    _4   QI   Q2   Q3   Q4   Qi   Q2  |Q3  |Q4   QI    Q2  |Q3  |Q4
Tana Nord/Tana S.d *              _                            _                       = .....
Mianinarivo/Moramanga ^_                           
Ambatond razaka_
Amnparafaravola                                                        . _  . _  ..
Toliary                 tI :00    _      
Antsiranan               76: 
Mahiajanga               }O5::=     __ =           ==                =     ==                =      =     =     =      =
Talolagnaro/I Ihosy      --           -     -      -   *~4~   -      -      .. ...--..  ...-
M ananjary                                                    __   __  _  _ ........................5
...__.._ ... ..
Fenenve Est                   _71 _-                                                                                  -   :i:-_ = =        
Antsohihy                      _ ---      _             -   ~2GI           -     -            =               
Samnbava                 ___ __                                     1.:-01-_
Amnbanja                _     =       =     =      =     =     =    :3?.#0   .=                            -
Manakara / Fara(angana   _                                                      24?7:      
Fianarantsoa                                                                          __ ....=....-
Antsirabe / Anmbositra    _ _                                                
Fenoarivo Be       _ __ _ _ :l =
Maintirano                    _                                             
Antalaha___==== =
Toamaslna______
Tairoanomandidy         __ _         _      __               ____                                                    4R
Moronda     na                __ IW
* Pilot areas already operational.



42                                                                       Annex V
ANNEX V: TABLE OF PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR RICE PRODUCERS
1995       1996      1997       1998
I. IParticipation rate by frmers potentially  5     10        20         30
interested in extnsion message (%).a)
2. Increase in the number of adopting farmers  15   20        30         40
in comparison with those who are potentially
interested. (%) a)
3. Adoptingfanmersasapercentageof       5           10        15         25
fanners participating in extension visits
4. National rice production ('000 tons) b)  1,250   1,300     1,350      1,450
5. Numberofcontactgroups                3900        16,100   29,900      38,200
6. Number of farm level trials and tests  560       1,750    2,500       2,900
7. Number of demonstration plots        39,000      130,000  223,000    303,000
a) Potentially interested farmers are those who are already producing rice
b) Production in 1994 estimated at 1,200,000 tons



Annex V7                                                                 43
ANNEX VI: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal                                   Cumulative
Year          Semester        Amount        Amount       Percent
FY96            sep-95           252           252          1%
FY96           mar-96            504           756         3%
FY97            sep-96          2,016         2,772        11%
FY97            mar-97          2,772         5,544        22%
FY98            sep-97          3,780         9,324        37%
FY98           mar-98           3,528        12,852        51%
FY99            sep-98          3,530        16,382        65%
FY99            mar-99          3,274        19,656        78%
FY00            sep-99          2,772        22,428        89%
FY00           mar-00           2,772        25,200        100%



44                                                                                                         Annex VII
ANNEX VII: INCREMENTAL RICE PRODUCTION: TARGETS FOR EXTENSION DISTRICTS
OBJECTIF DE PRODUCTION POUR LES CIRAGRI D'EXTENSION
CIRAGRI          PRODUCTION    SUPERFICIE             SUPERFICIE ADOPT.hNT           . Rdt          v   PRODUCTION (T/Ha)
.ntsir2nana  (tonnes)        (Ha)           1.995    1,996   1.997    1.998   T/H2       1.995    1,9961   1,997    1.998
Antsinrana                                                                                                            1
78,400          3 5,000    2.800    4,200   7,000   10,500         1   2,S00    4,200    7,000   10,500
Mahajanga
189,400         72,900    7,290   14,580  21,870   29,160         1.2   8,748   17,496   26,244   34,992
Toliara
63,3 10         33,405    1,670    3,341   5,011   6,681         0.5     835    1,670    2,505    3,341
Sambava
65,500          39,500              1,975   3,950    5.925       0.5              988    1,975    2,963
Ambanja
18,800          14,000               700   1,400    2,100        0.5              350      700    1,050
Antsohihy
233,400         109,600             8,768  13,152  21,920           1            8,768   13,152  21,920
Fcnerive est
62,600         41,000              2,050   4,100    6,150        0.5            1,025    2,050    3,075
Manrunjary
59,000         41,000              2,050   4,100    6,150        0.5            1,025    2,050    3,075
Thosy
51,400         25,200              1,260   2,520    3,780        0.5              630    1,260    1,890
Taolagnaro
41,700          19,500             1,560   2,340    3,900          1             1,560    2,340    3,900
Maintirano
53,100         29,600              2,960   1,480    2,960        0.5                       740    1,480
Fenoarivobc
43,700         21,600              2,160   1,728    2,592          1                     1,728    2,592
Antsirabe
187,500         74,700              7,470   7,470   14,940        1.2                     8,964   17,928
Ambositra
88,700         43,100              4,310   4,310    8,620        1.2                     5,172   10,344
Fianarantsaa
141,200         61,900              6,190   6,190   12,380        1.2                     7,428   14,856
Manakara
44,400          27,400             2,740   1,370    2,740        0.5                       685    1,370
Farafangana
41,200         29,900              2,990   1,495    2,990        0.5                       748    1,495
Antalaha
46,000         26,700              2,670   1,335    2,670        0.5                              1,335
Toamasina
10 1,900        77,600              7,760   3,880    7,760        0.5                              3,880
Tsiroanomzandidy
42,300         21,600              2,160   1,728    2,592          1                              2,592
Morondava
58,600         30,000 _            3,000   2,400    3,600         1         I                    3,600
OBJECTIF DE PRODUCTION POUR LES CIRAGRI PILOTES
TAtNA NORD                                                 4,100    4,190   5,5 5 5    7,420            2,500    4,230    5,700    7,600
TA.NA SUD                                                  1,000    2,500   4,000    6,000              1,100    2,500    4,000    6,100
ML4RINARIVO                                                2,100    2,600   4,700    6,100              2,500    2,600    4,700    6,200
NMORAMANGA                                                 2,300    5,800  10,500   14,000              2,800    7,000   13,000   18,000
ANMATONDRAZAKA                                             2,000    2,050   3,100    4,100              6,000    6,200    9,300   12,300
ANIPARAFARAVOLA                                            1,000    2,000   4,600    9,200              3,400    7,000   17,000   27,000
__24,260  104,034 13 1,284 206,930              30,683   67,242  138.441  225,377
466,508                                      461,743



Annex VIII                                                                              45
ANNEx VHI: SCHEDULE OF MAJOR PROCUREMENT ACTIONS
(Dates Refer to Tender Launching for Delivery in PY Indicated)
_E=zzzzO= n    ~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....
Vehicles and Computers      May 1995       October 1995    October 1996    October 1997
Extension Equipment         June 1995      October 1995    October 1996    October 1997
Office Equipment            June 1995      October 1995    October 1996    October 1997
Rehabilitation of HQ        Dec 1995
Offices
Rehabilitation. of        Dec. 1995 (5)   June 1996 (1)
Provincial Offices
Rehabilitation. of        Dec. 1995 (9)   June 1996 (7)   June 1996 (7)   June 1996 (8)
CIRAGRI Offices
Rehabilitation of           May 1995
Ambanja and Bezaha           (works
EASTA                      completion
April 1996)
Auditors                   April 1995       Sept. 1995       Sept. 1996      Sept. 1997
External Evaluators of                     October 1996
Extension Delivery



46                                                                                Annex IX
ANNEX IX - SUPERVISION PLAN
1.     Bank Supervision Inputs into Key Activities. The staff input indicated below will be
largely provided by the Agricultural Extension Specialist based at the Bank's resident mission in
Tananarive (20 staff weeks annually). Regular supervision support for the review of progress
reports, procurement actions, correspondence etc. (estimated for this project to require 4 staff
weeks during the first two project years and 3 staff weeks thereafter) will be provided from
Washington. The supplementary and specific supervisory support from the Bank is set out below.
2.     Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.  The Borrower will be required to submit or
contribute to the following:
(a)    Progress reports to be submitted at the end of March and September each year;
(b)    Program and budget review meetings with the participation of various agencies
participating in the extension program and donor representatives will be held before
October 31 each year, after submission of the draft annual work program, and will cover,
among other things, budgetary implications for consolidating independent ongoing
agricultural extension activities under the national program.
IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate              Activity                Expected Staff         Staff Input (SW)
Date                                          Requirements
1995            Monitoring and evaluation     M&E specialist or resident ag    4 staff weeks
August          training                      extension specialist
1995            Training of internal audit team   Financial analyst         3 staff weeks
October
1995            First national workshop on    Training specialist           6 staff weeks
November        extension message diagnosis    Task managers for National
Research and Extension projects
1996            National workshop on monthly  Training specialist           6 staff weeks
March           technology review meetings    Task Managers for National
Research and Ex-tension projects
1996            Second national workshop on    Training specialist          6 staff weeks
November        extension diagnosis           Task managers for National
Research and Extension projects
1997            Second AMRT workshop          Training specialist           6 staff weeks
March                                         Task managers for National
Research and Extension projects
1997            Review workshop on support    Task manager for Extension    6 staff weeks
October         for farmer organizations      project, Specialist in farmer
organizations, Training
specialist
1998            Mid-Term review               Extension specialist          8 staff weeks
October                                       Task managers for National
Research and Extension projects
1999            Further specialist supervision
inputs to be fixed during the
mid-term review



Annex X                                                                          47
ANNEX X: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PRoJECT FILE
1.    Evaluation du Systeme d'Enseignement de Recyclage et de Formation Agricoles
BEST/CINAM pour le MEADRIPREFTEC, Feb 1994 - 4 volumes.
2.    Politique pour le Developpement Rural - Ministere d'Etat a l'Agriculture et au
Developpement Rural. Feb 1994
3.    Rapport de Contre-Saison 1993, PNVA/MEADR, Dec 1993
4.    Rapports Trimestriels d'Avancement - Programme National (Pilote) de Vulgarisation
Agricole - Janvier-Mars 1994, Avril-Juin 1994, Juillet-Sept 1994
5.    La Vulgarisation Agricole a Madagascar - Problematique et proposition d'un systeme
national. luin 1994



IBRD 26873
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                      12'
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                                                                 o 15Antsiranan
PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
Planned Introduction of the Agricultural                                                                       ! 21
Extension Service by Extension Districts
Nosy Be
D(Vohemar
YEAR 1995                                                                                                    23
YFAR 1996                                                                               22
YFAR 1997                                                                                  -,A t       '             Sambova
YFAR 1998                                                                                             *
Antsohlhy                '     24
ANTANANARIVO                                                                                      O                                       Anlaloh
I I To.e No'c                                                                                                                      Osd
12 Tone-Sud                                                                                          32                  0 N'\
13 Anrs-rebe                                       Mahajanga  .                                              teraanlselrp
14 Mojinoovo                                                    '-
I 5 Feroo- 6 Be                                                       Morovoey                                                                    16
16 Ts roononsond dy       5                                          0
ANTSIRA NANA                          tuS                                               Ej                             42
22 Aesbor a                                                                                  45             S       a Soorierona
23 Sombova-S                            t       \^                  31                                        .       °   ~  Sainte Marie
24 Antolooh,
MAHAJANGA                    4            E       4   l.                                         14'           Fenoorioc
32 A-sohy                                                                                      44 .       Ats,nonona1
33                                                                                                 IDt, 7    ~"'  '  Anblnizh
TOAMASINA                                                            .toomasino
41 Toom.s-sr
42 F-ner,va Est                               i          ~         "          7       11   j'
43 Moro...on.                                  !
44 A-nperlosaooa             -           '              16       ANTANANARIV*                      Moramonga
45 Amoboondoazoko                                                  14                           43
F ANARANTSOA                                                                             12
51 F-oner-ntso-                                        -- 41
52 A,,bos,lso                                    j"  ;,
.      53 Ihosy                                     62                             CAIt   e
54 Monon or                  0Morondova
55 Monoukulcoro                                                    tFC TOWNS
56 Forofongon1o                                    .                                                                     ..       . Ambl&s itra (CV PROV INCE CAPITALS
TOLIARA 
61 Tohara;                                                          5)t 54                                               l*)       NATIONAL CAPITAL
62 Mororsdoovo                      '                      :oIf znodono                           Menon1ery                        EXTENSION DISTRICT
63 T-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gn ~~~~~~BOUNDARIES
63 Toolognorlo                       .            .-     --       %         ) g .              Antsenovala                          0NDRE
FARITANY IPROVINCE)
Amboltaea&   fl    8 U~S )                                         BOUNDARIES
I LS0FTE?S C   50    100      50
53
"""1 Foarofng-no                 I - c                  1 0
Toliary  (-          61                                           'ti5
63
The  boundories, coiors,                                                       "2     /                                         AFRICA
denom-nsaoans and  any                                                                                                          A
other `nformoaton shown
on  this  niop   do  not
imply, on  the  port of          Ans,pon hy C'
The World  Boank  Group.                                                        -Tleaeo
any udgmen any  the legal               MBeloho '                      3         >. ogn r                                                          ADAGASCAR
status  of any  te,r,fory, e.a'A.4e444
or any  endorsement                                           -.      Ambo1sE-y -
or acceptance of such                            T;,hombe                 S
boundaries.                    44                     --          .                                  42
MAY 1995






4?                                      4`4°                                      AI R6' 45'0
-12'                                         MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                                      is'
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM                                                                                                            Antsirmona
SUPPORT PROJECT
LOCATION OF RESEARCH CENTERS, STATIONS AND SUBSTATIONS                                                                                      II
CtENERS                                              MAJOR CROPS.
CEN-RES                                              PRINCIPAlES CUlrURES-                                                           +S
*     SlAIIOfiS                                          ] j COFFEE . CIOVES. VANILLA PEPPER COCOA                AICASTY VA  'L VA PEPFERCoCOC.A ArmrJ
--J CAfE,  IfVANIUE. POLVLRE. CACAO             ,                          / .
A     SUBSTATIONS                                  S'U\ \     GAR
SOUS slRflONS                              [~11 .' \ \2 SUCREN                                             1-       v     ,,,3   ;i COTO
CLIMATIC ZONES:                 |          ,:- -     CO.ON O4'
ZONES CoMAt ((UESz--   oo
.SOUIH. SEMLARID TO ARID TROPICA'          LI  T1 .     I
SUD. ROICAL             SI     BUTER BEANS                   ,.
WEST TROPCAL WITH ONE DRY SEASON E.I    POS DV CAjP
TR' OPIA A S,ULON 5ECCIE
WIGHLANDS. TRO0PCAL MONTANE                           40.IE CATTlEAE DUTTE                    Anlolava o             L
LUTES "RTERME. TROPICAL PAL TITUDEDI,WETDRO CAMEOA TRI CDINTRY.1f                             A-I                                              Rll-2W
I  -TSUBEOUATOBIAL                                         RI+T8515RMTRPRI
EASI SUREOUATORLAI                                   f. TOU            l                   ,        lAh                 ,                              Antolaha
CJIIAITC ZONE BOUNDARIES
- - -   GALtES DES5 ZONES CLAR TILUES                                                             1I
RAINFALL (CM PER YEAR")~                                                                                               4/                    *T 
PLUVL'XLE (C. PAR AN)                                                                                  -
Mahajango   +
RItOMETERS 0        5                 150 TO T01 t
200~~~d
MAN~~~-d
TA'    tE O35            50            ,O ,Sob                                                                                                                                         16'* Ltnrrn
BRLOIDWbE U~~~~~. .....
2 ,   W  i ] //   \ / -og    ti,-ts    i2/  JLt  ejv .#  'dsFenooryo-AIsinonanc
.  !  . M% rZ  A(PnLIbR  :.¢  i (>>   (tV          /i.:...../..
mwwoN   ..IITOOA(                                                                                  '1
......   A-                       f.-4 1-ARk8ZObR
IDAnnlISa       r      M I     -                  l
/ ,  i.                                                    .            '                                                        ohibinany       / bA  /          A    A'
Belo lsiribihiwo    j)    J   
20'                                                                                                                                                                                         20'
.'-K2....              '-                            ia ' <Nowr VcH.k  PAVED ROADS
ROUTES OOUDROPLEE5
j ,,,,.,.,?  : IiLRI" -.Xt RO,                                     /, KUTES ACCESSIRED
2\      , e     * eMoER%                           >J                                          tJans .*         o        v         +  69 ; m9 Mananjary    RAILROADS R
Mrme;;  .........................o\iB3[ otSi. na                                                                                           prEwRS
As  j >;ix  l    t,4 ;< )ISE  B.l ot  *,,,,,,-   ,  |t, jf%Aw  r (              I '          ELEVATITO4STN METERS.           NATIONAL CAPIAL
.- . :'    t FONET  BEIRT   /  ,  AlDTUDE EN MErRES               CAIITAIE D'ETAT
ATAORRI :g; °A rRM Rf,Jt                                                   z>> e + j(8  CI[ | Mbro RP.LIE  bE DifEA*lrANY
.t;   ...                                                                                                6002En    ...         tJ   I HVorn   x
;n0  ig    90HASffl ; f'I   (                  | -//A  5CD          B___INTEREADONATIONLNDARIES
~                                t                  4 ?                                          ,;   >   @   d   |   .   ,   ,. '  _____________-'z.       _ L.oruS DES frA s
Toliarett S                                          < /       %                      ooon  n   |]ZSNAJ;   
24'                                                                                                                         2-
I              V ii,  11 )  ftMADf.GASCAR.
df.. ceoRo.. od.I
Tb.(SldE    -dORA IR
rdWWk{   Gn{.                                                                      ;s        TIr;r                       SOUTHl;    
*Il*2                             44*                                      4jA,.                                    4n | |   .                                                              oF
bonna,i...~~~~~~~4'46                                                                                      48'                                                                    N












