Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22231
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27290)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN
AGRICULTTJRAL EXTENSION PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
MAY 23, 2001
Rural Development 2
Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1994 -2001)
Currency Unit =  Malagasy Franc (FMG)
Average FMG per US Dollar
1995     3,423
1996     4,328
1997     5,285
1998     5,402
1999    6,543
2000     6,767
In Year 2000       1 FMG  =  US$ 0.0001477
US$ I = 6,767 FMG
FISCAL YEAR
January I -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           Adaptable Program Lending (Pret a des programmes evolutifs)
AVB           Field-level Extension Agent (Agent Vulgarisateur de Base)
CIRAGRI                Agricultural Extension District (Circonscription Agricole)
CMS           Seed Multiplication Centers (Centres de Multiplication Semenciers)
CNLA         National Committee for Locust Control (Comiti National de Lutte Antiacridienne)
DAPP         Directorate for Professionalizing Agricultural Producers (Direction d'Appui a la professionalisation des
producteurs)
DRA          Regional Agricultural Office (Direction Regionale de I'Agriculture)
EU           European Union (Union Europeenne)
FMG          Malagasy franc (Franc Malgache)
FOFIFA       National Center of Applied Research for Rural Development (Centre National de Recherche Appliqude pour le
Developpement Rural)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product (Produit National Brut)
ICB          International Competitive bidding (Appel d'offre international)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report (Rapport d'achevement de projet)
IDA          International Development Association (Association pour le Developpement International)
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture (Ministere de I 'Agriculture)
NAEP         National Agricultural Extension Program (Programme National pour la Vulgarisation Agricole)
NBF          Non-Bank Financed (Non finance par la Banque Mondiale)
NCB          National Competitive bidding (Appel d 'offre national)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization (Organisation Non-Gouvernementale)
ONE          National Environment Office (Office National pour l 'Environnement)
PMiU         Project Management Unit (Cellule de gestion du projet)
PNVA         Agricultural Extension Program Support Project (Projet d'Appui au Programme de Vulgarisation Agricole)
PPI 2        Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Projet Perimetres Irrigues 2)
PO           Producer Organization (Organisation de Producteurs)
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report (Rapport d'evaluation de projet)
VLPA          Village Level Participatory Approach (Approche Participative Niveau Village)
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:       Hafez Ghanem
Sector Manager/Director:    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ousmane Seck



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      9
6. Sustainability                                                                         10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        12
9. Partner Comments                                                                       13
10. Additional Information                                                               14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     2I
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    25
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                          27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P00 1563                                       Project Name: Ag. Extension Program Support
Project
Team Leader: Ousmane Seck                                   TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: May 23, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Ag. Extension Program Support Project           L/C/TFNumber: IDA-27290
CountryIDepartment: MADAGASCAR                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/06/91                                  Effective:  10/28/95           11/28/95
Appraisal:  01/04/95                                   MTR: 03/15/98               06/20/98
Approval:  05/23/95                                  Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/Ministry of Agriculture
Other Partners: None
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                             Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:      Hafez Ghanem                               Andrew P. Rogerson
Sector Manager:       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                         Nils 0. Tcheyan
Team Leader at ICR:   Ousmane Seck                               Christopher Trapmai
ICR Primary Author:   Jumana Farah
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likeiy, UN=Unlikely, HUN=High'
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In the early 1990s, Madagascar's agricultural development strategy recognized that growth and income
increases were possible for a large number of farmers if they were supported by professional agricultural
extension services. The government also acknowledged that the multiplicity of efforts in support of
agricultural extension, under the numerous projects supported by public and nongovernmental (NGO)
agencies throughout Madagascar, had achieved few sustainable results and did not make the best use of the
scarce resources provided in the public investment program. By introducing a national system, to which
different donors can contribute over time, the government intended to reduce the number of separate efforts
being made to bring technical advice to farmers. In a letter to all donors in February 1995, the government
confirmed its policy to follow a national agricultural extension program approach and invited donors to
contribute accordingly.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) stated that the Agricultural Extension Program Support Project
(PNVA) will support the first phase of a long-term (15--20 years) National Agricultural Extension
Program (NAEP) whose objectives are to increase agricultural productivity and farmers' incomes in an
environmentally sustainable manner, and to rationalize use of public resources in support of agricultural
services. The SAR also stated that NAEP is to upgrade agricultural services countrywide, making
extension services available to the country's approximately 1.5 million farm families. However, the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) listed these same objectives for the 5-year PNVA (project) and not
the 15-20-year NAEP (program).
PNVA's objectives as described in the DCA were clear but overly ambitious and unrealistic in the
five-year time frame. The project's goals were also unattainable because of a design that did not link
project implementation with activities in other dependent sectors, despite the efforts during implementation
to establish and strengthen collaboration with other operations in the sector. The Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) team elected to measure the achievements of the project against the objectives
stipulated in the SAR and not the DCA, with PNVA contributing to NAEP's objectives (by financing the
first five-year phase) and not substituting to the program itself By these standards, the project was in line
with the government's development vision and policy. By providing professional agricultural services to the
farming community, the project's activities were central to the government's strategy: (a) to reduce poverty
and improve the conditions of life in the rural areas; (b) to improve agricultural productivity; (c) to
optimize the use of available resources; and (d) to protect the environment. The project also fit into the
1994 World Bank Country Assistance Strategy, which sought to attack poverty (partly through improving
per capita income and consumption levels), to improve natural resource management, and to build local
capacity.
The SAR flagged the risk that the government might not be able to meet its counterpart funding
engagement to ensure long-term fiscal sustainability of NAEP. This concern was mitigated by the
government's commitment to not approve any donor funding for other independent parallel projects. Such
an approach would reduce the burden on counterpart funding and liberate otherwise unavailable funds to
contribute to a bigger share of the government's funding of NAEP. Although the risk of not having the
required number of quality extension staff was not identified in the SAR, it became apparent during
implementation that this was a problem, and that its solution was critical to the success of the project.
Fortunately, the staffing problem was taken care of by forging partnerships with different entities (public
sector, army, communes, NGOs).
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
PNVA's objectives did not change after the mid-term review conducted in 1998. However,
activities of the project were concentrated in accessible regions with high agricultural potential (special
attention was given to rice-producing areas). This focus was to make better use of the limited number of
extension staff, which was less than initially anticipated.
3.3 Original Components:
The project's original components were as follows:
§     Agricultural Extension, Research Linkages, and Support for Farmer Organizations to strengthen
the delivery of the agricultural extension services and to promote and strengthen farmer organizations;
§     Training and Human Resource Management to improve the technical and management capacity of
all stakeholders (extension staff, NGOs, and other public agencies). This component also involved the
competency assessment and decentralization of extension staff,
§     Financial Management, Accounting, and Internal Audit to increase the degree of financial
autonomy in the decentralized Regional Agricultural Offices (DRAs) and extension districts (CIRAGRIs);
§     Monitoring and Evaluation to gauge the impact of the extension program by establishing a
monitoring and evaluation unit;
§     Supervision by the National Agricultural Extension Service Directorate to use capacity building
to facilitate supervision and internal auditing.
While these components were necessary for achieving the project's objective to upgrade agricultural
services countrywide and make extension services available to the country's approximately 1.5 million
farm families, it became clear during implementation that the capacity of the implementing agency was
overestimated.
3.4 Revised Components:
PNVA's disbursement categories were expanded to include financing for three additional
categories/components. The Credit Agreement was amended accordingly:
§     Support to seed production ($1.1 million, approved in 1996), financing agricultural supplies and
inputs, community seed storage facilities, training, improving the quality of non-certified seed, establishing
a public seed certification service, setting up a committee for the privatization of the public Seed
Multiplication Centers (CMSs) to produce quality seed in a timely manner and in sufficient quantities.
Most of the funds allocated under the farner organizations subcomponent supported activities by the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA); however, this component helped channel funds to activities implemented
by the ultimate beneficiaries, the producer organizations (POs);
§     Applied research ($1.0 million, approved in 1998), by the National Center for Applied Research
for Rural Development (FOFIFA) previously financed under a National Agricultural Research Project,
which closed in December 1998 but continued its operation for two more years (the remaining life of
PNVA). This extended operation was deemed necessary to keep the linkages between research and the
extension functional at an effective level; and
§     Locust control ($2.0 million, approved in 1998), involving the purchase of pesticides and safety
gear to respond to a national locust emergency declared in mid-1998 and to control the outbreak of
migratory locusts.
The amendments to the Credit Agreement took effect in 1996 and 1998, respectively, and amounted
to a restructuring of the project; these additional components were necessary to optimize PNVA's impact.
The first two components were approved by the Africa Region Vice-President, and the Locust Control
amendment was reviewed and approved by the World Bank's Board of Directors.
- 3-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory in this ICR. PNVA was the scaling-up of a successful
pilot that demonstrated that good results can be obtained at a low cost by a large number of farmers from
existing agricultural staff, using systematic work programming, regular training, and diagnosis of results
between farmers and field staff, as stated in the SAR. In many cases under the pilot, farmers were able to
achieve an average 75 percent increase in rice yields by adopting techniques disseminated by extension staff
without making cash investments. The project was designed to build on the successes of the pilot on a
national scale; this fit into the institutional structure of the executing agency, the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), which was adequately represented and operational at the regional level through the DRAs and the
CIRAGRls.
However, a number of seemingly unjustified assumptions and weaknesses in design caused
difficulties in project implementation and proper evaluation, including: (a) poorly defined objectives of the
first phase; (b) a consistent and very high (95 percent) Bank financing of project operating costs; and (c) a
loosely designed subcomponent on producer organizations which did not allow sufficient funds to reach the
POs (who were the targeted beneficiaries) directly but instead were mostly financing civil servants who
worked with the POs.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome and achievement of objectives is rated marginally satisfactory. PNVA registered a series of
very positive impacts in localized areas throughout the country but did not have the widespread
productivity increases that were envisaged. The assumption that better extension services alone would
increase agricultural productivity and farmers' incomes in an environmentally sustainable manner was only
partially achieved because of some design shortcomings, and a cancellation of follow-up phases anticipated
at appraisal. In fact, PNVA is considered one of the most successful T&V model extension projects
developed in Africa because of the innovative approach it adopted for its implementation. Fifty-three
percent of the country's farming families are estimated to have benefited in one form or another from
PNVA; the farmers adopting recommended technologies exceeded appraisal estimates, and the projected
increase in rice production by Year 4 of the project was 82 percent. One of the key reasons for rating the
outcome marginally satisfactory is the unlikely sustainability of the results.
The innovative approach mentioned above was the partnership process that PNVA initiated between
MOA and the different stakeholders in the agricultural sector; that is, other public entities (research, other
rural development ministries, communes, the army), NGOs, and the private sector (especially input
suppliers) to improve project implementation and impact. The partnerships were established through
contracting out certain extension and training activities to qualified NGOs; providing NGOs and other
public agencies with training, logistical support, and extension support in their area of operation to
empower them and build their capacity; promoting ownership by producers through local recruitment of
village animators and extensionists, which was paid for by communes; and strengthening POs by
connecting them with input and output markets (on a limited scale).
Evidence from the field and the independent beneficiary assessment of 1998 showed that the food
shortage period between consecutive production seasons was reduced by at least half due to PNVA (from
about six months to about two to three months). According to an external impact evaluation of PNVA and
to various project progress reports, yield increases for selected crops were noted in many localities:
irrigated rice yields increased up to 42 percent; rainfed rice up to 71 percent; manioc up to 70 percent;
- 4 -



maize up to 68 percent; green beans up to 180 percent; tomatoes up to 140 percent; and coffee up to 16
percent. However, these increases in yields were not always accompanied by commensurate increases in
revenues because of market distortions, inadequate rural road networks (which hampered access to
markets), and in other cases, inexistent links to markets. Thus, production costs seemed to absorb the bulk
of the extra revenues.
With respect to rationalizing the use of public resources to support agricultural services, PNVA, as
a first phase of a long-term 15--20 year NAEP, did not benefit from this rationalization process bebcause
the Treasury did not necessarily put back the savings made from consolidating the services into agricultural
extension. However, it has set the foundation for achieving this objective in the long run due to the
government's commitment not to approve parallel projects. Also, during project implementation, it became
obvious that there was a need to restructure PNVA's extension staff in order to improve the extension's
cost-effectiveness. It was not possible to implement such a plan without restructuring the MOA as a whole.
This led to the formulation of a MOA restructuring plan, including a human resources development plan,
which the European Union (EU) agreed to finance.
4.2 Outputs by components:
§     Agricultural Extension, Research Linkages, and Supportfor Farmer Organizations: Marginally
Satisfactory.
Aggricultural extension: As mentioned above, PNVA successfully contributed to the long-term achievement
of NAEP's objectives with impressive localized impacts. Success stories include (1) paddy rice producers
in Miananarivo who were able, with the help of PNVA, to increase their production and store the excess in
community storage facilities, "greniers," so that they could sell it at 1,800 FMG/kg in December compared
with the customary 1,000 FMG/kg they would have gotten at harvest (June); and (2) maize producers in the
Diego region who increased their maize production with the help of PNVA from 2 t/ha to about 5 t/ha with
an accompanying doubling in farmer revenues. Initially the maize producers had problems marketing their
produce and fed the excess maize to livestock. Later they were able to establish a market with livestock
producer organizations (POs) who were finding it difficult to get enough feed for their livestock. This
connection was jointly facilitated by another donor project whose objective was to empower POs.
Because rice is the staple food, PNVA concentrated on rice production in high potential areas. Instructional
messages that were disseminated covered diverse subjects and disciplines such as livestock and fisheries
production, manufacture of small agricultural equipment, better use of charcoal stoves, culinary skills,
home economics, etc. Intensive Rice Production System (SRI) technology, which is one of the most
promising technologies for irrigated rice (it increases rice yields five- fold, up to 12-15 t/ha from 2.5-3
t/ha), was widely promoted. One drawback though, is that SRI is very labor intensive and requires a strong
and sustainable water management system, which was not a given in many cases; thus SRI was not as
widely adopted as anticipated. The most widely adopted technologies were new plant varieties; planting
husbandry (early planting of seedlings at less than 25 days of age versus more than 60 days, in line versus
random, lower number of seedling per hole); and integrated nutrient management, which focuses on an
agrobiological approach.
It is important to note that farmers are risk averse, especially when there is an insecure land tenure.
Relatively few adopted agricultural intensification and diversification technologies using inputs and extra
labor. The adoption rate varied from 10 percent to 80 percent of those farmers reached, depending on the
technology disseminated. On average, 43 percent of the farners reached did adopt one or more
technologies. This figure would translate to a higher percentage if we were measuring the rate of adoption
of farmers participating in the extension visits. The corresponding percentage would certainly exceed the 25
-5-



percent target set at appraisal for the fourth year of the project.
In some farmer fields, an unjudicious use of pesticides was observed. There are many reasons for this
misuse: the absence of a pest management plan; the extension agents' limited knowledge to what pesticides
are available on the market; the repeated use of the same active ingredient rather than in rotation; a slowly
emerging regional pesticide market that cannot yet afford to make available a wider choice of pesticides;
and inadequate knowledge of integrated pest management.
The ICR teamn believes that PNVA's impact would have been more significant had it not been for the high
percentage of extension agents who were over fifty years old, relatively uneducated (most did not finish
high school), and generally unmotivated. This situation was worsened when disciplines were not enforced
after extension agent performance evaluations came back negative.
With respect to project staffing, the work force of 3,000 extension agents anticipated in the SAR was not
realized. PNVA started off with about 1,500 staff (which inluded staff belonging to the Directorate of
Agriculture, joined by staff from other projects that have been completed). Six hundred staff out of the
1,500 were under contract to MOA. Unfortunately, their effectiveness was hampered by considerable
delays in salary payments. Approximately 400 extension agents belonging to different NGOs, private
sector, and other public agencies joined PNVA (their salaries were paid by their respective employers, and
PNVA paid their indemnities). PNVA provided all agents with motorcycles.
Research links With time, the interaction between research and extension improved, which allowed for the
development of pertinent technologies. The decentralization of research and extension staff encouraged a
joint implementation of several activities by extension, research, farmers, and local NGOs, including the
planning at a regional level, supervision of field trials, and diagnosis and prioritization of farmers' needs
and thus of research/extension activities. However, in many instances, economic analyses were not made
for the viability of certain technologies. This meant that several technically appropriate technologies were
not adopted due to their socioeconomic unsuitability. The production factor and access to markets (or the
lack of it), were also not factored in so that in many cases, excess production did not result in a profit; in
many cases the excess was simply trashed.
Support to farmer organizations: Impressive but localized results were noted. POs have proliferated in
several areas of the country such as in Lac Alaotra, Antsirabe, Morondava, and Tulear. In Lac Alaotra
alone, 423 POs have been formed since 1990, 158 of which were women's organizations, and 150 were
formalized. One highlight of the project is the introduction of the Village Level Participatory Approach
(VLPA) as a tool to diagnose community/farmer/PO needs. This needs-assessment had a significant impact
on the way the village communities were organized. VLPA was introduced in at least 150 communities.
However, because there was no unified vision on how to achieve farmer organization's development, and
no coordination with the Directorate for Professionalizing Agricultural Producers (DAPP; another
Bank-funded project), Irrigated Perimeters 2 Project (PPI 2), and the Directorates responsible for
professionalizing farmers under other Ministries (e.g. Livestock, Environment), there were some
uncoordinated/duplicate interventions on the ground. The technical and management training received by
the POs was insufficient to empower them. The accompanying capacity- building measures such as
formalizing POs and connecting them with output markets were limited, although links with input markets
(seeds, fertilizers, pesticides) was facilitated and successful in many instances. The resulting weaknesses of
POs limited project benefits.
§      Training and Human Resource Management: Marginally Satisfactory.
- 6-



Civil works, equipment, and vehicles were accomplished/received as planned. Training was delivered at
about 75 percent of what was planned for extension agents, farmers, and POs. However, this did not
translate into a knowledgeable and efficient extension work force. It was noted that those who were trained
overseas did not always share their knowledge when they came back, which limited the benefits of training
received. The project provided additional training to different partners, such as NGOs and other public
agencies, as the need arose. An evaluation of extension staff was completed in March 1995; it concluded
that 68 percent of the staff had not completed high school, and 67 percent were 45 years of age and older.
The study recommended that the PNVA staff be restructured. One design shortcoming was that the SAR
did not take into account the quality of existing staff and hence did not anticipate the restructuring which
could not be done without looking at the Ministry as a whole. A study concerning all MOA personnel was
performed towards the end of the project and is expected to be implemented with EU funding.
§     Financial Management, Accounting, and Internal Audit: Satisfactory.
Audit reports were certified by the auditors and received on time, and the anticipated equipment was
received as planned. However, the software for accounting, and financial management and reporting was
underused and not well understood despite the training received. It has also been reported that capacity for
financial management in some regions remains weak despite the training received.
§     Monitoring and Evaluation: Marginally Satisfactory.
Equipment, supplies, and external project impact evaluation were received/done as planned. A good
monitoring and evaluation system was put in place that identified and collected the necessary data and
monitored the proper performance and output indicators. However, the often poor analytical skills of
regional staff was reflected in the general reporting and manipulation of data. More could have been done
to analyze the data collected and to adjust the extension accordingly to respond to farmers' and market
needs.
§     Supervision by the National Agricultural Extension Service Directorate: Satisfactory.
Capacity building in equipment and the financing of operating costs to supervise the project at the central
and regional levels was implemented as planned. Frequent supervision missions to the field were effected.
Although at the beginning the project coordinator was the director of the Ministry's Directorate for
Agricultural Extension (intended to increase the project chances for sustainability), who had other
competing demands for his time (he was responsible for implementing NAEP in its entirety), the situation
improved when a project coordinator was hired to be solely responsible for implementing and supervising
the project.
§     Support to seed production: Satisfactory.
Supporting the production of quality seed helped improve project impact and performance. In its first year,
PNVA financed the production of prebase seed, which were multiplied at the parastatal CMSs. A public
service for supervising and certifying seed production was successfully established. Planned assistance to
seed producers was delivered (small equipment, seed, inputs, training). The project also contributed to the
availability of a better stock of non-certified seed for personal use by those farmers within the POs to which
the seed producer belongs. This new availability was a great help to farmers due to the limited market for
certified seeds. Five out of twelve planned community seed storage facilities were constructed. Eleven out
of forty-five CMSs were privatized or are under way (PNVA provided support for the committee that
would start the process of privatizing the CMSs).
§     Applied research: Satisfactory.
Financing applied research helped to secure the continuity of established links between research and
extension. As a result, several technologies were developed and improved including indigenous technologies
- 7 -



such as the use of pepper and manure for pest control, improved crop varieties, and soil fertility
recapitalization practices.
§     Locust control: Mixed.
PNVA was one of three World Bank projects to respond to the national emergency caused by 1998's locust
invasion. The other two projects were the PPI 2 and the National Health Sector Project. The locust control
campaign has produced mixed feelings in all stakeholders (donors, government, providers of pesticides, and
farmers). Because of the controversy that surrounded the use of the pesticides, it would be useful to have a
comprehensive review and discussion that includes and informs all parties on the complete locust program.
The emergency has now subsided and the locust invasion seems to be under control.
An approximate $2 million from PNVA funds (equivalent to 8 percent of total project costs) went into the
purchase of 174,300 liters of pesticides---mostly Decis, which is a highly potent pesticide that has
short-lived residual effects. The National Committee for Locust Control (CNLA), the governmental locust
emergency response task force, took full charge of procurement (calling for bids, reviewing the bids, and
selecting the winner). It developed a reference document for use by all donors.
An environmental mitigation plan for the locust control program has been developed by the government
with the support of the donor community. It is expected that this plan can be used in the future when
similar catastrophes occur. Monitoring and evaluation was performed by the National Enviromnent Office
(ONE) of the Ministry of Environment, which is one of the executing agencies of the Second Environment
Project (PE2). Due to limited funds, ONE was only able to monitor pesticide spraying techniques and
evaluate the impact of pesticides on non-targeted species and human health in certain areas and only for a
limited time. Nonetheless, ONE's work documented findings that non-targeted species were able to
regenerate more easily and human diseases related to the nervous system were fewer in the areas treated
with Decis relative to other pesticides. Reports on the impact of aerial spraying on locust swarms were
sometimes conflicting. Swarms are naturally transported and dispersed by wind; however, inaccurate
spraying of pesticides may have aided the natural process rather than contained it. Safety gear might not
have been used systemically.
'The EU financed the collection of empty drums, and Rhone Poulenc is financing their disposal at the
request of the government. About 25 percent of the drums purchased/donated were missing at collection
time. Most likely, they were stolen to be used for food/feed storage or another activity that could be
detrimental to human or livestock health.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No Net Present Value (NPV) or Economic Rate of Return (ERR) were calculated at the writing of
the SAR, which reflects that the project was mainly an institutional building project and therefore an
accurate NPV or ERR could not be calculated in this ICR. However, an evaluation of the project conducted
in 1999 by the National Institute of Statistics in selected DRAs concluded that the project's ERR was in the
order of 47 percent for Antsiranana, 27 percent for Antananarivo and Ambatondrazaka, 10 percent for
Mahajanga, and 9 percent for Toliara.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was calculated at the writing of the SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Rated Modest. The project had some impact at the central level because it helped to decentralize
extension staff who could then facilitate regional decision-making and financial management, and empower
- 8 -



local groups. However, the financial decentralization was reversed. It triggered the process of restructuring
MOA to shed cumbersome and inefficiently managed activities and to better manage remaining activities.
This entailed the redefinition of MOA's mission and role, and the development of a staff reduction and
management plan. PNVA has also instigated contracting out and partnering with other public agencies,
communes, NGOs, and the private sector for the delivery of extension services and training, which helped
to develop their capacity to become more effective partners in development.
At the regional level, the project helped the functioning of MOA's regional offices (DRAs) and
empowered the CIRAGRIs to carry out their tasks, although some glitches in financial flows reduced the
positive impact. PNVA stimulated an interchange, albeit modest, among different stakeholders (research,
extension, NGOs, private sector, farmers, donors). At the grassroots level, the project helped the
development and strengthening of many POs in some localities and provided them with material support
and training so that they could become effective partners in development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The one major factor in this category was that other donors did not fund the implementation of
NAEP because they did not necessarily agree on the design and management of the program. The
significant synergy from coordination, partnership with other donor-funded projects, and optimal public
funding that could have increased the impact of PNVA was not there. In addition, the lack of roads, credit,
and storage infrastructure prevented the project from having a bigger impact on farmer revenues because
the many who saw their production increase were not able to favorably market their produce and convert it
into higher revenues.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays in, and lower-than-agreed-on, counterpart funding as well as excessive delays (up to six
months) in salary payments to contractual extension agents (30 percent AVBs) hampered project
implementation and contributed to the general demotivation of field staff to carry out their work.
Government budgeting in its Annual Investment Plan for sufficient counterpart funds has always been an
issue up to the end of the project. The last Government budgetary planning revisions did not provide a
solution to that problem either. In addition, the current taxation system caused delays and uncertainties in
the field staff's project implementation activities.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Before VLPA was introduced, on-farm diagnosis was used to identify farmers' needs and
priorities. However, staff capacity to conduct and analyze reliable on-farm diagnoses was weak despite
training, which made it difficult for the extension to be adequately responsive. When VLPA was introduced
(on a pilot basis in at least 150 communes), and results were assessed by multidisciplinary teams, project
implementation became more demand-driven. Nonetheless, adequate links/access to markets were limited or
missing in many cases. The lack of trust between government and civil society magnified these missing
links and little effort was made by the extension staff to improve the situation.
Failure to discipline when the performance of extension staff was deemed inadequate created a
disincentive to the staff. It is possible that more rigorous control of regional financial management and
better understanding and application of Bank procurement and disbursement procedures could have kept
financial management decentralized and accelerated regional program implementation. Another problem
identified in financial management was the suboptimal use of the software for financial and procurement
management despite training received.
-9-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Appraisal estimates and actual project costs were $36.6 million and $26.6 million, respectively.
The $10 million difference represented a 27 percent decrease in total costs that was the result of a
lower-than-agreed-on counterpart funding ($6.94 million) and the difference in SDR exchange rate
vis-a-vis the dollar ($3.04 million). IDA funding of SDR 16.2 million (equivalent to $25.2 million at
appraisal) was fully disbursed. The dollar equivalent of the disbursed amount was $22.2 million due to the
dollar/SDR exchange rate. Government counterpart funds were appraised at $11.4 million but by the end of
the project $4.5 million were disbursed, bringing the government contribution to only 39 percent of what it
agreed to.
Allocations to the different project components changed with time. The actual allocation for the
"extension and PO" component became half of what it was at appraisal; "training" at about 80 percent; and
allocations for central capacity building of the Monitoring and Evaluation units and overall Directorate for
Agricultural Extension increased by 140 percent and 33 percent, respectively. In addition, three new
components were introduced after project start-up, which consumed 15 percent of project costs. This,
coupled with a much lower-than-agreed-on government contribution (39 percent) resulted in project funds
being totally depleted six months prior to the designated project completion date.
Project operating costs (excluding salaries) were the highest funded category, at 35 percent, followed
by vehicles and equipment, at 29 percent. Little lasting impact is expected for these investments, and no
follow-up conventional extension projects are anticipated. Most of the motorcycles bought will probably
not be put to good use because the extension system has no funds to finance its programs after the closure
of PNVA. Moreover, salaries amounted to 16 percent of total project costs at appraisal. They accounted
for only 4.5 percent of actual project costs, which represents a 70 percent decrease in fund availability for
this category. This reduced the number of extension agents that were present in the field. Luckily, PNVA
was able to count on those extension agents from NGOs, other public entities, and the private sector once
they were given training.
There was no donor cofinancing for PNVA.
6. Sustainability
61 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is Unlikely mainly because of the cancellation of follow-up phases to PNVA
(initiated because of the change in Bank's views on the conception and management of extension services).
PNVA financed 95 percent of the operational costs of extension because it was designed as a first phase of
a long-term 15--20 year NAEP. No provision was made in the design of the first phase of the project for
the government to progressively take charge of the extension's operating costs. Thus the MOA's extension
services, which comprise about 1,200 motorized agents, currently have very little funds to cover the
operating costs of their programs.
It can be argued that follow-up phases could have decreased the allocation to operating costs, which
would have positioned the whole program to be more sustainable. With respect to rationalizing public
resources in support of agricultural services, as mentioned in section 4.1, PNVA did not achieve this target
at the end of five years. However, it has set the foundation for achieving the objective in the longer run due
to the government's commitment not to approve parallel projects.
PNVA has helped strengthen rural institutions (POs) and contributed to making their voice heard in
the rural development decision-making process. Under the current set-up, the stronger POs are likely to
- 10-



provide better services to their members (including extension) and make better use of support services.
However, weaker POs might be detrimentally affected in their cohesion and operation, especially since the
links with the commercial side of agricultural production remain weak in some areas and nonexistent in
others.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements were not anticipated because PNVA was designed as a first phase of a
15--20 year program. Currently no external funding for government extension exists. Some NGOs, private
sector companies, and other partners of the project, such as the army new recruits program and communes,
who have been trained by/involved with the project have modest capacities for extension. However, their
efforts are localized and unsustainable in the absence of an adequately-funded national extension program
that can provide an umbrella for operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Rated Unsatisfactory. Although the project was consistent with the Government's development
vision, strategy, and priorities, and with the Bank's assistance strategy for Madagascar, it suffered from
some significant design flaws that required the project to be restructured. The project's objective was
ambitious, and the borrower's implementation capacity was overestimated. No special attention was given
to pest management since this was not an issue at the time of appraisal. On hindsight, the approach used
did not follow the current Bank safeguard policy in the few instances where chemical pesticides were used.
7.2 Supervision:
Rated Satisfactory. Because there were nine supervision missions (including a mid-term review)
and the fact that the project task managers were based in Tana contributed to an overall successful
monitoring of the project and helped to provide assistance as necessary. Bank staff were proactive in
introducing measures when needed and on a continuing basis to improve project implementation and
performance, such as introducing the seed production component, facilitating partnerships with the
different stakeholders in technology transfer and training, financing key research activities when the
Bank-financed project that supported the national agricultural research system came to an end, and
introducing VLPA. This intervention helped the project stay on track and avoid being bogged down by
constraints that emerged during project implementation such as threats to lose adequate links between
research and extension.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Marginally Satisfactory. The project was conceived as a first
phase of a 15--20 year program at a time when the Training and Visit (T&V) extension system was still in
vogue. It was assumed that other donors would share in financing the NAEP, although this was flagged as
a risk in the SAR because of other donors' reluctance to join NAEP since its inception. Also, the lack of
continuity in the Bank's commitment to public extension in the absence of ensuring a smooth transition in
refocusing the public sector in its key functions (regulatory, policy-making, evaluation), which does not
happen overnight, contributed to embanrass Govermnent.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Rated Marginally Satisfactory. The government was proactive in developing and addressing a
policy letter on agricultural extension to donors announcing that they are expected to help finance the
NAEP. However this letter did not succeed in attracting additional donor funds. The government developed
-11 -



a National Agricultural Extension Strategy in 1999 based on knowledge and experiences accumulated
through the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Rated Unsatisfactory due to delayed and lower-than-agreed-on counterpart funding, which
hampered the operation of the project. Salary payments to the contractual extension agents were often
delayed up to six months. Actual counterpart funding was at 39 percent of what was agreed-on. There were
also delays in detaxing the motorcycles to be used by extension agents, which precluded their use for
project purposes.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Rated Marginally Satisfactory. Project coordination was assumed by the Director of the Extension
Directorate (DVA) at the heart of MOA. PNVA consumed all his time, so that a separate post for project
coordination to exclusively implement and supervise PNVA was created and filled two years into the
project. Attempts at decentralizing project financial management was hampered by regional financial staff'
s inadequate knowledge in project operational procedures. The responsibility for financial management then
reverted to the central project unit, which resulted in better compliance with Bank procedures but delayed
and lowered budgetary transfers to the regions. It should be noted here that in 1997, when all CIRAGRIs
were brought under the project, available replenishment funds were insufficient to finance all regional
programs at the same time. Government requests to increase replenishment from $300,000 to $600,000
were approved only when the Bank was satisfied with the account management, which delayed approval of
the request.
Project progress reporting was done on time and at the frequency agreed-on, however, the data
collected was not as well analyzed and informative as one would wish due to inadequate analytical skills of
some regional staff. Financial reporting suffered from a suboptimal use of the tools provided for financial
and procurement management. Staff were provided with training but did not master the use of the software
which seems to have not been well adapted to their use. Lastly, finalizing the project's human development
plan was delayed, which hampered proper project implementation at the regional level.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rated Unsatisfactory in this ICR mainly due to the severe shortages and delays in counterpart
funding which is of key importance in evaluating government performance.
8. Lessons Learned
§     When a project is part of an umbrella program such as in the case of PNVA, the indicators to
judge the success of each phase and the extent of its contribution to the success of its umbrella program,
the NAEP, should be clearly spelled out.
§     To foster better use of public resources in extension services, it is crucial that an extension
delivery system be demand-driven, responsive to farmer needs, results-oriented, accountable to the
end beneficiaries (farmers), and held accountable when staff performance is inadequate. Otherwise, a
disconnect is created that increases a lack of confidence between farmers and government officials, allows
for the demotivation of all stakeholders, and engenders a high opportunity cost. One remedy would be to
contract out the provision of extension services on a competitive basis and monitor performance closely.
Beneficiaries (farmers) and communes, at least, should be part of the selecting committee.
§     In agricultural service projects, special attention to input supply and the marketing aspects of
agricultural produce is of utmost importance to production potential and the conversion of improved
- 12 -



production to higher farmer income. Markets should be studied to determine optimal farn production, to
diversification opportunities, to finding new markets, and to establishing links with the private sector, POs,
or other entities that could play a role in facilitating input supply and commercializing agriculture.
§     A particularly successful outcome of this project is the partnership system that was instigated
between the project executing agency and other entities in the public sector, communes, NGOs, and the
private sector that have capacities for technology transfer and training. To increase the chances for
empowering these entities to become effective partners in development, to improve the overall capacity for
project implementation, and to rationalize public resources, a challenging operation such as NAEP must
establish partnerships with the actors in the sector.
§     It is thought that the lack of some form of land tenure security--- a system that would have
guaranteed that farmers would reap the benefits of their long-term investments in improving their lands and
agricultural production---acted as a deterrent in agricultural intensification in PNVA. It is recommended
that land tenure securization be covered through a stand-alone project or components within different
projects, to provide an incentive for farmers to improve their production systems, and to magnify the
positive impacts of a project such as PNVA.
§     The unguided and nonjudicious use of pesticides results in the build-up of pest resistance and
provokes environmental degradation. If the training of extension agents on pest management only focuses
on which pesticide acts on which pest/disease, then the likelihood of farmers using IPM, especially in the
absence of a pest management policy/plan, becomes minimal. A clear pest management
policy/strategy/plan that also covers training (of extension staff and farmers) must be part of project
design to guide pest management activities and ensure compliance with Bank safeguard policies.
§     Emergencies and natural disasters: In addition to developing a mitigation plan to respond
effectively to a national emergency, it is recommended that such a plan be coupled with a sustainable
financing mechanism in order to avoid an ad hoc emergency response.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Officials from MOA and DVA expressed their frustration at the Bank's ambivalent position with
respect to extension management; at the somewhat abrupt discontinuation of financing the system; and at
the prospect of having to compete for external financing with NGOs and the private sector in the future.
These officials were also frustrated (due to lack of time) that they could not scale up positive results and
correct the inefficiencies identified in the implementation of PNVA. They have difficulty seeing themselves
on par with NGOs and the private sector due to their important role in defining and implementing
agricultural policy and strategies.
Other divisions of MOA express frustration and satisfaction at coordinating and working with
PNVA. DAPP and the National Coordination Unit of PPI2 noted a lack of coordination and synergy with
PNVA, some due to the lack of a national policy on agriculture, which could have been remedied through
joint or coordinated work programs. Nonetheless, PPI noted higher agricultural production in the irrigated
areas where PNVA provided extension services.
(b) Cofinanciers:
PNVA did not have any cofinancing. It was the sole source of financing of NAEP. This is an
indication that other donors did not necessarily agree with the government or the Bank on the design or
management of the system, although they acknowledge the dire need for extension.
- 13-



All donors consulted during the ICR mission concurred that neither the system nor the extension
personnel were well managed. The general impression was that many extension agents were incompetent in
their knowledge and communication skills, they did not respond to farmers' needs, and they were not
disciplined when their performance was inadequate, which resulted in a pronounced lack of motivation.
Donors noted that farmers had very little confidence in PNVA.
(c) Other partners (NCGOs/private sector):
One of PNVA's strengths was the creation of partnerships with the different stakeholders in the
agricultural sector: other public entities, communes, NGOs, the private sector, and even the Malagasy
army. The success of these partnerships was a reflection of the type of work contracted and the competence
of the partners.
One of the NGOs consulted (that trained PNVA agents) expressed its satisfaction with partnering
with PNVA, while another (that contracted PNVA for extension in their area of operation) expressed its
frustration with the small number of visits and the inadequate and not well communicated knowledge of the
extension staff. The visits were mainly to assess damage to crops that farmers (and agents) could be
compensated for. A lack of confidence by farmers was noted. Yet, another example of partnership proved
successful: PNVA provided assistance to the army in Diego to produce base and certified seeds for profit,
and trained their young recruits on extension. These recruits would eventually play the role of field
extension agents. This partnership more than doubled the production and revenues of the army stationed in
Diego and helped them improve their quality of life.
The private sector (providers of pesticides) was quite happy with the partnership with PNVA
because their revenues increased as a result. The extension agents facilitated the transfer of knowledge and
pesticide needs between the farmers and the private sector. Training of extension staff on the pesticides was
also provided by the private sector. However, agents were often slow to collect the orders for pesticides
from farmers, which caused delays in pesticide availability and application.
10. Additional Information
None.
- 14-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Number of benefiting farmer families                      Not specified       793,600 (53% of a total
of 1.5 million farming
families)
Number of farmers adopting recommended
technologies as a percent of farners participating in        25% 1/                   > 43%
extension visits
Increase in national rice production ('000 t)         200 (21% increase) I/   164 (13% increase) 2/
Participation rate by farmers potentially
interested in extension message in percent                   30% 1/                    30%
Increase in the number of adopting farmers in
comparison with those potentially interested (%)             40% 1/                    40%
Privatization of the Seed Multiplication Centers        45 privatized (all)       8 privatized and
3 under way
1/   Projection for Year 4 of the project (1998)
2/    Actual results in Year 4 of the project
Geographical coverage                                       Not specified             40%
Number of contact groups put in place                          38,200             32,000 (84%)
Number of farm-level trials and tests established              2,900              9,277 (320%)
Number of demonstration plots established                     303,000            583,922 (193%)
Civil works executed and received                                all                Yes (all)
Vehicles received                                                all              Yes (all): 69
vehicles and 1996
motorcycles
Equipment and supplies received                                  all                Yes (all)
Community storage facilities constructed                         12                 5 (42%)
Training sessions for Producer Organizations                   9,620               5,100 (53%)
Training sessions for farmers                                1.9 million           1.7 million
on bi-monthly basis         (89%
accomplished)
Training sessions for extension agents (all topics)            9,410               7,115 (76%)
Number of extension agents trained                             3,000               2.040 (68%)
- 15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Extension, research links and support for farmer   28.6                 15.9                 56%
organizations
Training and human resource management              3.0                  2.3                 77%
Financial management, accounting, and internal      0.2                  0.2                100%
audit
Monitoring and evaluation                           0.5                  1.2                240%
Directorate of Agriculture and National             2.1                  2.8                133%
Extension
Support to seed production                           -                   1.1
Applied research                                                         1.0
Locust control                                       -                   2.0
Total Baseline Cost                                34.4
Physical contingencies                        0.2
Price contingencies                           2.0
Total Project Costs                            36.6                 26.6                73%
Total IDA Financing                             25.2                 22.2           99.6% (in SDR
terms)
- 16 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements in 1995 (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
1. Goods (vehicles and equipment)               15.1           0.5           0.2                          15.8
(11.8)        (0.4)         (0.1)                        (12.3)
2. Civil works                                   1.0           1.6                                         2.6
(0.8)        (1.4)                                       (2.2)
3. Services (consultants, subcontracts, and                    0.5                                         0.5
audits)                                                       (0.5)                                       (0.5)
4. Training                                                                  0.9                           0.9
(0.9)                        (0.9)
5. Operating costs, excluding salaries                                      10.4           0.4            10.8
(9.3)           -            (9.3)
6. Salaries                                                                                6.0             6.0
Total                         16.1          2.6           11.5           6.4            36.6
(12.6)        (2.3)        (10.3)            -           (25.2)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Direct shopping and services provided that do not require procurement
- 17 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements in 2000 (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
1. Goods (vehicles and equipment)                 4.7           2.3           0.7                            7.7
(4.7)                       (0.7)                          (5.4)
2. Civil works                                                  2.5                                          2.5
(2.1)                                        (2.1)
3. Services (consultants, subcontracts, and                                   1.1                            1.1
audits)                                                                      (1.1)                          (1.1)
4. Training                                                                   1.7                            1.7
(1.7)                          (1.7)
5. Operating costs, excluding salaries                                       (8.9)           0.5             9.4
(8.9)                          (8.9)
6. Salaries                                                                                  1.2             1.2
7. Seed multiplication                            0.1                         1.1                            1.2
(0.1)                       (0.9)                          (1.0)
8. Pesticides                                     0.8           0.9           0.3                            2.0
(0.8)         (0.9)         (0.3)                          (2.0)
Total                          5.6           5.7           13.8           1.7            26.8
(5.6)         (3.0)        (13.6)                         (22.2)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Direct shopping and services provided that do not require procurement
- 18 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.   .  .............  ........   ...   .   .   .   .   .  .   .  .   . 
Extension, research links and support for  20.97    9.49      12.89      3.02     61%       32%
farmer organizations
Training and human resource management   2.27       1.03      1.89      0.42      83%       41%
Financial management, accounting, and    0.11       0.05      0.18       0.05     164%      100%
internal audit
Monitoring and evaluation                0.35       0.15      1.00      0.23      286%     153%
Directorate of Agriculture and National  1.50       0.67      2.29      0.52      153%      78%
Extension
Support to seed production                                    0.92      0.21
Applied research                                              1.00        -
Locust control                                                1.99        -
Total                   25.20      11.39     22.16      4.45      99%      39%
(SDR
terms)
- 19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No Net Present Value (NPV) or Economic Rate of Return (ERR) were calculated at the
writing of the SAR, which reflects that the project was mainly an institutional building project and
therefore an accurate NPV or ERR could not be calculated. Nor were projections made for
economic costs and benefits. However, an evaluation of PNVA conducted in 1999 by the
National Institute of Statistics in selected DRAs concluded that the project's ERR was in the
order of 47 percent for Antsiranana, 27 percent for Antananarivo and Ambatondrazaka, 10
percent for Mahajanga, and 9 percent for Toliara.
An important benefit of the project that cannot be quantified is the fact that the farmners and
POs that participated in PNVA's program were exposed to training and interaction with different
stakeholders, which increased their capacity to become effective partners in development.
20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Perfomnatuig
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMSi etc.)    Implementation   Development
MonthYear   Count            Specialty                       Progress          cve
Identification/Preparation
10/94                      4   Sr. Ag. Economist, Sr. Ag.
(Pre-appraisal)                 Training Specialist, Operations
Assistant, Ag. Extension
Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/95                      4   Sr. Ag. Economist, Ag.
(Appraisal)                     Training Specialist,
Financial Analyst, Ag.
Extension Specialist
04/95                      4   Sr. Agriculturist (MG), Principal
(Negotiation)                   Legal Advisor (DC, USA), Ag.
Extension Specialist (MG), MG
Portfolio Manager (MG)
Supervision
05/95                       1   Sr. Ag. Economist                   S              S
12/95                       4   Sr. Ag. Economist, Sr. Training    S               S
Specialist, Ag. Extension
Specialist, Research/Extension
Linkages Consultant
09/96                       3   Sr. Ag. Economist, Ag.              S              S
Extension Specialist, Sr.
Agriculturist
06/97                       2   Sr. Training Specialist, Ag.        S              S
Extension Specialist
01/98                       1  Ag. Extension Specialist             S              S
06/98                       2   Ag. Extension Specialist,           S              S
Consultant
01/99                       2   Ag. Extension Specialist,           S              S
Consultant
05/99                       2   Ag. Extension Specialist, Sr. Ag.   S              S
Extension Specialist
05/00                       3   Ag. Extension Specialist, Sr.       S              S
Agriculturist, Program Assistant
ICR
02/01                      1    Rural Development                                  S
Specialist
- 21 -



(b) Staff
Identification/Preparation             40.8                       108.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                  23.8                        69.0
Supervision                           167.6                      474.3*
ICR                                     5.0                         8.3
Total                                 237.2                      660;0*
*/ Includes $29,800 in benefits and indirect costs in FY00 only. Prior to FY00, benefits and indirect
costs were not borne by the project
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=-Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O3 H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ISector Policies                          3 H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  O SU O M  * N  O NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                 O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Gender                            O H O SU O M 0 N O NA
a Other (Please specify)           3 H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Private sector development              0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                3 H  0 SU*  M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                            OHS  OS   *U  OHU
I Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
F Overall                                            OHS *S  OU  O HU
62 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
F Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
 Government implementation performance              O HS O S   * U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  OU  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS *U O HU
-24-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Analyse et repartition desfonctions du secteur agricole (perennes et transitoires) et structures de
transition. 2000. MOA, Madagascar.
Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Madagascar. 1994. Country Department 8,
Africa Region, the World Bank, Washington, DC, USA.
Development Credit Agreement, and subsequent amendments. 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998.
Madagascar PNVA, IDA Credit 2729.
Disbursement Database and Reports. 1995-2000. Madagascar PNVA, IDA Credit 2729. World
Bank Integrated Controller's Systems.
E valuation des comp6tences du personnel technique et administratif du PNVA:
Recommendations. 1998. Cabinet d'Ingenieurs-Conseils Omnisectoriels (CICO), Madagascar.
E9valuation des impacts de la lutte antiacridienne sur la santa humaine. 1999. ONE, Ministry of
the Environment, Madagascar.
L 'Evaluation des impacts du PNVA. 2000. Institut National de la Statistique, Madagascar.
Evaluation qualitative par les b6nificiaires et les partenaires du PNVA 1998. MOA Madagascar
and World Bank.
Lafin de I 'invasion acridienne gjnjralisje ai Madagascar. 2000. Locust Surveillence Project,
CNLA, Madagascar.
Midterm Review Package. 1998. Madagascar PNVA, IDA Credit 2729.
Personal communications with several colleagues at the World Bank's headquarters and in
Madagascar, donor representatives, Malagasy Government officials, and members of
communities, farmer groups, NGOs, and the private sector who were involved with the
Madagascar PNVA, IDA Credit 2729.
Procurement Database and Reports. 1995-2000. Madagascar PNVA, IDA Credit 2729. World
Bank ISR/SAP system.
Progress Reports (1996-2000). PNVA. PMU, MOA, Madagascar.
Rapport de fin d'execution du PNVA. 2001. PNVA. PMU, MOA, Madagascar.
Reflexions d'e'tape sur huit annees de mise en oeuvre du PNVA a Madagascar. 1998. MOA and
NAEP, Madagascar.
- 25 -



Staff Appraisal Report. 1995. Madagascar PNVA, IDA Credit 2729.
Statement of Mission Objectives, Back-to- Office Reports, Supervision Reports, and
Aide-Memoires. 1994-2000. Madagascar PNVA, IDA Credit 2729.
Strategie nationale de vulgarisation agricole a Madagascar. 2000. MOA, Madagascar.
Suivi des impacts de la lutte antiacridienne sur les especes non-cibles a Malaimbandy,
Madagascar. 2000. ONE, Ministry of the Environment, Madagascar.
Le systeme national de vulgarisation agricole ai Madagascar. 1995. MOA and NAEP,
Madagascar.
- 26 -



Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
Rapport de Fin d'Execution du PNVA
SOMMAIRE
1-    INTRODUCTION
2-    OBJECTIFSDUPROJET
3 -    REALISA TIONS DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
o      Renforcement et amelioration des services d 'appui aux paysans
o     Amelioration de la productivite agricole
Li    Developpement de la capacite d'organisation et de negociation des producteurs
4.    EXECUTION DU PROJET ET PRINCIPA UX FACTEURS A YANTAFFECTE SA
REALISA TION
Li    Gestion technique
oi    Gestionfinanciere
n     Principauxfacteurs ayant influence le Projet
5.    RESUL TA TS ET E VAL UA TION DES RESUL TA TS
ni    Partenariat
Li    Reisultats techniques:
>  Tableau des indicateurs globaux de performance du Projet
>  Developpement des technologies:
*     La Recherche en Milieu Paysan
*     La vulgarisation des themes porteurs
*     La valorisation des produits
*     L'adoption
u Appui a lafiliere semenciere
o     Appui aux Organisations de Producteurs
Li    Formation
o     Gestion des ressources humaines
c     Suivi-Evaluation:
> Evaluation du Projet par les beneficiaires
> Evaluation des impacts du Projet
6.    DURABILITE DU PROJET
7.    PERFORMANCES DEL 'EMPRUNTEUR
8.    PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE
9.    ENSEIGNEMENTS A TIRER DE LA PHASE D'EXTENSION
10.   ACTIONS FUTURESAPRES LA CLOTURE DUPROJET
- 27 -



INTRODUCTION
Madagascar est un pays A vocation agricole, et malgre la succession des grandes operations et projets,
le secteur de developpement Agricole n'a cesse de rechercher 1' approche la plus appropriee pour r6pondre
aux attentes du milieu rural. Ainsi a et mis en place le Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole
credit 2150 MAG, phase pilote, base sur le systeme Formation / Visite. Ce Projet, qui fut acheve au 30
Juin 1995, a ete remplace par le Projet d'Appui au Programme National de la Vulgarisation Agricole credit
2729 MAG mis en vigueur le 28 Novembre 1995 et qui a consiste a mettre en ceuvre le Systeme National
de Vulgarisation Agricole progressivement sur l'ensemble des 29 circonscriptions agricoles du pays. Le
present rapport resume les actions, les realisations, les resultats et les performances de ce projet, met en
exergue les enseignements A tirer et propose les modalites d'execution des actions futures.
2.     OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
Conformement aux objectifs du Ministere de l'Agriculture formules dans sa politique agricole et
alimentaire, l'objectif global du projet vise I 'amdlioration des revenus des paysans et la
professionnalisation du mitier d'Agriculteur.
Les objectifs specifiques sont definis comme suit: (a) renforcer et ameliorer les services d'appui aux
paysans, (b) ameliorer la productivite agricole, et (c) developper la capacite d'organisation et de
n-gociation des producteurs.
En vue d'atteindre ces objectifs et selon l'Accord de Credit, les composantes mises en wuvre dans le
Projet sont les suivantes: (a) Vulgarisation Agricole, Liaison avec la Recherche et Appui aux
Organisations Paysannes, (b) Formation et Gestion des Ressources Humaines, (c) Gestion Financiere,
Comptabilite et Audit Interne, (d) Suivi-Evaluation, (e) Appui aux services du Ministere charges de la
Vulgarisation Agricole, (f) Appui a la Filiere Semence (depuis 1997), et (g) Lutte Antiacridienne (suite A
l'invasion nationale de 1998).
3.     REALISATIONS DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
*     Renforcement et am lioration des services d'aypui aux pavsans
Cet objectif a ete concretise par differentes realisations, a savoir:
)      Le developpement d'un partenariat entre diverses institutions pour viser une complementarite des
competences et une synergie des actions, materialise par l'augmentation des conventions etablies avec les
ONG, les societes privees et les communes rurales, des participations aux seances de coordination, de
reflexion, de supervision, et d'evaluation.
>      La tenue des formations periodiques et specifiques pour les agents operant dans le programme
(formations techniques en developpement de technologies agricoles, en gestion administrative et financiere,
en management, en suivi-evaluation) et pour les paysans (visites de quinzaine, voyages d'etudes, visites et
voyages organises, projections audiovisuelles, demonstrations),
>      Les dotations en materiels de locomotion ( motos et vehicule 4x4 ) pour les agents des CIRAGRJ,
les Coordinateurs regionaux et des Directeurs regionaux, les services centraux de la Direction de la
Vulgarisation Agricole, la Direction de la Gestion du Personnel et de la Formation et des deux Iycees
agricoles pilotes de Bezaha et d'Ambanja
>      La dotation en materiels informatiques , mobiliers et materiels de bureau et audiovisuels de toutes
les entites du projet
>      La rehabilitation des bureaux de la Direction de la Vulgarisation Agricole, des Directions
Regionales de l'Agriculture, des CIRAGRI et des zones, ainsi que ceux de l'EASTA, soit 79 travaux
- 28 -



realises au total.
>      L'appui materiel et financier aux institutions semencieres ( SOC, CMS et GPS),
>      Le financement de la publication trimestrielle du bulletin de liaison PARIAKA et des emissions
tdldvisdes ainsi que des supports audioscriptovisuels.
>      Le financement de travaux de consultation pour diverses etudes.
*      Amilioration de la productivite agricole
Pour atteindre cet objectif, diverses actions ont ete ddveloppees:
>-     La facilitation de la proximite des services agricoles au benefice des agriculteurs groupes au sein
d'associations paysannes de diffdrentes natures (groupes de contact, groupements villageois, organisations
de producteurs) pour toucher le plus grand nombre de paysans
>      LLe developpement des technologies pour accroitre le niveau de rendements des principales
speculations (agriculture, elevage, pisciculture, sylviculture ....... ) dans les centres de recherche (FOFIFA,
FIFAMANOR, autres recherches-actions), puis dans les parcelles des paysans pour demonstration.
>      Le renforcement de la liaison permanente avec la Recherche concue pour entretenir le phenomene
gendration/diffusion de technologie, elargie aux divers organismes specialises se traduisant par la
diversification des themes et des speculations, et par l'identification des themes porteurs favorisant une
meilleure adoption de la part des paysans.
>      L'appui a la filiere semenciere , faisant l'objet d'un programme bien defini et soutenu (appui aux
Groupements Producteurs Semenciers, Groupements des Agriculteurs Multiplicateurs de semences et
Centre Multiplicateurs de Semences, assistance technique, avances en intrants et materiels agricoles ...)
pour satisfaire les besoins des producteurs en semences de qualitd et en quantite suffisante, le programme
ayant permis de produire 6500 tonnes de semences toutes speculations confondues.
>      La valorisation plus poussee de l'approche participative a travers les diagnostics de structures,
dexploitation , de parcelle et l'Approche Participative au Niveau Village (APNV) pour mieux cibler les
priorites, les themes, et les responsabilites respectives de chaque categorie d'acteurs, et le calendrier
d'execution des actions.
Developpement de la capacite d'organisation et de n6gociation des producteurs
Dans cette optique, I'axe "Appui aux Organisations Paysannes" a ete insdre dans le systeme.
L'objectif est de promouvoir des OP pour etre des interlocuteurs et partenaires avises, legitimes, capables
de negocier, de mener et de gerer des programmes de developpement agricole qui contribuent ! aameliorer
leurs revenus. L'appui du projet est de diffdrentes natures:
)      Conseils technico-economiques pour le calcul des valeurs ajoutees sur les differentes speculations
et pour la mise en place des Greniers Communautaires Villageois (GCV) leur permettant de stocker et de
vendre les produits au moment ou les prix sont les plus avantageux
>      Mise a disposition des groupements producteurs de semences des avances en intrants et materiels
agricoles pour leur permettre de produire des semences de qualite
>      Actions menees pour regrouper les producteurs au sein d'organisations qui leur permettent de
mieux tirer profit des resultats de leur travail d'agriculteur.
>      Informations /formations necessaires pour ameliorer les competences de leurs leaders dans le
domaine organisation et gestion (appui aux demandes de credit aupres de la BTM, des Mutuelles d'
Epargne et de Credit ..., appui a l'elaboration d'activites generatrices de revenus, a l'utilisation et la
cogestion des outils de developpement par l'Information-Education-Communication, des techniques
d'elaboration de projet et de marketing)
>      Developpement du partenariat avec les Societes d'intrants permettant la mise en place des reseaux
de distribution de proximite et des centrales d'achat geres par les membres d'organisations de producteurs
- 29 -



(au Lac Alaotra et Antsirabe ...)
>     Realisation des voyages organises avec la participation de membres d'OP A travers le pays et trois
pays africains pour favoriser les echanges d'experiences et promouvoir leur capacite d'initiatives.
>     Organisation des villages afin qu'ils puissent se prendre en charge en matiere de negociation avec
les operateurs pour satisfaire leurs besoins prioritaires et l'achat des intrants ou materiels agricoles ainsi
que la vente des produits (dans le cadre de I'APNV).
EXECUTION DU PROJET ET PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AYANT AFFECTE SA
REALISATION
o     Gestion technique du Projet
Le Projet, ayant pour objet la mise en oeuvre du Systeme National de Vulgarisation Agricole (SNVA),
s'est attele A l'extension du Programme vers d'autres Circonscriptions avec une couverture des 29
CIRAGRI qui fut atteinte progressivement en 1997 (Phase Nationale). La mise en place des Coordinations
Regionales (12) au niveau de chaque D(I)RA a facilite l'exdcution technique et financiere du Projet.
O      Gestionflnanciere du Projet
Le Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole, finance par le credit 2729 MAG de l'lntemational
Developpement Agency (IDA) avec une contribution de l'Etat malagasy (Fonds de Contrepartie), a obtenu
une allocation de 16 200 000 DTS selon l'Accord de Credit signe le 17 juillet 1995.
Lors de cette phase du Projet, deux (02) amendements ont ete realises pour solutionner des problemes
emanant de la Nation dont l'objectif est de prdserver le systeme de vulgarisation en appuyant le Programme
National de Recherche Agricole (apres la cl6ture du PNRA en 1997) et creant les deux categories suivantes
: (a) Categorie 6: "Appui A la Filiere Semence" en 1996, et (b) Categorie 7: "Lutte Antiacridienne" en
1998.
a     La Coordination Nationale du Projet a assure la gestion financiere du projet , les Coordinations
rdgionales ( D(I)RA et CIRAGRls) lui transmettent les dossiers de demande de service sur la base de
crddit inscrit au Programme de Travail annuel (PTA) qui leur est alloue. L'exdcution a connu un certain
decalage suite A un retard du deblocage du Fonds de Contre Partie malagasy entrainant des impayds
chroniques.
a     Les caisses d'avance ouvertes dans les regions apres un test non concluant de decentralisation,
n ont servi finalement qu'A recevoir le virement des paiements en provenance de la Coordination Nationale.
La decentralisation de credit a ete necessaire pour diminuer l'augmentation du cout manag6rial du projet
(frequents deplacements A Antananarivo, cout de fret supplementaire pour des achats effectues A
Antananarivo). L'origine de telle situation est imputable d'une part A l'insuffisance notoire du Fonds de
Contre Partie du Gouvemement ne permettant pas l'approvisionnement des caisses d'avance des rdgions, et
d'autre part a la mauvaise gestion constatee au niveau des premieres caisses approvisionnees de certaines
Regions.
D'une maniere gendrale, en matiere de gestion financiere, le retard dans la mise en place et
l'insuffisance de credit sur le Fond de Contre Partie ont beaucoup handicape les responsables du Projet.
Malgre les ouvertures de comptes aupres des services excentriques et la formation recue par les
responsables, la decentralisation budgdtaire n'est pas encore effective accusant le non-paiement A temps des
indemnites des agents. Le Droit et Taxe A l'Importation (DTI) n'a pas ete suffisant pour les anndes 1999 et
2000 au dedouanement des motos acquis dans le cadre du Projet entrainant la non repartition de ces
materiels aupres des beneficiaires.
O     Facteurs ayant influence le Projet
- 30 -



Politiques et economigues:
*      Les institutions financieres (en particulier les banques primaires) ne sont pas encore accessibles par
la majoritd des producteurs agricoles avec leur taux d'interet de + 24% et l'utilitd des mutuelles d'epargne
et de crddit est encore faiblement acquise
*      L'adoption des rdgimes fiscaux sur les intrants, notamment l'application du TVA par l'Etat, qui
selon l'avis partage des opdrateurs, des techniciens et des producteurs, a amend ces demiers A abandonner
l'utilisation des pesticides, des engrais et des materiels agricoles.
*      La fluctuation des prix des produits aux producteurs n'a pas toujours eu un effet incitatif:
pendant la durde du Projet, (le prix du paddy a evolud de 500 A 1000F/Kg tandis que le riz au
consommateur est passd de 1.200 A 3.500Fmg/Kg) et les prix A l'exportation des cultures de rentes ont
connu une grande fluctuation.
*      Le Projet s'est deroule durant la pdriode oui le pays cherche a concretiser les mutations
economiques compatibles avec 1'esprit de la mondialisation entre autres le ddsengagement de I'Etat du
secteur productif , I'ajustement structurel et la privatisation des entreprises publiques (cf. DCPE). La
transition plus ou moins brusque n'est pas tres bien saisie surtout au niveau des producteurs.
*      Les options politiques retenues sont axdes sur la ddcentralisation et l'autonomie des provinces,
mais le transfert de compdtence et de moyens est en cours d'dtude.
*      Les cataclysmes naturels, dont invasion acridienne, cycl6nes, sdcheresse ont conditionnd le choix
et la decision des decideurs sur les orientations stratdgiques A entreprendre mais aussi des producteurs.
Technique .
Durant la vie d'ensemble du projet, les aspects suivants ont plus ou moins influencd son pilotage:
*      Des nouvelles technologies ont dte mises au point pour amener une augmentation de la productivitd
agricole: I'augmentation de rendement (R) de plus de 4T/HA gdnere par le SRI est significatif, le
lancement des nouvelles varietds de fiz (irrigud et pluvial), haricot, arachide, mais, et l'utilisation des
ressources locales (Hyper Barren, Composts, Azolla, Neems...) ont permis d'avoir un retour sur
investissement apprdciable sur les cultures.
*      La diversitd des besoins des producteurs et 1'existence des fldaux de grande envergure (criquets,
&rosion et diminution de la fertilitd des sols, cycl6nes, sdcheresse, inondations) ont exigd de la part du
programme une extension de ses domaines d'intervention.
*      Certains ONG, malgrd leurs ressources humaines a niveau de scolarisation dlevde, sont
handicapees par leur manque de formation agricole de base et leur manque dexpdriences malgre les
diffdrentes formations dispensdes.
Budgetaire et financier
*      Durant la vie du Projet, le comportement de certains partenaires vis A vis du PA/PNVA le
considdrant comme partenaire financier plutot que technique, a portd atteinte aux rdsultats du programme.
C'est ainsi que la campagne 1999/2000 est marquee par une stabilisation du nombre de partenaires (de
120 A 90 environ) dont la plupart ont bute au probleme de budget de fonctionnement
*       Situation incertaine A chaque ddbut d'annde des 400 agents ECD en raison de l'insuffisance de
credit d'investissement.
*      Difficulte de communication avec les regions due principalement A leur inaccessibilite en saison
pluvieuse et A l'inexistence des infrastructures de communication.
*      Contribution du projet au financement de la Recherche Agricole suite A la cloture de crddit du
Programme National de Recherche Agricole (PNRA/FOFIFA) et au financement de la lutte antiacridienne
ayant grevd le budget de fonctionnement du programme.
*      Non disponibilitd A temps du Fond de Contre Partie de l'Etat Malagasy pour honorer les depenses
effectudes selon le pourcentage d'eligibilitd de l'accord de crddit du Projet.
- 31 -



4.   RESULTATS ET EVALUATION DES RESULTATS
Partenariat
Plusieurs types d'intervenants ont collabore avec le PA/PNVA dans la mise en ceuvre du Systeme: 16
societds privees, 97 ONG et associations, 120 communes rurales, 27 projets et 17 services publics. Le
partenariat consiste en: (a) la mise a disposition d'agents de vulgarisation a tout niveau ; (b) l'intervention
en tant que personne ressource (dans le cadre des AMRT, des formations specifiques, des missions de
supervision conjointes et d'evaluation); et (c) la conduite de la Recherche en Milieu Paysan. Par ailleurs, la
dotation en mat6riel roulant et en fonctionnement (allocation, fournitures et carburant lubrifiant) assurde
par le PA/PNVA a beaucoup enthousiasme les partenaires.
Sur les 1447 agents de vulgarisation qui travaillent directement avec les paysans pour la mise en
ceuvre du Projet depuis 1995, 517 (soit 36%) ont e  foumis par les partenaires dont: 213 mis a
disposition par les Communes Rurales, 151 par les ONG, 82 par les Socidtes Privees et Societ6s d'Etat, 59
par les Projets, 12 par les services publics.
Certains organismes specialises entreprennent des activitds de Recherche en Milieu Paysan, la
formation et la diffusion des themes:
*      FAFIALA, pour l'Agroforesterie:
*      RAMILAMINA, ceuvrant dans la valorisation de l'Azolia comme source d'azote pour les differents
systemes de culture et source d'alimentation animale riche en proteines pour les petits dlevages.
3      FIFAALNOR, specialise pour le ble et les plantes a tubercules et ayant realise en matiere de
TMP et PD un taux depassant les 80% des objectifs pour chaque campagne.
*      Pour les grandes societes specialisees dans la production comme IASYAM (coton), OFMALT4A
ou SOC71AM (tabac) I'integration dans le systeme leur a permis d'aider les paysans d diversifier les
speculations avec amelioration des techniques culturales. La mise en place du systeme national de
vulgarisation a offert une grande opportunite aux societes fournisseurs d'intrants comme DELTA
MADAGASCAR, PROCHIMAD, FIAVAMA, INTERKEM, STOI Agri.
RJsultats techniques
Bien que l'equipement du dispositif de terrain en moyens de deplacement n'allait pas de pair avec la
mise en oeuvre du systeme au niveau de chaque CIRAGRI, les activitds menees ont permis les realisations
suivantes:
TABLEAU DES INDICATEURS GLOBAUX DE PERFORMANCE DU PROJET:
- 32 -



INDICATEURS              94/95      95/96       96/97        97/98         98/99          99/00
Taux d'encadrement                 35         42           39            40            42            37
Total groupe de contact          7 940      6 528      16 203        27 320        26 500         16 902
Tests en milieu paysan (TMP)      880       1 128       1 735         2 210         1 650          1 656
Nombre OP constituantes                                                               170            81
Taux d'adoption p/r EA                      28%          38 %          45%           37%           43%
encadres                                           ____28___38   __    45__37__43_
AP (tonnes)
- Paddy                     42 000     55 100      104 530       177 600       227 920       175 350
- Mais                       2 000      3 700        9 170        10 300        14 970        21 100
- Arachide                    1 120      1 400       3 845         5 400         3 500         5 340
- Pomme de terre               160      6 500       36 690        50 300        45 500        36 390
- Manioc                      5 490     7 300       31 750        42 200        80 330       160 500
- Compost                     3 700     13 000      34 700        51 000        52 200        26 000
> Developpement des technologies
L'intensification des activites de diagnostic A la base, afin de detecter les besoins reels des paysans en ten nes
d'ameliorations techniques et de formation, a favorise l'augmentation du nombre de parcelles tests et de parcelles
de demonstration sur terrain.
O  La recherche en milieu paysan.
En matiere de rdsultats, les themes ont couvert tous les systemes (Riziere, Tanety, Elevage, et
Environnement) et toutes les speculations. Les aspects "Variete, Fertilisation et Agronomie" ont prddomine.
Variant d'une region A une autre, les principaux themes acquis pour la Vulgarisation sont les suivants  (a)
Compostage rapide et pratique ; (b) Techniques culturales ; (c) Varietes amdliorees ; (d) Fertilisation; (e)
Technique < Gestion Agrobiologique du sol > ; (f) Technologie d'appoint visant la valorisation des produits
locaux et la preservation de l'environnement. Malgre l'existence des problemes (non disponibilite dans certaines
regions des comp6tences et des personnes ressources, relations informelles, coordination defaillante, conditions
climatiques de plus en plus defavorables lors des dernieres campagnes ...), la relation avec la Recherche est plus
ou moins developpee, motivee, dynamique selon les regions. Dans l'ensemble, les realisations en matiere de tests
en milieu paysan, ont ete ameliorees en qualite et en quantite, suite aux diagnostics conjoints devenus
systematiques avec les exploitants.
o La vulgarisation des themes porteurs:
Les parcelles de demonstration ont e  elargies A de nouvelles speculations et des themes juges porteurs ont
et vulgarises pour atteindre le principal objectif du projet qui est d'ameliorer la productivite agricole et par la
suite le revenu des agriculteurs. Ces themes sont tres variables selon les CIRAGRI et leur niveau de technicite,
mais les plus apprecies sont: en systeme riziere: les plants jeunes (PJ), SRI, SRA avec les varietes ameliorees; en
systeme tanety: varietes ameliordes, utilisation de la fumure organique et du compost, densite de semis; en
elevage: amelioration de l'habitat, alimentation animale, pisciculture ; en protection de l'environnement et des
bassins versants : amenagement tete de vallon, agroforesterie, gestion agrobiologique des sols, production de
- 33 -



biomasse, haies vives.
Un grand nombre d'agriculteurs ont obtenu de bons resultats par l'application de themes A leur portee et
repondant A leurs besoins reels:
* Riz:
> sur 3.000 parcelles de demonstration en plants jeunes, 54% d'augmentation de rendement par rapport aux
parcelles temoins;
> sur 1.700 parcelles de demonstration en SRI, au moins 100% d'augmentation de rendement.
L'utilisation des nouvelles variet6s et la pratique du repiquage de plants jeunes (moins de 20 jours) et le
sarclage systematique ( manuel, mecanique ou chimique), le renouvellement des semences constituent pour le riz
les themes porteurs de valeurs ajoutees generant un surplus de rendement (R) de plus de 2T/ha et un Rapport
Valeur Cout (RVC) superieur A 3.
* Mais:
> sur 700 parcelles de demonstration avec les nouvelles varietes, 66% d'augmentation de rendement ; (R) de +
0.5T/ha A Toliara.
> sur 800 parcelles de demonstration pour les themes d'amelioration technique (densite, fertilisation
organique ..... ) 83% d'augmentation de rendement;
a Arachide: sur 550 parcelles de demonstration pour les themes d'amelioration technique, 66% d'augmentation
de rendement.
* Pour le maraichage, le traitement phytosanitaire approprie, les semences selectionnees, la fertilisation
organique au compost et minerale sont les themes porteurs.
* Des activites generatrices de revenu supplementaire comme la pisciculture en etang et sur rizieres (revenu net
de 300 000 A 900 000 Fmg/an) et l'elevage A cycle court notamment l'aviculture, l'apiculture sont des themes qui
ont emerge du lot et qui sont hautement apprecies par les producteurs.
* Certains themes comme l'utilisation des plantes pesticides (neem, melia azedarach, piment, consoude), les
technologies d'appoint sont les themes d'avenir totalement compatibles avec le respect de l'environnement.
* Le Projet a initie le partenariat avec les firrnes fabricants et distributeurs d'intrants portant sur l'utilisation de
1'engrais phosphorique naturel extrait des iles Barren et les pesticides contre les poux du riz et les insectes
foliaires des cultures maraich&res et fruitieres.
L La valorisation des produits:
Cette option a et realisee dans le but de diversifier les themes et speculations et d'orienter les activites vers
une integration progressive des paysans dans le circuit du marche. Aussi, des actions relatives A la technique de
conservation et au developpement de petites unites de transformation artisanale ont ete entreprises afin de donner
une meilleure presentation aux produits et d'avoir un debouche plus ouvert. D'autres nouvelles technologies
d'appoint ont ete vulgarisees.
o L'adoption
Le taux d'adoption des techniques culturales par rapport aux exploitants agricoles encadres ne cesse de
s'accroitre 28% en 1995/96, 45% en 1997/98, et 43% en 1999/2000. (Cette baisse s'explique par les conditions
defavorables des deux dernires annees). Les agriculteurs ont apprecie les resultats des techniques vulgarisees et
les ont adoptees. Ainsi, le Projet a permis de generer une production suppl6mentaire cumulee de l'ordre de 740
500 tonnes pour le paddy de 1995/96 A 1999/00, soit 75% de l'objectif assigne au Projet.
> L 'Appui a ila Filiere Semenciere:
Dans le cadre de systeme national de vulgarisation, l'objectif principal du volet semence est de developper un
ensemble d'actions concertees pour satisfaire les besoins des producteurs en semences de qualite. Les differentes
formes d'appui apportees aux GPS et aux CMS ont permis de produire pendant la phase du programme plus de
6.500 Tonnes de semences de qualite, toutes speculations confondues. La quantite totale des semences de qualite
- 34 -



produite annuellement depasse les privisions.
En conclusion sur le developpement des technologies, toutes ces activites ont necessite l'utilisation des outils
de travail appropries dont les principaux ont et le diagnostic participatif et I'AMRT. Leur manipulation a etd
accompagnee de divers modules de formation entres autres les techniques de communication, le management, la
conduite de demonstration et des tests en milieu paysan.
Appui aux Organisations de Producteurs:
o Resultats structurels
Les resultats structurels comprennent la resolution de l'ancien environnement juridique. Le projet a participe
a la validation de la proposition des lois relatives aux cooperatives accordant une importance capitale au
developpement economique des organisations paysannes. II y a aussi le renforcement de la force de negociation,
I'augmentation de la capacite d'expression des producteurs ruraux a travers l'emergence progressive de structure
faiti&re (75 Unions et 7 Federations constituees) et la mise en place de plate-formes de concertations entre OP et
OP-Institutions des secteurs publics et prives en fin de Projet. Parallelement, il y a la mise en place de services
publics d'appui decentralises renforces.
Li Risultats technico-&eonomiques
La methode de travail adoptde consiste a mener un diagnostic orientd vers la recherche d'opportunite et
d'actions immediates et a programmer des actions prioritaires realisables. Des contrats-programmes sont etablis
avec les groupements / SOP et operateurs. L'appropriation et la capitalisation de cette methode d'approche par les
beneficiaires se refletent a travers:
a le developpement significatif des Activites Generatrices de Revenus par l'augmentation de 280 % en fin de
Projet (1999/2000) de la quantite de produits agricoles stockes (riz, mais et autres) par rapport a la campagne
95/96 degageant de la valeur ajoutee au destockage de l'ordre de 5 milliards de Fmg.
* Ia promotion de 1l'eevage a cycle court
* la mise en reseau des organisations paysannes appuyees par le Projet aux caisses d'epargne et de credit,
 I'amdlioration du taux de remboursement de crddit aupres des organismes de credit (90 %)
 la prise en charge progressive des divers services d'approvisionnement et de commercialisation par les
producteurs.
La Formation
La forrnation dans le cadre du Systeme National de Vulgarisation Agricole est l'un des moyens permettant
au dispositif de vulgarisation, aux agriculteurs et groupes d'agriculteurs de parvenir au professionnalisme. C'est
pour cela que le dispositif a tous les niveaux a beneficie durant la vie du projet d'une formation reguliere et
continue afin d'accroitre ses competences. Pour les agriculteurs, l'intervention du Projet a consiste en des
formations/actions relatives a! des themes techniques simples par le biais de la mise en place de parcelles de
demonstration pendant les visites de quinzaine, et des appuis/conseils sur la gestion de leur exploitation.
Des outils de vulgarisation tels que les visites organisees et les voyages d'etudes a l'exterieur et au niveau
local, au profit des agents de la vulgarisation et des agriculteurs ont dte realises pour complementer ces
formations. Des ateliers regionaux, nationaux et internationaux ont ete egalement tenus pour favoriser les
echanges d'experiences. Des supports d'appui aux formations et des outils d'infornation/communication ont ete
egalement mis en euvre.
La Gestion des Ressources Humaines:
o Realisation de test de performances pour tous les agents du Projet
o Tests de niveau et de recrutement des agents A intdgrer dans le programme ont permis de selectionner les
agents les plus qualifies
o Entretiens individuels dans les CIRAGRI
- 35 -



Le Suivi-Evaluation
Pour le suivi-evaluation, malgre des difficultes rencontrees au debut de sa mise en ceuvre, telles que
inexistence des donnees de reference, non maitrise des outils, retard de remontee des informations, une
amelioration du systeme d'inforrnation a e  effectuee. L'informatisation du systeme de suivi-evaluation a e
effective depuis 1998. Le reseau informatique est installe aux niveaux central et decentralise en fin de phase mais
la mise en liaison avec les regions est bloquee faute de communication telephonique .
r Evaluation du Projet par les beneflciaires (en 1998)
Aspect technique
* Une majorite significative de beneficiaires membres de GC reconnait que les techniques transmises ont et bien
recues et utilisees;
* Une inadaptation globale du programme est fortement soulignee par les partenaires institutionnels: une
approche se cantonnant aux seules techniques et negligeant les autres aspects touchant A la situation vecue des
paysans, une methode rigide , un personnel n'dtant pas toujours a la mesure des ambitions du programme, une
structure donnant trop de poids aux instances superieures, des techniques d'information et de sensibilisation
obsoletes:
a Des failles dans la mise en wuvre: manque de donnees de base sur les CIRAGRI, apparition  au sein du
dispositif de tendances contraires a la participation des paysans,
Aspect socio-economigue
L La rentabilite des techniques est reconnue IA oui la collecte et la commercialisation des produits sont assurees.
Mais compte tenu du fait que seules quelques regions beneficient de cet avantage, la majorite des membres de GC
sont sceptiques quant A la rentabilite des techniques recues.
En d'autre termes, une augmentation des revenus n'a pas suivi l'augmentation de la production
Aspect vocio-culturel
Peu de souci est accorde aux preoccupations culturelles et linguistiques des betieficiaires d'ou une image floue
et une identit6 dvanescente du projet aupres d'eux.
Changement de comportement des paysans
* Malgre leur vocation fondamentale, certains membres de GC ne sont que de bons recepteurs mais de mauvais
relais pour la transmission des messages techniques .
Partenariat
* Le partenariat avec diverses institutions existe et evolue en dimension et en qualite malgre le fait que le PNVA
est ressenti comme peu permeable aux idees et aux critiques des partenaires.
) L 'Lvaluation des Impacts du Projet
Niveau micro eonomigue: Les resultats obtenus aupres des six CIRAGRI echantillons ont montre que
['appartenance de l'exploitant agricole A un GC entraine une influence positive notable sur les rendements
agricoles et sur les resultats d'exploitation obtenus. Les autres impacts economiques sont tout aussi positifs:
meilleur comportement des exploitants (adoptants) en mati&re d'epargne, de credit ainsi que dans le domaine de
['acquisition de materiel de production et dans la rationalisation des actions. Les capacites de prevision et
d'innovation des adoptants se sont aussi nettement ameliorees.
L L'opinion des exploitants sur le PNVA . Une connaissance certaine des themes est observee mais une difficulte
d'application due a des facteurs souvent exogenes aux exploitants est aussi constatee alors que ces demiers
estiment en general que l'assimilation leur est possible. Les raisons avancees qui ont entraiind aux echecs des
resultats s'articulent autour des phdnomenes naturels (secheresse, criquets ...... ), difficultes d'ordre technique
(manque d'engrais, manque de savoir faire et manque de materiel).
Au niveau macro-economique le taux de rentabilite est encourageant mais l'impact sur le PIB reste encore
- 36 -



peu eleve. Les taux de rentabilite different d'une region a l'autre:
* La DIRA de Manakara a un taux de rentabilite tres bas (0 %) pour raison de non disponibilite des
informations, seul le riz a constitue l'l1ment de base de calcul de TRE. Tandis que ceux d'Antananarivo,
d'Antsiranana, d'Amparafaravola et Toliara ont respectivement 27%, 27%, 47% et 9%.
* Le cas de Mahajanga qui a un taux de rentabilite de 10 % peut etre explique par la conjugaison de plusieurs
facteurs (existence de plusieurs projets et des infrastructures economiques de base permettant de mieux ecouler les
produits).
Le taux de rentabilite au niveau national est de 21 % et reflete la moyenne des taux observes au niveau des
differentes provinces compte tenu de poids peu eleve des superficies conceemes par le PNVA, ce taux est
susceptible d'accroitre rapidement si la vitesse de propagation des theme est elevee.
Les impacts du PNVA sur le rendement des speculations et les comptes d'exploitation des exploitants sont
relativement satisfaisants. Par ailleurs l'effet d'entramnement decoulant de ces performances se traduit, par une
meilleure gestion des ressources financi&res des exploitants agricoles grace a une rationalisation des epargnes .
Les exploitants adoptants ont tendance a faire des previsions, a epargner et a avoir recours a des emprunts aupres
des institutions financieres locales.
1. DURABILITE DU PROJET
Depuis sa mise en ceuvre, la perennisation des actions est un souci majeur du projet. C'est dans ce sens que le
projet au fur et a mesure de son avancement et a la suite des diagnostics effectues, a integre au sein de son
programme les volets "Appui aux Organisations Paysannes" et le "Partenariat". Le projet a eu de serieuses
difficultes pour financer le personnel contractuel dont la majorite sont des agents vulgarisateurs de base et a eu
recours aux solutions suivantes: (a) certains partenaires ont pris en charge des salaires des agents qu'ils integrent
dans le systeme et d'une partie des frais de fonctionnement (allocation de terrain, carburant, ...) ; (b) certains
projets de developpement regional comme PHBM et PADANE prennent en charge le fonctionnement pour assurer
la continuite des activites ; (c) Le secteur prive a assure le financement de certaines activites (mise en place des
tests: foumitures d'intrants et suivi) et pour les actions en amont et en aval de la vulgarisation
(approvisionnement, commercialisation). Parallelement, concemant les aspects techniques, les actions suivantes
ont ete developpees: (a) Un appui particulier est apporte au niveau des organisations des producteurs afin de les
aider a devenir des acteurs a part entiere du developpement; et (b) L'elaboration de la Strategie de Vulgarisation
Agricole a e  realisee de concert avec tous les partenaires concernes, en tenant compte des orientations
politico-economiques actuelles.
2. PERFORMANCES DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
o L'equipe locale a reussi a mettre en place le Systeme National de Vulgarisation Agricole (SNVA), systeme
unique adapte au contexte malgache .
i En matiere de gestion financiere, I'equipe locale a rencontre certaines difficultes d'execution liees aux
procedures de la Banque et a accuse de nombreux retards dans le paiement des allocations entre autres.
u Beaucoup d'efforts ont et realises en matiere de formation pour rehausser le niveau du personnel a toute
hierarchie. Toutefois, I'evaluation de cet aspect n'a pas e  approfondie.
o Dans le souci de bien asseoir le projet, de nombreuses seances de reflexion ont ete organisees pour en produire
des systemes d'approche et des strategies appropriees.
3. PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE
o Durant les cinq annees du Projet, la Banque n'a pas manque d'effectuer des missions de supervision
p6riodiques, materialisees par lVaboration des aides - memoires avec serie de recommandations .
- 37 -



o La strategie de la BM a consistd A evaluer les realisations des dernires recommandations et A reorienter le tir a
chaque mission.
o La Banque n'a pas seulement intervenu sur la vie du Projet (structurelle, technique, financiere), mais a touch6,
voire recommande la restructuration du Ministere, I'assainissement du personnel, ce qui represente un aspect tres
deIicat pour les responsables malgaches.
4. ENSEIGNEMENTS A TIRER DE LA PHASE D'EXTENSION
o Le systeme de partenariat adoptd a montre que les seules ressources de l'Etat ne peuvent supporter la
vulgarisation et par consequent ne peuvent pas assurer la perennisation des actions, la vulgarisation etant une
fonction transitoire de l'Etat,
o La compldmentaritd et la synergie sont capitales pour developper les regions,
o Le systeme standard n'a pas permis un bon fonctionnement des services rdgionaux de vulgarisation. L'
adaptation du systeme au niveau des regions s'est faite diffdremment suivant les specificites regionales.
u  Le comportement des exploitants est plutot influence par la mise en ceuvre des actions generatrices de
rdsultats immediats,
o Le seul ddveloppement de technologie ne permet pas un developpement, il faut egalement tenir compte des
mesures d'accompagnement (recherche d'adaptabilite, accessibilite aux moyens de production, financement rural,
commercialisation, sdcurisation fonciere, maitrise d'eau, environnement...).
O La coordination des interventions A tous les niveaux et du sommet a la base est necessaire.
 L'adaptation du programme en tenant compte des choix linguistique et culturel, de la modernisation des
techniques d'information et de sensibilisation, ...s'avere utile.
u Le partenariat constitue une garantie A terme de la reussite des actions de vulgarisation d'ou la necessite de
proceder a de nouvelles investigations et d'adopter une certaine souplesse dans toute collaboration et toute
convention.
u L'evaluation de la vie et des activitds des OP s'est averee difficile et non maetrisable par le Projet, aussi les
points suivants meritent d'etre pris en compte A titre d'delments d'apprdciation au niveau des associations:
* Amelioration de credibilite vis-a-vis des autres partenaires
 Meilleure receptivite des membres aux innovations technologiques
* Capacite de mobilisation et d'initiative plus nette par rapport aux autres agriculteurs.
O La participation effective des producteurs dans tout le processus conditionne la reussite des actions de
Vulgarisation (ex APNV).
5. ACTIONS FUTURES APRES LA CLOTURE DU PROJET
o Promotion des organisations de producteurs fortes et reconnues;
o Renforcement du partenariat entre Services Agricoles, Organisations de Producteurs et Secteur Prive;
o Renforcement du partenariat envers le secteur privd, les collectivites locales et les autorites particulierement les
Communes;
o Mise en place de structure rdgionalisee semi-autonome;
o Mise en oeuvre des programmes prioritaires et gdnerateurs de valeurs ajoutees;
o Ddveloppement des acquis du programme de la filiere semence;
o Mise A disposition de credits necessaires et suffisants sur Fonds de Contre Partie Malagasy;
o Decentralisation effective de la gestion financiere;
o Amelioration permanente du niveau de competence du personnel;
o Promotion de l'APNV;
o Mise en oeuvre de la Strategie Nationale de Vulgarisation Agricole.
- 38 -



