Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2729 MAG
                   Development Credit Agreement
         (Agricultural Extension Program Support Project)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 17, 1995
                                            CREDIT NUMBER  2729 MAG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has issued a policy statement on
agricultural extension, dated February 22, 1995, describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
an adjustment of the Borrower's agricultural extension services
(hereinafter referred to as "the Program"), and declared its
commitment to the execution of the Program; and
     (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Page  2
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
     (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)   the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
           read:
                 "Except as the Association and the Borrower
                 shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be
                 made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the
                 territories of any country which is not a
                 member of the Bank or for goods produced in,
                 or services supplied from, such territories;
                 or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
                 persons or entities, or for any import of
                 goods, if such payment or import, to the
                 knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by
                 a decision of the United Nations Security
                 Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter
                 of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)   "DA" means Direction de l'Agriculture of MEADR;
     (b)   "MEADR" means the Borrower's Ministere du
Developpement Rural et de la Reforme Fonciere;
     (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixteen million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against setoff,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
Page  3
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each
year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October
15 commencing October 15, 2005 and ending April 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April
15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
     (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
Page  4
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through MEADR with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
technical and environmental practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
     (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
     (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
     (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
     Section 3.04. Without prejudice to its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, in a
commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, an advance account in local currency, to be
operated and maintained by DA, into which it shall deposit from
time to time its local counterpart contribution to the cost of
the Project.
     (b)   The Borrower shall:
           (i)   make an initial deposit of the equivalent of
                 $100,000 into the account referred to in
                 subparagraph (a) of this paragraph; and
           (ii)  have such account replenished on a bi-monthly
                 basis, or whenever the balance thereof equals
                 not more than one third of the amount of the
                 initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
Page  5
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)   The Borrower shall:
           (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                 paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                 for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                 audited, in accordance with appropriate
                 auditing principles consistently applied, by
                 independent auditors acceptable to the
                 Association;
           (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                 available, but in any case not later than six
                 (6) months after the end of each such year, a
                 certified copy of the report of such audit by
                 said auditors, of such scope and in such
                 detail as the Association shall have
                 reasonably requested; and
           (iii) furnish to the Association such other
                 information concerning said records, accounts
                 and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                 from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
           (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                 accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                 records and accounts reflecting such
                 expenditures;
           (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                 Association has received the audit report for
                 the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                 from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                 Special Account was made, all records
                 (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                 and other documents) evidencing such
                 expenditures;
           (iii) enable the Association's representatives
                 to examine such records; and
           (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                 included in the annual audit referred to in
                 paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                 report of such audit contains a separate
                 opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                 statements of expenditure submitted during
                 such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                 and internal controls involved in their
                 preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                 related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
namely, a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
Page  6
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions; namely, that the account referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement has been duly opened, and the
initial amount of $100,000 equivalent deposited therein.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
           Ministry of Finance and Budget
           Antananarivo 101
           Madagascar
           Cable address:                    Telex:
                 MINFIN                        22489
                 Antananarivo
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                    Telex:
                 INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA)
                 Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                               197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                 REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                 By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivelo
                                          Authorized Representative
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
                 By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
     1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
                        Amount of Credit       % of
                            Allocated      Expenditures
                          (Expressed in        to be
Category                 SDR Equivalent)     Financed
1. Vehicles and             7,590,000       100% of foreign
   equipment                                expenditures and
                                            75% of local
                                            expenditures
2. Civil works              1,355,000       100% of foreign
                                            expenditures and
                                            75% of local
                                            expenditures
3. Consultancy services,      300,000       100%
   subcontracts, and audits
4. Training                   570,000       100%
5. Operating costs          5,735,000        95%
6. Unallocated                 650,000
     TOTAL                  16,200,000
                            ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
     (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)   the term "operating costs" means the incremental
operating costs arising under the Project on account of travel
allowances and other field benefits (other than salaries),
maintenance of vehicles, fuel and equipment, and office rent,
supplies and utilities; and
     (d)   the term "subcontracts" has the same meaning as in
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 325,000
may be made in respect of Category (5) of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of
Page  8
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July
1, 1995.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the
Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures for civil works under contracts
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, goods and consultants'
services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, consultants' services (individuals) under contracts
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, operating costs and training,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to increase agricultural
productivity and farmers' incomes in an environmentally
sustainable manner, and to rationalize the use of public
resources in support of agricultural services.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Extension, Research Linkages
          and Support for Farmer Translations
1.   Expansion of the Program to cover all of the Borrower's 28
agricultural districts, including:
     (a)   introduction of an agricultural extension delivery
mechanism involving a fixed schedule of visits to farmers,
regular training of extension staff, clear division of training
and supervision responsibilities, and the development of
appropriate technologies through a process of diagnosis of
farmer needs involving researchers, subject matter specialists,
extension staff and farmers;
     (b)   provision of an adequate contingent of additional
extension staff capable of producing a ratio of not more than
about 600 farm families per extension agent, depending on local
population density and constraints imposed by poor rural
transportation means; and
     (c)   acquisition of vehicles and equipment, and
rehabilitation of office buildings.
2.   Promotion and strengthening of farmers' organizations
through provision of advice to farmers for the organization and
management of groups and associations, and better access, in
particular, to commercial marketing and supply outlets, credit
institutions, and seed producers, plant and improved livestock
breeders.
Part B:  Training and Human Resource Management
1.   Implementation of a training and human resource management
program, including: (a) fortnightly training of ground level
extension staff by subject matter specialists; (b) monthly
technological review meetings involving research and extension
staff, and farmers; (c) training of farmer organization
specialists; (d) training in field diagnosis; monitoring and
evaluation, and surveys; (e) training of trainers; (f) training
in supervisory techniques; (g) training in internal audit; (h)
training in computer use; (i) management training; (j) training
in techniques involved in carrying out tests and trials in
farmers' fields; (k) training in documentation; and (l)
overseas study tours.
2.   Rehabilitation of agricultural colleges at Bezaha and
Page  9
Ambanja, and four other locations, with a view to providing
skills upgrading training for field staff and farmers, and
initial training for extension workers to be attached to the
agricultural services.
3.   Acquisition of computers to strengthen the capacity of the
Human Resources Management Directorate of MEADR to handle
personnel data, and thus provide needed support and advice on
staffing and training decisions pertaining to the Project.
Part C:  Financial Management, Accounting and Internal Audit
     Introduction of a financial management system responsive
to modern management information requirements, including
establishment of adequate budget preparation, monitoring and
evaluation systems, and introduction of double-entry and
accrual-based accounting.
Part D:  Monitoring and Evaluation
1.   Regular monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the
Program, with particular reference to:
     (a)   the level of participation of farmers, and
     (b)   the rate of adoption of the technical messages
involved.
2.  Carrying out of an independent evaluation of the Program at
the end of a two-year period, to determine both the impact of
the Program and the effectiveness of the monitoring and
evaluation criteria used.
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
     (a)   Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent
or more each.
     (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and
domestic contractors
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
Page  10
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be
carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, and
works estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $1,700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Page  11
Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   (a)   The Borrower shall appoint the Deputy Director, DA,
responsible for agricultural extension to be the national
project coordinator, reporting to the Director, DA, and, as
such, to be responsible for the day-to-day management of the
various components of the Project.
     (b)   At the level of each agricultural district, the head
of the agricultural district shall be responsible, subject to
normal administrative control, for the day-to-day management of
activities of the Project located in the district.
2.   (a)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its
review and approval, where appropriate:
           (i)   not later than September 30 of each year, a
                 proposed annual work program, including the
                 proposed budget and financing plan, and
                 training proposals and proposed procurement
                 procedures, under the Project for the
                 forthcoming fiscal year;
           (ii)  not later than March 31 and September 30 of
                 each year, progress reports on the status of
                 each component of the Project;
          (iii)  reports as needed on the award of
                 individual contracts under the Project; and
           (iv)  quarterly procurement reports giving details
                 of:
                 (A)   updated cost estimates for individual
                       contracts and for the Project, including
                       best estimates of allowances for physical
                       and price contingencies;
                 (B)   revised timing of procurement actions,
                       including advertising, bidding, contract
                       award and completion time for individual
                       contracts; and
                 (C)   status of compliance with aggregate
                       limits on prescribed procurement
                       procedures.
     (b)   Adoption of the annual work program referred to in
paragraph (i) of the preceding subparagraph shall be subject to
the prior approval of the Association, and based, inter alia,
on a review of the accompanying proposed budget and financing
plan, and an evaluation of the results of the annual work
program for the current fiscal year and the independent
evaluation referred to under Part D.2 of the Project.
3.   For purposes of Part A.1 (b) of the Project, where there
are private providers of extension services able and willing to
continue to provide such services under the Project, the
Borrower shall seek to conclude formal agreements with such
private providers (hereinafter referred to as "subcontracts"),
Page  12
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association,
specifying the terms and conditions governing the provision of
such services, including the respective obligations of the
parties and the resources to be provided by the Borrower
thereunder.
4.   For purposes of Part A.1 (c) of the Project, the Borrower
shall ensure that motorbikes intended for use by extension
agents shall be provided to such extension agents on a personal
transfer basis, and according to a four-year replacement cycle
based on the expected useful life of such motorbikes, and on
such other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the
Association.
5.   For purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall not proceed to rehabilitate the four other colleges
referred to thereunder unless the rehabilitation of the two
colleges at Bezaha and Ambanja has been satisfactorily
completed, and both colleges successfully reopened.
6.   Prior to the introduction of the Program in each of the
agricultural districts, the Borrower shall organize a workshop
to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of existing extension
services in the district, and, on the basis thereof, to prepare
an action program, outlining the content and objectives of a
proposed package of extension services appropriate for the
district and consistent with the Program.
7.   (a)   The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1996,
and, thereafter, not later than October 31 of each subsequent
year, undertake, in conjunction with the Association, a joint
annual review (or, in the case of the review to be held not
later than October 31, 1998, a midterm review) of the Project,
during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters
relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by
the Borrower of its respective obligations under this Agreement
and, in particular:
           (i)   the progress achieved by the Borrower during
                 the current fiscal year, having regard to the
                 monitoring indicators agreed upon between the
                 Borrower and the Association;
           (ii)  the status of financial and procurement
                 performance under the Project;
           (iii) a review of the public expenditure
                 program for the agricultural sector; and
           (iv)  in the case of the midterm review, a review of
                 recommendations for the preparation of the
                 next phase of the Program.
     (b)   Not later than one month prior to each review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving
details, in particular, of the various matters to be discussed
at such review.
     (c)   Following each review, the Borrower undertakes to act
promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
     1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  13
     (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
     (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
     (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
325,000.
     2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
     3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
     (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                 requests for deposits into the Special Account
                 at such intervals as the Association shall
                 specify.
           (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                 the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                 the documents and other evidence required
                 pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                 the payment or payments in respect of which
                 replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                 each such request, the Association shall, on
                 behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the
                 Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                 Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                 requested and as shall have been shown by said
                 documents and other evidence to have been paid
                 out of the Special Account for eligible
                 expenditures.
     All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
     4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Page  14
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
     5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
     (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
     (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
     6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Account:
           (i)   was made for an expenditure or in an amount
                 not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
                 Schedule; or
           (ii)  was not justified by the evidence
                 furnished to the Association, the Borrower
                 shall, promptly upon notice from the
                 Association:
                 (A)   provide such additional evidence as the
                       Association may request; or
                 (B)   deposit into the Special Account (or, if
                       the Association shall so request, refund
                       to the Association) an amount equal to
                       the amount of such payment or the portion
                       thereof not so eligible or justified.
                       Unless the Association shall otherwise
                       agree, no further deposit by the
                       Association into the Special Account
                       shall be made until the Borrower has
                       provided such evidence or made such
                       deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
Page  15
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
