Document of
The World Bank  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1946-PO
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 12, 1978
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc2 of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1977)
Currency Unit           =    Portuguese Escudo (EsL
US$1.00                 =    Esc 40
Ez 1.00                =    US$0.025
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
metric system
ABBREVIATIONS
PBI        -    Participating Banking Institution
BP         -    Banco de Portugal (Bank of Portugal)
CAE        -    Credito Agricola de Emergencia (Emergency Agricultural Fund)
CCAM       -    Caixa de Credito Agricola Mutuo (Agricultural Credit Cooperative)
CGD        -    Caixa Geral de Depositos (General Savings Bank)
CIFRE      -    Comissao Intermediaria do Financiamento as Ritornados
(Interim Commission for Financial Assistance to Returnees)
CLT        -    Central Loan Team
CRRA       -    Centro Regional da Reforma Agraria (Regional Center  of
Agrarian Reform)
DGHEA      -    Direccao Geral Hidraulica e Engenharia Agraria (General
Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering)
EEC        -    European Economic Community
FAO        -    Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations
FMA        -    Fundo de Melhoramento Agricola (Agricultural Improvement Fund)
FRAIP      -    Fundo de Renovacao e Apetrechamento da Industria de Pescas
(Fisheries Rehabilitation and Equipment Fund)
FORE       -    Fabrica Oleos Racoes Evora (Vegetable Oil and Animal Feed
Factory, Evora)
IFADAP     -    Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Agricultura
e Pescas (Agricultural and Fisheries Development Fund)
IRA        -    Instituto de Reorganizacao Agraria (Agrarian Reorganization
Institute)
MAP        -    Ministerio da Agricultura e Pescas (Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries)
UECT       -    Unidade de Exploracao Collectiva por Trabalhadores (Collective
Production Units; Land Reform Collectives)
UNDP       -    United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF PORTUGAL
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.      BACKGROUND
A. Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B. Agriculture and Fisheries in the National Economy .    1
C. Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy . . . .    2
II.     AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT
A. General Background  ....  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .    3
B.  Credit Policies and Interest Rate Structure  . . .    4
C.  New Institutional Framework . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
III.    THE PROJECT AREA
A.  Agriculture in Alentejo .        . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
B.  Longline Fisheries  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   16
IV.     THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . .  19
B. Detailed Features .19
C. Cost Estimates .24
D. Financing .25
E. Procurement .27
F. Disbursement .28
V.      ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
B.  Institutional Development   . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
C. Policies and Procedures of Project Sublending . . .  32
D.  Accounts and Audits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
E.  Studies and Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited
Portugal in October/November 1977, comprising Messrs. H. van Wersch,
R. Khouri, F. Kada, H. Kim, S. Allison, C. Wolffelt and Ms. G. Larouche
(Bank) and Messrs. W. Allan, L. Anderson, P. Gueroult and H. Vieilhescaze
(Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
VI.     PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
A.  Production .       .  .  . . . . .  .  .  .                   38
B.  Market Prospects . . . . .                   ..  40
C.  Prices   .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   41
VII.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
B.  Financial Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
C.  Economic Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  . .  . .  43
D.  Economic Rates of Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
E.  Risks   .   .    .    .   .    .     .    .   .   .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .   .   .    46
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS. . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
ANNEXES
1.  Numbers, Area and Size Distribution of Agricultural Holdings
in  Alentejo  Region  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    48
2.  Detailed Estimates of Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . .  49
3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . .  50
4.  Level and Structure of Lending Rates . . . . . . . . . . . .  51
5.  Financial Models for Farm, Agro-industry and Boat Subloans .  53
6.  Project Cost and Benefit Streams   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  67
7.  Selected Documents  and Data Available in the Project File    68
MAPS
IBRD 13381  The Agricultural Project Area
IBRD 13314  Longline Fisheries
LIST OF TABLE AND CHARTS IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table No.
4.1 Lending Program for On-farm Investment . . . . . . . . . . .  22
4.2  Summary Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
4.3 Project Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . .                26
6.1 Incremental Agricultural Production  . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
7.1 Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis  . . . . .  46
Chart No.
18619 Project Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . following 30



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The project originated from the findings of the Bank's Agricultural
Sector Mission that visited Portugal in October/November 1976 (Report No.
1689a-PO). This mission recommended also the establishment of an Agricultural
and Fisheries Development Fund (IFADAP) as the key instrument in reorganizing
the agricultural credit system.
1.02      An FAO/Bank Cooperative Program (CP) mission in February/March 1977
further identified the project, and a second mission in May/June 1977 led to
the CP's preparation report.
B. Agriculture and Fisheries in the National Economy
1.03      The issues and development strategy in the agricultural and
fisheries sector were analyzed and the sector's investment needs as well as
specific projects were identified by the agricultural sector survey; they are
summarized hereunder.
1.04      For at least two decades agriculture and fisheries have been a lag-
ging sector in Portugal in spite of the aggregate growth of the economy. As
the share of agriculture in GDP declined from 30% to 12% in 20 years, a geo-
graphical and occupational redistribution of population occurred. With a
slight net decline in total population and a rapid drain of rural population,
agricultural employment fell from 47% to 27% of total employment. As total
GDP rose (205% from 1953-55 to 1973-75, in real terms), so did personal
incomes and aggregate demand for food, but agricultural and fisheries produc-
tion almost stagnated in real terms increasing by only 20% or a compound
annual rate averaging 0.9%. As a result of new demands made on agriculture
and fisheries, food imports have soared and agricultural exports faltered.
Consequently, while agriculture satisfied one of the basic conditions of
economic growth by releasing underemployed labor to other sectors and to other
European countries' labor markets, it failed to meet the expanding aggregate
demand for food and raw materials and to increase real incomes in farming.
1.05      In contrast with the pre-1974 era when Portugal enjoyed a favorable
international economic position and comfortable reserves, due in large part to
remittances from its colonies and migrant workers employed in the countries
of the European Economic Community (EEC), the course of events during the last
three years have made agriculture indispensable for the economic transforma-
tion and growth of the country. The easy absorption of underemployed agri-



-2-
cultural labor into other sectors or its emigration to the EEC countries
before 1974, combined with sufficient foreign exchange reserves to finance
food imports, masked the inability of agriculture to grow in step with the
rest of the economy, much less to deal with pressing problems of equity.
1.06      Aside from the paucity of good quality arable land, several major
constraints have prevented agriculture from performing its potentially key
role in the economy. First, the agrarian structure that prevailed until 1975
restricted access to resources and kept a large proportion of the rural popu-
lation poor and powerless. Second, the institutional role of the Government
in the sector was essentially limited to regulating markets and administering
subsidies. The need for Government to provide a broad range of technical and
financial services to the sector was not appreciated until after the 1974-75
revolution and even at present there is little in terms of manpower and
experience upon which to build viable programs in the short term. Third,
economic policy has led to distortions in resource allocation that are deeply
ingrained in agriculture. An elaborate system of administered prices and
subsidies has kept producer prices of major commodities artificially higher
than import prices thereby stifling incentives for efficiency in resource
use.
C. Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy
1.07      Whether agriculture will perform its potential role in saving and
earning foreign exchange, in supplying raw materials to the agro-industrial
sector, in raising productivity and incomes of a declining rural labor force,
and in generating a higher volume of savings and a larger share of the sector's
own capital requirements, or whether it becomes a residual sector, will depend
on overcoming the above-mentioned constraints. Along these lines, the Govern-
ment has already taken initiatives for (a) completing reforms in land tenure
and intensifying land use; (b) strengthening institutions serving agriculture
and fisheries; (c) accelerating technological modernization through use of
fertilizers and improved seeds in farming and through modernization of the
fleet and shore facilities in fisheries; (d) raising the level of investment
relative to the sector's gross domestic product; and (e) reducing regional
imbalances in rural incomes.
1.08      Bank lending strategy in agriculture and fisheries aims at reinforc-
ing Government's initiatives to overcome those institutional and structural
obstacles which have the greatest bearing on reducing the now widening agri-
cultural trade gap and on making employment in the sector more remunerative.
1.09      The choice of projects does not necessarily conform with a single
criterion. Proposed investments in livestock and pastures, for example, are
based on the subsector's contribution to production, the potential for improv-
ing land use and reducing feedgrain imports. Other projects or project com-
ponents, agricultural credit and research and extension, are chosen because
of their role in building financial institutions and as a means of technical
modernization, respectively. Investments in fisheries are justified on the



- 3 -
ground that they would help to assess the development potential of this sub-
sector, initially, and contribute to an improvement in the balance of payments,
subsequently. Rural development in the northeast would, inter alia, improve
land use, raise rural incomes and reduce regional imbalances.
1.10      The proposed credit project would be the first Bank project in the
sector and would focus on the Alentejo region. It would provide the impetus
needed to make the Government's new agricultural credit system operational.
Provisions for project organization and management would strengthen the
recently decentralized services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
(MAP). The project's on-farm development approach is expected to have a major
impact on land use in the region that has the greatest agricultural potential
and its emphasis on pasture and livestock development may provide a prescrip-
tion for wide replication throughout much of the country, thereby greatly
contributing to national output while reducing the country's dependency on
feedgrain imports. And through the fisheries component, the project would
assist in providing a solid basis for rational development of this subsector
including the planning of future investments.
1.11      The project is expected to be complemented by two other projects
whose main impact would also be on the Alentejo region, a proposed Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (FY79), now in preparation, and thereafter a possible
Livestock Development Project (FY80). In the fisheries subsector, the project
would help to lay the foundation for a medium- to long-term plan for fisheries
development for which capital assistance has been requested under the planned
Fisheries Development Project (FY81).
II. AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT
A. General Background
2.01      There is no central agricultural and fisheries credit institution
in Portugal. A great number of public institutions which include government
agencies, commodity boards, funds, banks and credit cooperatives provide
relatively scanty short-, medium- and long-term financing to farmers and
fishermen with the use of rediscounting facilities of the Bank of Portugal
(BP). The objectives, organization, resources and lending activitity of these
institutions are detailed in Report no. 1689a-PO, of March 16, 1978, Portugal
Agricultural Sector Survey, Volume II, Annex 8. Agricultural lending consti-
tuted 4.8% of the total lending of public credit institutions in 1976. Among
the general banking institutions the value of agricultural loans, including
those to agro-industries, ranged from a 0.2% to a 10.5% share of their port-
folios.



-4-
B. Present Credit Policies and Interest Rate Structure
2.02      Within the Government's overall objective of stimulating production
in the agricultural and fisheries sector through credit and subsidies to
private individuals and cooperatives, the existing credit institutions are
usually specialized according to the clientele they serve, their source of
funds, or the purpose for which their loans are used.
2.03      In recent years the bulk of credit resources have gone to the col-
lective production units (UECTs) and cooperatives established under the land
reform through the funds managed by the Agrarian Reorganization Institute
(IRA), especially the Emergency Agricultural Fund (CAE).
2.04      Loan purposes range from farm inputs and wages for crop loans to
farm machinery, construction, fences and land purchase, cattle, pasture
improvement, fishing boat and fishing equipment for investment loans.
2.05      Loan terms range from 90 days to one year for crop loans and from
two to ten years, but usually from three to five years, for investment loans.
However, because of the routine renewal or rescheduling of matured loans which
is practiced by all credit institutions, a clear delineation of short-, medium-
or long-term loans is not possible. This partly explains the difficulty
banking institutions have to provide information by length of term of their
portfolio and repayments.
2.06      Grace periods are seldom granted and a borrower's contribution is
practically never required except when loans are made through IRA-administered
funds (10 to 40% down payment).
2.07      A personal guarantee is usually sufficient for crop loans.  When
possible, an assignment of crop proceeds is also requested.  For investment
loans, collateral consists of a lien on the equipment purchased together with
a pledge on the land, if deemed necessary, and frequently the signature of a
guarantor. Fire and property insurance are also required by some banks. As a
rule, the loan ceiling remains within 60 to 70% of the value of the property
mortgaged or the equipment pledged. For CAE loans, IRA's guarantee is required
if the security offered by the borrower is insufficient. For UECTs or land
reform cooperatives, the opinion of MAP's Regional Center of Agrarian Reform
is requested and, if positive, all UECT or cooperative members (or at least all
members of its Managing Committee) have to sign as joint guarantors in addition
to the lien on the equipment.
2.08      Loan disbursements are mostly made by direct payment from the
credit institution to the supplier or contractor. Cash disbursements are
sometimes used for the purchase of livestock and always for the financing of
wage bills. Loan supervision is practically nonexistent.
2.09      Crop loans are evidenced by loan agreements, six-month to one-year
promissory notes and, where possible, crop proceeds assignment contracts.
Investment loans are supported by six-month to one-year promissory notes,
mortgage and/or lien deeds and proforma invoices.



-5-
2.10      Until recently, direct subsidies applied to investments financed by
special funds, notably IRA's Fundo de Melhoramento Agricola. They were ear-
marked mainly for agricultural machinery and irrigation development at the
rate of 30% for cooperatives, 20% for small farms and 10% for medium-size
farms. They have now been discontinued. Indirect subsidies are granted
through rebates on loan interest.
2.11      Interest Rate Structure.  Interest rates have been substantially
raised over the past years. The latest bank interest rate structure is shown
in BP's instructions dated May 8, 1978. BP intends to adjust interest rates
in the light of changing economic conditions. Currently, interest rates
on short-term bank loans for agricultural production range from 11.75% for
maturities of up to 90 days to 14% for maturities of 1 to 2 years. Short-term
loans from the Emergency Agricultural Fund (CAE) are granted at a uniform rate
of 13.25%. The interest rates on other IRA funds, mostly for investment pur-
poses, do not exceed 6%. Those who have no access to IRA credits take invest-
ment loans from the banks at interest rates ranging from 10.75% in the first
year to 22.25% in the sixth year and thereafter.
2.12      Interest rate subsidies are justified by Government policy which
aims at encouraging (a) production in the agricultural and fisheries sector,
(b) use of domestically-produced equipment and (c) early repayment of loans.
Shortcomings of the Present Agricultural Credit System
2.13      The weakness of the present system is that there is little coordina-
tion among the policies and the activities of the lending institutions, some
of which are related to BP, others to the Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD) and
again others to MAP or the Ministries of Finance and Planning and Labor.
Information, at the central level, about agricultural credit operations is
inadequate because of the lack of a uniform information processing system.
Each institution, agency or board finances or subsidizes directly or through
another intermediary a particular type of investor. Decision-making for loan
approvals is overly centralized. Loan appraisal and supervision is superfi-
cial; guarantee of repayment is based more on collaterals than on borrowers'
income-earning capacity, and there is no well-defined loan recovery procedure.
The systematic extension of loans year after year which progressively trans-
forms a short-term loan into a long-term one conceals the borrowers' repayment
difficulties as well as the actual arrears position of credit institutions
thereby making it difficult to assess the latter. Furthermore, the system of
increasing effective interest rates on medium- and long-term loans, through
a subsidy which gradually declines from 9% in the first year of the loan to
3% in the fourth year and ceases thereafter, is not conducive to longer-term
investments.
Alternatives Considered by the Government
2.14      Aware of the unsatisfactory performance of the agricultural credit
system (it only provides financing to about 10% of the farmers and fishermen
community), the Government considered different ways of reorganizing the
existing structure. The option of centralizing the agricultural credit func-
tion in BP was rejected because of the risk of conflict with BP's principal



- 6 -
role of Central Bank.  The option of establishing a single agricultural credit
bank, either as a new institution or by appointing one of the existing banks,
which would have had the exclusive authority for providing short-, medium- and
long-term loans and subsidies to the agricultural and fisheries sector, was
abandoned on the ground that it would not take advantage of the dense network
of commercial bank branches throughout the country and that such a new insti-
tution would require a long time and costly outlays before becoming opera-
tional. Finally, an intermediate solution was adopted consisting of the crea-
tion, in August 1977, of the Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento
da Agricultura e Pescas (IFADAPF established as an agency of the Bank of
Portugal and benefiting from the technical assistance of MAP. IFADAP must not
be seen as an additional agency in an already complex institutional framework.
Its establishment is considered as the first step in the restructuring of the
agricultural credit system, a major objective of which is the devolution of
IFADAP's responsibilities to the banking institutions themselves once they
have established an adequate capability for sound appraisal and supervision
of lending operations.
C. New Institutional Framework
2.15      Within the Government's concept of reorganization aimed at stream-
lining and strengthening the agricultural credit distribution, IFADAP, as a
central agency, would plan, regulate, and supervise the flow of agricultural
and fisheries credit to individual and collective users in compliance with
overall and agricultural credit and development policy determined by MAP, the
Ministry of Finance and Planning and BP. The banking institutions would
participate financially and act as the channel of distribution of this credit,
while MAP's regional services would provide appropriate technical assistance.
IFADAP
2.16      IFADAP is a public corporation set up by Law No. 14/78 of March 23,
1978. It is a legal entity with administrative and financial autonomy oper-
ating as an annex of the Bank of Portugal which, under the decree, supervises
and audits its operations.
2.17      IFADAP's objective is to contribute to the expansion and improvement
of crop, livestock, fisheries and forestry activities through (a) the refinan-
cing of short-, medium- and long-term loans made by banking institutions; (b)
the administration of subsidies and (c) the provision of guarantees to banking
institutions where normal loan collaterals are not available.
2.18      As an apex institution, IFADAP is responsible for the definition of
lending policies, eligibility criteria and terms and conditions of loans made
by participating banking institutions (PBIs) in the agricultural and fisheries
sector. It will conclude agreements with PBIs, extend lines of credit to them
and supervise the conformity of loans with its lending program by requiring
its approval of all loans made. It will also provide guarantees to PBIs for
loans to farming units who lack sufficient collateral.



- 7 -
2.19      IFADAP's resources consist of an initial capital of Esc 1 bil-
lion (US$25 million) divided in 1,000 equal shares and primarily subscribed
by CGD and commercial banks which have already .agreed to do so. This subscrip-
tion capital would be complemented by grants from the Government budget, bond
issues, operating earnings and multilateral and bilateral capital assistance.
2.20      IFADAP is managed by a committee of five members appointed by a
joint decision of MAP and the Ministry of Finance and Planning upon recommen-
dation of the Bank of Portugal. The President, formerly the Managing Director
of the Bank of Angola, was more recently a Director of CGD. The other members
are two MAP agriculturalists and two economists selected from commercial banks
or public institutions.
2.21      IFADAP's Managing Committee is assisted by a consultative council
whose members are representatives of MAP, the Ministries of Finance and
Planning and Commerce, banking institutions, syndicates of MAP employees,
workers and farmers and fishermen's organizations.
2.22      IFADAP's head office is in Lisbon.  Under the Managing Committee are
four departments dealing respectively with administration and accounts, lend-
ing policies and research, technical supervision and finance. In addition, a
legal adviser, internal auditor, training unit, management organization unit
and computer unit are attached directly to the Managing Committee. In the
field, regional offices are to be opened in each of Portugal's 18 districts
beginning with the three districts of the project area. BP will provide most
of IFADAP's accommodations and staff. In addition, IFADAP is currently
recruiting key personnel to complement the staff seconded by BP. The appoint-
ment of the regional representatives requires particular attention because of
the high level of responsibility that will be vested in them, i.e., to oversee
the technical analysis of credit operations and evaluate the feasibility and
viability of the subprojects to be financed, to approve the refinancing of
PBIs' loans below an authorized ceiling and to coordinate actions tetween the
local credit institutions and local and regional MAP services. IFADAP's
staffing is to reach an operational level in mid-1978.
2.23      Organizational assistance is provided to IFADAP by the Mexican consul-
tant firm of J. Jesus Romero Chavez, A.P., under a contract entered into with
BP. This assistance extends to matters of overall organization, staffing and
staff training. It also includes the formulation of lending policies, lending
program and lending procedures, the establishment of an accounting system, and
the preparation of operational manuals and forms. This assistance, together
with the actions to be taken by the Government and IFADAP, would permit IFADAP
to become operational by September 1, 1978.
2.24      Although the 1978 lending program had not yet been prepared, a ten-
tative projection of IFADAP's financial activity over the coming five years
has been elaborated by IFADAP with assistance of its consultants. During the
period 1978-1982, about Esc 135 billion are expected to be disbursed (including
subloans under the project), of which Esc 117 billion for short-term, and
about Esc 16 billion for medium- and long-term lending operations. This would
generate profits before taxes of around Esc 688 million during this period.



-8-
2.25      As IFADAP becomes operational, the lending activity of all funds,
boards and other agencies (including IRA, CAE, FRAIP and CIFRE) would be phased
out and their resources, if any, transferred to IFADAP.
The Banking System
2.26      The banking system would play an important role in providing credit
to the agriculture and fisheries sector under IFADAP's overall control and
regulation. It consists of 11 nationalized commercial banks and their net-
work of 755 branches (65 in the agricultural project area) servicing almost all
concelhos (counties) of the country. At present, they are not well equipped to
deal with agricultural credit which represents only a small part of their
lending activities. They are adequately staffed with personnel possessing
commercial credit and banking experience but lacking expertise in agricultural
and fisheries credit.  Under Government pressure, commercial banks are getting
more and more involved in agricultural credit. Initially, IFADAP and MAP
together will provide the technical expertise to prepare, appraise and super-
vise subprojects. But eventually the banking institutions are expected to
organize their own agricultural credit departments and to set up technical
units with agriculturalists, fisheries specialists, economists and financial
analysts who have acquired credit experience with MAP or IFADAP.
2.27      CGD and its 145 branches, of which ten are in the project area,
is, among PBIs, the most important source of credit to the agricultural and
fisheries sector, particularly for medium- and long-term loans. CGD also
supervises and refinances the credit operations of the Caixas de Credito
Agricola Mutuo (CCAMs). Furthermore, it is the most important depository of
savings, increasing steadily, of which 50% are term deposits. CGD is ade-
quately staffed and has an outstanding management performance. It is the only
credit institution with a sizable technical agricultural unit consisting of
seven agronomists and two economists at headquarters level.
2.28      Commercial banks and CGD all have a satisfactory financial situation,
fairly good profits, capable management, experienced staff and appropriate
infrastructure at both the head office and branch level. All would meet the
qualifications to participate in the new agricultural and fisheries credit
system.
2.29      CCAMs are credit cooperatives whose members are private, mostly
medium-size farmers. Twenty-six out of 141 CCAMs are located in the project
area, generally one in each county. They finance about 30% of
their loans with their own resources and rediscount the remaining 70% with CGD
who also supervises the CCAMs' management. CCAMs' financial position has been
impaired by the agrarian reform. A large part (35% to 80%) of their port-
folios is frozen, with a consequent shortfall of income. This problem will be
resolved under the provisions of the Compensation Law of October 26, 1977.
The credit cooperatives system has good potential. Provided the Government's
intentions are realized to improve the CCAMs' lending procedures and strengthen
their financial position, they can make an important contribution in the new
agricultural credit system to be implemented.



-9-
2.30      To offset the PBIs' lack of agricultural credit appraisal expertise,
the decree establishing IFADAP requires MAP to provide, through its central
and regional services, IFADAP and the onlending institutions with appropriate
technical and economic assistance. This would involve preliminary promotion
of the credit program, technical and financial appraisal of loan applications
and technical loan supervision. MAP would also define, in accordance with
its sectoral policies, the eligibility criteria for potential borrowers and
priority rules to be used in the distribution of credit.
2.31      Under the new agricultural and fisheries credit system loans would
have adequate maturities and no more rolling over of short-term debts would
be permitted. This would allow a clear distinction to be made between seasonal
credit and investment loans, thus facilitating the establishment of a func-
tional accounting system for the PBIs' portfolios.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Agriculture in Alentejo
Location
3.01      The agricultural component of the project would be located in the
Alentejo region and encompass the Evora, Beja and Portalegre subregions. This
roughly corresponds to the area between the Tagus river in the north, the
Algarve region in the south, the international boundary with Spain in the
east, and the Atlantic Ocean and the Setubal district in the west (Map IBRD
13381). The project area measures some 2.35 million ha, about 26% of the
country. At the latest population census, the area had 685,000 inhabitants or
8.3% of the country's population.
Climate
3.02      The Alentejo region has a mild Mediterranean-type climate charac-
terized by hot, dry summers and mild, wet winters with only occasional light
frosts. Rains fall between October and May and decline from West to East and
North to South from an average of about 700-800 mm per year to an average of
about 500-600 mm per year.  Mean mid-winter temperatures range from 8 to 10 C,
and mid-summer temperatures from 23 to 26 C.
Topography
3.03      The region is a vast plain of rolling and dissected topography,
four-fifths of which lies at altitudes of 90-180 m, rising gradually to 270 m
in the south and 450 m in the northeast.
Soils and Land Use Capability
3.04      Soils in the region are mostly Mediterranean Red and Brown soils,
greatly varying in depth, as well as lithosols and skeletal soils. The



- 10 -
deeper Mediterranean Red and Brown soils fall in the Portuguese land use
capability Class C (the lowest class still suitable for cultivation) while the
shallow phases of these soils as well as the lithosols and skeletal soils are
characteristic of capability Classes D and E (suitable for pasture and forestry
with increasing limitations). The better soils are vertisols and soils tran-
sitional between the vertisols and Mediterranean-type soils; these correspond
to land use capability Classes A and B, suitable for intensive cultivation
without or with moderate limitations, respectively.
3.05      Detailed land use capability maps (1:50,000 scale) are available for
the project area. Only slightly over one-third of the total agricultural land
is classified as cultivable (Classes A, B and C), and some of the poorer
variants of the C Class might well be regarded as marginal. In the D and E
categories, constituting the remaining two-third, soils are commonly shallow,
stony and often on slopes liable to accelerated erosion, but much of the D
Class land and better variants of the E land have a considerable potential for
pasture development.
Drainage
3.06      A recent study based on the soil map has indicated that some 400,000
ha of land in the Alentejo, including some of the most productive wheat land,
is affected by poor drainage conditions, which, especially in wet years,
restricts planting and reduces yield of winter cereals.  When, as in 1976-77,
prolonged waterlogging is followed by the early onset of hot, dry weather,
the result can be disastrous.  The 1976-77 season is said to have been the
worst in 50 years. The Government is well aware of the need for a drainage
program, which has been emphasized by the year of disaster, and a UNDP project
is now under preparation in collaboration with FAO.
3.07      Ripping would also be beneficial on the hard-pan soils (Class B
and C lands), particularly for sunflower, the root development of which is
restricted and the yields reduced by the presence of the pan. A combined
program of drainage, ripping and mechanized stone removal could raise the
status of large areas of the cultivable soils.
Water Resources
3.08      Irrigation in the project area is unimportant in the national
context. In the Alentejo, some 40,000 ha of land (0.9% of the country's
cultivable area) is irrigable with the existing six public irrigation schemes
(22,000 ha) and privately developed farm dams and boreholes.
3.09      Despite the relatively light rainfall, the ratio of watershed area
to irrigable land is such that, with adequate storage capacity, either in the
form of dams or underground where porous substrata exist, sufficient water can
be accumulated in winter to meet irrigation and other requirements throughout
the year.



- 11 -
Infrastructure
3.10      The project area is crisscrossed with a good network of all-weather
primary and secondary roads that link the main towns with each other and with
other parts of the country. These roads are in good repair and transportation
within the region poses no problem with the possible exception of some farm
roads during the wetter winter months. The main towns of the area are also
connected to Lisbon by regular freight and passenger rail service.
The Agrarian Structure
3.11      Alentejo is typically a region of large land holdings, a situation
which arose through historic process and continued because of the character of
the land. The more productive soils are, in general, stubborn clays which
require a high input of farm power--formerly provided by large teams of the
powerful Alentejo oxen--and much of the land is suitable only for more-or-less
extensive exploitation. There are ecological niches in which the small farmer
can make a reasonable living, but they are limited.
3.12      The latest data on the size distribution of holdings, derived from
the agricultural survey of 1968, indicate that less than 2% of owners held
about 57% of the farmland while, at the other extreme, nearly 53% of land-
owners held 2% of the land. Holdings in the latter category, are however, to
be regarded as household plots as the 25,600 families in this class represent
the bulk of the labor force essential to the functioning of the agricultural
economy.
3.13      Between 1968 and 1974, the general pattern of landownership remainea
largely unchanged but there are indications of a trend towards larger operated
holdings and an increase in tenant farming.
3.14      After the revolution of April 25, 1974, earlier pressures for higher
agricultural wages and better working conditions mounted further and labor
union demands led to the takeover during 1975 of virtually all of the large
landholdings in Alentejo. Two decrees, published in July 1975, established a
law of agrarian reform and legalized occupation of land expropriable within
the law. As a result of the takeover, there are now in the project area 373
collective production units (UECTs) and land reform cooperatives occupying
about 957,000 ha (Annex 1). Each UECT or cooperative comprises from one to
twelve or more former private estates.
3.15      The difference between UECTs and cooperatives is mainly one of poli-
tical affiliation, but cooperatives are generally smaller and more manageable,
averaging about 2,500 ha while the UECTs average about 3,600 ha. Cooperatives
also appear to be more stable; the UECTs show a tendency to fission leading to
the creation of new cooperatives, partly because of their size and the fact
that they often consist of several discrete blocks each of which is a manage-
ment unit. The limited opportunity of individual initiative on the UECTs may
also be a factor in their disintegration.



- 12 -
3.16      The total membership of the collective and cooperative farms is
uncertain but it has been tentatively estimated at about 35,000, which may
represent a rural population in the neighborhood of 150,000. Practically
every unit is burdened with a great excess of labor, considering the high
degree of mechanization, a situation created by the compulsory distribution of
unemployed persons, many of them nonagricultural workers from the urban areas.
The machinery and equipment, with which all are liberally provided, was taken
over with the land and augmented by later purchases and, in some cases, by
farmer members pooling their resources.
3.17      Expropriable land, which becomes the property of the State, con-
sists of units scoring 70,000 points (increased by the General Land Reform
Law of September 29, 1977 from 50,000 points authorized in the 1975 agrarian
reform decrees) or less, on a complicated points system subject to certain
conditions of usage and to the proviso that units of 30 ha or less are not
expropriable while all units exceeding 700 ha are. Of the 957,000 ha which
have been taken over, right of usufruct has been recognized in the case of
744,160 ha subject to payment of rent and other conditions not yet specified.
The remainder contains much land illegally expropriated which must, under the
law, be returned to the former owners. The returnable units are known as
reservas. The general effect of the return of the reservas on the socialized
sector is unlikely to be profound though some of the enterprises will be
seriously affected. The law also requires the return, in kind or as monetary
compensation, of expropriated machinery, equipment and livestock. In some
cases this has already been done and the remainder of the operation is a major
preoccupation of Government.
3.18      Important changes have taken place in the private sector as a result
of the land reform. Large private holdings, of 1,000 ha and more, have dis-
appeared. Some owners in the large category, between 500 and 1,000 ha, still
retain their holdings, but these are subject to reduction under the law, as are
some of the larger holdings in the 100-500 ha range. A few private farms have
emerged from the reform and others have been enlarged by the allocation of land
to seareiros (seasonal tenants) and small holders, but "household plots" of
less than 5 ha remain virtually unaffected.
Employment
3.19      At the present level of mechanization and wage rates, the large
excess of workers on UECTs and cooperatives cannot continue if these units are
to operate as viable farm enterprises. About 50-60% of the present work force
in the socialized sector can, on the basis of sound management, be permanently
employed. A need for seasonal labor would, of course, remain.
3.20      Agriculture in Alentejo is already far advanced along a road on
which there is no turning back. Labor-intensive farming at present wage rates
is not feasible. Even if it were, people are no longer prepared to perform
manually dull and laborious tasks that are within the capacity of the machine.
A solution has been found for this problem which does not place an intolerable
burden on an agricultural system in a precarious stage of transition. Surplus
labor on collective and cooperative farms will be paid unemployment benefits



- 13 -
equivalent to the minimum agricultural wage from the regular unemployment fund
and from supplementary resources channeled through a special fund administered
by MAP. In exchange for this, the beneficiaries are expected to be available
for employment on public service projects.
Agricultural Services
3.21      Extension.  MAP maintains two stations in charge of extension work
in Evora and Beja, staffed by about 50 technicians in the former and 40 in the
latter. These centers are efficiently run and extension work has clearly made
a considerable impact. It appears to have been concentrated on the larger
landholdings and the better soils, but a substantial number of small farmers
have benefited from residential courses offered by the extension centers. The
efficiency of the service has, inevitably, been constrained by preoccupation
with problems created by the agrarian reform but the regional reorganization
plan, which places the whole Alentejo under the authority of a regional
director of agriculture in Evora, is designed to provide a service adequate
in numbers and efficiency to meet the needs of the project.
3.22      Animal Health.  The livestock subsector is in the main serviced well
by veterinarians who provide farmers with advice on the health, breeding, nutri-
tion and management of their animals. There are more than one hundred graduate
veterinarians in the Alentejo region.  Close to 50 are employed by Government
and the remainder are in private practice. To date, the complement of veteri-
narians has managed to maintain a satisfactory standard of animal health in
the region and the indications are that they will continue to do so in the
future. The government veterinary service is also responsible for controlling
sanitary conditions at slaughterhouses, milk plants and dairy farms; main-
taining registers of the various native and exotic breeds of cattle and sheep;
providing artificial insemination services to the dairy industry; evaluating
the productive performance of young beef bulls; and operating a regional
veterinary diagnostic laboratory at Evora.
3.23      Supply of Inputs and Machinery.  Numerous private dealers found in
all the towns and most of the larger villages maintain adequate stocks of
seed, fertilizers, agrochemicals, equipment and spare parts. In addition,
supply cooperatives operate throughout the area. The Government plans to
expand domestic production of major fertilizers under a project for which
financing has been requested from the Bank. Foundation seeds of cereals
are produced by the Seed Testing Station in Beja and certified seed is distri-
buted by the Cereals Institute. Other crop and vegetable seeds are produced
by private farmers and certified by the Seed Testing Station. Subterranean
clover, white clover and rye grass, however, must be imported in the first
instance. Machinery repair services are performed satisfactorily by a network
of equipment dealers. In addition, most of the UECTs and cooperatives have
workshops in which all but major repairs can be carried out.
3.24      Marketing and Processing.  Facilities for marketing most crops are
satisfactory. The present inadequacy of grain storage capacity will be
remedied by the contruction of additional capacity of 190,000 tons in the
project area. The Government-owned oilseeds processing plant at Evora (FORE)



- 14 -
requires major rehabilitation if the region is to make use of its potential for
oilseeds production. Similarly, the existing trend of rejuvenating senile
vineyards calls for an expansion of storage capacity of wineries in the project
area. The region's four public slaughterhouses in Evora, Estremoz, Elvas and
Montemor are outmoded and do not meet current sanitary standards. However,
they will be replaced in 1978 by a single large-capacity slaughter and cold
storage complex currently under construction in Beja.
3.25      Research.  The main center for plant research in the region is the
well-equipped Plant Improvement Station at Elvas which has a total staff of
130 including 25 research specialists. Work done by this station has served
the region and the research on subterranean clover and the use of permanent
and temporary pastures is of particular relevance to the project. Experi-
mental work is carried out also at the Evora and Beja Agricultural Stations
and at a substation in Mertola. The work at Evora has been concerned with the
effects of a pasture break in the crop rotation while that at Mertola deals,
in practical terms, with the establishment, management and carrying capacity
of permanent pasture on poor soils. The Faculty of Agriculture at Evora
University, now in the formative stage, should in the future contribute to the
volume of research.
3.26      Training.  The main center of training for graduates in agriculture
is Lisbon University, but Faculties of Agriculture have recently been estab-
lished at the Universities of Evora and Vila Real and others are planned,
although, in the present economic situation, graduates have difficulty in
finding employment. There are three colleges for the training of medium-
level technicians (regentes agricolas). Their combined output is about 250
each year. One of these colleges is in Evora. Plans are for upgrading the
colleges by imposing higher entrance qualifications and providing a curriculum
approximating that of a three-year university course. After in-service experi-
ence, many diploma-holders of these colleges have attained high standards of
competence and are employed both by the Government and by agribusiness firms.
Many younger men are at present unemployed, partly because of the influx of
technicians from the former colonies who receive preferential treatment.
Programs for in-service training have recently been instituted particularly in
response to the need for more experienced staff at the regional level under the
new decentralized organization of MAP.
Agricultural Situation
3.27      Land Use.  Agriculture in the Alentejo region is best described as
mixed with most of the medium- and larger-sized farms deriving their revenue
from crops, livestock and forest products. The project area produces two-
thirds of the world's output of cork and account for 70% of the national
production of wheat and chickpeas; 65% of the barley and oats; 36% of the
broad beans and olive oil; and virtually all the sunflower and safflower. In
addition, they also account for about 11% of the national production of beef
and 40% of mutton and lamb. These foodstuffs are produced on about 1.8 mil-
lion ha of farmland of which 0.8 million ha are classified as arable and 0.7
million ha are planted in any one year. Within the arable land category
there are some 150,000 ha in olive groves and around 10,000 ha in vineyards.



- 15 -
The one million ha of non-arable farmland are on poor quality soils and are,
in the main, devoted to oak forests and native pastures which, at best, offer
only rough grazing for four to five months of the year. The latest statistical
information from the 1972 livestock census indicates a total cattle population
of 222,000 and a sheep population of 982,000. Estimates of the decline in
livestock numbers resulting from the 1974 revolution and subsequent land
reform range from 10% to 30% and would be extremely difficult to confirm.
3.28      Present Farming System.  The production of the basic cereals, wheat
and barley, dominates a cropping pattern in which the fallow persists. On the
field crop land, about 50% is in wheat and barley each year and 9% in oats,
13% is planted to a miscellany of minor crops, principally chickpeas, saf-
flower and sunflower, and 28% is in fallow. There is a high degree of mechan-
ization: the three subregions have 11,300 tractors, mostly of 60-75 hp (one
for every 62 ha of cropland), and a large combine fleet. Modern inputs have
been adopted, but they are not yet fully used.
3.29      Although livestock occupy an important place in the agricultural
economy, there is only a small production of fodder crops with feed resources
almost exclusively supplied by a system of year-round grazing consisting of
native pasture, cereal stubble and other crop residues and the oak forest,
characteristic of the region. Use of sown pastures is just beginning. The
expansion of beef production in recent years was made possible only through
the introduction of feedlot fattening based on imported grains and industrial
byproducts.
3.30      Agricultural Potential and Constraints.  On the best lands (Classes
A and B), cereal yields could be materially improved by land amelioration and
greater use of inputs. There is a potential to at least double, from the pre-
sent 26,300 ha to 55,000 ha or more, the area under oilseed crops by displace-
ment of chickpeas and maize, the area of which is decreasing because of high
harvesting costs and poor yields, respectively. The status of soils on the
intermediate lands (Class C) could also be raised to higher levels of produc-
tivity by these means and the introduction of a pasture break in replacement
of the prevailing fallow. This, and the inclusion of fodder crops, would
enable the development of a sound system of crop-livestock husbandry. On the
problem lands of the poorer categories (Classes D and E), much of which has
been depleted and eroded by overcultivation in the past, the main potential
is for permanent pasture and the development of livestock husbandry. These
"marginal" lands continue to be cultivated to cereals on a much reduced but
still significant scale. The achievement of potential yields on soils suit-
able for cereal production would more than compensate for elimination of
cereal production from these marginal lands. Another resource of the project
area which has not, so far, received much attention, is surface and subsoil
water. This resource is limited, but there appears to be useful scope for
small-scale irrigation, from dams on the large enterprises and from wells and
boreholes to improve the profitability of the smaller farms.
3.31      The main physical constraints on full development of the potential
are: serious drainage problems, complicated in part by the presence of an
impermeable or impeding soil layer, the high acidity and stony nature of many



- 16 -
soils and, in the lower land categories (two-thirds of the total area) shallow-
ness, steep slopes, susceptibility to erosion and sheer soil poverty. To this
may be added eccentricities of climate and seasonal rainfall. The structure
of land holding remains a constraint. The agrarian revolution was not a
planned structural reform but a rapid, well-planned takeover of the large
landholdings which has resulted in a reduced number of large holdings (500 ha
and over) from 804 to 404. However, the average size of these large holdings
has doubled. They still occupy over 60% of the farmland. Very small holdings
(those averaging less than 6 ha) still number over 30,000, 83% of all holdings,
and occupy little more than 10% of the land. Many of them are unviable,
capable of yielding only a meager living. But the situation is still in a
state of flux: fission of the UECTs and return of reservas may be expected to
bring about some amelioration of the extreme skew distribution of the size of
holdings.
B. Longline Fisheries
Location
3.32      Longline fishing by the Portuguese fishermen is concentrated in
three areas: the coastal waters of continental Portugal, the banks surround-
ing the Azores and Madeira Islands, and the jurisdictional waters of Spain and
Morocco. Portugal already has a fishery agreement with Spain, but an agree-
ment with Morocco has not been finalized (Map IBRD 13314). Longlining can
take place in shallow waters with depth from 20-30 m up to a maximum of 400 m.
The areas fished are generally sandy or rocky. Because the resources in the
coastal waters have been fully utilized for years, longline fishermen have had
to increase the size of their boats, the horsepower of the engines, the size
of their crews, and the total number of hooks. The number of days fished
has also increased and much of this increase is on grounds with deeper water
that are located further away from the ports.
Marine Resources
3.33      The species caught by these longliners are bottom-feeding demersal
fish such as snapper, hake, flounder, grouper and croaker. Due to the lack of
stock assessment efforts, the status of these resources is not well known.
However, the occurrence of a significant proportion of immature fish in the
fish markets and reports by a number of experienced masterfishermen indicate
that the average size of demersal fish has been decreasing and the average
catch per fishing effort in continental Portuguese waters has diminished over
the past 20 years. There is virtually no regulation on longline fishing with
regard to fishing grounds, fishing season, species or size of fish.
The Longliner Fleet
3.34      Size.  Portuguese longliners are classified in vessels of less than
and vessels over 15 gross tons. Out of an estimated total of 15,500 longliners,
the smaller size category comprises about 15,000 vessels, of which less than



- 17 -
9,000 are operational. Of the latter about 3,100 are motorized with outboard
engines and the remainder equipped with sails or oars. The larger size category
includes some 500 vessels ranging from 15 to 150 gross tons, powered by inboard
engines and equipped with various navigational, communications and fish-finding
instruments.
3.35      Age Distribution.  Of the small longliners, about 85% are more than
ten years old. Of the large longliners, an estimated 40% are less than ten years
old. Because of the high quality of Portuguese wood and sound construction
methods used, the average working life of longliners is estimated to be
between 30 and 35 years.
3.36      Ownership of Longliners.  With the exception of a few fishermen's
cooperatives, longliners in Portugal are owned by individual fishermen. Most
individual owners started out as a crew member at a very young age and grad-
ually saved enough money to buy their own boat. Normally individuals buy a
small boat first and as they accumulate wealth they trade in the vessels for
larger models, either used or built to order. Many of these trades are self-
financed.
3.37      Crew Size.  Small longliners are manned with about three to six
fishermen. The crew size of the larger vessels depends upon boat size--16-
meter long-liners employ about 14 men, 22-meter boats about 24 men and 30-meter
vessels about 30 fishermen.
3.38      Geographic Distribution.  No information on the distribution of
long-liners is available. But according to the landings made by artisanal
fishermen in 19Th, the distribution of vessels may be estimated as: Povoa de
Varzim 10%, Peniche 13%, Lisbon 11%, Sesimbra 11%, Setubal 6% and Olhao 7%.
The remaining 42% are scattered over another 17 ports and additional minor
fish landing points.
Production, Income and Employment
3.39      The total catch made by artisanal fishermen (mostly longliners) was
some 60,000 tons in 1976, or about 20% of national fish production. Of this,
90% was caught by boats larger than 5 gross tons. Since an estimated 11,000
artisanal fishermen out of 20,000 are employed on larger boats, the average
catch per fisherman is nearly 5 tons per annum for those operating from large
boats and about 0.7 ton per annum for those with small boats. Longline fisher-
men operate over a period of 140 to 200 days per annum depending on weather
conditions. They are paid by catch share and the average annual income of
crew members on the larger vessels is about Esc 230,000 (Us$5,750).
3.40      Longlining is labor intensive and, in most cases, is carried Out as
a family operation. In some cases, the fishing crew is supported by an on-
shore crew of 5 to 15 persons who maintain and prepare the longlines. Sub-
stantial employment is also provided by unloading, transporting, wholesaling
and retailing functions. In some ports, these functions are performed
exclusively by female members of fishermen's families.



- 18 -
Infrastructure
3.41      Fishing Port Facilities.  Continental fishing ports used by long-
liners are Viana do Castelo, Povoa de Varzim, Vila do Conde, Leixoes, Angeiras,
Afurada, Aveiro and Figueira da Foz in the North; Nazare, Peniche, Cascais,
Lisbon, Sesimbra, Setubal and Sines in Central Portugal and Sagres, Lagos,
Portimao, Quarteira, Faro, Olhao, Fuzeta and Tavira in the South. Fishing
ports in the Azores are Ponta Delgada, Vila Franca do Campo, Ribeira Quente,
Rabo de Peixe, Sao Mateus and Santa Crux. In Madeira, there are two fishing
ports, Funchal and Camarta de Lobos. Small longliners are usually pulled up
to sandy beach or are tied by anchor line at the inner bay of fishing ports.
Large longliners are generally anchored on sheltered water or moored alongside
quay. Many fishing ports in Portugal are congested; a port expansion and
modernization program has been initiated. Catch is discharged by hand, no
hoists or cranes are available. Fuel, water and provisions are also manually
loaded.
3.42      Vessel Construction and Repair Facilities.  Portugal has a long
experience in constructing wooden fishing vessels and the quality of boats is
high. The wood is available locally but engines and electronic equipment
must be imported. There are 18 boatyards distributed as follows: Vila de
Conde 1, Aveiro 2, Figueira da Foz 1, Peniche 4, Sesimbra 1, Setubal 1,'Santo
Antonio 3, Portimao 4 and Lagos 1. These boatyards are mainly engaged in
building new boats although some also do refitting and repair work. They are
traditional family operations. Minor repair and routine maintenance works
are usually done by the fishermen themselves. Spare parts for engines and
electronic equipment are supplied from Lisbon by agents representing major
international manufacturers.
3.43      Currently boatyards are fully occupied with an estimated 50 large
longliners under construction, mainly self-financed by present skippers.
3.44      Fish Handling and Marketing.  Fish caught by longliners enter the
fresh market and have a high value. They are ice-packed on board or at the
quay.  Fish are sold by auction immediately after unloading at municipal
wholesale markets. Most wholesale markets have ice stores and chilled rooms.
Development Potential
3.45      In the absence of adequate information on catch rates and fish
stocks, the potential of longline fishing, particularly in Portugal's con-
tinental waters, cannot be assessed. Preliminary indications are that the
stocks are probably overexploited now. However, the recent expansion of
Portugal's territorial waters to a 200-mile zone and the international fish-
ing agreements currently under negotiation may improve the stocks and allow
for a moderate increase in domestic fishing effort. Furthermore, there appears
to be underutilized potential on the shallow banks surrounding the Azores
Islands where the limited local market would permit substantial exports to
mainland Portugal.



- 19 -
3.46      Because of the likelihood of overfishing at the present time, it
would be unwise to replace entirely the expected decrease in foreign fishing
effort with domestic effort. However, a carefully planned expansion of domes-
tic effort coupled with a basic fisheries regulation program may offer an
opportunity for economic benefits through an improvement in the stocks and
hence in vessel productivity and total domestic catch.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives
4.01      Within the broad sectoral objectives (para 1.10), the project is
designed specifically to:
(a) strengthen the newly defined institutional framework
for agricultural and fisheries credit;
(b) increase the amount of credit supplied to private and
cooperative farms in the Alentejo region and to fisher-
men throughout the country; and
(c) contribute to the improvement of fisheries stock management
and to the formulation of a plan for future investments and
policy actions in this subsector.
4.02      The project would enable the new agricultural credit system to begin
operations as early as the 1978-79 crop year. The Bank loan would constitute a
first tranche of credit that would be applied, according to the Government's
priorities, to the Alentejo region which offers the greatest potential for
productivity and production increases and for the realization of foreign
exchange savings.
4.03      In the fisheries subsector, the project's major emphasis would be on
providing the information needed to draw up a plan for long-term development of
the subsector including inter alia improved management of fisheries stocks and
needed investments in infrastructure. Credit would be provided for the con-
struction of a small number of fishing vessels, despite the ongoing construc-
tion of an estimated 50 engine-powered longliners mostly financed by skippers
themselves, to assure the Bank's involvement in the medium- and long-term
development of the subsector.
B. Detailed Features
4.04      The project would consist of five components:



- 20 -
(a) credit for farm development;
(b) credit for agro-industries development;
(c) credit for construction of fishing vessels;
(d) strengthening of project administration; and
(e) studies.
Credit for Farm Development
4.05      This component would finance for a three-year commitment period sub-
loans for medium- to long-term on-farm investments on about 80 large farms
in the socialized sector, 560 medium-size private farms and 1,000 small family
farms in the subregions of Evora, Beja and Portalegre (Alentejo region) cover-
ing approximately 374,000 ha of a total area of 2.3 million ha. It would also
finance through short-term loans from a revolving fund the seasonal credit
requirements associated with these on-farm investments.
4.06      The project would integrate and intensify livestock and crop pro-
duction on the farms being developed, the former mainly on Class C, D and E
soils and the latter on Class A and B soils (para 3.04). Livestock development
strategy would in the first instance aim at expanding the sizes of the breeding
flocks of sheep and herds of cattle through the establishment of rainfed,
high-yielding, self-seeding subterranean clover-based pastures. In the case of
Class C land, this would be achieved through the introduction of an eight-year
cropping rotation consisting of five years of subterranean clover pasture, one
year of wheat, one year of oats and one year of vetch and oats hay instead of
the traditional five-year rotation of three years of fallow and one year each
of wheat and oats and in the case of Class D and E land through the establish-
ment of permanent subterranean clover-based pastures on 30-40% of the areas
concerned. In the second instance, development strategy would aim at finishing
cattle for slaughter at an early age off small areas of irrigated white clover-
based pastures, thereby alleviating the need for feeding expensive and largely
imported cereal-based concentrates as is currently the case.
4.07      Crop development strategy would aim at increasing yields through the
use of certified seed of disease-resistant varieties, drill planting, increased
fertilizer application and more effective control of weeds and pests. The only
change that would be introduced into the traditional three-year rotation of
wheat, barley and "planted fallow" on Class A and B land would expand the area
in oilseeds to make full use of the "planted fallow". This development package
is expected to increase the yield of oilseeds by about 15% and of wheat and
barley yields by about 30% each. Yields of wheat and oats on Class C land
would furthermore be expected to increase by about 35% and 100%, respectively,
as a consequence of improved inputs and the effect of five years of legume-
based pastures introduced into the cropping rotation.
4.08      Typical farm models have been prepared to illustrate the type of
investments expected. These models also provide a basis for the financial and
economic analysis of this project component.
4.09      Model A -- Large Cooperative Farm.  This model is representative of
the UECTs and land reform cooperatives, with an average size of 2,500 ha, 17%



- 21 -
of which is in Class A and B land, 48% in Class C land and 35% in Class D and
E land. Farm development would consist of improvements on 1,240 ha, including
establishment of 750 ha in temporary rainfed subterranean clover pasture on
Class C land; 150 ha in vetch/oats hay on class C land; 300 ha in permanent
rainfed subterranean clover pasture on Class D and E land; and 40 ha irrigated
land, half in permanent white clover pasture and half in rice. Parallel with
this land development, there would be an increase in the size of the sheep
flock from 1,000 to 3,600 breeding ewes and of the Alentejo cattle herd from
100 to 400 breeding cows. All farm-produced steers would be fattened on irri-
gated pasture. In addition to this, yields of the crops in the existing rota-
tion on Class A and B land would be increased through the use of an improved
package of inputs and cultural practices.
4.10      Model B -- Medium-size Farm on Good Soils.  This model represents
private farms, including reservas, averaging 200 ha of which 60% is in Class A
and B land and 40% in Class C land. Farm development would consist of estab-
lishment of 50 ha rainfed subterranean clover pastures and 10 ha of vetch/oats
hay annually in the new eight-year rotation on Class C land. With the feed
produced, a 360-ewe flock would be built up over an eight-year period. The
productivity of the existing rotation on Class A and B land would be increased
through improvements in inputs and cultural practices.
4.11      Model C -- Medium-size Farm on Marginal Soils.  Complementary to
Model B, this model would be more suitable for farms on poor soils, character-
ized by about 350 ha of which about 25% would be Class C land and the balance
Class D and E. Pasture development under this model would provide sufficient
grazing resources to double the size of the breeding flock from 180 to 360
ewes, to establish a breeding herd of 80 Alentejo cattle, and to finish all
farm-produced and some purchased steers.
4.12      Model D -- Small Farm.  This model, which has two variants, is
characteristic of the family farms in the project area, with an average of 20
ha land in a variety of rainfed field and tree crops generally on the better
soils. Farm development strategy would be to diversify these farms by adding
livestock production, either dairy or fattening operations. Investments
would include-establishment of 3 ha irrigated permanent pasture and 8 ha of
rainfed permanent subterranean clover pasture. The dairy variant (DI) would
thus be able to develop a herd of 15 milk cows and the beef variant (D2) would
permit fattening of 25 purchased calves to slaughter weight over a period of
10 months.
4.13      Table 4.1 below summarizes the lending program for on-farm invest-
ment.



- 22 -
Table 4.1: LENDING PROGRAM FOR ON-FARM INVESTMENT /a
Estimated Number           Investment           Lending Required
of Subloans                      Total                    Total
Project Year            Average       (US$       Average      (US$
Farm Model   1    2    3   Total   (US$'000)   million)   (US$'000)   million)
A            10   24   46       80      647.4        51.8       550.3        44.0
B           25  101  154       280       31.2         8.7        26.5         7.4
C            25  101  154      280      128.1       35.9        108.8        30.5
DI           50  177  273      500       25.7        12.8        21.8        10.9
D2           50  177  273      500       19.5         9.7         16.6        8.3
Total      160  580  900   1,640                   118.9                    101.1
/a   Excluding contingencies.
4.14      To complement the investment credit requirements of the subborrowers,
short-term lending would be provided under the project through a revolving
fund that would grow to US$32.5 in project year five.
Credit for Agro-industries Development
4.15      The FORE oilseeds mill at Evora would be expanded from its present
annual capacity of processing 12,000 tons of mostly safflower and sunflower
seed to 20,000 tons with a growing proportion of sunflower seed. Since the
plant was taken over by MAP in 1975, it has fallen into disrepair; and main-
tenance work, safety features and training of staff are urgently required to
assure continuity of operations. These would be undertaken, in part with
retroactive financing, prior to subloan approval.
4.16      The cooperative winery at Reguengos de Monsaraz would be expanded
from its present capacity of 4,500,000 liters to 7,500,000 liters per annum.
All the wine would be bottled and marketed mostly in the Alentejo region.
Increased winegrape production would come mainly from increased yields from
existing new plantings in replacement of old and low-yielding vineyards.
Credit for Construction of Fishing Vessels
4.17      The project would finance construction of three types of longline
fishing vessels to replace obsolete vessels as well as to provide a small
increase in the capacity of the Portuguese fishing fleet justified by the
decrease of foreign fishing in the 200-mile zone. Subloans made would be as
follows:
(a) About 10 coastal longliners, 16 m in overall length, with
a diesel engine of 150-200 hp. They would carry a crew of
10-12 men and make daily trips to the edge of the continental



- 23 -
shelf. Their equipment would consist of longlines (7,000 to
10,000 hooks), line hauler, insulated fish hold, echosounder,
radio-telephone and navigator.
(b) About 10 offshore fishing vessels, equipped for longlining
but with the possibility of also using gill nets. They would
have an overall length of about 22 m and be powered by a 350-
400 hp diesel engine. These vessels would carry a crew of
about 20 men and make trips of up to one week in Portuguese
waters as well as off the Spanish and Moroccan coasts. They
would be equipped with longlines (about 20,000 hooks) or gill
nets and line and net haulers, refrigerated fish hold, radio
direction finder and other equipment similar to that of the
16 m longliner.
(c) About 5 deep-sea longliners with an overall length of 30 m
and an engine of 550-750 hp. They would operate mainly in
the area of the Azores and Madeira Islands on trips lasting
two to three weeks and carry a crew of about 30 men. These
vessels would have longlines with 40,000-50,000 hooks and
be equipped with echosounders, radar, radio direction finder,
automatic pilot, radio-telephone and refrigerated fish holds.
4.18      All vessels would be constructed of wood by Portuguese boatyards.
The main technical specifications have been prepared and basic profiles for
each type are acceptable. Detailed specifications would be prepared and
prequalification of boatyards would be carried out during a nine-month prepa-
ration period. Construction time for boats ranges up to 12 months for the
30-meter model. All subloans under this project component, totalling US$5.3
million, are expected to be committed at the beginning of the third project
year.
Project Administration
4.19      Project cost includes the estimated expense of strengthening the
institutions that would be responsible for project implementation. A total
of about 124 man-months of consultants' time at US$5,000 per man-month would
be required to provide technical assistance to various services of MAP
(US$630,000). Vehicles and office equipment would be provided in the amount
of US$330,000 as well as foreign training programs (US$740,000) for MAP and
IFADAP staff directly involved in project implementation. Incremental
expenses for salaries, per diems and operation of vehicles are also included
(US$5.3 million).
Studies
4.20      The project would include funds for:
(a) a small groundwater survey in the project area (US$30,000)
to assess the adequacy of groundwater resources for the
development on about 1,000 small farms (Model D);



- 24 -
(b)  the development of a fish stock assessment program to
strengthen the basis for rational fisheries management
(US$340,000);
(c)  a feasibility study for a future fisheries project based on
an assessment of the potential of the subsector and the
investments and institutional arrangements required to make
use of this potential (US$780,000); and
(d) a small evaluation study to assess the impact of the project
(US$10,000).
C. Cost Estimates
4.21      Total project cost, including taxes and duties, is estimated at
Esc 10.3 billion (US$256.5 million), including contingencies. The foreign
exchange component is Esc 3.7 billion (US$93 million) or 36% of total project
cost. The base cost constitutes the cost estimates obtained by the appraisal
mission but adjusted to May 1978 price levels. Physical contingencies included
are 10% of the base cost. Price contingencies on the foreign exchange component
were calculated on the basis of international price increases of 7.5% p.a. for
1977-79 and 7% p.a. for 1980-85; for local costs it was assumed that domestic
price inflation would be 30% for 1977, 23% for 1978, 20% for 1979, 15% for
1980, 10% p.a. for 1981-82 and 8% p.a. for 1983-85. Total price contingencies
amount to 37% of base cost plus physical contingencies. Cost estimates are
shown in Annex 2, and summarized in Table 4.2.



- 25 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES /a
Project Cost
% Foreign
Esc million              US$ million          Exchange
Project Element       Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Component
A. Farm Development 3,426.2  2,263.1  6,056.4   85.7    65.7   151.4          43
B. Agro-industries    117.2       49.3    166.5    2.9       1.3      4.2     29
C. Fishing Vessels    140.6    106.0    246.6    3.5         2.7      6.2     43
D. Project Admin-
istration           226.2      54.8    218.0    5.7       1.3     7.0      19
E. Studies              10.0      36.7      46.7    0.2      0.9      1.1     75
Base Cost         3,920.2  2,877.0  6,797.2   98.0    71.9   169.9         42
F. Contingencies
Physical (10%)      392.0    287.7    679.7    9.8        7.2    17.0      42
Price (37%)       2,224.9    557.9  2,782.7   55.7    13.9    69.6         20
Subtotal          2,616.9    845.6  3,462.4   65.5    21.1    86.6         24
Total Project
Cost                6,537.0  3,722.6 10,259.6  163.5    93.0   256.5         36
/a   Discrepancies are due to rounding.
D. Financing
4.22      The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million would cover 75% of the
foreign exchange cost, estimated at US$93 million, or 27% of total project
cost. Subborrowers would finance US$28.2 million, or 11% of total project
cost; the credit system would finance US$110 million (43%), US$53.4 million of
which would be the expected contribution by the participating banking institu-
tions and the remainder would be provided by IFADAP; and the Government would
contribute US$48.2 million including the balance of the foreign exchange cost
(US$23 million) not covered by the Bank loan (Table 4.3). An agreement was
reached at negotiations that the Government would make available the balance
of the foreign exchange not provided by the proposed Bank loan and that it
would lend to IFADAP the equivalent of US$22.3 million on the same terms as
the Bank loan.
4.23      IFADAP would on-lend US$1.7 million of the loan proceeds to the
Government for the benefit of MAP, on the same terms as those of the loan,
and US$68.0 million to PBIs on terms defined in the subsidiary loan agreements
to be entered into by IFADAP and the PBIs (para 5.08). An agreement was
reached during negotiations that the subsidiary loan agreements would include



- 26 -
a commitment by the PBI to provide the complementary funds necessary to finance
at least 25% of both the investment and short-term subloans.
4.24             The Bank loan would be made to IFADAP at 7.5% per annum, for a term
of 15 years including three years of grace. The Government of Portugal would
bear the exchange risk and guarantee the Bank loan.
Table 4.3: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN /a
Participating
Subborrowers       Banking              IFADAP          Government         Bank            Total Cost
Institutions
us$                us$              us$                usS$            usS$             usS$
million      %     million       %   million    %       million  %  million          %   million        %
Farm Development
Investments                    17.8        15      25.3        21     21.1      18      13.5    11     41.2         35    118.9       100
Seasonal Credit                   0          0      8.1        25      13.3     41       2.8     8       8.3        25     32.5       100
Subtotal                    17.8        12     33.4        22      34.4      23     16.3    13      49.5        33    151.4        100
Agro-Industry Development
Oilseeds Mill
Investments                   0.1         5      0.5         24      0.4      19      0.3    13       0.8        39       2.0       100
Working capital                0          0       0.3        25      0.8      75        -      -        0          0      1.1       100
Winery
Investments                   0.2        20       0.2        20      0.3      37        -      -      0.1        17       0.8       100
Working capital                0          0        -         25      0.2      75               -        0          0      0.2       100
Subtotal                  0.3          7      1.0        24       1.7     41       0.3     7      0.9         22      4.1       100
Fishing Vessels                     0.9        15       1.3        21      1.3      21      0.7    11       2.0        32       6.2       100
Project Administration               -          -        -          -       -        -      6.0    86       1.0        14       7.0       100
Studies                              -         -         -          -       -        -      0.4    36       0.7        62       1.1       100
Base Cost                          19.0        11     35.7         21     37.4      22     23.7    14      54.1        32    169.9        100
Contingencies                       9.2        11      17.6        20     19.3      22     24.5    28      15.9        18      86.6       100
Total Cost                  28.2        11     53.4        21      56.7     22      48.2    19      70.0        27    256.5       100
/a   Discrepancies are due to rounding.



- 27 -
E. Procurement
4.25      On-Farm Development.  The investment items to be financed for
approximately 1,640 subborrowers over the five-year investment period would
be varied and not suitable for procurement through international competitive
bidding. Subborrowers would purchase their requirements through existing com-
mercial channels. Wherever an individual order for goods, works or services
to be procured is expected to exceed the equivalent of US$30,000, price quo-
tations would be solicited from at least three local suppliers and confirmation
of the order would require the prior approval of an appropriate official of
MAP. Several international suppliers of imported items are represented,
competition is keen and service facilities are adequate in the project area.
4.26      Agro-Industries Development.  Services and equipment for repairing,
modernizing and expanding the vegetable oil solvent extraction plant of the
FORE oilseeds mill, totalling about US$864,000, would be procured from the
same firm that designed and manufactured the existing plant, C. M. Bernardini
of Italy as equipment from other manufacturers would not dove-tail with the
existing facilities. However, procurement of equipment items for the expansion
of the refining capacity and other purposes totalling about US$247,000 but
costing individually less than US$75,000 would be procured locally or inter-
nationally on the basis of at least three quotations from suppliers.
4.27      The construction of the concrete storage tanks and other civil works
for the expansion of the cooperative winery (US$0.47 million) is unlikely to
attract foreign bidders and would therefore be procured under local competi-
tive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Winery equipment,
of diverse origin and estimated to cost less than US$60,000 per item for a
total of US$0.2 million, would be procured locally or internationally on the
basis of at least three quotations.
4.28      Fishing Vessels.  Since Portugal has good quality wood for boat con-
struction and long-established experience in wooden hull construction the 25
fishing vessels financed under the project would be built in local boatyards.
Potential subborrowers have a strong preference for domestic boatyards where
they can supervise in person the construction of their boat. MAP's Central
Loan Team for fisheries development (CLT) would prequalify boatyards among
the 20 existing ones and individual contracts would be awarded on the basis
of at least three quotes received from prequalified boatyards. This pro-
cedure gives subborrowers the opportunity to exercise, within limits accept-
able to CLT, their judgment in the choice of equipment. Competition among
boatyards is keen and boatyards are well distributed along Portugal's coast-
line. Engines, electronic apparatus and other equipment would be procured
either by the subborrower or the successful boatyard on the basis of at least
three quotations from local suppliers.
4.29      Project Administration.  Vehicles and office equipment, required for
strengthening MAP's services and totalling about US$240,000 would be procured
through local competitive bidding or on the basis of at least three quotations.
Consultant services, at an average cost of US$5,000 per man-month, would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on the use of consultants.



- 28 -
F. Disbursement
4.30      The Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of six years as shown
in the estimated schedule of disbursements (Annex 3). The loan would reim-
burse 27% of total project cost as summarized below:
(a) 32% of amounts previously disbursed by IFADAP and PBIs
for on-farm investment and fishing vessel construction
credits and for seasonal credits for on-farm develop-
ment made in the first year of implementation of each
farm plan, and 32% of the annual incremental amount of
such seasonal credits thereafter, for a total value of
US$60.7 million;
(b) 38% of the subloan disbursements for the FORE oilseeds
mill, for a value of US$0.9 million;
(c) 19% of the subloan disbursements for the cooperative winery
of Reguengos de Monsaraz, for a total of US$0.1 million; and
(d) 55% of the total expenditures for project consultants
services, vehicles and office equipment, fellowships and
foreign training, vehicle operating expenses and studies,
for a total value of US$2.0 million.
The above amounts include price contingencies; the balance consisting of
physical contingencies in the amount of US$6.3 million would be the unallo-
cated disbursement category.
4.31      Disbursement for expenditures under the farm and fisheries lend-
ing programs would be made against a certificate of expenditure, the documen-
tation for which is not submitted for review, but is retained by the borrower
and available for inspection by the Bank during the course of a project
supervision mission. All other disbursements would be made against normal
documentation.
4.32      Disbursement of the subloans for agro-industry development would be
subject to Bank approval. The parts of the loan allocated to these subloans
would be subject to cancellation if the conditions of disbursement have not
been fulfilled by December 31, 1979 (paras. 5.25 andE 5.42).
4.33      The project provides for retroactive financing up to a maximum of
US$370,000 to expedite actions which, if taken after loan effectiveness, could
lead to serious delays in implementation. Of this, US$70,000 is earmarked for
project administration including consultants, US$150,000 for urgent repairs
and technical assistance at the FORE oilseeds mill, and US$150,000 for the
fish stock assessment study.



- 29 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
5.01      As the agricultural and fisheries lending components of the project
constitute an integral part of IFADAP's lending program, the project organi-
zation fits in the institutional structure of the newly organized agricultural
credit system (paras 2.15-2.31).
5.02      The lending operations of the on-farm development and agro-industries
components would be carried out in the three subregions of Evora, Beja and
Portalegre of the Alentejo region and would involve (a) IFADAP's regional
office at Evora and two subregional offices in Beja and Portalegre, to be
established, (b) the branch offices in the region of the PBIs, (c) the regional
directorate of MAP, and (d) MAP's central services, for technical assistance
with the minor irrigation aspects of on-farm development and with the implemen-
tation of the agroindustries component.
5.03      The lending operations in the fisheries subsector would be managed
by (a) IFADAP's central office, (b) the branch offices of the PBIs, (c) four
regional fisheries offices of MAP, and (d) a Central Loan Team (CLT) in MAP.
The regional fisheries offices would ensure close coordination between sub-
borrowers, PBIs and boatyards. CLT would be responsible for the technical
standards while IFADAP would review the conformity of loans with the lending
program.
5.04      In the event of a disagreement between IFADAP and MAP's technical
services in matters of lending policy, procedure or technical judgment, a
final decision would be made jointly by the Governor of the Bank of Portugal
and the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries or their representatives.
5.05      Chart 18619 illustrates the project's organizational framework.
B. Institutional Development
Project Implementation
5.06      Before loan effectiveness, IFADAP would open three offices in the
project area, in Evora, Beja and Portalegre, each staffed with two trained
banking and credit specialists with an agricultural background, one of whom
would be the subregional representative of IFADAP. The representative in
Evora would be responsible for coordinating IFADAP's activities in the Alentejo
region.
5.07      The banking institutions, including commercial banks, CGD and CCAMs,
have a sufficiently dense network of branches and offices in the project



- 30 -
area with at least one office for almost all county capitals. In the agricul-
tural project area alone there are 62 bank branches and 26 CCAMs and the long-
line fishing ports are also adequately covered. These institutions are
adequately managed and staffed. One or two professionals in each branch
office are being trained in dealing with agricultural credit as part of
IFADAP's technical assistance contract with the consulting firm of J. Jesus
Romero Chavez A.P.
5.08      The relationship between the PBIs and IFADAP would be set forth in
the subsidiary loan agreements stipulating their respective roles and finan-
cial responsibilities as well as details of the loan processing and super-
vision procedures. An agreement was reached at negotiations that these
agreements would be satisfactory to the Bank and that IFADAP would not agree
to any amendments or waivers without prior Bank approval. The effectiveness
of at least two such subsidiary loan agreements would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan. At negotiations IFADAP undertook furthermore to
ensure that there would be at all times at least one PBI branch office pre-
pared to offer subloans in each zona agraria of the project area.
5.09      All proceeds of the loan repaid to IFADAP by PBIs which are not
needed to make repayments of principal, interest or other charges under the
loan, or to meet IFADAP's operating expenses, would be used for additional
lending to agriculture, preferably in the project area. An agreement to this
effect was reached at negotiations.
5.10      Under MAP's new regional organization, the Regional Director of Agri-
culture for Alentejo would be responsible for the technical aspects of the farm
lending operations. He would delegate this responsibility to the Director of
Farm development who would be charged, on a full-time basis, with project
implementation. In the regional capital and two subregional centers (Evora,
Beja and Portalegre), farm planning teams would be located, consisting of two
agronomists (one crop and one pasture specialist), one livestock specialist,
one economist/financial analyst and one farm accountant. These teams would
analyze the existing situation of potential subborrowers and prepare an
investment plan that would provide the technical and financial basis for the
loan application. If necessary, these teams would be assisted by MAP's
regional specialists and, in the case of small irrigation development, by
specialists from MAP's General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering
(DGHEA).
5.11      Upon subloan approval, local extension agents assigned exclusively
to this task would provide intensive technical assistance during the implemen-
tation period of each farm development plan. They would be supported by a
team of subject matter specialists.
5.12      At negotiations, an agreement was reached that MAP's regional
directorate would establish and staff, as a condition of loan effectiveness,
one farm planning team in each of the three subregional centers of Evora, Beja
and Portalegre, appoint, at the zona agraria level, qualified local extension
agents in sufficient number to effectively implement the number of subloans
expected to be made in the first project year, and provide qualified subject
matter specialists to effectively support both the farm planning team and the
local extension agents charged with farm plan implementation.



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
|   Sank of                         P  ankinCog 
|  Po tugal  l    l   Instir Jt  Secretariat of State  l  |Directorate General of  I           Drector General         - FORE Oreind.  Mill
|  In  titute |- For Fl her;e- 1 | tnsineerin | | ydralicsand  ural                                                       ot Agro-lndustries        |        Evoral          Nainl A_i |tr
f                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eratioe Winery  
IFACAP                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Regiondl Fisirerios Off ionS                                      Regional Director of                                                       Flvat
1ACentral Loan Tearh     _                                 _                                                                         Agrrurn f                                                        Plant At
Consultants   t  2  3        4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta o
Flogional  mntentat,O                                                                                                                                                                                                            Supportlo  Sants   .                       t
For AlontOjO                                                                                                                                   Prodoy                                                              andt..  ii--gF.d p-,ii   A .graria   R dfy
Subregional RR -rOi-ntatrO gO                                                                                                                               B,,|
l                                                                                                  |                  J                  .            >~~~~~T  Ag..t,'                         * f
Rein               Eunra             Ponrulegre  
grannh                                   . 11*|
(County                                                                                                                           FF.- Pl-
(C ..tW                                                                                                                  a   - <
World B..k -18619






- 31 -
5.13      To facilitate the implementation of the fishing vessel construction
lending program, MAP would establish and staff, as a condition of loan effec-
tiveness, four regional fisheries offices as well as a Central Loan Team
composed of economists, financial analysts and boat construction specialists.
Consultants
5.14      The concept of medium-term farm planning is virtually unknown in
Portugal. While the credit institutions are being introduced to this concept
through IFADAP's technical assistance contract, the need remains for MAP's
regional services to be familiarized with this concept. A credit and farm
planning consultant would be recruited to assist the Director of Farm Develop-
ment in all matters pertaining to the on-farm development component of the
project.
5.15      MAP's General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering would,
with the aid of a short-term consultant, carry out a groundwater survey in
the project area. DGHEA would also retain local consultants to develop plan-
ning and design standards for small dam and groundwater development, to train
DGHEA personnel in planning and design techniques and to provide planning
and design services during the first two years of the project.
5.16      The implementation of the fisheries component would require the ser-
vices of consultants for the detailed design of fishing vessels and for super-
vision during construction. The Fisheries Research Institute would employ
consultants to provide expert assistance in carrying out the stock assessment
study. Consultants would also be needed for the feasibility study of a
future fisheries project.
5.17      In total, the consultants' input for the project is estimated at
269 man-months at US$5,000 each. At negotiations, an agreement was reached
that the Government would employ consultants for (a) assistance in farm
planning, (b) carrying out a groundwater survey, (c) strengthening DGHEA,
(d) detailed design and supervision during construction of the fishing vessels,
(e) assistance in undertaking the fishery stock assessment study, (f) the
feasibility study of a future fisheries project, and (g) a project evaluation
study; that appointment of the consultants under (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e)
would be a condition of loan effectiveness; and that the qualifications of
these consultants and the term and conditions of their employment would be
acceptable to the Bank.
Training
5.18      A considerable training effort is required to familiarize project
implementation staff with both the concept of lending based on medium-term
farm planning and with the technological innovations introduced by the project.
Training in agricultural lending techniques has already started under IFADAP's
technical assistance contract (para 2.23). To strengthen IFADAP's staff, ten
fellowships for postgraduate study abroad would be provided under the project.



- 32 -
5.19      The training program for MAP staff involved in project implementa-
tion would consist of in-service training, short courses and visits abroad and
post-graduate fellowships. This program would cover training in preparing and
supervising farm planning advisers' responsibilities as well as in technical
subjects such as pasture establishment and livestock management. In addition,
courses would be organized on farm management, accounting and technical sub-
jects for the managers of UECTs and cooperatives, and on accounting, business
management and fishery techniques for fishermen.
5.20      As part of the effort to reinforce DGHEA's implementation capacity,
needed for the project's minor irrigation development, two types of training
would be provided under the project. Lower-level technicians would benefit
from locally organized courses and selected higher-level technicians from
overseas working assignments of three to six months duration.
5.21      At negotiations an agreement was reached that by March 31, 1979
IFADAP and MAP would prepare and submit to the Bank for review comprehensive
programs for fellowship, short-term foreign and local in-service training of
their staff as well as for training of subborrowers.
C. Policies and Procedures of Project Sublending
General Policies
5.22      Once IFADAP becomes fully operational in the project area, all other
funds, boards and agencies would cease their lending operations for agricul-
ture and fisheries, except for the purpose of financing compensation payments
to the former owners of expropriated farms, and IFADAP's policies would apply
to all lending operations in the sector. All applications to PBIs for sub-
loans eligible for refinancing by IFADAP would be promptly registered with
IFADAP to facilitate the centralization of all loan operations of a subbor-
rower in a single PBI. To qualify for refinancing by IFADAP, all subloans
for farm development and fishing vessel construction would be subject to
IFADAP's approval, based on the subborrowers' meeting general eligibility
criteria and on an acceptable farm plan or boat construction plan prepared
or approved by MAP's technical services. In establishing the detailed farm
development plan MAP would take into account:
(a) the technical feasibility and the financial viability of
the investments;
(b) the legal status of the subborrower, in the case of UECTs
and cooperatives;
(c)  the subborrower's plan for rescheduling of outstanding
debts, including debts in connection with compensation to
previous owners; and



- 33 -
(d)  the subborrower's plan to reduce the excess of workers on
the farm, in the case of UECTs and cooperatives, if
necessary.
Agreement on the above points has been reached at negotiations.
Eligibility Criteria
5.23      Subloans under the project would be made for (a) development on
small-and medium-size farms and on UECTs and cooperative farms; (b) rehabili-
tation and expansion of the FORE oilseeds mill and expansion of the coopera-
tive winery at Reguengos de Monsaraz; and (c) construction of longline fishing
vessels.
5.24      To be eligible for a farm development subloan, applicants should
agree:
(a) to provide loan collateral acceptable to the PBI or obtain
a supplementary guarantee from IFADAP;
(b) to implement the farm plan approved by MAP's regional
directorate;
(c) to establish and maintain farm accounts as agreed with
MAP's regional directorate; and
(d) to deliver farm-produced commodities to a specified marketing
or processing cooperative or government agency, in the case of
commodities that are exclusively traded through such channels,
or to hypothecate commodities to provide the PBI an effective
lien on such commodities.
5.25      The FORE oilseeds mill would be eligible for a subloan on the condi-
tions that it had:
(a) undertaken urgent repairs, implemented safety measures
and trained operational staff;
(b) employed competent managers;
(c) established a satisfactory and effective accounting
system; and
(d) established a legal entity of suppliers of oilseeds and
other raw materials prepared to take over the management
and ownership of the plant.
5.26      Eligibility criteria for boat subloans are:
(a) acceptance of a standardized design, with minor modifi-
cations and options to be agreed with MAP's Central Loan
Team;



- 34 -
(b) professional ability and experience, certified by other
skippers, port captains and auctioneers; and
(c) agreement to deliver catch to official fish auctions and
authorize withholding from proceeds of sale the amounts
due to the PBI.
In making subloans, priority will be given to owners of obsolete vessels which
are within one year of retirement with no resale value.
Terms and Conditions
5.27      On average, all subloans except the two agro-industry subloans would
finance about 85% of investment cost. FORE and the cooperative winery would
contribute 5% and 20%, respectively, to investment cost. Farm development
subloans would be repaid in eight years including two years grace, the two
agro-industry subloans would be repaid over ten years including two years
grace, and boat construction subloans would be repaid in eight years after
the grace period which would be the length of the actual construction and
equipment period plus one month. Short-term subloans (6-12 months maturities)
would be available to farmers as part of farm development financing; these
subloans would finance up to the total seasonal credit requirements.
5.28      Possible collateral for investment subloans would include real estate
mortgages and liens on machinery and fishing boats. In the case of short-term
loans these would include also liens on crops or livestock. Fire insurance
and participation in the government's crop and livestock insurance scheme would
be required for farm subloans; and for boat subloans, multirisk insurance would
be mandatory during the construction period and the duration of the subloan.
5.29      As one of the responsibilities under its charter, IFADAP would pro-
vide a supplementary guarantee on subloans made by PBIs when the loan col-
lateral offered by eligible subborrowers is insufficient, such as in the case
of UECTs and tenant farmers, both of which cannot offer real estate as col-
lateral. A guarantee fund, administered by IFADAP, would be established and
built up from (a) a supplement on the interest charged, (b) an appropriation
of the annual profits of IFADAP and the PBIs, and (c) and annual governmental
budget allocation. IFADAP would define criteria and procedures for the use
of this fund, in consultation with BP and MAP.
Interest Rates
5.30      All investment subloans would carry an interest rate averaging not
less than 16.5% p.a. over the life of any subloan. Under the present interest
structure applicable to investment loans in all sectors a decreasing subsidy is
applied to qualifying loans. In the case of investment subloans under the proj-
ect, the effective interest rate would go from at least 11.75% p.a. in the first
year of the subloan to at least 22.25% p.a. in the sixth year and thereafter
(Annex 4, Table 1). The interest rate on seasonal credit (6-12 months maturi-
ties) would be 13.5% p.a. These rates would reflect the real cost of lending
resources to the financial intermediaries and allow for adequate operating
margins (Annex 4, Table 2). The structure and level of interest rates would



- 35 -
be re-examined in the framework of a study of the national agricultural and
fisheries credit policies which the Government, in consultation with the Bank,
would complete by March 31, 1979. In connection with this study, considera-
tion would be given to establishing a single interest rate throughout their
maturity for all investment loans to agriculture and fisheries of not less
than 16.5% p.a. Subsequently, the appropriateness of interest rates in the
agricultural and fisheries sector would be reviewed jointly by the Government
and the Bank at intervals of not more than two years. At negotiations, agree-
ment was reached on the above points.
5.31      These sublending rates would constitute a major increase in the
interest rates paid by project area farmers until now. The UECTs and coopera-
tives have regularly borrowed short-term funds (CAE) at 9.75% and investment
funds (e.g., Fundo de Melhoramento Agricola) at 6% or less. Private farms,
especially small ones, have also benefited from these subsidized interest
rates.
5.32      Because of the rapid decline in domestic inflation rates expected,
the proposed sublending rates would, on average, be positive in real terms
over the eight-year amortization period of the subloans. 1/ Indexing of
interest rates in this case would have an adverse effect on the demand of
potential subborrowers for investment finance.
5.33      Moreover, the new interest rates would be the maximum that sub-
borrowers can support during the subproject implementation period as indicated
by a sensitivity analysis of subborrowers' cash flows, unless accompanied by
a concomitant increase in farmgate prices for agricultural commodities. The
latter would go against the price stabilization policy adopted by the Govern-
ment.
Lending Procedure
5.34      Prospective borrowers would make their intention known to their
local PBI who would verify that the applicant is eligible and pass the loan
request on to MAP's regional directorate. One of MAP's farm planning teams
would then proceed with subproject identification, farm development planning,
preparation of a technical and financial feasibility report and assistance in
completing the loan application. The PBI would review the subloan application
and MAP's report, checking in particular the applicant's creditworthiness in
relation to the proposed subloan, to determine the amount and the terms and
conditions of the subloan. Final approval of the subloan would rest with
IFADAP. If the cost of the subproject for which a subloan has been requested
is below Esc 1 million, the subloan would be approved by the PBI branch manager
subject to the concurrence of IFADAP's subregional representative. Subloan
approval authority for subprojects costing more than Esc 1 million but less
than Esc 4 million would rest with the PBI's regional directorate subject to
1/   The domestic wholesale price increases are expected to fall from 30% p.a.
in 1977 to 23% in 1978, 20% in 1979, 15% in 1980, 10% in 1981-82, and 8%
in 1983 and thereafter.



- 36 -
the concurrence of IFADAP's head office or its regional representative.
Subloans for investment projects estimated to cost more than Esc 4 million
would be approved by the PBI's board of directors, subject to the concurrence
of IFADAP's head office.
5.35      The procedure would be essentially the same for boat construction
subloan applications except that the prospective borrower would deal both with
a field agent of MAP's regional fisheries office and with the CLT in Lisbon
and that the subloan amount will only be established after a contract price
with a boatyard has been agreed.
5.36      If during the initial years of the project the number of subloan appli-
cations would exceed MAP's capacity for preparing farm plans or boat construc-
tion plans, IFADAP could give written authorization to the PBIs to relax
temporarily application of the above lending procedure while remedial actions
are taken to overcome this constraint, and in such event it would inform the
Bank accordingly. An agreement to this effect was reached at negotiations.
5.37      The onlending PBI would disburse the subloan in accordance with an
agreed disbursement schedule and would submit a reimbursement claim to IFADAP
for the proportion of IFADAP's participation. IFADAP would transfer to the
PBI's account in BP the requested amount against the usual lending documents.
IFADAP, in turn, would claim from the Bank reimbursement of the Bank loan's
share in IFADAP's participation in the subloan.
5.38      With regard to PBIs' subloan collections, the due date of short-
term subloans and installments on investment subloans would coincide with the
harvest or sale of the main sources of cash income. Timely loan recovery
would be principally the responsibility of the PBI, facilitated by the sub-
borrower's agreement to deliver cash crops to specified marketing or processing
cooperatives or government marketing boards in the case of commodities that
are exclusively traded through such channels (para 5.24(e)). On fisheries
subloans, MAP's auction administrators would reserve an adequate proportion of
the revenues of each borrowers's catch and transfer this directly to the
lending PBI.
5.39      The procedure for the two agro-industry subloans would be as follows.
FORE and the cooperative winery would submit to a PBI a subloan application
based on and together with a feasibility study and an accompanying audit report
(para 5.42). Approval of these subloans would require the Bank's concurrence
beside that of IFADAP's head office.
D. Accounts and Audits
5.40      IFADAP and the PBIs would establish and maintain separate accounts
for project operations, by type of subloan, and in accordance with sound
accounting principles. Also, in the office of IFADAP's regional representa-
tive in Evora, and for fisheries loans at IFADAP's head office, a central
filing system would be established of complete loan files on all subborrowers
arranged both by subregion and by farm model and boat model, respectively.



- 37 -
Furthermore, IFADAP and MAP would also establish and maintain separate accounts
for their expenditures on project administration and studies carried out under
the project.
5.41      In accordance with its charter, IFADAP's operations are audited by
BP's board of auditors. This board consists of four members: two appointed
by the Minister of Finance and Planning, one of whom is a chartered accountant
(revisor oficial de contas); the third member is appointed by the council of
banking institutions; and the fourth is coopted from among the BP staff. While
the qualifications and authority of this board are not in doubt, objections may
be raised by the fact that IFADAP is'an annex of BP and that one of the board's
members is a representative of a bank which may be a participating institution
under this project. For these reasons, an agreement was reached that the
project accounts would be audited annually by an independent firm of auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports and other supplementary information
that the Bank may request would be submitted through IFADAP to the Bank not
later than four months after the end of each Portuguese fiscal year. Agree-
ments to this effect were reached at negotiations.
5.42      Since 1975, agricultural cooperatives and state-owned agro-
industries have not been audited by any authorized official institution. It
would be a condition of disbursement (para 4.32) for the two agro-industrial
subloans that: an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, had effected a
complete audit of the accounts of both enterprises, and that the corresponding
audit reports be included with the feasibility studies when the request for
each subloan financing is presented to the Bank. At negotiations an agreement
was reached that both enterprises would establish and maintain a satisfactory
accounting system, that their accounts would be audited annually by competent
and experienced independent auditors and that certified copies of the audit
reports and, during the first three years, of unaudited trial balances for
the first semester of each fiscal year be made available to the PBIs concerned
not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year or semester,
respectively.
E. Studies and Research
Studies
5.43      The execution of the fish stock assessment study, together with the
strengthening of the stock assessment capability under bilateral assistance
programs, would lead to the development of a continuing stock assessment
program carried out by the National Fisheries Research Institute. This would
provide the missing information required to prepare a program for rational
fisheries management. An agreement was reached that, within six months after
completion of the stock assessment study, the Government would submit to the
Bank, for its review, draft legislation instituting a fisheries management
program, and that it would promptly implement such a program, taking into
account the Bank's comments.



- 38 -
Research
5.44      A great deal of research has so far been conducted by the Pasture and
Fodder Section of the National Plant Breeding Station at Elvas on the screening
of various legumes and grasses and on the establishment and management of rain-
fed subterranean clover-based pastures, irrigated white clover-based pastures
and forage crops. To a large degree this work has been restricted to various
Government-controlled farms and experimental substations. Continued research
in these fields is required but primary attention should be given to extending
the applied aspects of this work to the various ecological zones and soil types
of the Alentejo region. Further lines of investigation which are indicated in-
clude techniques, costs and benefits of drainage and ripping on lands requiring
these treatments; anti-erosion techniques appropriate to local conditions; and,
where justified, costs and benefits of stone removal, with a comparison of
mechnical and labor-intensive methods. At negotiations an agreement was
reached that MAP would orient future research efforts in Alentejo in this
direction using project farms for field trial purposes.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.45      IFADAP would be responsible for the establishment and maintenance,
with the assistance of MAP and the PBIs, of a continuous monitoring system
which would permit a ready assessment of the status of project implementation.
The basic means for this monitoring system would be the analysis of lending
operations carried out by IFADAP with the aid of its computerized.record
system, the central filing systems, one for farm loans in Evora arnd one for
fisheries loans in Lisbon (para 5.40), the periodic collection by MAP's
regional services for analysis by IFADAP of detailed farm and boat management
information from a representative sample of subborrowers, and the preparation
of six-monthly progress reports on project implementation. Toward the end of
the project implementation period, IFADAP would, with the aid of university
researchers or local consultants, evaluate the impact of the project through
its credit and technical assistance operations on farmers' and fishermen's
income and on regional agricultural and national fisheries development. The
results of this evaluation study would be included in the project completion
report to be prepared by IFADAP and furnished to the Bank within three months
after the closing date of the loan. Agreements to this effect have been
obtained at negotiations.
VI. PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
A. Production
Agricultural Production
6.01      At full development (project year 14), incremental production from
the farm development component of the project would be approximately as follows:



- 39 -
Table 6.1: INCREMENTAL AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Incremental
Average         Production from Project Farms           Production
Annual                    At Full Development           as % of
National    Before   Without   With         Incre-      1973-75
Production   Project  Project  Project    mental         National
Commodity             1973-75                                   Volume    %   Production
Wheat    ('000 ton)    551           70.1     79.1      73.3    -5.8   -7.3    -1.0
Barley   ('000 ton)       74         40.3     46.6      49.3      2.7    5.8      3.6
Oats     ('000 ton)    100           21.7     21.7      24.6      2.0   13.4    13.4
Rice     ('000 ton)    144             -        -        8.0      8.0    /c       5.6
Oilseeds ('000 ton)       14         17.6     18.9      18.8    -0.1   -0.5    -0.7
Fruits   ('000 ton)/a  209             -        -       40.0    40.0    /c       19.1
Mutton   ('000 ton)/b  41.4           3.9      6.7      20.0    13.3    98       32.1
Beef     ('000 ton)7b 132.4           1.9      6.0      29.8    23.8   297       18.2
Wool      ('000 ton)      8.4         0.4      0.4       1.4      1.0   150      11.9
Milk (million liters) 486.8            -         -      25.6    25.6    /c        5_3
/a   Tree fruits including citrus, apricots and peaches.
7b   Liveweight basis.
Ic   Infinite.
At full development, and using May 1978 farmgate prices, the annual total
value of incremental crop and livestock output would be about US$83.9 million
and the incremental herd and flock value would be about US$116.7 million,
giving a total incremental value due to the project of US$200.6 million.
Agro-industrial Production
6.02      As a result of the expansion in annual processing capacity from
12,000 to 20,000 tons of seed, the annual incremental output of the FORE
oilseeds mill would be about 2,900 tons of refined oil and 4,300 tons of
byproducts. At full development in year five, the gross value of the annual
incremental production would be US$2.8 million.
6.03      The expansion of the cooperative winery's annual processing capacity
from 4.5 million to 7.5 million liters of wine would, from year five on, yield
an incremental gross value of production of about US$1.3 million.
Fisheries Production
6.04      The incremental production of the fisheries component is estimated
at 3,800 tons of fresh fish of demersal species such as snapper, hake, floun-
der, grouper and croaker. At an average price of Esc. 72,000 per ton, the
incremental gross value of production due to the project would be US$6.8 mil-
lion. The longline fleet catch for 1976 was about 60,000 tons; therefore,
the project would increase output by about 6%.



- 40 -
B. Market Prospects
Crops and Livestock-
6.05      One of the critical issues facing the Portuguese economy is the
inadequacy of the domestic food supply. For decades, the output of major
cereals and livestock products has stagnated or shown only moderate increases
compared to the fast growing demand caused by the growth in urban population
and disposable income. As a result, the country had to rely heavily on for-
eign imports of food and intermediate products such as feedgrains. According
to the analysis of the recent Bank Agricultural Sector Survey, based on an
extrapolation of historical production and demand trends, the country's
import dependence is likely to become greater. The project's incremental
production of agricultural commodities would, therefore, play an important
role in reducing the import dependence for some key commodities.
6.06    --Most of the cereal products would be marketed through the Cereals
Institute, which is the sole buyer of wheat and also the residual buyer of
other cereal crops, or through free markets. Oilseeds and rice would be
grown under contracts with processors; milk, olives and grapes would be
marketed through cooperatives; and livestock products would be marketed
through the Meat Board or private intermediaries. The production of tree
crops, produced on the diversified small farms, would be oriented to those
products for which a strong demand exists in the domestic market, e.g.
citrus, apricots and peaches.
6.07      The project area is strategically well situated, close to major
consuming regions--the Lisbon-Setubal and Algarve areas. Construction of
additional grain storage facilities is planned, and a large-capacity modern
slaughterhouse near Beja is almost completed. For these reasons no marketing
problems are expected.
Agro-Industrial Output
6.08      Vegetable oil, other than olive oil, has also been in short supply
and the Bank's Agricultural Sector Survey projects an import requirement of
12,000 tons in 1985 and of 6,000 tons in 1990, on the basis of historical
growth of supply and demand. The incremental processing capacity of 8,000
tons of oilseeds created by the project would guarantee an outlet for the
present level of and future increase in domestically produced oilseeds and
oil-yielding agro-industrial byproducts, in line with the Government's objec-
tive of reducing the country's dependence on oil and oilseeds imports.
6.09      Wine production has averaged 937 million liters during 1972-74
of which 269 million liters were available for export. Under the Sector
Survey's assumptions, this export surplus would be maintained with increas-
ing production and domestic demand. The incremental output of wine under the
project, however, which would represent about 0.5% of national wine production
in 1985, would not be dependent on the export market as local demand, includ-
ing tourist consumption, is strong for this wine. The cooperative has not



- 41 -
been able to meet the demand for its wines within the Alentejo region or the
city of Lisbon. Besides, the National Wine Board is studying the possibility
of classifying the wine produced under the project as registered wine. This
would further increase demand and would permit raising the price by about 30%.
Fish
6.10      Portugal's fisheries are characterized by a high level of domestic
demand outstripping supply. As a result, retail prices of fish have risen
faster than those of other sources of protein. The main problem, therefore,
is one of inadequate supplies and of avoiding a continued deterioration in
the volume of the catch. Consequently, no difficulties are expected in mar-
keting the incremental production resulting from the project.
C. Prices
6.11      For the financial analysis, all farm inputs and outputs were eval-
uated at the prevailing farmgate prices at the time of the mission's visit and
expressed in May 1978 constant prices by applying the projected domestic price
escalation.
6.12      Prices used in the economic analysis of the project have been
derived in a variety of ways. For goods traded in a world market, prices
are based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts. To obtain the economic
price of beef, a premium of 25% has been added over the derived border price,
based on the price differential of about 20-30% between domestically-produced
meat and frozen imported meat in Portugal to reflect consumer preference. For
traded goods for which the Bank does not provide price projections, the
economic price was determined with reference to similar commodities for which
Bank price projections exist. Economic prices of non-traded goods were
estimated by applying a standard conversion factor of 0.93 to the financial
prices. For two commodities, mutton and milk, the economic prices have
been assumed to be the same as financial prices on the grounds that the
domestic products differ substantially in quality from the imported products
and meaningful price adjustment was not possible and it appeared that the
financial prices reflected opportunity costs in the relevant markets.
6.13      For the fisheries component, the financial price used was the average
ex-vessel price for the four major longline fishing ports over a one-year period
(September 1976 to September 1977). Prices received by fishermen vary accord-
ing to the exact species of which their catch is made up and the port where it
is landed. In the economic analysis, the border price was obtained by applying
the standard conversion factor to the financial price.



- 42 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Beneficiaries
7.01      The farm development component of the project would directly
benefit an estimated 4,760 families. Of these, about 3,200 would live on the
large collective or cooperative farms, about 560 would be owner-operators of
medium-size farms and 1,000 would be small family farmers.
7.02      The agro-industrial subloan for the restoration and expansion of
the FORE oilseeds mill would benefit a large number of small, medium and
large producers of sunflower and safflower seed who would become members
or shareholders in the legal entity to which MAP would transfer the ownership
and management of the plant. The subloan to the cooperative winery of
Reguengos de Monsaraz would benefit about 330 winegrape producers who consti-
tute the cooperative.
7.03      Some 530 fishermen and their families would directly benefit from
the fisheries component.
7.04      The total number of direct beneficiaries, excluding the future
owners of the oilseeds mill (the number of whom cannot be reasonably esti-
mated), would be about 5,620 families or, with an average family size of 4.5,
some 25,300 individuals. Of these, only the 1,000 small farmers, 18% of the
direct beneficiaries, have incomes that are below the current relative poverty
level of US$444 per caput, even on the assumption that for many an important
share of total income now comes from off-farm employment.
B. Financial Benefits
Farm Development
7.05      Detailed farm budgets and financial cash flows were prepared for the
five farm investment models described in paras 4.09-4.12. Financial rates of
return for each of these models are satisfactory, ranging from 14% for Model A
to 93% for Model D2 (Annex 5, Tables 1-5). Returns are still acceptable
under various adverse assumptions about productivity and cost levels.
7.06      At full development, in 1991-92, the projected income per caput would
range from about US$2,300 for a member of a UECT or production cooperative, to
about US$12,800 for the owner-operator of a 350 ha livestock farm (Model C).
The latter farm demonstrates most clearly the important potential of the
project area's marginal crop lands for livestock development. The large
increase in income generated by the small family farms, from about US$270 to
about US$3,200, is due to the diversification of operations into irrigated
tree crops and dairying or beef fattening, making optimal use of presently
underutilized family labor (Annex 5, Table 6).



- 43 -
Agro-industries Development
7.07      The investments in the oilseeds mill and the winery would yield
attractive basic financial rates of return of 52% and 20%, respectively, as
well as satisfactory cash flows (Annex 5, Tables 7-10). Financial viability
would also be assured under adverse assumptions about construction cost
increases and declines in sales. The strong domestic demand for vegetable
oils projected to continue for the rest of the century (para 6.08), the close
link between the price of oil and that of oilseeds both controlled by Govern-
ment and the strengthening of the management as well as the transfer of owner-
ship to the oilseeds producers, the last two of which are conditions of the
subloan, are all factors that reduce the probability of the conditions assumed
in the most adverse sensitivity test.
Fisheries Development
7.08      Financial rates of return have been estimated for each of the three
fishing boat models, yielding 18%, 33% and 12% for the 16m, 22m and 30m vessels,
respectively (Annex 5, Tables 11-14). A 10% increase in construction costs
would reduce the financial rates of return to 16%, 30% and 11%, respectively.
No sensitivity tests were made for a decline in fish prices as this is highly
unlikely if the present indications of declining fish stocks are borne out.
Increased operating costs are likely to lead to an offsetting increase in fish
prices. Crew member remuneration would average about US$5,750 per annum.
7.09      Net cash balances are negative only during the construction period
of the boats when it is assumed that the shortfall would be met from boat
owners' resources based on past profitable operations. The cash flows justify
a loan repayment period of eight years with a grace period corresponding to
the length of the construction period and a 15% average investment contribution
by subborrowers.
C. Economic Benefits
Direct Benefits
7.10      The principal quantifiable economic benefit of the project is its
contribution to increasing national agricultural output and hence to improving
the foreign exchange balance. The project's annual incremental production
would result in a net foreign exchange savings at full development of US$51
million equivalent. The Agricultural Sector Report has estimated that in 1985
the food import bill would amount to US$750 million in 1974 constant dollars
or US$997 million in 1978 constant dollars. The estimated net foreign exchange
savings of the project would therefore be in the order of 5% of the projected
food import bill in 1985.
7.11      The most important economic benefits cannot be quantified.  They lie
above all in the development of a viable institutional framework for agricul-
tural credit. As the key institution in the new agricultural credit structure,



- 44 -
IFADAP's first experience in investment finance based on integrated farm plan-
ning would be under the project. IFADAP's performance under the project is
expected to be a major consideration in the decision about the eventual orga-
nizational structure of agricultural and fisheries credit. Also the experience,
gained both by IFADAP and MAP in the proposed project, in the areas of credit
organization, farm planning and farm plan implementation could be readily used
in other regions of Portugal. Moreover, the experience with integrated
crop-livestock farming systems could be applied to farms throughout the
project area and in certain other areas as well.
7.12      Particularly in the area of oilseeds milling, privately-owned
plants have not always operated in the interest of their raw material sup-
pliers. Therefore, the expansion and rehabilitation of two key agro-industrial
processing facilities in the project area, both to be fully owned by farmers
who produce the raw materials is also a clear economic, be it nonquantified,
benefit.
7.13      The fisheries subsector would derive direct benefits of about US$6.8
million per annum in incremental catch from the operation of the 25 vessels to
be constructed under the project. These vessels would in part replace obsolete
ones to be taken out of service, and for the rest exploit the additional fish
resources tlhat have now become available to the Portuguese fleet after the
expansion of the territorial waters to the 200-mile zone.
7.14      In the case of the fisheries subsector also, the project's main
benefits are not quantifiable. The stock assessment study financed under the
project would strengthen the role of the National Fisheries Research Institute
and lead to the development of a permanent stock assessment program. The
results of the stock assessment study would permit the formulation of fishing
regulations that could lead to a better management of existing fish stocks.
And the long-term fisheries development plan to be prepared with the assistance
of consultants financed under the project would provide the basis for future
investments and policy actions.
Indirect Benefits
7.15      The project would also have major indirect benefits.  Through the
provision of financing to a substantial portion of the UECTs and production
cooperatives, on the one hand, and to the medium-sized private farms, on the
other, it would play an important role in the consolidation of the situation
created by the land reform in Alentejo. For those farms in the socialized
sector which are interested in strengthening their economic base, participation
in the project would permit more than tripling of net income after labor
remuneration as well as stabilizing significantly their annual incomes. To
the medium-sized private farms including those not affected by the land reform
as well as those created as a result of it (reservas), participation in the
project would provide an opportunity for rebuilding or building their capital
base.



- 45 -
Employment Effect
7.16      Total incremental employment generated by the project at full devel-
opment has been estimated at about 3,600 man-years equivalent, of which 80% is
due to livestock development and the remainder to intensification and diver-
sification of cash crops. Of the total employment generated, 1,204 man-years
(33%) would be permanent jobs on the UECTs and cooperatives, 1,495 man-years
(42%) would be permanent jobs on the medium-sized private farms, and 900 man-
years (25%) would be on the small farms. The employment created on the large
farms would reduce the need for creating jobs outside these farms for their
current excess labor. The additional employment needs of the medium-sized
farms would also help to absorb part of the excess labor now on the farms of
the socialized sector. Finally, the incremental employment generated on the
small farms would permit fuller employment on the farm of family labor and,
in addition, the hiring of about 500 permanent workers on dairy farms and of
seasonal labor for fruit harvesting.
Income Distribution Effect
7.17      The project was designed (a) to develop an effective agricultural
credit mechanism for Portuguese agriculture and (b) to exploit the underuti-
lized capacity of a major agricultural region thereby reducing the country's
dependence on food and feed imports. The project's effect on income distri-
bution is therefore incidental to the primary objectives stated above.
Distribution of the increase in net farm income levels, from before the
project to full project development, would be such that 36% of the increased
income would go to the landless members of the socialized sector and 27% to
the smallest farmers among the subborrowers whose incomes at present are below
the relative poverty level.
D. Economic Rates of Return
7.18      The rate of return to the economy has been calculated on the basis
of the farm, agro-industry and fishing boat models, both separately and for
the project as a whole (Annex 6). Key assumptions on the prices used in the
economic analysis are described in paras 6.12 and 6.13. The expected farmer
and fisherman participation rates for each investment model are given in paras
4.13 and 4.17, respectively. Detailed input-output data and overhead costs
are contained in the Project File. With these data and assumptions, and a
project life of 20 years, the economic rate of return for the overall project,
inclusive of project overhead costs and a physical contingency of 10%, is
estimated at 20%. Rates of return for each separate component are shown in
Table 7.1 below, together with the results of the sensitivity tests which are
acceptable.



- 46 -
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Overall
Item                        ------------Project Components----------   Project
Farm       Oilseeds             Fishing
Development     Mill      Winery   Vessels
_________________________(% )______________________
Best estimate                    21           52        20       40         20
With a 10% increase
in costs /a                    17          44         18       29         16
With a 10% decrease
in benefits /b                 17          18         15       28         15
With a 10% increase in
costs and a 10%
decrease in benefits /c        13          15         13       17         11
/a   For the oilseeds mill and the winery, only an increase in construction
costs was assumed likely.  Higher operating costs, 80% of which are raw
materials, are expected to be offset by corresponding price increases
for the final product.
/b   For the oilseeds mill and the winery, only a 5% decline in benefits was
assumed likely as no price decline is anticipated.
/c   For the oilseeds mill and the winery, assuming cost increase due only
to higher construction costs and decline in benefits limited to 5%.
E. Risks
7.19      Four risk elements affect the success of the project.  First, the
timely completion of the agrarian reform is required to eliminate the present
insecurity of land tenure. Under the 1977 land reform law, UECTs and coopera-
tive farms would have to restitute illegally seized land to their legitimate
owners. Also, some privately-owned holdings are still subject to partial
expropriation. While the subborrowers expected for the first year of the
project can be found among those farms that are no longer affected by the
agrarian reform, the overall political and economic instability in Alentejo
resulting from the present uncertainty about land tenure may prevent timely
implementation of the project. However, the Government has indicated that
it would actively pursue the resolution of the pending land reform cases.
7.20      Second, delays in the establishment of the organizational structure
required for project implementation or in the appointment of sufficient num-
bers of qualified staff would lead to a virtual one-year slippage in project
execution. While the Government has repeatedly stated that the project rates
among its highest priorities and that it intends to take the actions required



- 47 -
to establish and/or strengthen and staff the project implementation agencies,
the many other problems facing the Government at this time may distract it
from making timely decisions necessary for the initiation of lending opera-
tions in the 1978-79 crop year. To reduce this risk, the project provides
for early involvement, through retroactive financing, of consultants to assist
MAP in key areas of project organization, staff training, development of
operational procedures and guidance during the first years of implementation
(para 4.33). Also, the Government-financed consultants to IFADAP would help
to ensure that the credit mechanism would be operational by September 1, 1978
(para 2.23).
7.21      Third, the financal and economic returns of the on-farm investments
on the 1,000 small farms depend to a large extent on the availability of
groundwater resources, the quantities and location of which are so far in-
sufficiently known. To assure adequate information about groundwater avail-
ability at the time of subloan appraisal, a brief hydrogeological survey
would be carried out to assess the potential for small wells in various parts
of the project area. Furthermore, to reduce the subborrowers' financial risk,
the Government has agreed at negotiations to establish by September 1, 1978
an insurance program to compensate subborrowers for losses of investments in
groundwater development arising out of low well yields and unsuccessful bore-
holes.
7.22      Fourth, another important risk element is the possibility of higher
domestic inflation rates than projected. It has been assumed that the Govern-
ment will take the necessary measures to sharply reduce the current high
level of inflation which is considered to be the result of extraordinary
circumstances. If domestic price increases would exceed the levels shown in
para 5.32, the number of subloans and hence the scope of the project would be
reduced. Furthermore, if, under conditions of high inflation, Government
policy would not maintain the existing price relationship between investment
and operating cost items, including the cost of borrowing, on the one hand,
and commodities on the other, the producers' net cash balance might deteriorate
to the point where borrowing under the project would be no longer attractive.
The Government is well aware of the risks of inflation and is seeking ways of
dealing with it.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the principal issues
referred to in Chapters IV, V, and VII. Subject to the conditions of effec-
tiveness described in paras 5.08, 5.12, 5.13 and 5.17, the project is suitable
for a loan of the equivalent of US$70 million for a term of 15 years with three
years grace at the rate of interest of 7.5% p.a. The borrower is IFADAP.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Numbers, Area and Size Distribution a5
Agricultural Holdings in Alentejo Region__
October 1977
UECTs            Cooperatives                   Private Farms /2
Size Range     No.  Area (ha)        No.   Area (ha)              No.      Area (ha)
Over 10,000   8   98,350           --      --                    --        --
5,000 - 10,000  34  236,505            5    32,278 
3,000 -  4,999  46  182,500           17    58,300                  --        --
1,000 -  2,999  77  146,382           70   128,575                  --        --
500&-    999  --   21,907           58    41,914                  62      47,460
300 -    499  --    --              18     7,610                 159      51,971
10O-    299  --    --              13     2,741               1,255     230,575
20 -     99  --    --              --      --                4,225      178,192
5 -     19  --    --              __      __               14,149      144,624
Less than 5  --    --              --      --               16,946       39.812
Total   192  685,644         181   271,418              36,796      692,634
/1   Evora, Beja and Portalegre districts.
/2   One district (Portalegre) was unable to supply data for private holdings
in the smaller categories. The discrepancy between the total farm area
as shown by these figures (1,649,696 ha) and the estimate of the
Agricultural Census (1,795,946 ha) is largely due to this deficiency.
The number of holdings still in private ownership may be about 52,500,
occupying a total of 839,000 ha.
Source:   Data prepared by Regional Centers of Agrarian Reform (CRRA's)
in the three districts, November 1977.
March, 1978



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Detailed Estimate of Project Costsl
7. Foreign
Year 1                  Year 2                   Year 3                   Year 4                    Year S                   Total            Exchange
Protect Element               Local Foreizn  Total  local Foreiton Total                                 Local ForeiRn    Total   Loc-al Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Component
---------------------------- - -----   --------------US$ million---------------------------------
1. On-farm Development
A. Investment                       4.70    4.01    8.71   16.58   14.11   30.69   29.82   25.41   55.23    9.16    7.81   16.97    3.97    3.38    7.35   64.23   54.72  118.95             46
B. Seasonal Credit                  I.81    0.94    2.75    5.57    2.87    8.44   10.19    5.25   15.44    1.56    0.80    2.36    2.29    1.18    3.47   21.43   11.03.  32.4              34
Subtotal                       6.51    4.95   11.46   22.15   16.98   39.13   40.01   30.66   70.67   10.72    8.61   19.33    6.26    4.56   10.82   85.66   65.75  151.41             43
11. Agro-Industries Development
A. Oil Mill
1. Investment                    0.30    0.32    0.62    0.67    0.73    1.41       -                                                                          0.97    1.05    2.02       52
2. Short-term credit             1.12      -      1.12     -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -       1.12     -       1.12       0
B. Winery
1. Investment                    0.32    0.10    0.42    0.28    0.08    0.36       _       _        _       _       _        _                - _             0.61    0.18    0.79       23
2. Short-term credit                               -      0.24      _      0.24     -                                  _ _ _   _                _   _   _                       0.24       0
Subtotal                       1.74    0.40    2.15    1.19    0.81    2.01       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -       Y.S4    1.23    4.17       29
III. Fishingf Boats                       1.60    1.21    2.80    1.92    1.45    3.36      -        -       -       -        -       _        _       _        -      3.52    2.65    6.17        43
IV. Protect Administration
A. Consultants
1. Credit advisor                0.01    0.07    0.08    0.01    0.07    0.08    0.01    0.04    0.05        -       -        -       -        -       -       0.03    0.18    0.21       86
2. Minor irrigation              0.10      -      0.10    0.19     -       0.19     -       -        -       -        _       _        _       _       _       0.29     -       0.29       0
3. Naval architects              0.04    0.03    0.07    0.04    0.02    0.06       -        -       -       _        _       _       _    , _                 0.08    0.05    0.13       38
B. Vehicles                         0.03    0.17    0.19    0.01    0.06    0.08       -        -       -       _        _       _        _       _        _      0.04    0.23    0.27        85
C. Office Equipment                  0.01    0.04    0.06     -        -       -       -        -       -       -        _       _        _       -        _      0.02    0.04    0.06        67
D. Training
1. Fellowships                    -      0.13    0.13      -      0.13    0.13      -      0.13    0.13      -      0.13    0.13      _       0.12    0.12      -      0.65    0.65      100
2. Other foreign training         -      0.02    0.02      -      0.02    0.02      -      0.03    0.03      -      0.01    0.01       -      0.01    0.01      -      0.09    0.09      100
E. Salaries  and Staff Expenses     0.47      -      0.47    1.11      -      1.11    1.11      -      1.11    1.10      -      1.10    1.11      -       1.11    5.11      -      5.11       0
F. Vehicle  operating Expenses      0.01    0.0      0.02       2    0.04    0.05    Ll            0.2    0.05    O.01    2.03    0.04    0.01    0.03    O04    0.08    0.13    0.21         62
Subtotal                       0.87    0.47    1.34    1.38    0.34    1.72    1.1       0.22    1.37    1.11    0.17    1.28    1.12    0.16    1.28    5.65    1.37    7.02            20
V. Studies
A. Fisheries Stock Assessent        0.02    0.20    0.22    0.01    0.08    0.09       -      0.03    0.03      -        -       -        -       -        -      0.03    0.31    0.34        91
B. Fisheries Project Preparation    0.10    0.29    0.39    0.10    0.29    0.39       -        -       -       _        _       _        _       _        _      0.19    0.59    0.78        76
C. Groundwater Survey                 -      0.02    0.03     -      0.01    0.01      -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -      0.03    0.03       100
0. ProJect Evaluation                 -       -       -                -       -                -       -                -       -       0.01     -       0.01    PAI              0.01 
Subtotal                       0.12    0.51    0.64    0.11    0.38    0.49       -      0.03    0.03      _ -              -      0.01      _      0.01    0.23    0.93    1.16         75
Base Coat                          10.84    7.55   18.39   26.76   19.96   46.72   41.15   30.91   72.06   11.85    8.78   20.63    7.40    4.73   12.13   98.00   71.93  169.93              42
Physical Contingencies  (107%)      1.08    0.75    1.84    2.68    2.00    4.68    4.11    3.09    7.20    1.18    0.88    2.06    0.74    0.47    1.21    9.80    7.19   16.99              42
Price Contingencies (37x_) 1.47    0.32    1.79   10.04   2.50   12.54   26.09    6.46  32,5,   10.17    2.68   12.85    7.93    192   _9.85   55.70   13.88   69.58                          20
Total Project Cost            L134     _.62   22.02   39.48   24.46   63.94       3    4        j6lL8   2I       12 3ZJ4  315    16.07      .1    23.19  163.50   93.00  256.50        36
;Discrenoncies are due to rounding.
June 1978



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /1
IBRD Fiscal Year                    Cumulative Disbursements
and Semester                      (US$ million equivalent)
Fiscal Year 1979
First
Second                                     0.3
Fiscal Year 1980
First                                      1.8
Second                                    12.2
Fiscal Year 1981
First                                      26.0
Second                                    38.5
Fiscal Year 1982
First                                      51.5
Second                                    60.0
Fiscal Year 1983
First                                     65.0
Second                                    68.0
Fiscal Year 1984
First                                     69.5
Second                                    70.0
/1 Assuming that the loan would become effective about
September 30, 1978.
June 1978



-51-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Interest Rates on Investment Loans With
Maturities of More Than Five Years
Item                                 Subsidy           Effective Interest Rate
___________________    %     _-___- _- __- __- __
Normal                                   0                      20.75
Type I /1  year 1                       10.5                    11.75
year 2                       8.5                    13.75
year 3                       6.5                    15.75
year 4                       4.5                    17.75
year 5                       1.5                    20.75
year 6 and thereafter        0
Type II /2 year 1                        5.5                    16.75
year 2                       5.5                    16.75
year 3                       4.5                    17.75
year 4                       3.5                    18.75
year 5                       1.5                    20.75
year 6 and thereafter        0                      22.25
/1 Applicable to goods with a domestic content greater than 60%.
/2 Applicable to goods with a domestic content between 50 and 60%.
May 1978



-52-
ANNEX 4
Table 2
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Derivation of Sublending Rates
Item                                     Seasonal Credit             Investment Loans
------------ % per annum --------------
Bank loan to IFADAP                          7.50                          7.50
plus:  IFADAP's margin /1                  4.50                          5.75
= IFADAP's on-lending rate                12.00                         13.25
Estimated cost of PBI's own resources       12.00                         12.00
Estimated cost to PBI of subloan /2         12.00                         12,94
plus:  PBI's margin /3                     1.50                          2.56
= PBI's sublending rate                   13.50                         16.50
/1 Including administrative cost, contributions to reserves and guarantee
fund and profit.
/2 Subloan consists of subsidiary loan from IFADAP (75%) and PBI's own
resources (25%).
/3 Including administrative costs, provisions, reserves and profit.
May 1978



-     PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJEC7
FARM MODEL A -- CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN 1.000 ESC)
-----------------------------------------YEASR ------
0       I L      2       3        4        5       6        7        8       10      15       20
(1) CASH INFLOW:
1  GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCTION       11120.0 10138.0 13427.0 15433.0 17042.0 18950.0 20886.0 22608.0 25491.0 27725.0 27725.0 27725.0
2  INVESTMENT LOAN      (Z OF 6)         0 12832.5  6051.2  2608.7   765.0   765.0   765.0  2167.5  2167.5  3995.0  1296.2  1147.5
3  FARMERS CONTRIBUTION(% OF 6)          0  2264.5  1067.8   460.3   135.0   135.0   135.0   382.5   382.5   705.0   228.7   202.5
4  SHORT-TERM LOAN  (PART OF 7)    634.0  6472.0  5197.0  5176.9  6561.8  8637.0  8504.6  7389.1  6188.9  2995.7                0        0
;  TOTAL INFLOW        (1+2+344)  11754.0 31707.0 25743.0 23678.-9 24503.8 28487.0 30290.6 32547.1 34229.9 35420.7 29250.0 29075.0    w
(I1) CASH OUTFLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                       0 15097.0  7119.0  3069.0   900.0   900.0   900-0  2550.0 -2550.0  4700.0  1525.0  1350.0
7  OPERAT1NG COST,                  6340.0  6472.0  7327.0  8277.0 10005.0 10696.0 10974.0 11110.0 11226.0 11296.0 11296.0 11296.0
11  TOTAL COST             (6+7)   6340.0 21569.0 14446.0 11346.0 10905.0 11596.0 11874.0 13660.0 13776.0 15996.0 12821.0 12646.0
9   NET CASH FLOW           (5-8)  5414.0 10138.0 11297.0 12332.9 13598.8 16891.0 18416.6 18887.1 20453.9 19424.7 16429.0 16429.0
DEBT SERVICES:
LO PRINCIPAL PAYMENT                     0       0        0        0   884.7  1558.1  2105.2  2562.6  3297.6  5101.4  1708.7  2762.4
13 INVESTMENT LOAN INTERES7              0  1058.7  2616.6  3331.0  3609.3  3589.6  3458.7  3353.3  3288.1  3138.6   696.2  3705.1
12 SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST           46.8   477.3   383.3   381.8   483.9   637.0   627.2   544.9   456.4   220.9              0        0
13 SHORT-T. LOAN FRINCIPAl FM7,    634.0  6472.0  5197.0  5176.9  6561.8  8637.0  8504.6  7389.1  6188.9  2995.7                0        0
14 TOTAL DEBT SERVICE(SUM10--1,)    680.8  8008.0  8196.8  8889.7 11539.8 14421.6 14695.7 13850.0 13231.0 11456.6  2405.0  4467.5
15  CASH BALANCF          (9-14)   4733.2  2130.0  3100.1  3443.2  2059.0  2469.4  3720.9  503Y.1  7222.9  7968.1 14024.0 11961.5
April, 1978
Ht'
I- U4



POR7UGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODEL B -- CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN 1,000 ESC)
-----------------------------------------------------------------YEAR--
0       1        2        3        4       5        6        7        8      10       15       20
(I) CASH INFLOW:
:t GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCTION         1484.0  1499.0  1725.0  1797.0  2004.0  2201.0  2784.0  2784.0  2784.0  2784.0  2784.0  2784.0
2  INVESTMENT LOAN       (X OF 6)         0   929.0    65.4    65.4          0   382.5   382.5         0        0        0   382.5        0
3  FARMERS CONTRIBUTION(% OF 6)           0   163.9    11.5    11.5          0    67.5    67.5         0        0        0    67.5        0
4  SHORT--TERM LOAN  (PART OF 7)       85.7   996.1   681.3   597.1   696.6   747.3   666.1   220.8   278.6   283.1               0    38.0
5   TOTAL INFLOW        (1+2+3+4)   1569.7  3588.0  2483.2  2471.0  2700.6  3398.3  3900.1  3004.8  3062.6  3067.1  3234.0  2822.0
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                        0  1092.9    76.9    76.9          0   450.0   450.0         0        0        0   450.0        0
7  OPERATING COST                     857.0   996.1  1034-1  1079.1  1201.0  1260.0  1277.0  1281.0  1281.0  1281.0  1281.0  1281.0
B:}  TOTAL COST             (6+7)    857.0  2089.0  1111.0  1156.0  1201-0  1710.0  1727.0  1281.0  1281.0  1281.0  1731.0  1281.0
9   NET CASH FLOW            (5--8)   712.7  1499.0  1372.2  1315.0  1499.6  1688.3  2173.1  1723.8  1781.6  1786.1  1503.0  1541.0
DEBT SERVICES:
10 PRINCIPAL PAYMENT                      0        0       0        0    64.0    79.1   151.8   231.9   270.1   366.6    55.1   140.6
:11. INVESTMENT LOAN IN'TERENT6.               7j:    1gg:~   169.5   1            I9  a   245.9   252.4   2                  9,~ 6
:1.2 SHORT TERM LOAN INTERE             6.3    7                 44 0             n1       4951    16,3   220       1 l7      94.6    62 8
:1.3 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.      85.7   996.1   681.3   597.1   696.6   747.3   666.1   220.8   278.6   283.1               0    38.0
14 TOTAL DEBT SERVICE(SUM10-13)        92.0  1146-2   890.2   810.6   986.9  1077.3  1112.8   721.3   783.4   788.3   149.7   243.0
15  CASH BALANCE           (9-14)    620.7   352-8   482.0   504.4   512.7   610.9  1060.2  1002.4   998.2   997.8  1353.3  1298.0
April, 1978                                                                                                                         .



FORTIJGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT FROJECT
FARM MODEL C -- CASH FLOW PROJECI'ION
(IN 1,000 ESC)
----~~~~~~__                   ______---------YEAR--.------'----.'-"-'-------'*.-.---.
I                       0)       1        2        3        4        5       6        7        8       1(       15       20
(I) CASH INFLOW:
1  GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCTION          703.0   647.0  2055.0  2517.0  2652.0  3047.0  3416.0  3682.0  3702.0  3702.0  3702.0  3702.0
2  INVESTMENT LOAN       (% OF 6)          0  3490.4   502.8   360.7          0        0                 0        0   357.0         0       0
3  FARMERS CONTRIBUTION(% OF 6)            0   616.0    88.7    63.7          0        0        0        0        0    63.0         0        0
4  SHORT-TERM LOAN  (PART OF 7)        41.1   536.6  1333.6   996.9   810.8  1129.8   807.0   325.1               0        0        0        0
5   TOTAL INFLOW        (1+2+3+4)    744.1  5290.0  3980.1  3938,3  3462.8  4176.8  4223.0  4007.1.  3702.0  4122.0  3702.0  3702.0               @
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                         0  4106.4   591.5   424.4          0        0        0        0        0   420.0         0        0
411.0   536.6  1116.5  1219.6  1346.0  1417.0  1360.0  1303 0  1278.0  1278.0  1278.0  1278.0
S    ~IUIAL   OST           (6+7)    411.0  4643.0  1708.0  1644.0  1346.0  1417.0  1360.0  1303.0  1278.0  1698.0  1278.0  1278. 0
9   NET CASH FLOW             (5-8)   333.1   647.0  2272.1  2294.3  2116.8  2759.8  2863.0  2704.1  2424.0  2424.0  2424.0  2424.0
DEBT SERVICES:
1O FRINCIF'AL PAYMENT                     0       /         0 /2     0   240.7   315.0   391.9   456.5   531.9   802.6    94.7   179,1
11 INVESTMENT LOAN INTERESI'              0  (288.0),    (617.4)  688.6   718.4   678.7   626.7   562.1   486,7   418.8    15.6   104.5
:1.2 SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST           3.0    39.6    Y8.4    73.5    59.8    83.3    59.5    24.0               0        0        0        0
t3 SHORT--I. LOAN PRINCIPAL P"MT.      41.1   536.6  1333.6   996.9   810.8  1129.8   807.0   325.1               0       0        0        0
:14 TorAL DEBT SERVIrE(SUM10 13)       44.1   576.1  1,432.0  1759.0  1829.6  2206.9  1885.2  1367.7  1018.6  1221.4   110.3   283.6
L5  CASH BALANCE           (9-14)    289,0    97.9    840.1   535.2   287.2   553.0   977.9  1336.4  1405.4  1202.6  2313.7  2140,4
/1   Interest capitalized into investment loan
/2   Takes into account adjustment in debt service as result of interest capitalization in year 1 and 2.
H N
April, 1978



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODEL DI -- CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN 1,000 ESC)
---- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---- YEAR-------_ _ - _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -_
0       1       2       3       4       5       6       7        a      10      15      20
.______________________________________________________________________________________________--------------------------------------
(1) CASH INFLOWS
1 GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCTION        148.0   158.0  449.0   551.0   545.0   613.0   692.0   807.0   848.0   915.0   983.0   983.0
2  INVESTMENT LOAN     (X OF 6)        0   587.8  174.9  109.9         0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
3 FARMERS CONTRIBUTION(X OF 6)         0   103.7    30.9    19.4       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
4 SHORT-TERM LOAN  (PART OF 7)      10.0   72.1   197.9   178.2   142.5   316.9   319.5   270.0   172.5   108.7         0       0
5  TOTAL INFLOW       (1+2+3+4)    158.0   921.6   852.7   858.5   687.5   929.9  1011.5  1077.0  1020.5  1023.7   983.0   983.0   ,
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
6 INVESTMENT COST                      0  691.5   205.8   129.3        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
7 OPERATING COST                   100.4    72.1   197.9   223.4  242.1   344.9   319.5   334.9   340.6   346.4   347.8   347.8
13  TOTAL COST            (6+7)    100.4   763.6   403.7   352.7   242.1   344.9   319.5   334.9   340.6   346.4   347.8   347.8
9  NET CASH FLOW           (5-8)    57.6   158.0   449.0   505.8   445.4   585.0   692.0   742.1   679.9   677,3   635.2   635.2
DEBT SERVICES:
10 PRINCIPAL PAYMENT                   0       0       0       0    40.5    59.3    76.6    89.3   104.0   141.2        0       0
11 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST            0   48.5   111.4   134.9   144.0   137.3   127.5   114.9   100.1    63.0         0       0
12 SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST           .7    5.3    14.6    13.1    10.5    23.4    23.6    19.9    12.7       8.0       0       0
13 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.     10.0   72.1   197.9   178.2   142.5   316.9   319.5   270.0   172.5   108.7         0       0
14 TOTAL DEBT SERVICE(SUM1O-13)     10.8   125.9   323.9   326.3   337.5   536.8   547.2   494.1   389.3   320.9        0       0
15 CASH BALANCE          (9-14)     46.9   32.1   125.1   179.5   107.9    48.2   144.8   248.0   290.5   356.4   635.2   635.2
April, 1978



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MODEL D2 -- CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN 1,000 ESC)
---------------------------------------------------------------YEAR
0       1        2       3        4        5       6        7        8      10       15       20
(I) CASH INFLOW'
1  GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCTION         148.0   596.0   735.0   737.0   755.0   7B6.0   816.0   858.0   886.0   953.0  1020.0  1020,0
2  INVESTMENT LOAN      (% OF 6)         0   553.8    71.7    37.2          0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0
3  FARMERS CONTRIBUTION(X OF 6)          0    97.7    12.7       6.6        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0
4  SHORT-TERM LOAN  (PART OF 7)       10.0    60.9        0   230.3   281.4   337.2   320.5   296.9   258.2   209.7             0        0
5   TOTAL INFLOW       (1+2+3+4)    158.0  1308.4   819.4  1011.1  1036.4  1123.2  1136.5  1154.9  1144.2  1162.7  1020.0  1020,0
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                       0   651.5    84.4    43.8          0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0
7  OPERATING COST                    100.4    60.9   393.5   394.6   420.6   423.4   425.9   428.4   431.0   436.1   437.5   437.5
8   TOTAL COST             (6+7)    100.4   712.4   477.9   438.4   420.6   423,4   425.9   428.4   431.0   436.1   437.5   437.5
9   NET CASH FLOW            (5-8)    57.6   596,0   341.5   572.7   615.8   699.8   710.6   726.5   713.2   726.6   582.5   582.5
DEBT SERVICES:
10 PRINCIPAL PAYMENT                     0        0       0        0    38.2    49.4    60.1    70.1    81.6   110.8            0        0
11 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST              0    45.7    97.3   106.3   109.4   103.1    94.9    85.0    73.4    44.2              0        0
12 SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST             .7      4.5       0    17.0    20.8    24.9    23.6    21.9    19.0    15-5             0        0
13 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.       10.0    60.9        0   230.3   281.4   337.2   320.5   296.9   258.2   209.7             0        0
14 TOTAL DEBT SERVICE(SUM10-13)       10.8   111.1    97.3   353.6   449.6   514.5   499.2   473.8   432.3   380.2              0        0
15  CASH BALANCE          (9-14)      46.9   484.9   244.2   219.1   166.1   185.3   211.4   252.7   280.9   346.4   582.5   582-5
April, 1978
A   u4



- 58 -                             ANNEX 5
Table 6
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Incomes, Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Farm Model
Item                                A          B         C         Dl         D2
-----US$ thousand-----------------
Total investment                  647.4       31.2    128.1        25.7      19.5
Subloan size                      550.3       26.5    108.8       21.8       16.6
-___-------------US$    ---------------
Annual cash balance
- before project              118,300/1    15,500   7,200       1,200       1,200
- with project, year 5         61,700/1    15,300  13,800       1,200       4,600
- with project, year 10       199,200/1    24,900  30,100       8,900       8,700
- with project, year 15       350,600/1    33,800  57,800    15,900        14,600
Income per caput/2
- before project               1,033        3,444   1,600         267         267
with project, year  5           719        3,400   3,067         267      1,022
with project, year 10         1,482        5,533   6,689      1,978       1,933
with project, year 15         2,323        7,511  12,844       3,533       3,244
Financial rate of return
over 20 years
Best estimate                    14           17       23         30        93/3
With a 10% decline
in productivity                 11           14       19        26         62
With a 10% increase
in costs                        11           14       19        26         64
With a 10% decline
in productivity and
a 10% cost increase              8           11       16         22        44
/1 Excluding return to labor of UECT and cooperative members which is paid
as a monthly advance at legal minimum wage rate.
/2 Including return to labor; on UECTs and cooperatives US$1,690 per member
p.a.
/? Rate of return very high because short-term beef fattening enterprise
dominates cash flow.
April, 1978



59-                                                     ANNEX 5
Table 7
PORTUGAL
ACRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Restoration and Expansion of FORE Oilseeds Mill
Income and Operating Cost Pro_ ections /1
Yield or Number                                             ------------------- Years --------------------
of Units at Full Development            Cost or Price per Unit          1-2           3            4          5-20
/2                                                                                                ------------------- Tons --------------------
Volume-                                  Approx. Capacities;-4,0                                                        530          630         700
Safflower seed processed                 100 tons/24 hrs.                                                4,200       5,300         6,300       7,000
S-nflower seed processed                  80 tons/24 hrs.                           --                   6,600        8,200        9,900      11,000
Tomato seed and skins processed           60 tons/24 hra. )                         __                   1,200        1,500        1,800       2,000
Olive cracklings processed               120 tons/24 hrs.
Total                                                                               --                  12,000       15,000       18,000      20,000
Work schedulle                    24 hrs./day a 300 days/yr.                        --
/2                                                                                              ----------------- Esc million ----------------
Inc ome-
Safflower refined oil                         36%                       Esc 32,400/ton at plant           49.0         61.8         73.5        81.7
Sunflower refined oil                         41%                       Esc 32,400/ton at plant           87.7        108.9        131.5       146.1
Refined oil from oil-
bearing cracklings                          16%                      Esc 32,400/ton at plant             6.2          7.8          9.3        10.4
Safflower solvent extraction
meal                           (1% oil, 8% moisture) 55%              Esc  4,200/ton delivered            9.7        12.2         14.6        16.2
S,unflower solvent extraction
meal                           (0.8% oil, 8% moisture) 50%            Esc  4,200/ton delivered          13.9         17.2         20.8        23.1
Rv products from oil
bearing cracklings                          65%                       Esc  4,500/ton delivered           3.5         4.4           5.3         5.9
170.0       212.3        255.0        283.4
Operating Costs/3
Direct Costs
Safflower seed purchases                      --                        Esc 11,500/ton                    48.3         61.0         72.5        80.5
Sunflower seed purchases                      --                        Esc 11,500/ton                    75.9         94.3        113.9       126.5
Other oil bearing cracklings
purchased                                   --                       Esc  4,000/ton                      4.8          6.0          7.2         8.0
Direct labor           skilled: 50 persons x 12 mo./yr.    Esc 10,000/mo.                          6.0         6.0           6.0         6.0
Osrert labor                 unskilled: 40 persons x 12 mo./yr.    Esc  7,000/mo.                          3.4          3.4          3.4         3.4
Fuel, water treatment                   25 kgs/ton seed                 Esc 10/kg (heavy grade)            3.0          3.8          4.5         5.0
Power, lubricants                       20 KWH/ton seed                 Esc  5/KWH                          1.2         1.5          1.8         2.0
Hexane                                    6 kgs/ton oil                 Esc 12/kg                          0.3          0.4          0.5         0.5
Bags, paper, poly, hessian (Meal: 100% new paper and polybags           Ear 10/bag (avg.)                  2.9          3.6          4.3         4.8
Bags,pape,poly, h (Seed! 67% reusable hessian
Miscellaneous materials                       --                        Esc 100/ton seed                    1.2         1.5          1.8          2.0
Freight oil seeds to plant                Radius 50 km.                 Esc 200/ton seed                    2.4         3.0          3.6         4.0
Freight of meal                           Radius 150 km                 Esc 400/ton meal                   2.6          3.2          3.8         4.3
Marketing expenses                            --                        Esc 300/ton oil                     1.3         1.6          1.9         2.1
Taxes /4                                      --                              --    --                       --          --            --          --
Sub-total                                                                                                153.3        189.3        225.2       249.1
Overhead Costs
Maintenance, incl. materials                12 persons                  Esc 10,000/mo.                      1.8         2.2          2.5          2.8
Administration expenses incl.
insurance                                   --                       Esc 300,000/mo.                     2.4          3.0          3.6         3.6
Technical, administrative and
supervisory personnel                    10 persons                  Esc 12,000/mo.                      1.2          1.2          1.4         1.4
Management                                   4 persons                  Esc 20,000/mo.                      0.5         0.5          0.8          1.0
Sub-total                                                                                                  5.9          6.9          8.3         8.8
Total Operating Cost                       116 persons                       --                          159.2        196.2        233.5       257.9
Net Operating Surplus                                                                                        10.8        16.1         21.5         25.5
/1  These projections include both present and incremental volumes as unless the restoration to the existing plant is made, it
would eventually have to shut down due to deterioration of the equipment and safety hazard it would pose.
t2  The plant would essentially be operative during the restoration and expansion which would take place in years 1-2.
Capacity would be increased from 12,000 tons/yr. to 20,000 tons/yr.
/3  Current costs and prices as registered by appraisal mission, yields and rates per unit correspond to the plant operating
under normal conditions and in good state of repair.
L4  Tax exempt, as the plant would be owned by a cooperative of safflower and sunflower producers, to be formed under the project.
NOTE: MAP's Directorate General of Agro-industries,who administers the FORE plant, would transfer the assets to the
cooperative once fully constituted, at a token value free of claims and liabilities. Working capital would
correspond to the current volume as shown for years 1-2, assuming an average turnover of three months:
Esc 39.8 million. The present depreciated replacement value of the existing facilities can be estimated
at US$2 million (Esc 80 million).
March, 1978



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Restoration and Expansion of FORE Oilseed Mill
Cash Flow Projections
(Eac Millions)
------------------------------------------------------------------------   Years  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1        2        3        4        5        6        7         8        9       10       11       12       13       14        15       16         17        18        19         20
Income
Borrower's equity-                     3.1      2.6        --       --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --         --        --         --        --
Long-tem  loan /2                     59.7    50.1         --       --       _-       --       --        --       __       -_       -_       __       __        __       __       __         __        __         __        __
Short-term loan 13                      --        --       --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --         --        --        --         --
Total sales /4                       170.0   170.0   212.3   255.0   283.4   283.4   283.4   283.4   283.4   283.4   283.4   283.4   283.4   283.4   283.4   283.4                       283.4     283.4    283.4    283.4
Last year's cash balance                --    46.5    43.3    38.2    32.3          30.9    29.5    25.2    28.8    34.4    20.0            3.9      5.3      4.6     18.9    28.2        37.5       18.7       2.8        2.1
Total Cash Inflow                    232.8   269.2   255.6   293.2   315.7   314.3   312.9   308.6   312.2   317.8   303.4   287.3   288.7   288.0   302.3   311.6                       320.9    302.1       286.2     283.5
Expenditures
20 0    20 0    20.0    20.0                                     30.2       30 2
Investments:/5fixed assets            23.0    52.7        --        --       --       --      2.9                              --       --        --       --29                            2.9         -         --         --
working capital       39.8        --       --       --       --       -_       __       __        __       __       -_       -_       __       __        -_       __        __         -_         -_        __
Operating cost (j                    113.5   153.3   189.3   225.2   249,1   249.1   249.1   249.1   249.1   249.1   249.3    249.1    249.1    249.1    249.1   249.1    249.1                     249.1     249.1
Debt service
Long-term  loan principal -                   --       --      7.6      8.8    10.3       12.0    14.0    16.3       19.0    21.8         --       --       --       --        --        --         --        --        --
Long-term loan interest               --      9.9    18.1    18.1    16.9        15.4      13.7     11.7      9.4      6.7       3.6       --       --       --        --       _-        -_         __        __         __
Short-term  loan principal            --       --       --       --        --      --        --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --       --        --        --        --         --        --
Short-tem  loan interest              --       --       --       --       --        --       --       --       --        --      --        --                          --
Income tax /7
Reserves and dividends                10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0             5.0      3.0       3.0      5.0    10.0    15.0    20.0    25.0    25.0            20.0       20.0      35.0       35.0
distributed                                                                                                                                                                                                                           c
Total Cash Outflow                   186.3   225.9   217.4   260.9   284,8   284.8   287,7   279.8   277.8   297.8   299.5   282.0   284.1   269.1   274.1   274.1                       302.2      299.3     284.1      284,1
Cash Balance at Year's End    46.5    43.3    38.2    32.3    30,9    29.5    25.2    28.8    34.4    20.0                    3.9       5.3     4.6      18.9    28.2      37.5       18.7       2.8        2.1       1.4
Financial Rate of Return 52Z (Before interest)
Sensitivity Analysis        L
Investment   + 5%             487,
Sales          - 5%      :    19%
Investment   + 5%)             177.
sales          - 5b)
/I  The newly formed producer cooperative would not be able to contribute with more than 5% equity.  Initially the subloan would be made to hAP's Directorate General of Agro-ndustries;
but wham ownership of plant would be transferred to cooperative, the loan would be refinanced.
/2  95% of total investment at 16.5% interest, ten years including two of grace.
/3  14.75Z interest.
/4 From Annex 3, Table 6.
/5  About US$2 mi4lion worth of existing equipment would be replaced in years 10-11-12-13; project utilities and machinery and equipment would
be replaced in years 17-18, transportation equipment in years 7-12-17, including import duties and physical contingencies.
/6  From Annem   3, Table 6.
/7 The enterprisq Ais kempt from taxation.
A  t,1s978
Apr01, 1978



-61 -                                                         ANNEX 5
Table 9
PORTUGAL
ACRTCULTURAL AND FISIIERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Expansion of Cooperative Winery
Income and Operatinig Cost Projections
Yield or Ntumber of
Units at Full               Cost or Price              ---------------- Years  ------------------
DevelopmenL                   per Unit              1-2             3               4              5-20
V'IIll, e I IIncrestent .11) -
W-er.pe- cr,isled              Tu-is                         --                                              --          1,390          2,430              3,470
W,lye proldited  /2             Lts.                         727                         --                  --     1,000,000      1,750,000          2,500,000
live (Second press) fur distllation                         3.57                         --                  --
litotiaace                                                   207 ) sold                  --
Io.s                                                          57 5 inprocessed
Wline stored  for ripening                              2 years                                              --       4D0,000         700,000         1,000,000
(Crusl,ing:   6 weeks/year           --
WroI. sciediti e                                    (Bottling: 250 days /year
---------------- Eac Millions --------------------
Ino 1vve (In creniental  I3
lalile vine In 0.75 It. bottles                              30T                 Esc       13.30/bottle  --               5,3             9.3               13.3
lable wine ill I l . bottles                                 50%                 Esc        17.- /bottle  --              8.5            14.9               21.3
Vintage w-ie in 0.36 It. bottles                             10%                 Esc        10.90/bottle  --               3.0            5.3                7.6
ViLnge wine In 0.75 It. bottles                              10%                 Esc        22.80/bottle  --               3,0            5.3                7.6
Brnndo  in I It. bottles                        0.2 It/lt second press wine Esc             40.60/bottle  --               0.4            0.7                1.0
liv'prod-icts sold                                           --                  1% of total sales          --            0.2             0.4                0.5
Tot.al Ilnnoe                                                                                                             20.4           35.9               51.3
Operating Cost (Incremental) /3
Il)irect Costs/4
Cost of grapes                                                                   Esc 120/15 kg x 120         --           11.1           19.4               27.8
Brix
irect labor                                    skilled   :10x12 mo/yr.           Esc  10,000/mo.            -              0,8            1.0                1.2
unskilled: 5x12 mo/yr.            Esc   7,000/mo.            --            0,3             0.4                0.5
lix 1 mo/yr.
Pturchlased power                              50 KWh/1,000 It. wine             Esc  5/KWH                               0.3             0.4                0.6
Fuel, lubricants                                1 kg/lt. brandy                 ERC  20/kg (Light grey) --                0.1             0.2                0.4
Bottles, cartons, crates, labels               802 bottles returned              Esc  5/lt.                 --             1.0            1.8                2.5
Miscella-enus materials                                      --                  Esc  l/lt.                 --             1.0            1.8                2.5
Freight grapes to winery                       Radius 20 km.                     Esc  200/ton               --            0.3             0.5                0.7
Marketing expenses                                           --                  Esc  1/It                  --             1.0            1.8                2.5
Taxes                                                        - -                       - -                  - ---                          - -
Slsb-total                                                                                                  --           15.9            27.3               38.7
Overhead Cost
Maintenance incl. materials                           2 persons                  Esc  10,000/mo.            --            0.3             0.4                0.5
Administration  expenses, incl. insurance                    --                  EaC 100,000/mo.            --            0.8             1.0                1.2
Technical, administrative and
supervisery persosnel                              5 persons                   ESC  12,000/mm.            --            0.5            0.6                0.7
Management                                            1 person                   Esc  20,000/mo.            --            0.2             0.2                0.2
Sub-total                                                                                                   --            1.8            2.2                2.6
Total Operating Cost                                   24 persons                        --                                17.7            29.5              41.3
Net Operating Surplus (Incremental)                                                                           --             2.7            6.4               10.0
71 The expansion would be built in years 1-2 and be operative in year 3.
/2  Addit,onal capacity would be 3,000,000 lts.  However only 2,500,000 Its./year would be produced at full development
as 500,000 Its./yr. would be kept in storage for two years for vintage.
/3  Current costs and prices as registered by appraisal mission.
/4  To assist financing cost of storing of table wine (80% of volume) for six months and vintage wine (20% of volume) for
two years.  Producers would be paid only 257. of the cost of grapes at harvest and the balance according to foregoing
proportioms and periods . The cost showt reflects these conditions.
NOTE: Working capital for year three: ESC. 8.5 million assuming a turnover of six months for 80% of
the wine and two years for 20%.
March, 1978



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Expansion of Cooperative Winery
Cash Flow Projections
(Iac Millions)
----------------------------    '---------- '----------   --------------   Years   ----- ------------------------------------------------------------
1       2     3       4        5      6        7      8       9      10      11      12      13       14      15      16      17      18      19      20
Incomie
Borowe's  quiy/l3.2    4.5    --                 --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --      _-      --      --      __      __       __      __      __
Borrower s equity-/                .       .
Long-tern loan/2                 12.6   17.8    --        --      --      --      --      --      _-      --      __      __      __      __      __      __      __      __      __      __
Short-term loan/3                 0.1    2.2                                                                      --      --
Total sales-                              __   20.4   35.9   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3   51.3
Last year's cash balance           --    0.1   0.1       3.8    0.8    1.4       2.0    2.8    2.4    2.0    2.0    2.0          2.2     3.2     4.2     5.3    6.4      3.5     1.5     1.5
Total Cash Inflow                15.9   24.6  20.5   39.7   52.1   52.7   53.3   54.1   53.7   53.3   53.3   53.3    53.5   54.5    55.5   56.6   57.7   54.8   52.8   52.8
Expenditures
/5                                                                                                                                                  4.1     5.0
Investmentsr- Fixed assets   15.8   13.8    --            --      --      -     0.8       --     --       --     --      0.8    --        --      --      --    0.8       --      --      --
Working capital  --    8.'            --      --      --      --      --      --          --      --       --    --       --      --      --      --      --      --      --
Operating costs                            --   9.2   29.5   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3
Debt service
Long-term loan principal                              3.4    3.9    4.6        5.3    6.2    7.0        --     --      --       --      --      --      __      __      __      __      __ I
Long-tern loan interest          --    2.1   5.0      5.0    4.5      3.8    3.1      2.2    1.2       --      --      --       --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --
Short-term loan principal    --    0.1   2.2           --      --      --       --     --      --      --      --      --       _-      --      -_      __      __      __      __      __
Short-tern loan interest         --    0.0   0.3       --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --       __     -_       -_      __      __      __      __      __
Income ta--                                       -- __    __  __  __    __       __      __     __      __      __      __       __      __      __      __
Re.erves and dividends            --      --    --      1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0    2.0    2.0   10.0   10.0         9.0     9.0      9.0     9.0     9.0     8.0    7.0   10.0   10.0
istributed
Total Cash Outflow               15.8   24.5  16.7   38.9   50.7   50.7   51.7    51.7   51.7   51.3   51.3   51.1    50.3   50.2   50.2   50.2   54.2   53.3   51.3   51.3
Cash Balance at Year's End  0.1    0.1   3.8    0.8           1.4    2.0    2.8    2.4    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.2             3,2     4.2    5.3    6.4       3.5    1.5      1.5    1.5
Financial Rate of Return 207.  (Before Interest)
Sensitivity Analysis    ROR
Investment   + 5%            197.
Sales         - 5%           15X
Investment   + 5%)           147,
Salea         - 5%)
/1 207. of total investment.
/2  80% of total investment, at 16.5% interest, eight years including two of grace.
/3  14.75% interest.
/4  From Annex 3, Table 8.,
/5  Project utilities, machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17-18, transportation                                                                                         m x
equipment in years 7-12-17, including import duties and physical contingencies.                                                                                                    ,..
/6  From Annex 3, Table 8.  .
/7 The cooperative is exempt from taxation.
April, 1978



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
BOAT MODEL A -- CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN 1,000 ESC)
----------------------------------------------------------------- YEAR------------------------------------------------------------
1       2       3        4       5       6        7       8        9      10       11      12
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__--------------------------------------------------
(I) CASH INFLOW:
1 GROSS VALUE OF SALE                1440    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760
2  INVESTMENT LOAN         (6-3)     2975       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0
3  F-MENS CONTRIBUTION    (6-2)       525        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
4  SHORT TERM LOAN (PART OF 14)         0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
5   TOTAL INFLOW       (1+2+3+4)     4940    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                   3500        0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0
7  SUBSISTANCE                          0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
8 FUEL AND LUBRICANTS                  55     220      220     220      220     220      220     220     220      220     220      220
9  REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE              51     203      203     203      203     203      203     203     203      203     203      203
10 LANDING COST         (% OF 1)      58.    230.    230.    230.    230.    230.    230.    230.    230.    230.    230.    230.
11 SOCIAL SECURITY      (X OF 1)      180     720      720     720      720     720     720      720     720      720     720      720
12 ACCIDENTAL INSURANCE                14       15      15      15       15      15       15      15       15      15       15      15
13 OTHER                                0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0
14 TOTAL OPERATING COST (7T013)      358.   1388.   1388.   1388.   1388.   1388.   1388.   1388.   1388.   1388.   1388.   1388.
15  NET FISHING REVENUE  (1-14)    1082.   4372.   4372.   4372.   4372.   4372.   4372.   4372.   4372.   4372.   4372.   4372.
16 CREW REMUNERATION   (%OF 15)       802    3213    3213    3213    3213    3213    3213    3213    3213    3213    3213    3213
DEBT SERVICES:
17 INVSTMNT LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.         0    205.    239.    278.    324.    378.    440.    513.    597.           0        0       0
18 INVSTMNT LOAN INTEREST PMT.       245.    491.    457.    418.    372.    318.    256.    183.        99.        0        0       0
19 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.         0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0
20 SHORT-T. LOAN INTEREST PMT.          0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0
21  TOTAL DEBT SERVICES(17T020)      245.    696.    696.    696.    696.    696.    696.    696.    696.           0        0       0      ^
22  TOTAL OUTFLOW  (6+14+16+21)    4905.   5297.   5297.   5297.   5297.   5297.   5297.   5297.   5297.   4601.   4601.   4601.              x
23 (III) NET CASH FLOW   (5-22)       35.    463.    463.    463.    463.    463.    463.    463.    463.   1159.   1159.   1159.
(IV) BENEFIT COST STREAMS:
24 BENEFIT                   (1)     1440    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760    5760
25 COST                (6+14+16)    4660.   4601.   4601.   4601.   4601.   4601.   4601.   4601.   4601.   4601.   4601.   4601.
26  NET BENEFIT          (24-25)   -3220.   1159.   1159.   1159.   1159.   1159.   1159.   1159.   1159.   1159.   1159.   1159.
March. 1978
_  __    _ _  _ _  .     _    _ _    _    _ _    _     _ _    _  .    _ -_ _ -_ _ - -_ _ -_ --- - - - - - - - - - - --_ _- -_- -_ _--_--_ _--_ _-_- - - - - - - - - -- ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - --._._ _-_ _- -_ _-_ _- -_-_,._ _- -_- -_ _- -_- -_ _- -_- -_ _- -_ _-_ _- -_ _-_ _- -_ _-_ _- -_ _  _ _    _ _  _ _    _ _ 



1,'
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES PROJECT APPRAISAL
BOAT MODELS -- CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN 1,000 ESC)
--------------------------------------------------------------YEAR----------________-_______________________________________
1       2       3       4        5       6       7       8        9      10       11      12
(I) CASH INFLOW:
1 GROSS VALUE OF SALE                  0   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600
2  INVESTMENT LOAN        (6-3)      7225       0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
3  F-MENS CONTRIBUTION    (6-2)      1275       0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
4  SHORT TERM LOAN (PART OF 14)         0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
5   TOTAL INFLOW      (1+2+3+4)      8500   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                   8500       0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
7  SUBSISTANCE                          0       5       5       5        5                        5       5
8  FUEL AND LUBRICANTS                  0     515     515     515      515     515     515     515      515     515      515     515
9  REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE               0     450     450     450      450     450     450      450     450     450      450     450
10 LANDING COST        (X OF 1)        0      504     504     504     504      504     504     504      504     504     504      504
11 SOCIAL SECURITY     (% OF 1)        0    1575    1575    1575    1575    1575    1575    1575    1575    1575    1575    1575
12 ACCIDENTAL INSURANCE               31       56      56      56       56      56      56      56       56      56       56      56
13 OTHER                               0        7       7       7        7       7       7       7        7       7        7
14 TOTAL OPERATING COST (7T013)       31    3112    3112    3112    3112    3112    3112    3112    3112    3112    3112    3112
15  NET FISHING REVENUE  (1-14)      -31    9488    9488    9488    9488    9488    9488    9488    9488    9488    9488    9488
16 CREW REMUNERATION   (%OF 15)        0    5520    5520    5520    5520    5520    5520    5520    5520    5520    5520    5520
DEbT SERVICES:
17 INVSTMNT LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.        0    498.    580.    676.    788.    918.   1069.   1245.   1451.          0        0       0
18'INVSTMNT LOAN INTEREST PMT.      596.   1192.   1110.   1014.    903.    773.    621.    445.    239.          0        0       0
19 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.        0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
20 SHORT-T. LOAN INTEREST PMT.          0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
21  TOTAL DEBT SERVICES(17T020)     596.   1690.   1690.   1690.   1690.   1690.   1690.   1690.   1690.          0        0       0
22  TOTAL OUTFLOW  (6+14+16+21)    9127,  10322.  10322.  10322.  10322.  10322.  10322.  10322.  10322.    8632    8632    8632
23 (III) NET CASH FLOW   (5-22)    -627.   2278.   2278.   2278.   2278.   2278.   2278.   2278.   2278.    3968    3968    3968
(IV) BENEFIT COST STREAMS:
24 BENEFIT                  (1)        0   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600   12600
25 COST               (6+14+16)     8531    8632    8632    8632    8632    8632    8632    8632    8632    8632    8632    8632
26  NET BENEFIT         (24-25)    -8531    3968    3968    3968    3968    3968    3968    3968    3968    3968    3968    3968   4 ,
March, 1978
._____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
BOAT MODEL C -- CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN 1OOO ESC)
-------------------------------------------------------YEAR-----------------------
1       2        3        4       5        6        7        8       9       10       11       12
(I) CASH INFLOW:
1  GROSS VALUE OF SALE                   0    9000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000-
2  INVESTMENT LOAN          (6-3)     8500    8500         0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
3  F-MENS CONTRIBUTION    (6-2)       1500    1500         0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
4  SHORT TERM LOAN (PART OF 14)           0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
5   TOTAL INFLOW        (1+2+3+4)    10000   19000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000
(II) CASH OUTFLOW:
6  INVESTMENT COST                   10000   10000         0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
7  SUBSISTANCE                            0     375      750      750     750      750      750      750     750      750      750      750
8  FUEL AND LUBRICANTS                    0     834    1669    1669    1669    1669    1669    1669    1669    1669    1669    1669
9  REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE                 0     410      820     820      820      820      820      820     820      820      820      820
10 LANDING COST         (X OF 1)         0      360      720     720      720      720      720      720     720      720      720      720
11 SOCIAL SECURITY      (% OF 1)         0    1125    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250
12 ACCIDENTAL INSURANCE                 73       83       93      93       93       93       93       93      93       93       93       93
13 OTHER                                  0     176      353     353      353      353      353      353     353      353      353      353
14 TOTAL OPERATING COST (7T013)         73    3363    6655    6655    6655    6655    6655    6655    6655    6655    6655    6655
15  NET FISHING REVENUE  (1-14)        -73    5637   11345   11345   11345   11345   11345   11345   11345   11345   11345   11345
16 CREW REMUNERATION  (%OF 15)           0    3450    6900    6900    6900    6900    6900    6900    6900    6900    6900    6900
DEBT SERVICES:
17 INVSTMNT LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.           0    586.   1269.   1478.   1722.   2006.   2337.   2723.   3172.   1707.              0        0
18 INVSTMNT LOAN INTEREST PMT.        701.   2104.   2708.   2499.   2255.   1971.   1640.   1254.    805.    282.               0        0
19 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.           0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0
20 SHORT-T. LOAN INTEREST PMT.            0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0       0
21  TOTAL DEBT SERVICES(17TO20)       701.   2690.   3977.   3977.   3977.   3977.   3977.   3977.   3977.   1989.                0       0
22  TOTAL OUTFLOW  (6+14+16+21)   10774.  19503.  17532.  17532.  17532.  17532.  17532.  17532.  17532.  15544.   13555   13555
23 (III) NET CASH FLOW   (5-22)    -774.   -503.    468,    468,    468.    468.    468.    468.    468.   2456.    4445    4445
(IV) BENEFIT COST STREAMS:-
24 BENEFIT                    (1)         0    9000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000   18000
25 COST                 (6+14+16)    10073   16813   13555   13555   13555   13555   13555   13555   13555   13555   13555   13555
26  NET BENEFIT           (24-25)   -10073   -7813    4445    4445    4445    4445    4445    4445    4445    4445    4445    4445
March, 1978
__  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _     _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _



- 66 -                            ANNEX 5
PORTUGAL                           Table 14
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Net Cash Balance and Financial Rates of Return on Fishing Boat Models
Boat Model
Item                        A(16 m)           B(22 m)           C(30 m)
____------US$ thousand----------------
Total Investment                  87.5             212.5             250.0
Subloan  size                     74.4             180.6             212.5
Annual cash balance               -----------------US$------------------
year 1                          875            -15,675          -19,350
year 2                       11,575             56,950          -12,575
year 3                       11,575             56,950           11,700
year 11                      28,975             99,200          111,125
Crew member's income             5,750              5,750            5,750
Financial rate of                 ------------------%----
return over 20 years
Best estimate                    18                 33               12
With a 10% increase
in construction costs          16                 30               11
March, 1978



PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Proiect Cost and Benefit Streams
(Eac million)
COST STREAMSL_                                                                     BENEFIT STREAMS
Consultant                Gross
Vehicles               Incremental                                Groma
Project     On-farm                            Fishing    Project/A    Office         Total       Farm        Oil Mill   Winery         Value of        Total    Incremental
Year     DeveloPment   Oil Mill   Winery   Vessels   Management   Equipment    Cost    Production    Revenue    Revenue   Fish LandinDs  Benefit                   Benefit
1          1359.9       202.2      18.1      206.0        50.3         11.0         847.5        816.0        177.2        0            15.0         200.8        -646.7
12,507.4               236.2      25.6      213.4        64.0         14.6       1,873.9        137.8        177.2        0           238.3         553.3    -1,320.6
3         2     *507.4  217.1      10.6      187.9        60.8          2.2       2,986.0        523.4        221.3      21.3          285.2       1,051.2    -1,934.8
4         1,242.8        258.2     33.8      187.9        59.0           0        1,781.7      1,132.5        265.8      37.4          285.2       1,720.9         -60.8
5         1,024.7        285.7     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,604.7      1,415.6        295.5      53.5          285.2       2,049.8         445.1
6         1,021.4        285.7     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,601.4      1,655.1        295.5      53.5          285.2       2,289.3         687.9
7         1,178.3       289.0      48.3      187.9        59.0           0        1,762.5      1,961.4       295.5       53.5          285.2       2,595.6         833.1
8         1,203.6        285.7     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,783.6      2,259.5        295.5      53.5          285.2       2,893.7       1,110.1
9         1,271.5        285.7     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,851.5      2,528.6        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,162.8      1,311.3
10         1,312.8        303.6     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,915.7      2,733.5        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,367.7       1,452:0
11         1,439.4        308.6     47.4      187,9        59.0           0        2,042.3      2,840.6        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,474.8       1,432.5
12         1,302.8        311.9     48.3      187.9        59.0           0        1,909.9      2,890.8        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,525.0       1,615.1
13         1,068.9        308.6     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,671.8      2,917.7        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,551.9       1,880.1
14         1,059.3        285.7     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,639.3      2,938.2        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,572.4       1,933.1
15         1,112.1        285.7     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,692.1      2,938.2        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,572.4       1,880.3
16         1,226.9        285.7     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,806.9      2,938.2        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,572.4       1,765.5
17         1,319.9        323.6     52.9      187.9        59.0           0        1,937.8      2,938.2        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,572.4       1,634.6
18         1, 417.4       320.3     53.0      187.9        59.0           0        2,032.0      2,938.2        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,572.4       1,540.4
19         1335.3         285.      47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,915.3      2,938.2        295.5      53.5          285.2       3,572.4       1,657.1
20         1,342.2        287 
285.7     47.4      187.9        59.0           0        1,922.2      2,938.2       295.5      53.5           285.2       3,572.4      1,650.2
Economic Rate of Return:  19.67
Li Includes 10% physical contingencies.
/2  Includes training, salaries, per diem and vehicle operating costs.
May 1978



- 68
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  Selected Reports, Studies and Documents on the Agricultural Fisheries Sector
Al  Portugal, Agricultural Sector Survey.
World Bank Report No. 1689a-PO, 2 volumes
March 16, 1978.
A2  "An Analysis of Agricultural Development and Agrarian
Reform Possibilities in Portugal,"
Earl 0. Heady, typewritten consultant's report to the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, 1977. 54 pp.
A3 Law No. 77/77 of September 29, 1977 Providing the General Basis of Land
Reform.
B. Selected Reports and Documents Relating to the Project
Bl  Portugal, Agricultural Credit Project Identification Mission
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Draft Report No. 18/77
PO 1, 3 volumes. 16 May 1977.
B2  Portugal, Agricultural Credit Project Preparation Mission
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Draft Report No. 40/77 PO 2,
4 volumes. 26 September 1977.
B3  Law No. 14/78 of March 23, 1978 Governing IFADAP
C.  Selected Working Papers Prepared by Bank Staff and Consultants
Cl Agricultural Credit, Interest Rate Structure and Financial Situation of
Credit Institutions
C2  Land Use Capability and Land Tenure
C3  Basis for Detailed Cost Estimates and Allocation of Loan Proceeds
C4  Livestock and Crop Development
C5  Minor Irrigation Development
C6  Detailed Crop and Farm Budgets
C7  Implementation of Agro-industries Component



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
C8 Technical Aspects of Fishing Vessel Construction
C9 Consultants Requirements and Draft Terms of Reference
C10 Schematic Procedure for Loan Financing and Accounting
Cll Financial Models for Farm, Agro-industries and Fishing Boat Loans
C12 Assumptions and Calculations of Economic and Financial Returns
April, 1978






2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
__T,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ys                                                                                                                 ~-_ fU.. X<iN ''i'e 
X                          e                          W          AS  \                                   X            --              2   X              V   ,P T                         AL~ RTALE
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.c
LIBO
AGRICULTURAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AN FISHERIE
CREDIT PRJECT 0| @te  VDGzR 4I \\l-
AGRICULTURAL PROJECT AREA                                 .RD-};                         ';.                ILe          < E /A                            M O       R                   .uEwAC 
A  EMA- MRlIRT SAhTO E D-UWERAL D}E LkSB.A   ,Dr .. L_ ~*X\0-~/.! i NR 
-l    <>   M ib-       avq_  g@  i,
I`IG-  I.A.AE
CM- CAIXGERAL OE ..P051TW                                                             !      /       /     $                                                  )j     
CAIX DE5RC CEDIT.A1   jlA -f~OGAM h2/l/|~n,.W5  
|    ,    L  IRSERVR5MD FAMR                               J6                                                                                                       9 8szFsfl 
V               - RAWE Sl dm.
__._______(AE.E \\ 4
IMH
(/-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
-  -- g                                                   A     O .R OCTD- AR  RAE4  |CAP                                                                                                                         |
ERAF-/8 S )    COAAAOlL Az5,s ALTAD(1 R1                                                                                                                                               AL ARVE    \            4A
* 3-c hourE xes ReAN- OBOE CSEW AIAO                                                    SL  AU                                  t                                                                               _
|O   WC)S    BAoRCAsPh. 09S A      |-iwS -
BA  ATRPTMTAa GORG ASECB C                                                                                                                                                   IE CRR  r,e
|       EfA CCAndfUhh ACOOCA CURRARN






-4r '          30-        '         28                    6           40'     10                    81 6                                      4
toCRVo
D[ORES                          AZ OR ES  ISLANDS Sigo
Santa CGRACIOSA                                                                                                422
OAL RGE  TEIRA
PAAL/t   aRVno do Cstelo
Ponto Delgo                   Aveiro    n
Figueira do Foz   C'
A    T   Z   A    N    T   / C                      @      0   'f     t'                                                      40'
SANTA MARIA
-    C    E   A    N                    3'che
-36'36
39'                  24'     -             2'-
16'                 14'                    12                                 6
0                V~~~~~~~~L)
-38 4'ie                                                                                                                                      38'
342~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O PortimooS-
-IAaroich
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_34.                                                                  \                        t-       S      a l e                   k      34
fX          blo n c~~~~~~~~~banc
0
C"  a       MADEIRA                                                                                       o               PORTUGAL
Lobos       ISLANDS                                                                                         AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES
Safi      41                CREDIT PROJECT
-32-                                                      \,                     vLONGLINE  FISHERIES
41: Lontgirna FFsh g Porls
f 5   Malor Longlne Fishing Ports [Annual LandingsLarger than3p00OTons)
O' 57WLLongline Fishing Grounds                         10
___400m Depth Contour      30'        20'         1
International Boundary  4 r 4 A r   T  C
AZORES        LN5  '2
gad,                       15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LANDSO
C    2     5     75OC E   N A
z 30                                                                                                                                              
MA58iRA   (0
8'      ~~~~~~30 38'
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9



