FiLLe    ;V0           ?              Document of
F L            g    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rlept No. P-2268a-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INSTITUTO FINANCEIRO DE APOIO AO
DESENVOLVIMENTO DA AGRICULTURA
E PESCAS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
June 14, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977                   May 1978
Currency unit  =  Portuguese escudo (Esc)           Esc
$1  =  Esc 38.3                          45.0
Esc 1  =  0.026                              0.022
(Floating Exchange Rate)
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report: $1 = Esc 40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DGHEA                 -  General Directorate of Hydraulics and
Rural Engineering of MAP
EC                    -  European Communities
EFTA                  -  European Free Trade Association
EIB                   -  European Investment Bank
FAO/CP                -  FAO - World Bank Cooperative Program
FORE                  -  Vegetable Oil and Animal Feed Factory at Evora
IFADAP                -  Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento
da Agricultura e Pescas (Agricultural and
Fisheries Development Fund)
MAP                   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
PBI(s)                -  Participating Banking Institution(s)
UECT(s)               -  Collective Production Unit(s)
USAID                 -  US Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Agricultural and Fisheries Development Fund (IFADAP)
Guarantor:             Government of Portugal
Amount:                US$70 million equivalent
Terms:                 Fifteen years including three years grace, at
7.50% per annum.
Project Description:  The proposed project would be the first Bank-financed
project in the agricultural and fisheries sector. It
aims at providing the impetus needed to make the Gov-
ernment's new agricultural and fisheries credit system
operational and at contributing to food production,
thereby reducing the country's dependence on food and
feed imports. This would be accomplished through the
provision of credit for on-farm development, agro-
industries development and construction of fishing
vessels, and through the strengthening of the project
implementation agencies. About 25,300 individuals
would benefit directly from the project, 18% of whom
at present have incomes below the relative poverty
level. The project's principal quantifiable benefit
would be its contribution to increasing national agri-
cultural output and hence to improving the foreign ex-
change balance by a net savings estimated at US$51
million at full development. The development of a
viable nationwide institutional framework for agri-
cultural credit is the principal non-quantifiable
benefit. The project faces no major risks although
the project's successful implementation hinges on
timely measures to be taken by the Government to
establish an adequate organization for project imple-
mentation, to end the present insecurity of land
tenure by completing the agrarian reform, and to
control the domestic rate of inflation.
Relending Terms:       IFADAP would:  (i) onlend about $1.7 million of the
loan proceeds on the same terms as those of the loan
to the Portuguese Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
(MAP), to strengthen project administration and carry
out studies, and (ii) channel about $68.0 million of
the loan proceeds through participating banking insti-
tutions (PBIs) to project beneficiaries in the form of
(a) short-term (180-365 days) loans for seasonal
credit, at a rate of interest of 13.5 percent per
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
annum, and (b) investment loans of 8-10 years maturity
(including a grace period of two years or, for boat
loans, equal to the boat construction period (1-2 years))
for on-farm development, agro-industries development and
construction of fishing vessels, at an average interest
rate over the life of any investment loan equal to at
least 16.5 percent per annum. The PBIs margins would be
equal to 1.5 percent for short-term seasonal credit, and
to 3.25 percent for investment loans. The Government
would assume the foreign exchange risk.
Estimated Cost:                                            Local  Foreign  Total
----- $ million------
A.  On-farm development            85.7    65.7    151.4
B.  Agro-industry development    2.9         1.3      4.2
C.  Fishing vessels                 3.5     2.7       6.2
D.  Project administration          5.7      1.3      7.0
E.  Studies                         0.2      0.9      1.1
F.  Physical contingencies          9.8      7.2     17.0
G.  Price contingencies            55.7    13.9      69.6
Total                        163.5    93.0    256.5
Financing Plan:                                            Local  Foreign  Total
----- $ million------
IBRD                                 -     70.0      70.0
Government                         25.2    23.0      48.2
IFADAP                            56.7      -        56.7
Participating banking
institutions                    53.4      -        53.4
Subborrowers                      28.2      -        28.2
Total                            163.5    93.0    256.5
Estimated               ------------------- $ million --------------------
Disbursement:        IBRD FY    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual       0.3   11.9   26.3   21.5    8.0    2.0
Cumulative  0.3   12.2   38.5   60.0   68.0   70.0
Rate of Return:         20%
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 1946-PO dated June 12, 1978



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO INSTITUTO FINANCEIRO DE APOIO AO DESENVOLVIMENTO
DA AGRICULTURA E PESCAS WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC
OF PORTUGAL FOR AN AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Instituto Financeiro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Agricultura e
Pescas (IFADAP), with the guarantee of the Republic of Portugal, for the
equivalent of $70.0 million to help finance a project for agricultural and
fisheries credit. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years
of grace, with interest at 7.50 percent per annum. About $1.7 million of the
proceeds of the loan would be relent to the Government of Portugal, Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP), on the same terms as those of the loan,
and about $68.0 million of- such proceeds to participating banking institutions
(PBIs) for short-term (180 to 365 days) loans for seasonal credit and for
investment loans of 8 to 10 years, including a grace period of 2 years or,
for fishing vessel construction loans, equal to the boat construction period
(1 to 2 years), with interest at 12.0 percent per annum for short-term loans,
and at not less than 13.25 percent per annum for investment loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Portugal:  An Economy in Transition"
(No. 1408a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 16, 1977.
An updating economic mission visited Portugal in April 1978. Some of the
material gathered by the mission has been utilized for updating the infor-
mation contained in this part of the report. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
3.        The five years preceding the revolution of April 1974 were years
of rapid economic growth for Portugal. Moreover the growth was combined
with considerable stability. Inflation was at relatively low rates, invest-
ment levels were high, exports increased rapidly and the balance of payments
was consistently in surplus overall. The impressive performance as measured
by the key macro-economic indicators, concealed a large number of structural
and institutional weaknesses however. Agricultural output had been virtually
stagnant since the mid-sixties. The sector suffered from inadequate invest-
ment, partly as a consequence of the emphasis given to industrialization,
and weak supporting services to provide credit, research and extension to
farmers. Land ownership was characterized by tiny fragmented holdings in
the north of the country, and very large estates in the south. In the
circumstances it was not surprising that there was an exodus of the more
ambitious elements of the rural labor force to the cities of Portugal and
Northern Europe, leaving the farming profession to the elderly and the
illiterate. A group of influential industrialists with close links to the
banking sector benefitted from tight controls of any collective activity
by the labor force and of the level of industrial wages. Some inefficient



industries, often serving captive markets in Portugal's colonies, had pros-
pered under these controls. Social services had not developed as rapidly
as in other southern European countries with comparable income levels. In
1973 the poorest 25 percent of households received only 7.3 percent of total
income, while the richest 25 percent received 56.3 percent.
4.        Between the revolution of April 1974 and September 1975, Portugal's
political and economic systems were radically transformed. The colonies
were given their independence. There was movement towards a representative
political system which became a reality in mid-1976. There was national-
ization of the banks, insurance companies, power companies, major transpor-
tation agencies and the large industrial groups. A comprehensive land reform
was carried out in the central and southern parts of the country. Trade union
activity was legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were
established and restraints were put on the highest salary levels. Prices
were controlled. Unemployment and social security benefits were increased.
This was a very different Portugal from two years earlier. There was a new
relationship between management and labor, and at first there was indisci-
pline, absenteeism and reduced productivity. Perhaps most important of all
for the longer term, the revolution created expectations of a substantial
increase in consumption. Such an increase did indeed take place initially,
financed in large part through the substantial foreign exchange reserves
which had been accumulated before 1973. During 1976 and 1977 there was
increasing awareness that such growth of consumption could not be maintained
without seriously prejudicing the country's medium-term growth. The govern-
ments which have held office since the elections of 1976 have had the un-
enviable task of persuading the population to accept stagnant or declining
levels of real consumption.
5.        In terms of the world economy and its impact on the domestic situ-
ation, the Portuguese revolution could not have found a time more likely to
complicate the adjustment and impede future growth than April 1974. The oil
price increase brought with it a substantial worsening of the country's terms
of trade, while the downturn in Western Europe meant the slackening of demand
for Portugal's exports, less earnings from tourism and perhaps most serious
of all the levelling off of the demand for Portuguese workers. The Portuguese
labor force in Western Europe had risen to 745,000 by 1973. Combined with
the growing colonial army this had meant very low levels of open unemployment
in Portugal. After 1974 the increase in the labor force could no longer be
absorbed by other European economies. To this was added the once and for all
impact of demobilization, and the returnees from the colonies. After the
revolution, Portugal's rapid disengagement from the colonies resulted in the
return of about 500,000 people and the temporary loss of important markets
for its exports. At present about 290,000, or 7 percent of the labor force,
are unemployed. The Government's intervention during 1974-76 prevented open
unemployment from rising to even higher levels but created wide spread under-
employment.
6.        This is the background against which the management of the Portuguese
economy in the years since the revolution must be viewed. In trying to des-
cribe the events of that period one is faced with the problem of portraying



- 3 -
sequentially a series of simultaneous adjustments. One should not however
infer a chain of causalitv from this.  The convenient starting point is the
rapid increase in money wages which took place after the revolution. Sharp
increases in money-wages combined with loss of productivity in many enter-
prises as labor relations deteriorated. The take-over of industrial and
commercial enterprises and farms was often associated with an initial loss of
production. In addition demand was sluggish for enterprises producing for
export or for domestic middle and upper-middle class consumption. The con-
sequence was that a large number of firms were in severe financial difficul-
ties and the government, rather than risk a spate of bankruptcies with
associated unemployment, iused the nationalized banking system to provide
liberal credit facilities to these firms. The fiscal system was also used
to provide direct subsidiies to public enterprises and also to subsidize basic
food items.
7.        The evidence is that real consumption per capita rose by about 10
percent over the 1973 level, by end 1977. For industrial and agricultural
workers the increase was almost certainly more than this, since professional
and middle-class income were limited by law and increasingly heavily taxed as
inflation carried them into a higher tax bracket. In the context of virtually
stagnant GDP per capita over the period (i.e. it kept pace with the about 10
percent increase in resident population which was due to returnees from the
colonies and reduction in emigration), the increase was at the expense of
domestic savings. The increase in demand did not have a major impact on
production in the short-run for a number of reasons. First, Portugal's
structure of production did not fit the new structure of demand, which was
oriented towards items of lower middle-class and working class consumption.
The picture was mixed with some industries working at full capacity (cement
for example, with much of the income being channelled into new or improved
housing), while others faced sluggish demand conditons. Even in those indus-
tries operating at full capacity, entrepreneurs were reluctant to invest when
such investment meant hiring additional labor. Second, with the increase in
population, came a proportionate increase in demand for food products. Agri-
cultural production is nct amenable to an overnight step-up in production, so
that the balance -- a large proportion of the increased consumption -- went
straight onto the import bill. Third, and related to the last point, the
availability of foreign exchange constituted a constraint for domestic pro-
duction, as there was a large component of imported intermediate goods and as
restrictions had been placed on the import of some of these items at various
points in time. As a consequence of these factors much of the increase in
demand showed up in the 23 percent per annum average rate of inflation, or
in the increasing trade cleficit.
8.        It is fair to say that initially economic management was governed by
the need to match the expectations of higher real incomes which the revolution
had brought and then by the problem of insuring that those who had received
these higher incomes did not lose them through unemployment, even at the cost
of eroding them through inflation. In addition, new investment was needed to
employ the returnees and the additions to the labor force. As a result, the



-4-
overall public sector budget deficit rose from $330 million in 1974 to $1,620
million or 10 percent of GDP in 1976, before being reduced to $1,168 million or
7 percent of GDP in 1977. All this put severe pressure on the balance of
payments, which gradually began to loom as the dominant feature in the economic
policy mix. Portugal's exports (goods and nonfactor services) fell by about
30 percent in real terms between 1973 and 1975. There was a combination of
factors which led to this; the loss of the colonial markets, the recession
in Western Europe, lower production in some industrial enterprises, and the
diversion of some production to meet the expansion in domestic demand. In
addition there was a severe terms of trade loss. As a consequence, the
current account surplus of $350 million in 1973 turned to a deficit of $820
million in 1975, $1.25 billion in 1976 and $1.5 billion in 1977. It should
be noted that it was the decline in exports and the terms of trade loss which
produced this effect, rather than any sharp increase in imports which were
still only at their 1973 level in real terms by 1977. Sustaining deficits of
this magnitude has meant the depletion of Portugal's previously ample foreign
currency reserves, and substantial borrowing against its gold reserves.
9.        The task the successive governments in Portugal have faced, is that
of reducing domestic demand and imports, and increasing savings and exports.
There has been little or no disagreement on the need for such measures -- the
art has lain in stabilizing at a pace which is politically acceptable. Numerous
measures have been introduced to reduce consumption -- higher taxes, ceilings
on increases in real wages, rise in utility prices, reduction of price subsidies
and relaxation of price controls, etc. -- but governments have not found them-
selves able to deny to enterprises and agricultural cooperatives access to
credit at levels which have sustained the rate of employment, and which have
largely negated the cuts in other areas. Various direct methods have been used
to try to improve the balance of payments -- depreciation of the escudo (by 62
percent between end 1973 and end 1977), surcharges on imports, interest rate
subsidies for exports, etc. -- but again these have had limited impact in the
face of buoyant domestic demand. Obviously deficits at the 1977 level cannot
be continued. The IMF diagnosed the need for even more stringency, and after
long and arduous negotiations, agreement was reached on a stabilization program
which will attempt to bring the deficit down to $1 billion in the 12 months
ending April 1979. This will imply much smaller growth than in the last two
years and some shaking out of the less efficient units in the manufacturing
sector as well, with some consequent increase in unemployment. The measures
taken to achieve this include a 6.5 percent devaluation and continuation of
the crawling peg depreciation of the escudo over the coming year and a 5 per-
cent rise in the discount rate. These measures should be particularly
effective in reducing the very high rate of expansion of stocks of imported
goods in 1977 which was brought about by the expectation of further devalua-
tion and the substantially negative level of real interest rates.
10.       The large current account deficit is in one sense a function of the
decline in the savings rate, but it can also be looked at as a consequence of
maintaining the level of investment at around 20 percent of GDP, in spite of
the savings decline. A high level of investment is crucial in the long run
to Portugal and ordinarily the maintenance of this level during a difficult



- 5 -
period such as the past four years would be a cause for satisfaction.  The
composition of investment is disturbing however. Of net fixed investment a
large proportion is construction not related to industrial expansion. Some
of this is for the Sines port and new town. Of the balance much of it is
related to the heavy industrial zone at Sines. The Sines project was con-
ceived in the sixties to create a new growth pole in the south of Portugal
away from Lisbon and Oporto. The plan includes a port, refinery, and a
number of heavy industrial units including man-made fibers, railway wagons,
iron pyrites, etc. The economics of Sines and the related projects have
been severely affected by the changes both inside and outside Portugal since
1973, but the momentum of the project, with 10,000 workers associated with
it, has exerted a great deal of pressure on successive governments to continue
with it as originally planned.  The project is under review at present.  Very
little of the net fixed investment has been capacity expansion in private
industry.
11.       If the Portuguese economy is to support even a modest growth in
private consumption in the medium-term and come to terms with the very serious
unemployment problem, increased investment and output will be necessary in two
major areas: export-oriented manufacturing and agriculture. The restructuring
of the Portuguese economy which is needed is in relation to a vast improvement
in agricultural productivity and the rapid recovery and expansion of exports.
The investments which have been undertaken in the past four years have not
for the most part contributed much to the achievement of these objectives.
Admittedly the problem in agriculture is not only one of investment. It is
a matter of reorganizing the ministry and strengthening its inadequate field
services. Extension is weak in terms of personnel and the links with the
research effort on the one hand and small farmers and cooperatives on the
other. Credit to the rural sector has neither been adequate nor production-
oriented. Fertilizer use in Portugal is at about the same level per hectare
as in Egypt. Investment alone will achieve little without substantial advances
in these other areas as well. The first step of reorganizing the Ministry of
Agriculture has now been taken, and the creation of a new agency should
revitalize the credit system as well.
12.       The medium-term gains from export promotion may perhaps be easier
to achieve. Here the problem is that export of manufactures is mainly done
by the private sector which has been reluctant to invest for reasons quite
unrelated to the profitability of exports. These include the general uncer-
tainty and the difficulties of dismissing labor once it has been hired on a
permanent basis. The government has adopted a positive attitude to private
investment and has done what it could to improve the profitability of export-
ing and manufacturing in general, through lowering real wages in 1977, depre-
ciating the exchange rate and providing special incentives. For the rest it
is largely a matter of time, as increasing confidence develops in the stability
of democratic government in Portugal, and as a new relationship evolves be-
tween management and labor similar to that in other Wester European countries.
The government could perhaps do more to try to orient the manufacturing
units in the public sector in the direction of exporting from their present
capacity, and investing in new capacity for export production.



- 6 -
13.       The focus of economic management in Portugal during the past four
years has been on the short term. The time is long overdue to analyze the
medium and long-term needs. A plan was prepared in 1977 but was not finalized
due to political difficulties. A new plan is now being drawn up covering the
period from 1979-84. Restoring the domestic savings rate to levels which
permit high rates of investment to be sustained without crippling balance of
payments deficits is the task at the aggregate level. Achieving a composition
of investment which permits rapid growth overall, and thus a resumption in
the growth of private consumption, is the task at the sectoral level. It
will not be easy to balance these concerns especially given the character of
Portugal's revolution and the expectations which resulted from it. Portugal
has the potential for rapid growth. The question now is how quickly it
will achieve this potential.
External Assistance
14.       Since the last economic report in March 1977, the Bank has continued
to improve its understanding of the various sectors of the economy. The Bank
has an important role to play in Portugal at present in helping the government
focus on the implications of short-term actions for medium-term development,
in making the government more aware of the role that institutions play in the
growth process, and in assisting the government in evolving a set of func-
tioning institutions. It will continue to assist the government in its efforts
to restructure the economy, and to bring about the long overdue institutional
reforms, which will be necessary preconditions to rapid and more balanced
development in the future.
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and for
long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, the Bank of Portugal has
obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank for
International Settlement and European central banks; the external borrowing
of the Bank of Portugal (largely short-term) amounted to about $1,400 million
at the end of 1977. In addition, the IMF has so far extended about $290 mil-
lion as gold tranches, oil facilities, compensatory financing, and the first
credit tranche. The Bank has so far approved $171 million in loans to the
power, transport, DFC, water supply and education sectors during FY1976-78.
In addition, the EC, EIB, EFTA, as well as USAID and other bilateral agencies
have committed significant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid
and for long-term projects. In total, the public medium- and long-term aid
commitments equalled $163 million in 1975, $458 million in 1976, and $435
million in 1977. In addition, in the late Spring of 1977, Portugal obtained
a commitment of $750 million in the form of a multi-country aid package for
medium-term financial assistance linked somewhat to the negotiations with the
IMF on the second standby credit. Since an agreement has now been reached
between the government and the IMF, the entire $750 million will be released
soon. Portugal will continue to require sizeable external capital inflows in
the years ahead. The Bank's assistance will play an important role, not only
in providing the urgently-needed foreign exchange for important projects and
the technical assistance needed for the restructuring of the economy, but to
an extent also as a catalyst to help mobilize other sources of financing.



7-
Creditworthiness
16.       It is estimated that Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term debt disbursed and outstanding was about $1.5 billion
at the end of 1977. The debt service ratio (debt service/earnings from
exports, tourism and workers' remittances) in 1977 for medium- and long-term
public debt was about 5 percent. Portugal's total (public and private)
medium- and long-term external debt reached about $2.5 billion at the end of
1977, with a debt service ratio of about 14 percent. These figures and the
correct breakdown of public and private debt are currently being investigated
by the Bank of Portugal and it is likely that the total debt figure will be
revised downward somewhat, to reflect the actual amounts disbursed and out-
standing. Portugal's liquid foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1977
amounted to $424 million. There still remains a gold stock of about 730
metric tons (February 1978) valued at $3.7 billion at a market price of $160
per ounce, serving as a safety net, which Portugal has used as collateral
for short-term borrowing; of this stock, about 47 percent has been pledged
for this purpose. Based on reasonable assumptions concerning export growth,
a substantial scale of borrowing, and credit terms, Portugal's debt service
ratio (public and private, medium- and long-term external debt) is not likely
to go much beyond 20 percent by 1980. By about 1985, the debt service ratio
can be expected to return to its level in 1977. In the light of these facts,
the stabilization efforts made by the government, and the prospects for
growth, Portugal can be considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 1/
17.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with govern-
ment priorities which ref'lected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
try. Five loans totaling, $57.5 million helped finance three thermal and two
hydropower projects, which were successfully completed to meet the country's
increasing power requirements.
18.       The turbulent events of the more recent past and the ensuing disloca-
tion and exodus of managerial talent, high-level technicians and capital, have
deprived Portugal's economy of some of its most vital elements. Moreover the
transition into an open political system has revealed social and economic weak-
nesses which are unusual for a high-income developing country. The former
government was aware of these weaknesses, and after some degree of social
and political peace and stability was achieved, addressed itself to restruc-
turing the economy and the social services, and to carrying out the wide
institutional reforms required for that purpose. The dual task of facing the
1/   Part II of this Report is substantially unchanged from that in the Report
and Recommendation of the President for a Lisbon Region Water Supply
Project (Report No. P-2161-PO) dated March 10, 1978.



inherited short-term problems and restructuring the country for economic inte-
gration within Europe will require far-reaching efforts from the government and
the people of Portugal. Meanwhile, to overcome pressing short-term economic
problems and to eliminate the structural deficiencies without postponing devel-
opmental efforts, Portugal will continue to require sizeable external assis-
tance, both financial and technical, in the years ahead.
19.       The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs by preparing projects in
rapid succession, and has been assisting the government in economic and sector
work. The proposed loan, which would be the first for agriculture in Portugal,
would finance the Bank's eleventh project in that country, the sixth since
the resumption of lending in 1976. At that time, demand for power had out-
stripped supply once again and a power project was selected as the Bank's first
new operation in this familiar sector. A loan to finance a portion of Elec-
tricidade de Portugal's investment program for 1976-86 was approved on June 24,
1976. Four further operations followed: a loan for a highway project,
involving maintenance and construction, preparation of a transport master
plan, a railway rehabilitation plan and a road investment plan, approved on
October 19, 1976; a loan to Banco de Fomento Nacional for industrial finance
was approved May 24, 1977; a loan for the Lisbon Region Water Supply Project
was approved on March 28, 1978; and a loan for an education project was
approved on April 27, 1978. Total Bank loans now amount to $228.5 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1978 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the government in reviewing policy and management
issues. Reviews of the water supply (together with WHO) and the education
sectors were carried out and were discussed with the government in March 1977.
Agriculture and manufacturing export industries were also studied, and were
reviewed with the government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufac-
turing Export Industries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on January 13, 1978, and the report entitled "Portugal -
Agricultural Survey" (No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on March 24, 1978.
21.       In agriculture, there are major problems, but there is also con-
siderable scope for stepping up growth, and the government has placed a high
priority on developing the sector (Part III). The proposed project would
help to develop the agricultural and fisheries credit system in Portugal.
22.       Portugal's industrial structure, at present, is weak.  Its tradi-
tional export industries, such as textiles and clothing, are of very small
size, have poor management and low productivity. If these industries are to
maintain their importance in Portugal's exports, they will have to go through
a complete overhaul--closing down the many uneconomic enterprises, merging
small firms to achieve economic-size plants, modernizing equipment, improving
productivity, and strengthening the financial situation of enterprises.
Furthermore, there is urgency in getting new investment underway. Portugal
has applied for membership in the EC and, therefore, in addition to expanding



- 9 -
its labor-intensive traditional exports, it will have to put its industrial
base on a sound footing and moder-nize its industries. However, Portugal
should develop only those industries in which it is cost competitive over the
long-term vis-a-vis its European partners in order to survive under the free
trade regime. Strengthening the project preparation capability of both the
public and private sectors is also of very high priority at present. The
government has sought, and has been provided, Bank technical assistance in
reviewing its plans for an industrial complex in Sines, situated on the
Atlantic coast south of Lisbon.
23.       In education, a sector in which Portugal has lagged badly behind
the rest of Europe, policies to reflect the new socio-economic objectives, to
eliminate skill shortages in certain categories of labor, to meet the manpower
needs of the economy and to help to reduce unemployment, are among the main
preoccupations of the government. Measures will need to be taken to reduce
regional imbalances and to lessen disparities in the quality and range of
educational opportunity available as between the rural and urban areas, and
to remedy overcrowded facilities catering to the needs of the poorer sections
in urban areas. The recently approved education loan would assist the govern-
ment in this sector.
24.       In the water supply and sewerage sector, Portugal is the most defi-
cient of Western European countries, and the threat of cholera and other
waterborne diseases is ever present. The recently approved loan for the
Lisbon Region Water Supply Project would help to remedy this situation.
25.       In the light of the sector discussions mentioned above (para. 20),
Bank FY1978 lending has been directed to water supply and education, in addi-
tion to the proposed agricultural and fisheries credit project. In industry,
where the Bank's next operation is scheduled for FY1979, the focus will be on
direct lending to selected industries that are expected to play a major role
in Portugal's development programs, and to the extent possible, to small- and
medium-size enterprises, as they resurface after difficult years. Employment
creation, export promotion, and structural reform have been identified as
key objectives of Bank assistance to the industrial sector. The Bank's
involvement in these major sectors is intended to assist the government in
strengthening its project selection and evaluation techniques, and in linking
sector policies closely with the overall economic objectives of the country.
26.       Thus, essentially through its involvement in agriculture, industry,
education, highways, and water supply, the Bank has mounted a substantial
effort aimed at:
(i) easing the immediate foreign exchange constraint;
(ii) improving the longer-term balance of payments situation
by supporting projects aimed at export expansion and
selected import substitution;



- 10 -
(iii)  assisting public investment, especially in previously
neglected social areas; and
(iv) supporting government efforts toward the institutional
and policy reforms needed to restructure the economy.
27.       Sizeable and timely long-term external assistance is essential if
Portugal is to be able to deal successfully with the many problems that con-
front its economy.  It is the Bank's objective to contribute to this effort
while providing advice on developing the new institutions and reforming
old ones, an institutional effort which is indispensable if Portugal is
to achieve its overall long-term economic objectives.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
28.       The evolution of the Portuguese economy over the last 25 years
has been accompanied by few structural changes in agriculture and fisheries,
and has been characterized by a disappointing performance for the sector.
While aggregate GDP grew at an annual rate of 5.7 percent over the period
1953 to 1975, and at an accelerated rate of 6.7 percent between 1968 and 1973,
agricultural GDP grew only by 0.9 percent during the 1953 to 1968 period,
and declined by 0.7 percent between 1968 and 1973. As the share of agricul-
ture in GDP declined from 30 percent to about 15 percent over a period of 20
years, a geographical and occupational redistribution of population occurred.
Agricultural employment fell from 47 percent to some 30 percent of total
employment. As total GDP rose, so did personal incomes and aggregate demand
for food. But agricultural and fisheries production almost stagnated in real
terms, so that food imports have soared and agricultural exports faltered,
thus diverting scarce foreign exchange from capital formation. In contrast
to the pre-1974 era when Portugal enjoyed a favorable international economic
position and comfortable reserves, the course of events since the April
1974 Revolution has made improvements in the production levels and produc-
tivity of the agricultural sector indispendable to the economic transforma-
tion and growth of the country.
29.       Portugal's agricultural land base is small--about 5.0 million ha,
excluding forests--and half of that land consists of relatively poor soils.
While Portugal's climate and agricultural land are comparable to those of
most northern Mediterranean countries, its yields are extremely low, even
when compared with those countries which share similar agricultural environ-
ments.
Land Reform
30.       Before 1974, land tenure in the Southern part of Portugal was
characterized by feudalistic large estates, often managed by or in the name



- 11 -
of absentee landlords. Many small farmers were tenants and sharecroppers,
with the concurrent obligation of working for the landlord. There also
existed a large landless agricultural labor force, subject to long periods
of seasonal unemployment. Land tenure in the North, on the other hand,
was and remains generally based on small and highly fragmented holdings,
and the need to create economically viable small farms is clear.
31.       In the South, the Revolution triggered major reforms in land dis-
tribution and tenure. At the onset of the Revolution, acute unemployment
and low incomes were prevalent among rural workers, who formed unions and
exercised pressures for work, higher wages and better working conditions,
mainly in the Alentejo region. The first Revolutionary governments tried
to deal with the problem of the large estates through reforms in tenancy,
expropriation of underutilized land, and nationalization of farms exceeding
generously large maximum sizes. In that climate, considerable decapitaliza-
tion took place, and agricultural production often ceased altogether. Accord-
ing to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP), about 20 percent of
the national cattle and pig population were sold or slaughtered in the course
of reform. In 1975, largely under the impetus of organized labor, 480 estates,
with over one million ha, or about one-fourth of Portugal's arable land, had
been occupied and transformed into production cooperatives composed mainly
of rural workers. After many ad hoc attempts to regulate agrarian reform
by legislation, a more comaprehensive agrarian reform law was enacted in
August 1977. Under the new law, expropriation and nationalization can
occur only in formally declared agrarian reform zones, where large estates
are prevalent, and then only in respect of properties in excess of specified
sizes. In the meantime, the State has become the legal owner of land
expropriated in the agrarian reform zones, which it rents, or grants in
concessions to collectives, cooperatives or individuals. About two-thirds
of expropriable land have in fact been taken over.
32.       The instability of the rural areas has not yet fully abated.  Col-
lective production units (UECTs) and cooperatives fear a revocation of some
of the gains achieved. Restitution of illegally seized lands to their legi-
timate owners continues to pose problems. Compensation with bonds for
expropriated properties is prescribed by law, guidelines have been issued
and the sources of funds to retire the bonds have been identified. A national
Agrarian Reorganization Institute and the regional agrarian reform centers
have been created. The efficiency of these new measures and institutions
will depend to a large extent on the degree to which the political will
exists, both on the part of the government and of the persons directly con-
cerned, to complete the aLgrarian reform and stabilize the situation.
Constraints to Agricultural Development
33.       Aside from the paucity of good quality arable land, several major
constraints have prevented agriculture from performing its potentially key
role in the economy. First, the agrarian structure that prevailed until
1975 restricted access to resources and kept a large proportion of the rural



- 12 -
population poor and powerless. Second, the institutional role of the govern-
ment in the sector was essentially limited to regulating markets and adminis-
tering subsidies. The need for government action to provide a broad range
of technical and financial services to the sector was not appreciated until
after the Revolution, and even at present there is little in terms of man-
power and experience upon which to build viable programs in the short term.
Third, economic policy has led to distortions in resource allocation that
are deeply ingrained in agriculture. An elaborate system of administered
prices and subsidies has kept producer prices of major commodities arti-
ficially higher than import prices, thereby stifling incentives for effi-
ciency in resource use.
Agricultural Development Strategy
34.       A Bank agricultural sector mission visited Portugal in October/
November 1976, and recommended to the government measures to overcome these
constraints (para. 20). Even before the distribution of the mission's report,
the government had taken a number of steps, the main lines of which are: (i)
to complete reforms in land tenure and intensify land use; to that end, the
large scale land reform in the South would be completed by defining land
rights and settling compensation claims; (ii) to strengthen the institutions
serving agriculture and fisheries by, in particular, organizing and staffing
MAP, includi-g its departments or affiliated institutions in charge of regional
services, research, and credit, and introducing a very needed element of
decentralization; (iii) to accelerate technological modernization, especially
through fertilizers and improved seeds and, for fisheries, by modernizing the
fleet and shore facilities; (iv) to increase the level of investments in the
sector, while reducing regional imbalances in rural incomes, so as to improve
utilization of both natural and human resources, and enable them to play
their potential role in saving and earning foreign exchange, in supplying raw
materials to the agro-industrial sector, and in raising the productivity and
incomes of the declining rural labor force; and (v) to review price and
subsidy policies, a barrier against achieving higher rural incomes and effi-
cient resource allocation, so as to get away from reliance on multiple, and
frequently incompatible, administered prices and subsidies.
35.       The urgency of developing the sector is highlighted by the effect
of the present dependence on agricultural imports, mainly food, on the
nation's balance of payments. Since 1971, agriculture's balance of trade
deficit multiplied sevenfold.  Unless the sluggish trend of production is
stimulated, projections suggest that the value of major food and feed
imports--mainly cereals, meat, milk and fish--will at least double by 1985,
and may triple by 1990 over their 1972-74 average of $380 million (in constant
1974 dollars).
Agricultural Credit
36.       Until 1977, the system of agricultural credit was constituted by
a largely uncoordinated constellation of commercial, savings and cooperative
banks, and by some thirteen institutes, fund and boards, which, however,



- 13 -
reached not more than 10 percent of the nation's 800,000 farmers.  The amount
of agricultural credit outstanding at the end of 1975, representing 5.3 per-
cent of all credit outstanding in the economy as a whole, vividly demonstrates
that credit to agriculture had been rationed, and constitutes one reason for
the decline in the rate of gross fixed capital formation in the sector.
Decision making for loan approvals has been overly centralized, loan appraisal
and supervision superficial, and guarantee of repayment has been based more on
collaterals than on borrowers' income-earning capacity.
37.       To begin to restructure the agricultural credit system, the govern-
ment established, in August: 1977, with assistance organized by the Bank, the
Agricultural and Fisheries Development Fund (IFADAP), as an annex to Banco de
Portugal and benefiting from the technical assistance of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP). As an apex institution, IFADAP will be
responsible for the definition of lending policies, eligibility criteria and
terms and conditions of loans made in the agricultural and fisheries sector
by banking institutions, with which it will conclude agreements. It will also
provide guarantees for loans to farming units which lack sufficient collateral.
Essentially, IFADAP's role is to plan, regulate and supervise the flow of
agricultural and fisheries credit to individual and collective users, in
compliance with agricultural credit and development policies determined by
MAP, the Ministry of Finance and Planning, and Banco de Portugal. Concur-
rently with IFADAP becoming operational in the Project area (para. 39),
lending for agricultural and fisheries development by all other funds would
be phased out.
38.       IFADAP's resources consist of an initial capital of $25 million,
primarily subscribed by the Caixa Geral de Depositos (the general savings
bank), and by commercial banks. The subscription capital is to be comple-
mented by budgetary grants, bond issues, multilateral and bilateral capital
assistance, and by operating earnings. IFADAP is managed by a committee of
five members appointed by joint decision of MAP and the Ministry of Finance
and Planning, upon recommendation of Banco de Portugal. The President is an
experienced banker, and the other committee members are two MAP agricultural-
ists and two economists from commercial banks or public institutions. The
Managing Committee is assisted by a consultative council composed of represen-
tatives of MAP, of the Miniistries of Finance and Planning, and of Commerce, of
credit institutions, of the MAP employees' labor union, and of organizations
of workers, farmers and fishermen.
Project Area
39.       The agricultural component of the project would be located in the
Alentejo region, and encompasses the Evora, Beja and Portalegre districts (see
Map IBRD 13381). This area encompasses about 26 percent of the country's
total area and 8.3 percent: of Portugal's population. The region has a mild
Mediterranean-type climate characterized by hot, dry summers, and mild, wet
winters with only occasional light frosts. Average rainfall varies from 500
to 800 mm per year. Only slightly over one-third of the total agricultural
land in the region is classified as cultivable--some only marginally: 64.4
percent of agricultural land is suitable for pasture and forestry; 19.6
percent is in the lowest class still suitable for cultivation; 12.5 percent



- 14 -
is suitable for intensive cultivation with moderate limitations; and 3.5
percent is suitable for intensive cultivation without limitations.
Fishing
40.       Longline fishing by Portuguese fishermen is concentrated in the
coastal waters of continental Portugal, whose territorial waters have been
recently extended to a 200-mile zone, in the banks surrounding the Azores and
Madeira Islands, and in the territorial waters of Spain and Morocco (see Map
IBRD 13314). Portugal already has a fishery agreement with Spain, but an
agreement with Morocco has not been finalized. There are over 30 fishing
ports along Portugal's coast and on the Azores and Madeira Islands, but many
are congested. The resources of the coastal waters have been fully utilized
for years, and both the size of boats, and the number of days fished, have had
to be increased over the years.  Many of the existing boats are obsolete.  At
the same time, the status of fishery resources is not well known, especially
in the extended fishery zone which has been fished by, inter alios, Japanese
and Russian fishermen, and there is virtually no regulation of longline
fishing, in terms of fishing grounds, season, species, or fish size.
World Bank Strategy
41.       The Bank's lending strategy in the agriculture sector aims at rein-
forcing the government's initiatives to overcome the institutional and struc-
tural obstacles which have the greatest bearing on reducing the widening
agricultural trade gap, and on making employment in the sector more remunera-
tive. A number of possible projects have been suggested and, in addition to
the present project, work is underway on an irrigation and small dams project;
projects have also been initiated in forestry, livestock and pastures, and
in the associated area of fertilizer modernization; in the future, work is
expected to begin on a fisheries project, on the basis of the studies included
in the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The project originated from the findings of the Bank's agricultural
sector mission which visited Portugal in October/November 1976. It was further
identified and prepared by FAO/CP missions in February/March 1977, and in
May/June 1977.  The project was appraised in October/November 1977.  Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in April 1978. Portugal's delegation was led
by MAP Secretary of State, Dr. Vasco Neves, and included representatives of the
Ministry of Finance and Planning, MAP and IFADAP.
43.       The main features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and
Project Summary and in Annex III. Maps showing the project areas are attached
to this report. A staff appraisal report entitled "Agricultural and Fisheries
Credit Project (No. 1946-PO)" dated June 12, 1978, is being distributed sepa-
rately to the Executive Directors.



- 15 -
Project Objectives
44.       The project, which would be the first to be financed by the Bank
in the sector, would provide the impetus needed to make the government's new
agricultural credit system operational. Provisions for project organization
and management would strengthen the recently decentralized agricultural
services. The project's on-farm development approach is expected to have a
major impact on land use in a region--the Alentejo--that has the greatest agri-
cultural potential; its emphasis on pasture and livestock development, which
provides a prescription for wide replication, would contribute substantially
to national output, while reducing dependence on feedgrain imports. Through
its fisheries component, the project would assist in providing a solid basis
for rational development of this sub-sector, including the planning of future
investments.
Project Description
45.       The project, which would enable the new agricultural credit system
to begin operations during the 1978-79 crop year, would consist of the fol-
lowing components:
46.        (i)  Credit for on-farm development.  This component would finance
for a three-year commitment period 8 to 10 year sub-loans for on-farm invest-
ments on about 80 large farms in the socialized sector, 560 medium-sized
private farms and 1,000 small family farms in the Alentejo region, covering
an aggregate of about 374,000 ha. It would also finance through short-term
loans from a revolving fund, up to the total seasonal credit requirements
associated with these on-farm investments. The project would integrate and
intensify livestock and crop production on the farms being developed. Land
formerly held fallow would be used for self-seeding subterranean clover-based
pastures on marginal lands, for vetch on the larger sized farms, and for oil-
seeds on the best agricultural lands. Irrigation development would permit the
development of white clover pastures, so as to finish livestock to slaughter
weight, and, on family farms, to provide feed resources required for dairy
development. Irrigation development would also permit the introduction of
tree crops, mainly citrus, apricots and peaches, on the diversified small
farms, as well as the introduction of rice on the large farms. Furthermore,
MAP would orient future applied agricultural research efforts in the Alentejo
to continuing and expanding on-going research, using project farms with a view
to extending the results of this research to the various ecological zones of
the Alentejo region (Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement).
47.        (ii)  Credit for agro-industries development, to finance the rehabil-
itation and expansion of the Vegetable Oil and Animal Feed Factory (FORE) in
Evora, and the expansion of the cooperatively owned winery of Reguengos de
Monsaraz. The FORE oilseeds mill would be rehabilitated and its annual pro-
cessing capacity expanded from 12,000 tons to 20,000 tons, which is equivalent
to about half the safflower and sunflower seed production expected to be pro-
duced in the Alentejo region. The cooperative winery's annual capacity would
be expanded from 4.5 million liters to 7.5 million liters, all of which would
be bottled in the Alentejo region, and most of which would be marketed there.



- 16 -
48.        (iii)  Credit for the construction of fishing vessels would finance
the construction of twenty-five longline fishing vessels of three types: 10
coastal, 10 offshore and 5 deep-sea vessels, to replace obsolete ones and to
provide a small increase in the capacity of the Portuguese fishing fleet. All
vessels would be constructed of wood in Portuguese boatyards.
49.       (iv)  Strengthening of project administration, essentially by the
provision of technical assistance, to strengthen MAP's technical services at
the central and regional levels, to ensure adequate preparation of on-farm
development plans, as well as supervision of their implementation. A total
of 124 man-months of consultants would be provided to various services of
MAP, including its General Directorate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering
(DGHEA), as well as vehicles and office equipment, foreign training programs
for MAP and IFADAP staff directly involved in project implementation, and
incremental expenses for salaries, per diems and vehicle operation.
50.       (v)  Studies, to finance consultants for a small groundwater survey
in the project area, to assess the adequacy of groundwater resources for the
development of about 1,000 small farms; for the development of a fish stock
assessment program, to strengthen the basis for national fisheries management;
for a feasibility study for a future fisheries project; and for an evaluation
study to assess the impact of the project. Within six months of the completion
of the fisheries stock assessment study, the government would submit to the
Bank proposals for instituting a fisheries management program, which the govern-
ment would subsequently implement (Section 3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project would be $256.5 million equivalent,
including taxes and contingencies. The foreign exchange component, which the
Bank loan would help to finance, would be about $93 million, or 36 percent of
total project cost. The Bank loan of $70 million would represent 75 percent
of the foreign exchange cost of the project, and 27 percent of total project
cost. The loan would be made to IFADAP for 15 years, including three years
of grace, with the guarantee of the Government of Portugal. The government
would bear the exchange risk. IFADAP would on-lend about $1.7 million of the
loan proceeds to the government for the benefit of MAP, on the same terms as
those of the proposed loan, and about $68.0 million of the loan proceeds to
participating banking institutions (PBIs). Repayments by sub-borrowers and
PBIs would generate sufficient inflow to IFADAP to repay the Bank loan within
15 years and to cover a reasonable degree of slippage in repayment. All loan
funds repaid to IFADAP by PBIs which are not needed to make repayments of
principal, interest or other charges on loan amounts, and to cover IFADAP's
operating expenses attributable to the proposed project, would be used for
additional lending to agriculture, preferably in the project area (Section
3.08 of the Loan Agreement). About 11 percent of total project cost ($28.2
million equivalent) would be contributed by subborrowers, about 21 percent
($53.4 million equivalent) by PBIs, about 22 percent ($56.7 million equiv-
alent) by IFADAP, about 19 percent ($48.2 million equivalent, including $23
million in foreign exchange) by the government; the equivalent of $22.3
million of this foreign exchange amount would be lent to IFADAP on terms not



- 17 -
less favorable than those of the proposed loan (Section 3.02 of the Guarantee
Agreement). About $230.2 million, or almost 90 percent of the total project
cost, and about 82 percent of the loan amount, would be allocated for on-farm
development; about $5.4 million for the agro-industries component; about $8.0
million for fishing vessels; $11.5 million for project administration; and
about $1.4 million for the studies.
Project Implementation
52.       The lending operations of the on-farm development and agro-industries
components, carried out in the Alentejo region, would involve IFADAP's regional
office in Evora and sub-regional offices to be opened in Evora, Beja and
Portalegre; branch offices of the banking institutions in the project area (of
which there are 88 in total) which become PBIs; the regional directorate of
MAP; and MAP's central services for technical assistance on the minor irriga-
tion aspects of on-farm development and on the implementation of the agro-
industries subproject. Lending for fisheries would be managed by IFADAP's
central office and branch offices of PBIs; and by four regional fisheries
offices of MAP and a central loan team in MAP, composed of economists, finan-
cial analysts and boat construction specialists, to be established and staffed
as a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 3.07(b) of the Guarantee Agree-
ment and Section 7.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). Final authority for project
implementation would lie jointly with the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries
and with the Governor of Banco de Portugal, who would arbitrate in any disagree-
ment between IFADAP and MAP's technical services in matters of lending policy,
procedure and technical judgment.
53.       Each of IFADAP's three sub-regional offices in the project area
would be staffed with two trained banking and credit specialists with an
agricultural background. The branch offices of the banking institutions are
adequately managed and staffed; one or two professionals in each branch office
have been or are currently being trained in dealing with agricultural credit.
Under MAP's new regional organization, the Regional Director of Agriculture
for the Alentejo would be responsible for technical aspects of the farm
lending operations, assisted by a Director of Farm Development, who would be
charged, on a full-time basis, with project implementation. Initially, three
farm planning teams would be set up in the project area, each consisting of a
crop agronomist, a pasture agronomist, a livestock specialist, and economist/
financial analyst, and a farm accountant. These teams would prepare an
investment plan that would provide the technical and financial basis for
each sub-loan application. In addition, qualified local extension agents
in adequate number would be appointed at the zona agraria level to assist
sub-borrowers in farm plan implementation.  Subject matter specialists would
be appointed to provide back-up support to the farm planning teams and to
the local extension agents. The establishment and staffing of the above
implementation structure would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
3.07(a) of the Guarantee Agreement and Section 7.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
54.        The relationship between PBIs and IFADAP would be set forth in
subsidiary loan agreements which would have to be satisfactory to the Bank,
stipulating their respective roles and financial responsibilities, as well



- 18 -
as details of the loan processing, disbursement, and supervision procedures.
The subsidiary loan agreements would commit PBIs to finance at least 25
percent of each investment and short-term loan. While it is expected that
more than two PBIs will be involved in the proposed project, a minimum of two
is required for the implementation of the on-farm development component, so
that a sufficient network of branch offices can be assured. A minimum of one
PBI branch office in each zona agraria is required (Section 3.02(a) of the
Loan Agreement). The effectiveness of at least two subsidiary loan agree-
ments would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the Loan
Agreement).
55.       As the concept of medium-term farm planning is virtually unknown in
Portugal, a credit and farm planning consultant would be recruited to assist
the Director of Farm Development in all matters relating to on-farm develop-
ment. The implementation of the fisheries component would require the services
of consultants for the detailed design of fishing vessels and for supervision
during construction. In addition, consultants would be required to carry out
the groundwater survey and to strengthen MAP's General Directorate of Hydrau-
lics and Rural Engineering (DGHEA), and to undertake the fisheries stock
assessment study. The appointment of all of the above consultants, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 7.01(b) of the Loan Agreement). Consultants would also be needed
for the feasibility study of a fisheries project, and for the evaluation study.
In total, the project would require an input of 269 man-months of consultants,
at an average cost of $5,000 per man-month.
56.       A considerable training effort is required to familiarize project
implementation staff with both the concept of lending based on medium-term
farm planning, and with the technological innovations introduced by the proj-
ect. A comprehensive program of in-service training, short courses, visits
abroad and fellowships for staff of MAP and IFADAP, as well as training
for managers of UECTs, members of agricultural cooperatives, and fishermen,
would be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1979 (Section 3.08 of the Guaran-
tee Agreement and Part D(2) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement).
Relending Terms and Procedures
57.       All loans for farm investments and fishing boat construction would
be subject to IFADAP's approval, which would be based on the applicants
meeting general eligibility criteria, and submitting an acceptable farm plan
or boat construction plan prepared by MAP's technical services. This require-
ment may be relaxed temporarily on written authorization of IFADAP to the PBI
concerned.
58.       To be eligible for a loan, an applicant must agree to implement
the farm development or boat construction plan approved by MAP's technical
services; have the legal right to use the land to which the farm plan applies;
demonstrate professional ability and experience, for master fishermen; have
no major arrears on outstanding loans; agree to contribute to the investment
costs in accordance with IFADAP policy; agree to deliver cash crops or catch



- 19 -
to official market channels, where they exist, and authorize the relevant
organizations to withhold from proceeds amounts due to the lender, or agree
to a lien on the crop; and supply acceptable collateral or obtain a supple-
mentary guarantee from IFADAP. To be eligible for an agro-industry sub-loan,
the FORE oilseeds mill musit have undertaken urgent repairs, implemented safety
measures, and trained operational staff, employed competent managers, estab-
lished an effective accounting system, formed a legal entity prepared to
assume the management and ownership of the plant; and both FORE and the winery
must submit through IFADAP to the Bank, for its approval, a sub-loan applica-
tion based on a feasibility study, accompanied by an audit report (Schedule 5
to the Loan Agreement, Paragraphs I(B) 4 and 5, and Paragraph 4(ii) of Schedule
1 to the Loan Agreement). If the disbursement conditions for the two agro-
industries sub-loans are not met by December 31, 1979, the corresponding amount
of the loan may be cancelled (Paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement).
59.       Sub-loans would on average finance not more than 85 percent of
investment costs. Loans for on-farm development and for boat construction
would be repaid in eight years, with a grace period of two years or, for
fishing vessel construction loans, a grace period equal to the boat construc-
tion period. Short-term loans for seasonal credit in the first year, and
incremental seasonal credit requirements thereafter, would be available as
part of on-farm development financing. Appropriate insurance would be
required. Investment loans would be guaranteed by mortgages or liens on
machinery, fishing boats, and crops or, if such guarantee cannot be provided
by the sub-borrower, by an IFADAP supplementary guarantee.
60.       Until now, UECTs and cooperatives have been able to borrow short-
term funds at a 9.75 percent rate of interest, recently raised to 11.75 per-
cent, and investment funds at 6 percent or less. Private farms, especially
small ones, have also had some degree of access to these subsidized interest
rates. The restructuring of the agricultural credit system, which the project
would help to implement, would phase out all of the special funds lending for
agricultural development, boards and other lending agencies which have been
used as channels for such subsidies, except for Caixa Geral de Depositos and
banking institutions (Section 6.01(d) of the Loan Agreement), and all invest-
ment loans would carry an average interest of not less than 16.50 percent per
annum over the life of any sub-loan, and short-term loans for seasonal credit
for on-farm inputs, an interest of not less than 13.50 percent per annum.
These rates, which are the maximum that sub-borrowers can support during the
sub-project implementation period, reflect the real cost of lending resources,
and allow for adequate operating margins for IFADAP, PBIs, and other adminis-
trative expenses. The structure and levels of interest rates would be reviewed
upon completion of a study, of national agricultural and fisheries credit
policies and regulations, in which the Bank will be involved, and the agreed
recommendations resulting from this study and its review would be implemented
by September 1, 1979 (Section 3.13(a) of the Guarantee Agreement). Thereafter,
interest rates would be reviewed at intervals not exceeding two years (Section
3.13(b) of the Guarantee Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement
61.       Except for services and equipment for repairing, modernizing and
expanding the vegetable oil solvent extraction plant of the FORE oilseeds
mill, which would be procured from the same firm that designed and manufac-
tured the existing plant, procurement of all items would be handled through
existing commercial channels or local competitive bidding on the basis of at
least three quotations from suppliers. This procedure is acceptable.
Disbursements
62.       Disbursements of the Bank loan would take about six years.  Retro-
active financing, up to a maximum of $370,000 for technical assistance to
project agencies and for urgent repairs and technical assistance to one of
the agro-industrial subborrowers, is recommended to expedite actions which,
if taken only after loan signing, could lead to serious delays in project
implementation. (Schedule 1, paragraph 4, of the Loan Agreement). The
expected annual disbursement of loan proceeds is given in the Loan and Proj-
ect Summary. Disbursements would be made on the basis of: (i) 32 percent
of amounts disbursed by IFADAP and PBIs for on-farm investment and fishing
vessel construction credits and for seasonal credits for farm inputs made in
the first year of implementation of each farm plan, and 32 percent of the
annual incremental amount of such seasonal credits thereafter; (ii) 38 per-
cent of sub-loan disbursements for the FORE oilseeds mill; (iii) 19 percent
of subloan disbursements for the cooperative winery of Reguengos de Monsaraz;
and (iv) 55 percent of total expenditures for consultants services, vehicle
and office equipment, fellowships and foreign training, vehicle operating
expenses, and for studies.
Project Auditing, Monitoring and Evaluation
63.       Under existing legislation, all banking institutions, as well as
IFADAP, are audited annually. In the case of IFADAP, the audit is normally
done by Banco de Portugal's board of auditors, one of whose members is a member
of Banco de Portugal's staff. The qualifications and authority of this board
are not in doubt but, as IFADAP is an agency of Banco de Portugal, the project
accounts would be audited annually by an independent firm of chartered account-
ants acceptable to the Bank (Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement). Agricultural
cooperatives and State-operated agro-industries have not been audited by any
authorized official institution since 1975. For that reason, it would be a
condition of disbursement for the two agro-industrial sub-loans that a com-
plete audit of both enterprises be carried out and the audit reports sent to
the Bank. Furthermore, in addition to an annual audit of these two enter-
prises, with the corresponding audit reports being sent to the Bank within
four months of the close of each fiscal year, unaudited trial balances,
certified by the enterprise's chief executive officer, would be submitted
to the Bank for the first six months of each of the next three fiscal years
(Section 3.03(a)(vii) of the Loan Agreement).
64.       IFADAP would establish and maintain, with the assistance of MAP and
PBIs, a continuous monitoring system on the basis of which IFADAP would prepare
and provide to the Bank periodic progress reports on project implementation.



- 21 -
Towards the end of the project implementation period, IFADAP and MAP would
evaluate the impact of the project, through its credit and technical assis-
tance operations, on the income of farmers and fishermen and on regional
agricultural and national fisheries develoment. (Section 3.06(b) of the
Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
65.       The total number of direct quantifiable project beneficiaries would
be about 5,620 families corresponding to some 25,300 individuals. The on-farm
development component would directly benefit about 4,760 families, of whom
about 3,200 live on the large collective or cooperative farms, about 560 are
owner-operators of medium-size farms and 1,000 are small family farmers. The
agro-industrial sub-loan for the FORE oilseeds mill would directly benefit a
large but unknown number of small, medium and large producers of sunflower and
safflower seeds and are thus not included in the total indicated above, and
the winery component would directly benefit about 330 winegrape producer
families who are members of the cooperative. Some 530 fisherman families
would directly benefit from the fisheries component. The small farmers, who
constitute about 18 percent of the quantifiable direct beneficiaries, have per
capita incomes below the current relative poverty level, which is equivalent
to $444. At full development, in 1991-92, the projected per capita incomes
would range from a low of about $2,300 for members of large socialized farms,
to a high of $12,800 for the owner-operator of a 350 ha livestock farm, while
small family farm income would be about $3,200. This compares to pre-project
incomes in these categories of respectively, $1,033, $1,600 and $270. The
phenomenal increase of income generated by small family farms is due to the
diversification of operations into irrigated tree crops, and dairy or beef
fattening, making optimal use of presently underutilized family labor. About
36 percent of the increased income resulting from the project would go to the
landless members of the socialized sector, and 27 percent to the smallest
farmers. Total incremental employment generated by the project at full
development is estimated at about 3,600 man-years equivalent, of which 80
percent is due to livestock development and the remainder to intensification
and diversification of cash crops.
66.       The most important benefits expected from the project would be the
development of a viable institutional framework for agricultural credit,
which would bring about substantial improvements in resource allocation, and
the consolidation of the situation created by the land reform in the Alentejo
region, due to the ready availability of agricultural credit and technical
assistance for medium- and long-term farm development.  The experience which
would be gained both by IFADAP and by MAP during project implementation in the
areas of credit organization, farm planning and farm plan implementation,
would be readily replicable in other regions of Portugal.
67.       At full development, the net incremental impact of the project on
agricultural and fisheries production in the project area is expected to be
reductions of 7.3 percent for wheat and 0.5 percent for oilseeds; increases of
5.8 percent for barley, 6 percent for fish, 13.4 percent for oats, 98 percent



- 22 -
for mutton, 150 percent for wool, 297 percent for beef; and new production of
8,000 tons of rice, 25.6 million liters of milk, and 40,000 tons of fruit
(mainly citrus, apricots and peaches). Using May 1978 farmgate prices, the
total annual value of incremental crop, fish and livestock output would be
about $84 million, and the incremental value of herd and flock would be about
$117 million, giving a total annual incremental value due to the project of
about $201 million. Since one of the critical issues facing the Portuguese
economy is the inadequacy of the domestic food supply, not only would the
project's incremental production of agricultural commodities play an important
role in reducing the import dependence for some key commodities (by an esti-
mated $51 million annually at full development), but also no difficulties are
expected in marketing the incremental production resulting from the project.
No increase of imports is anticipated to compensate for the expected reduction
of production of wheat and oilseeds in the project area.
68.       The average project farm investment per beneficiary family, about
$25,000, represents an average weighted investment of about $318 per ha of
farm land for project farms.  This is comparable to the per ha investment in
similar Bank projects.  While the investments planned are generally capital
intensive, the net employment effect of the production technology to be intro-
duced would be positive (para. 65). A labor intensive alternative is not
practical. First, it is very difficult to introduce labor intensive methods
where mechanical methods have traditionally been used. Secondly, the current
labor surplus in the Alentejo is unlikely to persist over the medium term,
and therefore it should not be a major consideration in planning the devel-
opment of the region's farms. With an expected commitment period for on-farm
investments of about three years, and a sub-loan reimbursement period of eight
years, total investments for on-farm development will be recovered from the
beneficiaries by IFADAP over a period of about eleven years. Given the major
benefits expected from the proposed project, in terms of institution building
as well as in terms of additional agricultural production, the average size of
on-farm investments seems fully justified.
Economic Rate of Return
69.       The overall economic rate of return on the project, including project
overhead costs and physical contingencies, is estimated at 20 percent. A sen-
sitivity analysis was applied to test the proposed project against increases
in costs, and decreases in benefits. By increasing costs by 10 percent, the
rate of return would drop to 16 percent, while a decrease in benefits of 10
percent would reduce the rate of return to 15 percent. Even with a 10 percent
increase in costs combined with a 10 percent decrease in benefits, the rate
of return would not fall below 11 percent for the project as a whole. The
economic rates of return for individual project components of on-farm devel-
opment, FORE oilseeds mill, winery, and fishing vessels are respectively 21
percent, 52 percent, 20 percent and 40 percent. Sensitivity analysis applied
to the individual cost and benefit streams of these components show that they
would remain acceptable.



- 23 -
Risks
70.       Four risk elements are considered to be relevant to the success
of the project. First, the organizational structure required for project
implementation and the appointment of sufficient numbers of qualified staff
must be accomplished on time. To reduce the risk of slippage in project
implementation, the project: provides for consulting services, some financed
retroactively. Second, the successful completion of the agrarian reform is
required to eliminate the present insecurity of land tenure. The government
confirmed, during negotiations, that it would actively pursue the resolution
of the remaining land reform issues. Third, the financial and economic returns
of the on-farm investments on the smaller farms depend on the development of
groundwater resources for supplementary irrigation. In addition to the short
hydrological survey financed under the project, the government would establish
an insurance program to protect sub-borrowers from unsuccessful investments in
groundwater development arising from the observed high variability in well
yields (Section 3.11(b) of the Guarantee Agreement). Fourth, higher domestic
inflation rates than projected would constitute a major financial risk. The
government has made it one of its main economic objectives to reduce the
domestic inflation rate from last year's 27 percent to 20 percent for 1978.
PART V -. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and IFADAP, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
72.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The establishment and staffing of project implementation offices
and the provision of necessary supporting extension agents and subject matter
specialists (Section 7.01(c) of the Loan Agreement); the effectiveness of at
least two subsidiary loan agreements with PBIs (Section 7.01(a) of the Loan
Agreement); and the appoinitment by the government of agricultural and fisheries
experts and marine architects (Section 7.01(b) of the Loan Agreement); are
conditions of the effectiveness of the loan. Receipt of a satisfactory feasi-
bility study and an audit report would be conditions of disbursement for each
of the two proposed agro-industries sub-loans (Paragraph 4(ii) of Schedule 1
to the Loan Agreement).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 14, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page 1
PORTUGAL            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                                   PORTUGAL                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       92.1                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      41.7                        1950       1970   ESTIMATE           GREECE         ITALY          SPAIN**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     360.0      950.0    1690.0              1360.0      1910.0      1580.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (RID-YR, MILLION)             9.0        9.1       9.7                 8.8        53.7        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        98.0      99.0      105.0                67.0       178.0        67.0
PER SD. Klt. AGRlCULTURAL LAND       186.0     211.0      233.0                96.0       266.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (ITHOU, AV)          24.0      21.1        19.2               18.1        18.6        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           10.8       10.4      10.5                 8.0         9.7         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        77.5       58.0       37.9                29.6        29.6        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       62.3       66.1       68.7                70.9        71.9        70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.6        1.5        1.5                1.0         1.3          1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RA1E (%)
TOTAL                                  0.7*      0.1*       0.9                 O.S *        .S         1.1
URBAN                                  1.4        1.8        .,                 1.5         0.8         2.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           22.7       26.9         *                62.6        51.5        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        29.2      28.5       27.3                24.9        24.4        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                       62.8       61.8       62.5                64.0        65.2        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                      8.0        9.7       10.2               11.1        10.4         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.6        0.6        0.6                0.6         0.5          0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ,,         ..        0.9 /a               ..        0.9 /a       1.1 /a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ..         ..                  ..          .
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..        ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)                          ,   4100.0/b                  ..    19600.0    11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)                        ,      32.5W                  . .      19.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..           ,       6.7W                 *          3-1         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      56.1/a    56.3/c
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..       79.4      78.6/.
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               .-       6.2/1      7.3/..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      20.6/a    21.4/c
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY rOP 10% OF OWNERS***           ..       78/1 /b                .,                    .
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS***A         ..      15/51/b      ..                  .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              1180.0/.b1120.0 /  900.0 /d               620.0       550.0       740.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         1430./ac1090.         870.0 7            1140.0       470.0 /b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            190.0 T    170.0      170.0             1160.0        90.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY DE -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         io7.0      118.0      118 oIt            116.0       126.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               77.0      85.0       85.0 /f             99.0       100.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL ANO PULSE          33.0      40.0          . -              52.0/a      42.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              5.2 /d    3.4         2.2                  ..         1.0         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      1    .      g8.o    :16.o                llO.o        110.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHODOL                     20.0      57.0       49.0 o              70.0        60.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              13.0       13.0      11.0                12.0        13.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                                                                        2
(X OF SECONDARY)                      46.0      32.0       40.0                20.0        26.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 62.0         ..       70.0                82.0        97.0        94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.0        0.8 .       ..                  ... 
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       71.0 /e   65.5          ..                  ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  40.5      64.2          ,.                  ..
RURA' DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    27.4         ..         ..                  ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          95.0      142.0    174.0                 111.0       218.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           17.0       54.0      98.0                 26.0       190.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          3162.0      824,0    1236.0               1072.0      2262.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.5        5.1           ,                1.6         5.3         5.8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unison otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Moat Recent EStimate between
I973 end 1976.
Due to enigretiov population growth rate It  lower than rate of natural increac.
kA Spfao has been selected as an objective country becguas of it. topology and it seems likely that, shoold Protogal manage to attain the level of
per repUte income of Spain, the strntture of the Portuguese economy would show aisilarities with that of Spain.
000    Perceorago of farms up to 4 ha.; end SO he. and over respectively.
nass    Peroectage of area up to 4 he.; and 50 he. and over respoctively.
PORTUGAL    1960    /e  1962;    /b  Registered, including physicians practicing dentintry;                /c  Inoludino asni.tant nurses;         /d  1965;
/e Insido only.
1970    /a  Higheot 25 and 50 percent and lowest 25 and 50 percent of houneholds for 1968;    /b  1968;    /c  Registered, including
physicians pracicing dentietry;        /d  Including as...itnt nursen;    /e  Total, urban  nd  oral.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:   /I  Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                  /b  Estimates based on permanent inquiry
of employment carried out by Institute of National Stetisti-c, these data are available enly fro 1974 onward;
/c  Highest 25 and Si percent and loweat 25 and-50 percent of houesholds for 1973-74;    /d  Inclading physi-
ctans practicing destiatry;    /e  Hospital personnel.  including of nidwives and assistant nor/ee                  I   1969-71
average;    /I  Disrupted esr-Ileent doe to political  orest.
1REECE       1970    /a  1967.
ITALY        1970    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and65 and o-er ti  total labor force;    /b  Hospital personnel.
SPAIN        1970    /a  Eiploynent office estimate;    lb  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country.
RIl, May 5, 1978
DEFINThIIis OF SOIcAL INDEICATORS
Land Ar-n fthou k.21                                                                         Poinisnion perr suescn  persoe - Populatitn diided by nomber of prcticicg
YateS - Tot.l surf ace aera  opriviig laed area end inland waters.                              le and female gradsate n-r-es, "trained" or "-ertified" nurses, sd
Aark.  -Most recent eause  of egriculcurei area osed tetporarily or penn.-                      ailiary per onsel with training or enperience.
nanty  for crops, pasture= , narket h htchen gardena or to lie f-llow.                     tpulacian net hoseital bed - 7opue tin dflvndd by somber I ho spit       l beds
available in poblie and priveis genera sa d epecielleed hospital and
GNP ner canpice (U1) - GNP per c-pita esti-ates at cu-rent narket prices,                      reahbili-ation canteen; s.e.ldas  urring hbnas and setabliasshnta for
calcu-le- d by sme conversion rnethod as world Mank Atlas (1974-76 bacis);                   cutodil end preventive cre.
1960; 1970 and 1976 date.                                                                  Pe    n eca  utely of  -soiaf of  respl-emnti   - tempoted from energy
sosi-alent of"st fod suPplfies a--ailsbla in onesry per cap1te per day;
Poeniaclon and citeS statistic                                                                 available supplies nonprise dansetir peaduotion, imports Sees enpnrte. and
Poeslatiqq mid-veer million)   As of July first:  if not available, average                    changes in stoek; net supplies anclda  enisal feed, seeds, q-ntitiee  seed
of two and-year .s.t.etes; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data.                                         in food processing and loras  in diatoibstion; requiremente wre -*ti_ted
by FAO based on phee7iologic-l needs for norqul activity and health coraid-
Poeslatin density - per sqonre be - Mid-year pepslation per square kilosseter                  ering  invirotmeaa l treperetare, bedy wvights, ag   nd s" diatribftione of
(100 hsctarosi of  total nrea.                                                               pepsltion, and allening 102 for nests at hbesehnid Ie.I.
Ponufation density - per *qvare on of ngri. land - Computed as shave for                     Per canita sely of nrotein farsa  per day) - Pretein cntent If par n,pita
agnieniturei Sand only.                                                                       et npply of food per day; net sopply of fead is dfisd as  ba; reairs-
Vital ntrtisti-s                                                                               provide far a minilne alleamee of 60 grs of tntal protdin par day, and
Crude bitch rate per thousand, avereas- Annual lion birthe per thoneand of                     20 gre  of anil  nd pulse protein, of vhich 10 gra   hold be anil
nSd-yost popuisnios; ten-yaar aeitheitic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these standards are ier than those of 75 gras of tatal protein
ond fire-year average ending in 1975 for otosr recent estimate,                              and 23 geS    of nial protein as en average for the enrld, propseed by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand,  verae-h An.a.  deaths per thouand of aid-year                  in the Third World Food Sevey.
pop.l-ion; ten-year arith  ti  averag. ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Per resita protein saeolv fre  animal and pele  - Protein supply of feed
year average ending in 1975 for nost recent estimat-                                         derivd fra  anials and plse  le graS  par day.
Infant soialiry rate i/thou) - Annual deathn of infants under one year of aSe                Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age grop 1-4
per ohosannd lice births.                                                                    years, to childres  in thin  ga grenp; suggested as an indicator of
Lisf  erecrnncv at birch (yrs) - average nsbaer of yearn of lif  rm- ining at                  Falnutrition.
birth; usually fie-yeer -veragee ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for dnvelnp-
ing  -contries.                                                                            Education
Cross reprodnotlon rate -Average noniber of line daughters a  one  sill bear                 Adi.ted enrolest ratio - eriarv school - Enrollsnt of .11 ages a  par-
in her normal reprodoctive period if nhb  enperientse present age-apecific                   nnntag I of primary scheol-eg  population; incldee ohildren aged 6-11 years
fertility rotee; usually five-year average. ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but edjn-ted for different lengths of prfmary  dnoation; for contrias with
for dennioptig countrie.                                                                     unineraI education, enrollnt may ented 100% sines sas pupils sr below
Ponsiation arovth eats i%1 - total - Camapound annu-l grecth raits of aid-year                 or shave the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75                                                Adluated enrolLment rtie   - saconden school - Composed as abov; secondary
PogplgtaiS   oroeth rate (%) - erban - C-tpstnd like growth rett  of total                     education rIquira  a         t leat feur yses  of approvd priry imetewetioe;
population; different definition. of urban areas my affecot toparability of                  provid-- general, vo-stionl or tacsh.r triining ipat.tantla   for pspila
daat among   onnries.                                                                        of 12 to 17 y.are of age; cerespondenos osrass arg jenerally n..loded.
liobse nonuition (% of total) - Ratio of orben to total population; different                Years of schooling Pr-oidad (fir  end second issel - Totel years of
definitions of urban are -ay affact compaoability of data among ctntries.                    schooling;  t  econndsry leosi, vasatiZn  l inatruetiqn -y be partially or
completely sacluded.
agent.utre (ecn)- Children (0-14 Yearn), working-age (15-64 yearn),                          YV-tional enrollment ft of secondary) - Vecationl institntians include
and retired (hl  years and over) as percentagso  of nid-yer popslation.rical, industra   r  tbr prngra   hich opert  independently  r s
Aoe derend.ncy tatc-faso   opint    nder 15 ad 61 end ovr to those                             deparnce  of ennodary intiuio
of acs- 1  through 64,                                                                    iduir licer.r.           -      rat   duts (eble to rd and wite) as per-
tEconoic de eecdency ratio    caRtio of pepulation under 15 end 65 and over to                ce.tage of toteL adoLt poptlation aged 11 years ed over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 yeare.
FPoil, Plannini    --centers I c,(nul-tiv-  thho) - Cumulative number of acceptare           Housing
of birth-control devices under auspicen of national fnily planning program                 Persons ner roan  (urban) - Average amber of per-ona per ron  in oncupted
since inception.                                                      conven~~~~tioa  dwelings is nban area; dwellings ecolads no-peeamsmt
Fyaily planning - sers (7 of married women) - Percentages of married   en  of                  atrneturas and oneonupied parts.
child-hearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to a11 married                ene..pd dwelig  t         t pa  water intd) -O_apiad cOenniona  dwlling
cnsI, nam  ege crop.                                                                      So urban and relaea-iIorisd  on onriede piped eater facLJilte
as percentage of all ononpied dwellings.
Thnplovmet                                                                                   Acestt electricity (%o' aldwlins  -  onetnoeldeligs wth
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically actics persona, including aed                      ele ctri city in living quarte a  per         of total dellings in  rba  and
forces and  uneneloyad but secluding house--is-,   udents, et.; definitions                  rura  arreas.
in varioce coontrie   re not compar ble.                                                   Rural dvllinar connected to lectricity %) - Coanputed a   bove far real
Labor force in asiulue7%) - Agetnultura1 labor force. (in fanning, forestry,                   dwelIngS only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor forca.
pnsndlovsd ft of isber farce) - unemployed are usually defined as p  rsona aho               Consumption
are able end willing to take   job, ouc ofaIjb on a give  day,r eaised out                 Radia rec1!eivers fre thou reel - Ill types If receiversforradIo broadcaats
of a Job, and seeking week fees specif led minimo  period no  exceding one                   to genral pulcPer th-onsd of papulatiom; emelda n  -mtesdreivs
ek; may sat be comparable between countries dna to different definitiona                     icotrisa and is years  hen registration    rdiu  eats  ws in  rfft;
of uneployed and source of data, e.g., eployment offire ste.ties  sme                        date for recent years my not be compercbl  aone most  -ntrie   bolished
s-rveys, compulsory  -nempley-ent ineurnen-                                                  lIcensing.
PIe,ne cr  (per then now)- Paseg r.cr  eaprise mater ears seating
Incas dietribution  - Pecentag  of private income (both in cah and kind)                             tha  eit pe        ; encl(d.. tb.l.-ssebenn, hearses and mlit.ary
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, pooreet  20%, and poornet 40% of house-                  -nhinlee.
holds.                                                                                     Electricity (kwh/vr par e lp) - Annual con-omption of industrial, cqasrnial,
public and private eleotricity in bilowatt hoos per .spita, gemeretlp
Dieretbutbon of land ownrahipr- Pe -etagen  of Sand ownd by wesithiner 10%                      base.d on pr-du-tion dens, without alwnefar lease  in grids but allw-
and poorest 10% of land awnere                                                               ing for imports and eporar  of eletricity.
Ne-Perint ike/yr por cap) - Per capita ann-l cons -     ptien im kilogrS
Honalth end Ntrition                             bestiated from domestic production pls net imports of n print.
Ph2anslrion.er qbhaician - Populadion divided by ousber of pr-ticioc
phsoan    ulf ied from aeical school at uni-ersicy leosl



- 27 -
Page 3 of 4
ECONODMC DEVELOPhlENT DATA
(ARoanrn in millions of US Dollars)
Actual                  Proliio.nr   Estisnetod
1973         1974          1975         1976         1977                 1974      1975      1976      1977                    1973      1975    1977
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                     (A.nool Data at 1975 Prices and E-hc-ans  Rlte of $1   Esc. 25.55)                         Anqual Croath Rdto                               As Percent of GDY
Croon Doncottc Prodco                          1525733      15,340        :4,773       16,117        17,020                0.7       3.7        9.1       5.6                   96.8    100.0   1D.4
Clins iron, Terms of Trade                        506           385         -             -104          -77                                                                       3.2     -          -2.4
GIons Domestic lxrrFe                          15,739        15,725        4,773        16,013       16,953               -0.1       -6.1       8.4       5.9                  100.0    100.0    121.0
Irports lin-l. NPS)                             6,170        6,464         4,738        5,567         6,296                4.8    -26.7        17.5      13.1                   39.2       32.0      37.1
ccrorss  (3i96. NF5)                          .     2         3.340        2.899       3._38          3,245              -15.7    -13.2        4.8        6.8                   25.1       19.6      19.1
Recnuocn Gap                                    2,208        3,124         1,839        2,529         3,051                                                                      14.1      12.5      18.0
Coonsuption Expenditurcs -/                    12,723       14,032        14,203        15,503       16.021               10.3        1.2       9.1       3.3                   80.9       96.1      94.5
Investrent Eope-ditcre (incl. storks)           4,718        4,432         2,409         3,143        4,050               -6.1    -41.7        30.5      28.8                   30.0       16.3      23.9
Inrenton loxlngo bf                             2,510         1,30S          570           614          999              -47.9    -56.4         7.7      62.7                    11.9      3.9        5.9
N3aioxal Sovings -                              4,055         2,620        1,193        1,465         2,054              -35.4    -39.2        -8.0     40.2                    25.8       10.8      12.1
slRCHANDISE rRAnE                                           A-oosi Dste at Clmest Prices0                                                                                        An Pon.-C oE Total
icptcto
Copitol fcods                                   621           761          565           607          693                                                                     20.5      14.2      14.0
I1-ernediet- giond                            1,769        2,633         2,185        2,431         3,043                                                                     58.4      56.1      61.3
Eul  a_d c1loerd metrisis                       183           575          621           696          743                                                                      6.0      16.0       15.0
tonsorontiox goodd                              458          677           522          595           485                                                                     15.1      13.4       9.7
Tonol horch. lrpoecs )c.1i..)                 3,031        4,648         3,893        4,329        4,964                                                                     113.2    100.0    100.0
Enports
Agricuinuref peodP tis                          347           369          324          312           334                                                                     18.8      26.8      16.5
Woot and Cork Prod-rtr                          273           366          306          351           364                                                                     14.8      15.8      17.9
T-onios, clotthing 6. ononar                    560           684          577           533          602                                                                     30.4      29.9      29.6
M.achi-ry aod transpcot eqoip-ent               243           290          254           230          391                                                                     12        1 2        14.9
Ockco                                            20           569          474          396           433                                                                     22.0      24.5      21.2
Txtcl harch. toporta (E.o.h.)                 1,043        2.278         1,935        1,822         2,031                                                                    100.0    100l 0    100.0
OERCHA0DISE IRA1E INDICES                                               1975 = 100
Export Price   onde                              77           1U2          1li          IU6           141
rlosrt Or:xr 2->::                               59            87          100          112           145
T_rst of  _rod. Indcx                           230           117          1O0            95           97
Export Vo1lur 1od-x                             124          115           1ff           89            74
.ALUE ADDED  TY SECTOR                (nnugl        a. 1975 Pi _ne,and    h.coRDge Rlai  of $    Es-  . 25. 44
Afrfn-lt-r                                    2,231        2,189         2,131        2,163         1,942               -1.0      -2.2       1.3    -19.0                     16.2      15.9      12.6
7od oo-oy                                     6,'80        6,322         5,731        5,970        60,601                4        - 9.3      4.7       1.4                    44.3      42.7      42.9
s-______                                      5 419         5,462        5.548        6 423         6.846                0.8       1.6      15.8       6.6                    39.5      41.4      44.5
Total                                        13,730       13,973        13,410       14,564        15,394                1.8      -4.0       8.6       5.7                   100.0    ff0.1       170.9
2975      1076      1977
PUBIxC FINANCE                                                       Csroont Pri-os                                                                                       As  nerce-t of ODo/rackno Pritos
Currentrreceipts                                           1,657         1,836        2,256         2 456                         10.8      22.9       8.9                    12.4      14.3      14.0
Cuorent oxpenditorro                                       1,740         2,493        2,901         2 908                         43.3      16.4       2.4                   I1.9       18.3      17.6
Currenxtrolaldnficht (-2 of
the Starr                                                  -83         -657          -645         -452                                                                      4.5       4.0        2.8
6olaxcr of Axtoonroas Funxs and
Scmvices                                                    55           270           89          324                                                                       1.9       C.6       1.9
C.r"ren  Drfitot ad Central Goxt.                            -28          -379         -556          -128                                                                      2.6       3.5       0.8
Balance of Local Goovernrect                                  91          1I6             16           18                                                                      0.7       0.1       0.1
Balance of SatinI Socarity _   yst_n                         -12           -94         -327          -112                                                                      0.6       2.1       0.7
CxEr-o  Def icitof Pobjlc lnEto -                                         -307         -867          -222                                                                      2.3       3.3       1.3
Cpirx- Et P-nditr                                            452           042           784        1,040                         40.S      22.1      32.7                     4.3       5.5       6.3
Gvro1ll Deficit                                             -327          -681       -.,610       -1,168                                                                      4.6       10.2       7.0
2.000R FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORkER                                      LOTAl. 1.1OR 0ORCR i                             VALUE ADDED PcR W20RSR (1975 PRICES ANI  ED01A1GE RAIE 51 - E-   . 25.55)
In Thoasods    _        Prerent_of Total          oneRate             In 01 Dollars         Percent of A-eroge              A-erogc  Ann-1 G-rowth Rete
191   1977          2974         1977       Growth late            1974      1972          1974       1977                       19 74-77
AOrlcxlcaro                                   1,300        1,219         34.5         32.2           -2.1              1,664    1,597             45         39                          - .8
InduntrY                                      1,307        1,276         34.7         33.7           -0.8             4,837    5,173             130        127                           2.3
srvices                                      J1Q           1,291         30.8         34.1            3.6             4.709    5.30Q             127        130                           4.1
Totol                                         3,767        3,786         oo.o        100.0           20.2             3,709    4,0D6             100       IO                            3.1
5S statistical discrepency is incladed in the toxssption date.
bc Includes nomeers' crnitt-nc-s
i/  Total e. ployxd labor fEror  exclading workers abro-d aod uo=ployed.
i! Esti-aln
E Exhangf  Rxt-s 1973:  $1 = EIc. 24.67; 1974-  $1 = 25.408; 1975: $1 = Inc. 25.55; 1976: $1 = Esc. 30.23; 1977: $1 = Eso. 38.278



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALYNCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(lgonts  in millions  tf U.S. Dollars at Current ?rices)
Actual                          Estimated
1973         1974          1975         L976          1977
5 J9E ARY OF BALANCE OF PAOESNTS
-poto  (F.O..)                               1,843        2,278         1,935        1,823         2,031
ImPorts (F.O.B.)                            23745         4.277         3Q605        3.932         4.562
Iradc Balance (X-M)                           -902       -1,989        -1,670       -2,109        -2,531
Ne  Non Factory Servicea                        67          -74          -169            26           77
fourism ReceiPts  dmesos)                   (550)        (513)         (360)        (332)         (405)
1::so..rce Balance      ,                  -835        -2,063       -1,839        -2,083        -2,454
.ct lnoesmenr0 9ncome S-                                    f129          -14          -133         -171
-c        - Transfers-                       1,097        1,111         1,037           972        1,136
alJante On Correct Accoont                     348         -823          -817       -1.244        -1.495
Dirt Forc        noign                         110           109          122            75           60
Public ML? Loons
Di,ubu se nn-                               i5o           153           231          249           574
Am-rtloation                                  74            67           77            68           92
let Disb -rsements                              84           86           154           181          482
Intlor ILL Loans
Net Distursemntcs                           ..           ..            ..            ..            218
Shorn-Term Capitrl und Errors and
E -minslns                                   135          -82           -89          206
"Itter Capitol "N".I)                         -332           156          -58           641          909
Changos in Official Liquid
Forcign torbonge Reserves
(- = I_noroso)                           -345           554          688           141         -174
ol, ficisl BoRsernos , 
Cross End of Year -                        2,813        2,292         1,535        1,385         1,455
Of   hich:  Gold                           1,149        1,181         1,137        1,125         1,026
Foreign E-chang,              1,633         1,079          391           250          424
GRAINT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                         DEBT dlD DEBT SERVICE            1973           1      ct4    197            1L976          1977
Official Grants & Grant--ike                   -                            3           -         PFblic Debt OutstandinBg                                                     ___
.Dd Disb=rsed                  609            723            826         1,005          1,547
Pbtilo M&LT Loans
IBOT                                         _               _                         36      Intereon an Pblic Dcbt              24            22             35             38             76
IDA                                                -             -             -        _      Repayments on Public Debc           74            68             78             67             93
othor Mlolilat-ral                           -            -             -            126       Total Pubili  Debt SerSice         98             90            113            105            169
GpCvrmenns                                   -              20           45            96       Other Debt Seryicr                 ..             ..            ..              .            320
SuPpliers                                     28           27            35           48       Tenal Debt Service                  ..            ..             ..             ..           489
flnasncal Instl tocions                       23          395            63          152
Bonds                                        -             18                        _         BURDEY  ON EXPORT, TOURISM
Public Loans n.e.i.                          -            -             -            -         ADD UOR%RRS RENTTAYCES lDj
TDc-i Public M&TL LOPnS                         51          460           163          458          Public Debt Samicen             2.8           2.3            3.4            3.4            4.7
Tftal Debt Sprice                . .           ..             ..             ..          13.7
Acetal aDeb  Octetandinc On   -ec. 31, 1976
EXTELNAL DEBT                                 Dtsborsed Oniy                  ?eperemt             Avege Teens af Public Debt
IBRD                                             36                           3.6
IDA                                                                            -                    Inte-stas -% Prio  Yea
Ot he  Mueti-lanemal                             54                            5.4                    DE&D                          4.8           3.6            4.8            4.6            7.6
Gcnments                                        256                          25.3                   Amort. as /. Prier YSar
S=ppliers                                       313                          31.1                     DO&D                        14.9           11.2           10.8            8.1            9.3
Financial Institutiops                          303                          30.1
lends                                            43                           4.3                IBRD Debt Oat. & Disb-rsed   45.2               42.2           39.0           35.6          38.0
P=blic Debts n.i.i.                              -                              -                 IBRD DO&D as 7. Public
Total Publie M&LT Debt                        1,003                         1O0.0                   Debt Oat. & Disbursed           7.4           5.8            4.7            3.5            2.5
IBRD Debt Serice asE %
Public Debt Serite             6.3            6.9            5.6            5.8           3.5
a!  La-gely inreres  pay-ents.
b/  LargeI1 ner-e-s  memittancs.
of Gold is vala-d at official prices.
- .Nt  ailable                                                                                                                             E=ree-. Middlr East and Yoreh Aurmna eRion-
lMsp 9, 1978



-29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of April 30, 1978)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.   Year          Borrower        Purpose        Bank             Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed    57.5                       -
1301        1976    Electricidade de
Portugal            Power           36.0                35.1
1334        1976    Republic of
Portugal            Highways        24.0                24.0
1432        1977    Banco de Fomento
Nacional            DFC             50.0                50.0
TOTAL                                      167.5 /b             109.1
of which has been repaid                   26.4
TOTAL now outstanding                      141.1
Amount sold                          2.2
of which has been repaid           2.1       .1
TOTAL now held by Bank /a                  141.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                               109.1
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
TAs of April 30, 1978)
None.
/a   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/b   In addition, a loan of $40 million was approved on March 28, 1978 for the
Lisbon Region Water Supply Project, and a loan of $21 million was approved
on April 27, 1978 for the Education Project. Both of these loans were
signed on June 6, 1978.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan No. 1301 - Sixth Power Project; $36.0 Million Loan of September 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Project is likely to be delayed one year because of organiza-
tional changes in the Power Authority (EDP) and revisions in the Project
scope. The Project cost is presently estimated at $786 million equivalent,
a decrease of about 30 percent over the appraisal estimates due mainly to
the postponement of the nuclear program and devaluation of the Escudo. Owing
to the Government's decision to restrict bidding for the turbo-generator for
the Setubal thermal plant to local manufacturers, mainly to protect the local
industry, a possibility foreseen during negotiations, and to changes in the
design of the Crestuma hydropower Project, about $15 million of the loan
proceeds are being reallocated among the other categories. All these factors
have delayed procurement under the loan, and the start of significant dis-
bursements. The Power Authority is being reorganized with emphasis on decen-
tralizing management and merging municipal and small private electricity under-
takings with the Power Authority. After a poor year in 1976 owing to the be
hydrological conditions, the Power Authority's earnings in 1977 were satis-
factory, with a self-financing level of 20 percent, because of better condi-
tions and an average tariff increase of 25 percent effective February 1, 1977.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1980.
Road rehabilitation is on schedule, but other projects items are
some 10 months behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding
until the effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 9-month delay in purchasing
highway maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition may
cause a 10-month delay in the construction of the Covilha bypass road. The
rehabilitation plan for railways will also be 9 months behind schedule due to
delays in the selection of consultants.
Loan No. 1432 - Development Finance Company Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
While loan signing was delayed due to legal problems raised by the
Attorney General's office, project implementation is expected to catch up with
appraisal estimates. The Borrower, National Development Bank (BFN), has
submitted an initial list of six appraised projects which could require up to
$2.O million in IBRD sub-loans.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the prog_ess of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare
project:                                      One year (October 1976 - October
1977)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                FAO/Bank Cooperative Program
(c)  Project first present,ed to Bank:             November 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:         June 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:               October 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                   June 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                September 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
The project provides for retroactive financing, up to a maximum of
US$370,000, for technical assistance to project agencies and for urgent
repairs and technical assistance to one of the agro-industrial subborrowers.
This would permit expediting actions which, if taken after loan effectiveness,
could seriously delay project implementation (paragraph 62).
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a)  The establishment and staffing by MAP of four regional fisheries
offices as well as a Central Loan Team (paragraph 52);
(b)  the establishment and staffing, in MAP's regional directorate for
Alentejo, of a farm planning team in each of three sub-regional
centers, the appointment, at the zona agraria level, of qualified
extension agents to effectively implement farm plans expected to
be approved in the first year, and the appointment of qualified
subject matter specialists to effectively support both the farm
planning teams and the local extension agents (paragraph 53);
(c) the effectiveness of at least two subsidiary loan agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, between IFADAP and participating banking
institutions (paragraph 54); and
(d) the appointment of consultants for assistance in: (i) farm plan-
ning, (ii) carrying out the groundwater survey, (iii) strengthening
DGHEA, (iv) elaborating the detailed design of fishing boats and
suDeivisiflsboat construction, and (v) undertaking the fisheries
stocK assesment study kparagraph 55).



- 32 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2
2.        Conditions of disbursement of the two agro-industry sub-loans,
to be met by December 31, 1979, would be the Bank's approval of the loan
applications based on feasibility studies and accompanying audit reports by
the Office of Agricultural Associations or an independent auditor, acceptable
to the Bank. In addition, the FORE oilseeds mill must have undertaken urgent
repairs, implemented safety measures, trained operational staff, employed
competent managers and formed a legal entity prepared to assume the management
and ownership of the plant (paragraph 58).
3.        Measures to be undertaken by the Government include:
(a) the orientation of MAP's future agricultural research in
Alentejo toward serving the objectives of the project, using
project farms for field trial purposes (paragraph 46);
(b) the submission to the Bank, for its review, within six months
after completion of the fisheries stock assessment study, of
proposals for instituting a fisheries stock management program,
and subsequent implementation of such a program (paragraph 50);
(c) use for additional lending to agriculture, preferably in the
project area, of all loan funds repaid to IFADAP by participating
banking institutions which are not needed to make payments of
principal, interest or other charges under the Bank loan, or
for IFADAP's operating expenses attributable to the proposed
project (paragraph 51);
(d) the submission by IFADAP and MAP to the Bank, for its review
by March 31, 1979, of comprehensive programs for fellowships,
visits abroad, short courses and in-service training programs
for staff as well as training for managers of UECTs, agricul-
tural cooperatives and fishermen (paragraph 56);
(e) approval by IFADAP of all loans for farm investment and fishing
boat construction, based on the applicants meeting general
eligibility criteria and on an acceptable farm plan or boat
construction plan approved by MAP's technical services (para-
graph 57);
(f) phasing out of the lending operations for agricultural develop-
ment of all other agricultural and fisheries credit funds from
the time that IFADAP begins its operations in the project area
(paragraph 60);
(g) establishment of annual rates of interest to sub-borrowers of not
less than 13.50 percent for seasonal credit, and of not less than
an average of 16.50 percent over the life of any investment sub-
loan, these rates to be reviewed by September 1, 1979 and, there-
after, at invervals of not more than two years (paragraph 60);
(h) establishment by the Government of an insurance program, to
cover the financial risk to sub-borrowers of unsuccessful
investments in groundwater development arising from the
observed high variability in well yields (paragraph 70).



-!]5; 0 3 ; ir4! t~~~~~~~1=                                      124                        w~-h                                             0e_ iL/ddi*-7+2 S);26 >   <nr
/                                          I    I7-           IW    g"
<~~ ~~                                                                                  - -' r 12/:1- /       t11            $|     ~  
2
i_ a .                                                              -r
-i                              r    2 ~~~~I,,=r3,~~~=C            2"3r-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tt;jt1
0 -   )    ^ 7 E  <  <<   /   ~~~~~~~~)>                                         0          at - S_t
p ~ ~  ~      A                                                                                 4::W ;  rp!>Q1z2L                                                       32 213  31. : \ C o >           \ K s  -U  -       






-4(r                                                           70,S30  2h'            0' 4                                            6'                     4'
@CORVO                                                                                   =
OFtORES                            A Z O  R E S  I SL A NDS                                        Vigo
ont       a C RIOSA                            -42'                    .                                                   42'
b   :    E     I~~~~JRGE      0RCEIRA
FAIAL. -                                                                 iZo~CEIRA  Voana do Castelo
C7  t           XFi~~~~Fgneira da Foz         C
A    t    I    A  N  J    /   C      ~~~~SANTA JMARIA-4&                                                                       40
NrzzareVar-
O CEfA  N36    ih    
3;t a38'
38' ~~. 26' 
38', ~    ' -
"14 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 1
3e-f-
36 tJ J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EVITERRANEAN
b                              X~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tanglers  SEA
16. 
0~~~
Sao4       Prm                    C D    PROJECT
3r Xr - L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONGLINE   F15HERIES 3
6~~~V ~
.  lonl,ine Flshiog Ports
AF,          SN             ;   ~~~~~~~~~Moior Lorglinn Fishing Paris (Anual Landings Larger than 3P00Tons)
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____ 40'0 tOO                        Depth Contour    3021 
@    t                 g        ---~~~~~~~~International Boundary  A 7 1   Ar Nr 1  c     2__
>~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                  -X     $ , f -              KiLQ MEV:Rs                               -AAGO
4  10   \E   0   0   W  :  0  ,::  f  i: . _ t : 0 0 T2 : : $ e 4 u rz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 



