Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6633-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN WITH A
US DOLLAR TRANCHE
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO US$125 MILLION
AND A
FRENCH FRANC TRANCHE
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO FRF600 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
JUNE 29, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Dirham (DH)
April
1989      1990        1991       1992       1993        1994       1995
DH per US$          8.12       8.04       8.15        9.05       9.65       8.96        8.40
End of Period
DH per US$          8.49       8.24       8.71        8.54       9.30       9.20        8.38
Period Average I___I_I_                                                                       i
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONOYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BAM                   Bank Al-Maghrib
BCP                   Banque Centrale Populaire
BMCE                  Banque Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur
BNDE                  Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
BOT                   Build-operate-transfer
CCG                   Caisse Centrale de Garantie
CDG                   Caisse de Depots et Gestion
CG                    Central Government
CIIH                  Credit Immobilier et H6telier
CDVM                  Comite Deontologique des Valeurs Mobilibres
CNCA                  Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole
CNSS                  Caisse Nationale de Securit6 Sociale
CSE                   Casablanca Stock Exchange
EU                    European Union
FMDL                  Financial Markets Development Loan
FRF                   French francs
IPO                   Initial Public Offering
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
LCB                   Local Competitive Bidding
PE                    Public Enterprise
PEP                   Plancher d'Effets Publics
PSA                   Private Sector Assessment
PSD                   Private Sector Development
SFI                   Specialized Financial Institution
SNI                   Societe Nationale d'lnvestissement
SOEs                  Statement of Expenditures
USD                   US dollars
VLR                   Variable Lending Rate
Bank staff contributing to the project include: Messrs./Mmes. Forestier (Task Manager), Batchoun (Foreign Exchange
Market). Brun (Monetary Policy), De Wulf and Soman (Macroeconomic Framework), Dupuy,(Legal Aspects), Gress
(Procurement), Savorelli (Capital Markets), Yourougou (Bank Lending Products). Mr. Al-Khafaji and Mr. Daniel Ritchie
are, respectively, the managing Division Chief and Department Director for the operation. Ms. Liliane Vert provided
excellent support services.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF TBE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT
LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY  .....................................  i
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PROSPECTS  . .
A.    Stabilization and Structural Adjustment Policies .1
B.  Recent Economic Performance.                                                       2
C.    Prospects ..............................................  4
III.  PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT  .................................                            5
A.    Public Enterprises and Privatization  .............................  5
B.    The Financial Sector .......................................  8
C.    Government Strategy ......................................  11
IV.  PROGRAM  OF FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS ...........                       .............  12
A.    Reform of Treasury Financing ................................  14
B.    Indirect Monetary Control  ..................................   14
C.    Development of Capital Market ...............................  15
D.    Banking System  .........................................   15
E.     Capacity Building ........................................   17
F.     Fiscal Impact of Reforms ...................................   17
V.   PROPOSED LOAN              .....................          .......................   18
A.    Loan Amount and Borrower .................................   18
B.    Rationale for Bank Involvement ...............................  18
C.    Project Description ........................................ 19
D.  . Implementation Arrangements ................................   19
VI.   RISKS    .....................................................                          21
VII. OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS .22
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED .22
IX. RECOMMENDATION .22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
Attachment 1: Macroeconomic Framework - Selected Indicators
Attachment 2: Matrix of Policy Measures
Annex 2: Macroeconomic Indicators
Annex 3: Cost of Reforms
Annex 4: Privatization Indicators
Annex 5: Securities Market
Annex 6: Situation and Role of Institutional Investors
Annex 7: Capacity Building Program
Annex 8: Distribution of Financial Assets
Annex 9: Consolidated Balance Sheet of Deposit Banks and Monetary Survey
Annex 10: Social Indicators
Annex 11: Status of Bank and IFC operations
Annex 12: Key Processing Events
MAP: IBRD No. 24657



i
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMIARY
Borrower:                  Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:                    US$250 million equivalent comprising:
(a) a US$125 million US dollar Tranche, and
(b) a FRF 600 million French franc Tranche
Terms:                     Fixed rate single currency loan for up to 15 years. For each loan currency
Tranche, each semester's aggregate disbursements (Disbursed Amount) will have
a grace period of 3 years and a final maturity of 12 years; both beginning from
the rate fixing date for such Disbursed Amount.
Interest Payment dates     November 15 and May 15
and Rate Fixng Dates:
Loan Description:          The Financial Markets Development Loan (FMDL) is the first of a US$600-700
million equivalent multi-year private sector development (PSD) lending program
currently under preparation and scheduled for FY96-98. The FMDL would
support a program of reforms in the financial sector and finance the temporary
cost to the Moroccan Treasury of implementing this program. Beyond a
transitional period of three years, the budgetary impact will remain limited to
about 0.17 percent of GDP per year and, therefore, consistent with macro-
stabilization objectives. The specific policy measures concern: (a) the reform of
Treasury financing including the removal of mandatory placement ratios for
banks in Treasury bonds at below market rates; (b) indirect monetary control
including the liberalization of lending rates; (c) the development of capital
markets; and (d) the banking system, in particular the privatization of the
remaining state-owned banks and the establishment of an interbank foreign
exchange market together with related prudential measures. A policy matrix
details the specific actions to be supported by the FMDL and shows how they
complement those already implemented.
Benefits:                  The main benefits of the loan will be: (a) establishment of a market-based
financial system, essentially free of any significant distortion in the allocation of
credit and the pricing of financial assets; and (b) the deepening of domestic
financial markets which will increase the supply of long-term capital for private
investment and contribute to achieving a sustained improvement in domestic
savings.



ii
Risks:                      Two main risks are associated with the proposed loan. The first relates to the
fiscal sustainability of the reform  program.   The recent resurgence of
macroeconomic imbalances, in particular on the fiscal front, could put pressure
on interest rates, increase the cost of public sector borrowing and prompt the
authorities to revert to administrative controls of interest rates and credit
allocation. Corrective measures aimed at increasing public savings, notably
through tightening of recurrent expenditures and acceleration of the privatization
program, are being prepared by the Government. The impact of these measures
is reflected in the macroeconomic indicators, attached to the Letter of
Development Policy, which will be used to monitor continued satisfactory
macroeconomic performance which is essential for the successful implementation
of the financial reform program. The second risk is a deterioration of banks'
loan portfolios following the implementation of liberalization measures and
increased competitive pressure as financial markets develop. Moroccan banks
are generally healthy and have demonstrated their capacity to sustain an adequate
profitability following the first liberalization measures in the early nineties.
Furthermore, a sound prudential and regulatory framework is already in place.
This risk will be reduced by further strengthening of bank supervision.
Financial Benefits and      The Borrower has selected a fixed rate single currency loan with currency
Risks:                      Tranches in US dollars and French francs in order to improve the management
of its external liabilities. The choice of currencies reflects the weight of French
francs and US dollars in Morocco's foreign exchange receipts, of which about
35 percent is denominated in each of those two currencies. The choice of a fixed
interest rate reflects the Borrower's preference to reduce the risk of interest rate
volatility in view of its current exposure in floating rate loans which account for
about 45 percent of its total external debt. In addition, the Borrower considers
that the budgeting and management of its external debt service obligations would
be simpler for single currency loans than for currency pool loans.
Estimated                   The loan would be disbursed  in two aggregate tranches of US$150
Disbursements:              equivalent and US$100 million equivalent against import documentation.  The
release of the second tranche will be conditioned on satisfactory macroeconomic
performance and satisfactory progress in the implementation of the reform
program in the financial sector, including the achievement of a limited number
of specific measures.
FY96               FY97
(US$ million equivalent)
IBRD                     150                 100
Parallel Financing:         Parallel financing may be provided by the African Development Bank
and the European Union
Project Identification No.    MA-PA-5522



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT
LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
I. INTRODUCTION
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and a recommendation on a proposed
Financial Markets Development Loan (FMDL) to the Kingdom of Morocco in an amount equivalent to
US$250 million in support of a program of financial sector reforms. The fixed rate single currency loan
package would comprise a US$125 million US dollar Tranche and a FRF 600 million French franc
Tranche, for up to 15 years. For each loan currency Tranche, each semester's aggregate disbursements
(Disbursed Amount) will have a grace period of 3 years and a final maturity of 12 years, both beginning
from the rate fixing date for such Disbursed Amount. Parallel financing may be forthcoming from the
African Development Bank and the European Union (EU).
2.           The FMDL is the first loan of a FY96-98 US$600 - 700 million equivalent multi-year
PSD lending program. In line with the CAS discussed by the Board on November 23, 1993, and the
1994 Private Sector Assessment (PSA)', the core objective of the Bank PSD program is to achieve higher
private investment and private sector growth which are necessary to accelerate the rate of overall
economic growth, above the average 3 percent real rate of the 1990-94 period. Some five other projects,
currently under preparation, are scheduled for FY96-98. They will focus on: (a) private provision of
infrastructure; (b) vocational training; and (c) enterprise competitiveness.
3.           The main objectives of the FMDL are to deepen Morocco's financial markets and to
establish a market-based financial system. The financial sector remains a bank-based system where
domestic capital markets play a very modest role in supplying long-term capital to the private sector.
The Government channels a large share of banks' deposits and medium- and long-term institutional
savings to secure the Treasury borrowing requirements at administered, below-market interest rates.
Morocco's domestic savings rate of about 16 percent remains significantly below countries that have
achieved high rates of investment and growth. To sustain the necessary increase in the overall rate of
domestic savings and private investment, further reforms are necessary to develop domestic financial
markets along with other macroeconomic measures aimed at raising public savings, in particular, fiscal
stabilization and an acceleration of the privatization program. The policy measures supported by the
FMDL represent a continuation of the financial sector reform that Morocco launched in the late eighties,
and that the Bank has supported through the 1991 Financial Sector Development Project2.
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PROSPECTS
A.    Stabilization and Structural Adjustment Policies
4.            The internal and external imbalances that characterized the Moroccan economy in the
early 1980's led to the adoption of vigorous stabilization-cum-adjustment policies. These efforts were
supported by bilateral and multilateral sources and debt relief under the auspices of the Paris and London
Clubs. In the first phase, up to 1986, the emphasis was on economic stabilization. Supported by lower
budget deficits, prudent monetary policies favored greater price stability, while an active exchange rate
1/    Preparing for the 21st Century - Strengthening the Private Sector in Morocco - Report No. 1 1894-MOR;
June 30, 1994
2/     Report No. P-5553-MOR; June 3. 1991



2
policy restored external competitiveness. In the second phase, policies focused on structural reforms,
while maintaining internal and external balances. The adjustment process moved generally in the right
direction and brought tangible progress.
5.            Main elements of the structural adjustment measures implemented since the mid-1980's
are: (a) liberalization of foreign trade; (b) progress towards balance of payments sustainability; (c) partial
reform of the financial sector; and (d) reform of the public enterprises and privatization.
6.            Trade liberalization, begun in 1984, was pursued, and from a situation of wide scale
import and export restrictions, Morocco became a country where only ten products remain subject to
quantitative trade restrictions. Tariff protection has also been lowered (maximum rates fell from
45 percent in 1988 to 35 percent in 1994, but a fiscal duty of 12.5 percent still applies), with the
exception that the 45 percent tariff still applies to selected agricultural commodities. The 1995 Finance
Law reduced tariffs to 5 percent on a large number of imports that do not compete with domestic
products, and abolished the fiscal duty on imports of a wide range of investment goods. The scope of
reference prices was also narrowed considerably, and by 1994 applied to only 10 percent of industrial
imports. Within the context of an eventual association agreement with the European Community (EU),
discussions are ongoing to phase out duties on imports from the EU.
7.            Current account convertibility has been achieved with Morocco accepting obligations
under Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement of the IMF in January 1993. Virtual full capital account
convertibility is achieved for foreign investors. The relaxation of surrender requirements and restrictions
on foreign borrowing, as well as authorization of outbound investment by certain export firms and banks,
represent the first moves towards capital mobility for residents.
8.            Recent public enterprise (PEs) and financial sector reforms are detailed in Chapter III.
They are consistent with the growing conviction that the private sector is to become the engine of future
growth in Morocco, that the public sector should withdraw from direct production activities, and that
a market-driven financial sector should gradually replace a system largely based on administrative controls
of the price and allocation of financial resources.
B.    Recent Economic Performance
9.            The growth performance of the Moroccan economy varies greatly from year to year,
largely because of its structural vulnerability to climatic conditions (Table 1). During 1987-92, annual
GDP growth averaged 3.6 percent. In 1993, a drought caused the growth rate to decline. With good
rainfall in 1994, the economy picked up strongly and GDP rose by 11.8 percent. For 1995, negative
growth is projected as a result of another severe drought. Inflation has been successfully contained at
around 5 percent a year, as a result of prudent fiscal and monetary policies. The budget deficit fell to
3-4 percent in recent years as compared to 11 percent in 1980-86.
10.           External balances were also substantially strengthened. The deficit of the current account,
on average 8 percent of GDP during the first half of the 1980's, has been successfully contained below
3 percent of GDP since 1990. External reserves rose steadily due to increasing flows of direct foreign
investment and improving current account deficits, including continued inflows of worker remittances.
They amounted to the equivalent of six months' worth of imports at the end of 1994, compared to about
one month in the mid-1980s. At one-third of exports, the burden of servicing the external debt remained
heavy in 1994. However, the stock of external debt stood at 67 percent of GDP in 1994, down from an
average 90 percent in 1987-92, and the debt service ratio is declining (Table 1).



3
Table 1: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
1980-86  1987-92   1993    1994    1995    1996      1998    2000
Actual            Prelim   Estim.         Proiected
( in Percent)
Real GDP Growth                4.2       3.6    -1.1    11.8    -3.7      9.0       3.9    5.3
- Agriculture                  5.4       0.7    -6.2    65.0   -30.0    44.0        3.0    4.0
- Non-agriculture              4.0       4.2    -0.2      3.7     2.7     3.2       4.1    5.6
(In percent of GDP)
Gross Investment              25.4      22.7    21.2    21.2    21.4    22.4       23.5   25.0
- Central Govt.                6.6       4.4      6.2     4.5     4.4     5.1       5.3    5.3
- Private Sector "            18.8       18.4    15.0    16.8    17.0    17.2      18.2   19.7
Domestic Savings              14.8       18.0    15.7    16.1    14.8    16.0      17.7   20.5
- Government                   -1.9      2.5     4.6      2.7     2.8     3.2       4.3    6.5
- Private                     16.7       15.5    11.1    13.3    12.0    12.8      13.4   14.0
Budget Deficit               -11.2      -4.2    -3.3    -3.8    -4.7    -4.3       -3.2   -1.1
Privatization receipts         0.0       0.0     0.9      0.7     1.2     1.3       1.2    0.0
Current Account Deficit       -7.7      -0.8    -2.0    -2.2    -3.5    -2.9       -2.5   -1.2
Exports                       21.2      23.1    23.3    21.2    22.3    22.2       25.3   27.8
Manufact. Exports/GDP          5.6       8.0      8.0     7.1     7.3     7.3       8.5    9.4
Foreign Debt Outstanding      91.6      89.6    80.5    66.8    66.0    60.2       56.3   48.6
(In Percent of Exports)
Foreign Debt Service          35.1      26.4    30.4    32.4    27.4    23.9       21.3   23.0
(In Month of Imports)
Foreign Reserves               1.2       3.2      6.2     6.3     5.4     5.2       5.6    5.6
1/ Includes Public Enterprises
Source: Annex 2
11.           Since 1992, however, macroeconomic developments, especially in the area of public
finance, indicate an emergence of modest but growing imbalances. Over the 1992-94 period, the fiscal
deficit increased from 2.2 percent to 3.8 percent of GDP. There are also signs of potential tension on
the external situation despite a relatively comfortable level of foreign reserves at the end of 1994. Total
exports have stagnated as a percentage of GDP and manufactured exports have declined in line with an
appreciation of the real effective exchange rate of 6 percent since 1991. The end of external debt relief
since 1992 has translated into an increase in the debt service ratio over the period. Finally, both
investment and savings have stagnated as a share of GDP and remain significantly below the rates
achieved by other fast-growing middle-income economies. For 1995, the budget deficit is expected to
widen further to 4.7 percent of GDP. This deterioration is explained in part by excessively optimistic
projections of budgetary revenues which led to high expenditure authorizations. During the first quarter
of 1995, the trade deficit widened by 3 percent compared to the corresponding period of 1994, while
foreign exchange receipts from tourism shrank by 21 percent. In addition, the drought will cause the
GDP to decline which will undermine Government revenue performance and necessitate exceptional
drought-relief expenditures. Hence, macroeconomic stability needs to be reasserted more firmly than in
recent years.



4
C.    Prospects
12.          Assuming basic internal and external stability are maintained and the structural reforms
continue at the modest pace of recent years, Morocco can expect to continue to grow at the 1990-94
average level of about 3 percent p.a. However, this rate would lead to a further increase in the
unemployment rate. Only higher economic growth built on labor intensive investment will permit an
increase in the number of jobs that exceeds the number of people coming into the urban labor market.
13.          Maintaining a sustainable macroeconomic framework is a pre-requisite for achieving
higher savings and growth and also for liberalizing the financial sector, a major objective of the proposed
loan. A package of policy measures, mainly on the fiscal front, is being prepared by the Government
in close cooperation with the IMF and the Bank to bring the recent deterioration under control. They
include: (a) reforming the tax system, in particular through the adoption of a unified investment code and
the redefinition of the personal income tax to simplify its administration and achieve a more equitable
pattern; (b) increasing the cost recovery of services delivered by the State, in particular by raising water
charges; and (c) rationalizing public expenditures through a limitation in the increase in recurrent
expenditures, an acceleration of the privatization program (Chapter III), an increase in resources allocated
to human capital formation (basic education and health) and the preparation of three-year rolling public
investment plans. Prudent monetary policy will complement these fiscal measures and aim at providing
the private sector with adequate credit to support economic growth while ensuring that monetary
expansion is consistent with maintaining a low level of inflation and international reserves at about 5
months of imports. Macroeconomic variables consistent with these measures and with the gradual
achievement of a higher growth scenario are provided in Table 1 and detailed in Annex 2.
14.          By the year 2000, the accumulated impact of structural changes is expected to result in
sustainable growth of around 5 percent p.a. and the budget deficit is projected to approach balance.
Fiscal revenues, currently at 24 percent of GDP and relatively high compared with those of fast growing
economies, are to drop slightly, while recurrent expenditure growth is contained. Based on the existing
stock of debt and a modest net foreign borrowing, the ratio of foreign debt to GDP would fall from about
70 percent of GDP in 1994 to 56 percent in 1998 and 49 percent in the year 2000. The debt service to
exports ratio would fall from 32 percent in 1994 to a more sustainable level of 23 percent. Investment,
as a share of GDP, would increase by 4 percentage points between 1994 and the year 2000, and would
be financed by a substantial increase in domestic savings. The increase is expected to result from the
deepening of domestic financial markets and higher public sector savings. The reduction in the overall
budget deficit will reduce the pressure on domestic financial resources. Reforms, restoring and then
maintaining external competitiveness through flexible exchange rate management, would further improve
the medium-term macroeconomic outlook, especially the growth and balance of payments indicators.
15.          At about 30 percent of GDP, total Government expenditures are high compared to other
rapidly growing economies. The brunt of the budgetary adjustment will need to come from lower
recurrent expenditures which currently amount to about 70 percent of total expenditures. They are
projected to come down by 4-5 percentage points of GDP by the end of the decade. The share of civil
service wages in GDP, in particular, would drop from its current level of 10 percent of GDP to 8 percent
in the year 2000, by limiting the increase in the wage bill to the rate of inflation.
16.          Morocco's balance of payments remains vulnerable to the external environment, as well
as to the climatic conditions (three droughts over the past four years). The current account deficit is
projected to deteriorate to 3.5 percent in 1995 due to increased import demand for foodstuffs and
investment goods. The high concentration of over 60 percent of the country's merchandise trade with
the European Union makes Morocco's exports sensitive to economic growth trends in the EU. As a
result of the Uruguay Round of the GATT and the impending Free Trade Agreement with the EU,
Morocco will face increased competition for its main exports: textiles and clothing, and agricultural



5
products. All these developments could put a strain on the economy's ability to generate additional
foreign exchange and sustain the current level of external reserves. A decline in external reserves would
adversely affect the internal and external credibility of the Government's program. Consolidating the
level of reserves at its current level of about 5 months of imports is, therefore., part of the medium-term
economic framework agreed between the Moroccan authorities, the Bank and the IMF.
III. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
17.           The private sector accounts for an increasingly significant share of economic activity in
Morocco, about 70 percent of value added, 90 percent of employment, and 75 percent of investment.
It contributes virtually all of the value added in agriculture, commercial construction and trade, 75 percent
of industry, and 70 percent of banking and financial institutions. However, the public enterprise (PE)
sector remains economically important. It accounts for about 20 percent of GDP, with more than half
of value added in mining, energy, water supply, and roughly half of transport and communications.
Since 1990, most restrictions on foreign ownership have been lifted and direct foreign investment rose
from about 0.9 percent of GDP to an annual average of 1.7 percent in 1992-94.
18.           Recent Bank economic and sector work, in particular the 1994 PSA, has shown that
achieving a higher rate of private investment and private sector growth will be predicated upon further
progress primarily in three areas. First, deepened macroeconomic adjustment, in particular lower fiscal
deficits, is necessary to raise public savings and overall domestic savings to finance investment (Chapter
II). Second, the PE sector needs downsizing primarily through faster and bolder privatization. This will
raise the level of efficiency of private investment and open key infrastructure services such as water,
electricity and communications to private financing. Investment needs in these sectors are estimated to
grow at an annual average rate of 7 to 12 percent depending on the sector, and their public financing is
no longer compatible with macroeconomic stability objectives. Privatization will, in addition, raise
revenues for the Government and contribute to the development of capital markets. Third, further
reforms in the financial sector are essential to alleviate the shortage of term resources to finance private
investment. This shortage is largely due to the low development of domestic financial markets, the
Government's preferential access to bank credit at non-market terms which taxes and crowds-out private
investment, and Morocco's limited access to international capital markets.
A.    Public Enterprises and Privatization
19.           The Public Enterprise Sector. As detailed in Table 2, Morocco has a large PE sector.
There are about 330 firms in which the State has a majority holding. The fourteen largest PEs, mainly
operating in power, water, transport, and mining and phosphate processing, account for the bulk of the
sector.
Table 2: The Public Enterprise Sector
GDP           Gross Domestic        Wages and           Domestic Credit
Investment           Salaries               (1994)
In Percent of        20                 21                  27                     7
Total
PE                 PE            PE transfers from     Stock of Arrears
Investment          Losses                CG                   (1994)
Gross     Net      From         From
In Percent of GDP                                                          PE to CG     CG to PE
5.8                1.7            0.9       0.3       3.2          1.3
Source: Ministry of Finance and Bank estimates.
CG = Central Government; annual average of various years, mainly 1988-94.



6
20.           Performance. Despite the divestiture program initiated in the late eighties, the efficiency
and the financial health of the large PE sector remains a concern. In the period 1988-92, the fourteen
largest PEs had an annual average deficit of 1.7 percent of GDP. Despite recent improvements,
Government-PE cross arrears remain substantial. Central Government (CG) arrears to PEs totalled
1.3 percent of GDP at end-1994 and were mainly related to lack of payment to utilities caused by a lack
of budgetary discipline. Arrears from PEs to CG of 3.2 percent of GDP at end-1994 are mostly related
to tax payments and service of guaranteed external debt. The PE sector, as a whole, is a slight drain on
the government budget: net CG transfers to the PEs averaged 0.3 percent of GDP p.a. during 1990-93.
21.           Investment and Financing. The bulk of the investment by the PE sector is accounted for
by the fourteen largest PEs and averaged DH 13.5 billion p.a. (5.8 percent of GDP) during 1988-94.
About 40 percent is self-financed, 20 percent is financed through CG capital transfers and 40 percent
through domestic (10 percent) and external borrowing (30 percent). The importance of foreign borrowing
explains why the largest PEs only account for less than 10 percent of domestic credit to the economy and,
therefore, does not represent a significant risk for the financial system. During the eighties, the PE sector
enjoyed special privileges to finance its borrowing requirements, such as various government guarantee
schemes and mandatory placements of a fixed portion of banks' deposits in bonds issued by state-owned
specialized financial institutions'. PEs' preferential access to credit combined with their poor financial
performance led to an increase in non-performing loans, mainly in state-owned banks, and in the case
of some PEs, forced the CG to service their guaranteed external debt. In 1992, the Government started
to reduce these privileges: (a) directed credit policies benefitting SFIs were eliminated; (b) the Ministry
of Finance discontinued granting credit risk guarantees on domestic and external loans and is phasing out
its policy of covering the foreign exchange risk'; and (c) prudential ratios were introduced in the banking
system to prevent excessive risk concentration5. Combined with the forthcoming reforms which will
eliminate Government guarantees of PEs bond issues, these measures will essentially create a level
playing field between PEs and the private sector in raising funds. Subsidies resulting from PEs'
preferential access to domestic and foreign resources will be eliminated and the risk of contamination of
banks' portfolios by PEs' losses will be reduced. In parallel, the Government plans to complete the first
phase of its privatization program and subsequently expand it to a second phase.
22.           First Phase of Privatization. Recognizing the unsatisfactory performance of the PEs, a
Privatization Law was passed in 1989 mandating the sale of 112 companies and hotels. As of end-April
1995, after a relatively slow start, some thirty companies have been sold generating revenues of
7.2 billion DH (US$785 million). Individual share-holding is expanding rapidly and testifies to the
existence of savings available for long-term investment: nearly 150,000 individuals had subscribed to
privatization offers on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, while less than 10,000 individuals participated
in the stock market before the onset of the privatization program. The Stock Exchange itself is due to
be privatized in 1995. About 35 percent of the proceeds generated have come from foreign investors.
In early 1995, the Government extended the sales deadline for the first phase by one year to December
1996 and added the two oil refineries to the list of privatizables. However, with the notable exception
of the financial sector, the privatization program has not yet seriously reduced the economic weight of
the public enterprise sector, in particular in transport and utilities. This conclusion is consistent with the
3/     Banks were required to place 5.5 percent and 6 percent of their deposits in BNDE and CIH notes, respectively.
4/     Several large borrowers, such as ONE, the electricity utility, already bear the foreign exchange risk on new
borrowings.
5S     Loans to a single beneficiary and to a single corporate group are limited to 7% and 15% of the bank's net equity,
respectively.



7
regional pattern: privatization in Middle East and North African countries is lagging behind other regions,
in particular Latin America, both in terms of number of transactions and receipts (Annex 4).
23.            Privatization in the Financial Sector. Ten financial institutions (banks, insurance
companies and a large financial holding) which contribute about 30 percent of total value added of the
sector, are to be privatized before end 1996. The first two large and complex privatizations were
successfully completed in 1994 and 1995. The State's shares in Societe Nationale d'Investissement (SNI),
a financial holding with shares in 41 varied concerns, were sold in two phases for a total of DH 2.0
billion (US$225 million) at the end of 1994. An initial public offering (IPO) of 18 percent of SNI's share
was oversubscribed six times on the Casablanca Stock Exchange (CSE), while 51 percent were sold
through tender to a consortium of Moroccan private financial institutions. SNI management was
restructured shortly after privatization. In 1995, Banque Marocaine du Commerce Ext6rieur (BMCE),
Morocco's second largest commercial bank with assets representing 18 percent of total assets of the
banking system was privatized in three tranches for a total of DH 1.8 billion (US$214 million): (a) an
IPO of 14 percent of BMCE's shares sold on the stock exchange; (b) 3 percent sold directly to BMCE's
employees; and (c) 26 percent of BMCE's shares sold through tender to a group of foreign and Moroccan
financial institutions. Finally, a consumer credit institution was also privatized in 1994, through a
combination of tender, IPO and direct sales to workers. The State's shares were sold for a total of DH
130 million (US$14 million).
24.            Lessons of First Phase. Morocco has so far privatized a few PEs. What has been
privatized, has been privatized very well. One should not discount the substantial benefits of having at
first proceeded slowly and cautiously, with much discussion along the way, and with considerable
attention to transparency mechanisms. In privatization programs, building a public consensus is as
important as the technical quality of transactions. The first set of privatizations has demonstrated that
sales of PEs can be conducted that are fair, open and mutually beneficial to seller and buyer, and that do
not impose undue pain on workers and consumers. Thus, Morocco now can and should go farther and
faster along the path of increasing private participation in, and ownership of, the remaining public
enterprise sector to reduce the size and the losses of the sector, and to raise the overall efficiency of
investment.
25.            Second Phase. In October 1994, the Minister of Privatization launched the second phase
of the privatization program by requesting all Ministries to submit to him: (a) a list of PEs in their
portfolios that they consider suitable for privatization; and (b) data on the performance of every enterprise
under their control to compile a data base for the Ministry's supervision activities and examine whether
likely divestiture candidates were being held back. The second phase will be extended to previously
untouched areas, primarily transport and the largest utilities'. In April 1995, the Government confirmed
this orientation and stated that it "cannot continue to apply conventional public financing methods in order
to raise the whole of the financing needed to satisfy the real basic infrastructure needs generated by
Morocco's economic expansion and population growth"'. The Government's strategy consists of: (a)
withdrawing from industrial and commercial activities and promoting new formulas of partnership
between the public and private sectors, such as concessions and limited recourse project financing; and
(b) diversifying sources of infrastructure financing notably through reforms of the domestic financial
market. Several ground-breaking activities are already underway. The electricity enterprise ONE
6/     The first list of privatizable companies excluded: (i) firms fulfilling a public service role, and (ii) firms not operating
in competitive markets.
7/     "Infrastructure Financing in a Post-Adjustment Economy" paper by the Government of Morocco, presented to the
April 1995 meeting of the Development Committee.



8
awarded in early 1995 a leaseback and a build-operate-transfer (BOT) contract for a total of US$1.7
billion to a private group for the operation of two existing units and for the construction and operation
of two additional thermal generating units. Discussions are advanced for concession arrangements in
electricity, water distribution and sanitation services, in a number of municipalities. A concession has
also been awarded to build and operate a toll road system, the Rabat-Laracha 150 km highway. Finally,
a new telecommunications law has been drafted which calls for the creation of an independent
telecommunications company operating on commercial principles, which paves the way for competition
and, ultimately, privatization in the sector.
B.     The Financial Sector
26.            Institutions and markets.  The public institutions currently operating in the financial
system include: the Central Bank, Bank Al-Maghrib (BAM); the Treasury; the postal checking system
and the National Savings Bank which collects small savings from the public; and the Caisse Centrale de
Garantie (CCG) - providing guarantees on loans to private and public firms. There are also five
state-owned specializedfinancial institutions (SFIs)5. Finally, the Casablanca Stock Exchange (CSE) was
created in 1929, and became a formally organized market in 1967.
27.            Private financial intermediaries include 13 commercial banks, a financial holding company
recently privatized (SNI), 6 leasing companies, 22 insurance companies, and a few recently created
brokerage houses operating on the stock exchange. Institutional savings still play a modest role in the
Moroccan financial system. In 1993, total assets managed by institutional investors amounted to about
20 percent of GDP compared with, for instance, about 150 percent in the US, 50 percent in Malaysia and
30 percent in Chile. Pension funds and social security collect long term savings from households and
place most of them in Treasury bonds, deposits at CDG, and other public securities. The insurance
industry is growing rapidly but remains financially weak and underdeveloped. Insurance premiums
amounted to 2.5 percent of GDP in 1993, which situates Morocco in the low range of middle-income
countries (Annex 6).
Table 3: Moroccan Financial Institutions end-1993 (million DH)
Deposit Banks          SFIs"                 Institutional Savers
Total Assets                 135,557             54,563       Insurance companies
Net Worth                     12,973             7,399         Reserves                  20,288
Number                          15                 6           Number of                  2/22
public/private
of which private:                                              Social Security
% of Total Assets            55.6                 0          Reserves                   7,624
% of Net Worth               82.2                 0          Pension Funds
Number                          13                 0           Reserves                  11,749
Number of                  6/2
public/private
1/ Specialized financial institutions (including SNI)
Source: Bank Al-Maghrib, and Casablanca Stock Exchange.
8/     Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (BNDE), which lends to industry; Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole (CNCA), which lends to agriculture; Caisse de Dep6t et de Gestion (CDG), which mobilizes public sector
savings; Crddit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), which lends to the housing and tourism sectors; and Caisse Marocaine
des Marches (CMM), which lends to private companies involved in public works.



9
28.            Credit.  Morocco still has a bank-based financial system, where direct instruments of
financing (bonds, stocks) are rarely used by the private sector. As detailed in Table 4, the Treasury
absorbs 35 percent of domestic credit, of which 23 percent consists of forced placements of bank deposits
in Treasury bills at below market rates and 12 percent of statutory advances from the Central Bank and
auctioned securities placed with CDG and banks. The Treasury thus absorbs a substantial portion of
investable resources in the economy, some of them through mechanisms that distort the efficient allocation
of funds. SFIs continue to provide most medium and long term credit to the economy (about 66 percent
of the total), but other commercial banks have become increasingly active in this respect. Public
enterprises account for a relatively small portion of total domestic credit to the economy (para. 21).
Table 4: Morocco - Distribution of Domestic Credit
(end 1993)
SUPPLY
TOTAL         Central Bank    Deposits Banks     Specialized
DEMAND                                                                     Institutions
billion     %    billion    %     billion    %     billion     %
DH                DH              DH               DH
Treasury                         59.3      35.0     8.2    4.8    44.62/    26.3      6.5     3.8
Economy:                        110.1      65.0     8.8    5.2      65.8    38.8    35.5    21.0
Short term                  (64.2)   (37.9)   (8.8)  (5.2)   (50.1)  (29.6)   (5.3)   (3.1)
Medium-long term            (45.9)   (27.1)       -            (15.7)    (9.2)  (30.2)  (17.8)
Total                            169.4      100    17.0   10.0    110.4    65.1    42.0    24.8
Private Sector                  103.3       61
Public enterprises                5.4       3.3
Public Sector = Treasury + PEs    66.1      39
1/ Credit outstanding.
2/ Of which 31 percent consists of forced placements of bank deposits in Treasury bills at below market rates
(4.25 percent).
Source: Bank Al-Maghrib.
29.           The money and interbank markets show little transaction activity. For its advances, the
central bank de facto sets the rediscount rate by fiat and this rate bears little relationship to the interbank
market for short-term funds. The Treasury holds weekly auctions, but few bids take place in any one
auction. The money market still plays a limited role and, as such, has not provided an efficient
mechanism to price financial assets (there is no risk-free benchmark like the yield curve on US Treasury
bills), and does not allow indirect monetary control.
30.            Capital markets. There has been recently some important progress, especially in the legal
and regulatory framework. Primary Treasury bonds issues increased by 31 percent in 1993, and provide
the basis for a secondary market, which has so far remained thin. The main underwriters of these bonds
are CDG banks and contractual savings institutions (Table 5). Private fixed income securities are neither
issued nor traded, because of the cumbersome administrative procedures prevailing until 1993, the fiscal
advantages granted to Treasury bonds, and the government guarantee attached to bonds issued by public
enterprises.



10
Table 5: Primary Bond Market: Borrowers and Underwriters
1992                      1993
DH million    Percent   DH million      Percent
BORROWERS/ISSUERS             5,247       100.0       6,864          100
Treasury:                     1,620        30.9       3,574          52.1
Auctions                    (688)       (13.1)     (1,713)        (25.0)
National Issues            (932)        (17.8)     (1,861)        (27.1)
SFIs and other PEs            3,627        69.1       3,290          47.9
UNDERWRITERS:
CDG                         2,909       55.4        3,486         50.8
Insurance C                  864         16.5       1,481         21.6
Other                       1,474       28.1        1,897         27.6
31.           As detailed in Annex 5, and summarized in Table 6 below, the stock market has grown
remarkably fast since 1992. Market capitalization as a percentage of GDP has tripled. The trading
volume has increased dramatically and the liquidity ratios have improved. Privatization has been a major
factor behind this surge of the stock market. The volume of trading related to privatization accounted
for 27 percent of the total in 1994 and rose to more than 50 percent in early 1995.
32.           The Casablanca stock exchange presents many features of a nascent capital market: (a)
high concentration (94 percent of total transactions were concentrated in 10 stocks in 1993); (b) high P/E
ratio and low liquidity (trading volume represents 3.5 percent of GDP as compared with 10 percent in
Pakistan and more than 40 percent in Hong Kong, Japan or the UK, for instance); and (c) an excessive
share of off-floor trades. Moreover, while privatization has given a boost to the market, its sustainability
will depend on public offerings from private enterprises which have been scarce. Compared with other
emerging markets, in 1993, market capitalization of the CSE was close to that of Egypt, exceeded Iran,
Tunisia and Nigeria, but was lower than most other comparable middle income developing countries
(Annex 5).
Table 6: Stock Market-Key Indicators
1991     1992       1993         1994
1. Market Size
-Market Capitalization/GDP % "                      5.1      7.0        10.3        14.3
-Number of listed companies                          68       68          65          65
-Average daily trading volume                       1.8      2.5        18.6        28.8
by market session (million DH)
2. Liquidity
-Turnover Ratio %                                   3.7      3.5        17.9        21.7
-Trading volume/GDP %                               0.2      0.2         1.9         3.5
3. Concentration
-Share of 10 most traded stocks in                 80.0      NA         94.0         NA
total transactions %
4. Asset Pricing
-Official Call Market %                            11.5    74.1         21.7        26.5
-Price/Earnings ratio (P/E)                         7.7      8.9        22.8        22.5
5. Privatization Impact
-Average daily trading related to privatization     0.0      0.0        21.0        27.4
as % of total trading
1/     Associated with the number of shares submitted for listing for each listed company's share capital.
2/     Trading volume as a percentage of market capitalization.
Source: Bourse des Valeurs de Casablanca.



I1
33.          In conclusion, the Moroccan financial system remains a bank-based system where a large
portion of domestic credit goes to the Treasury through forced placements and where private enterprises
must rely on bank credit or self-financing. Banks are generally healthy due to their limited latitude for
lending, to their prudence (about half of commercial banks' assets are invested in risk-free government
securities), a modern prudential and regulatory framework and to a long-time association with foreign
banks. However, partly because of the administratively set ceiling on lending rates, they tend to lend
only to best clients, mainly large enterprises.  Capital markets still play a limited role in the
intermediation of investable resources, but spurred by the privatization program, they have recently
demonstrated their potential to become a major source of long-term resources for private investment.
34.           The First Phase of Financial Sector Reform. Morocco has been engaged in financial
sector reform since the mid-eighties with the establishment of positive real interest rates, the introduction
of an auction market for T-bonds, and the elimination of special advantages granted to SFIs. In 1991, the
Government developed a program of financial sector reforms supported by the Financial Sector
Development Project. The main objective of this program was the reform of the banking system. Key
measures (detailed in Annex 1) included the liberalization of interest rates on deposits, elimination of
quantitative credit rationing, obligatory lending by commercial banks to selected sectors, and
strengthening of the prudential regulatory and supervisory framework of banks. This program has been
implemented, and the two tranches of the Bank's loan were released as scheduled.
C.    Government Stratey
35.           In June 1994, the Government set up an Advisory Committee comprised of policymakers
and private sector leaders, with a mandate to prepare a charter for private sector development. At the
Government's request, the Bank is a member of this Committee in which it actively participates. The
Committee has been meeting every month since its inception. A joint private sector/government strategy
for PSD has been defined and is detailed in the charter which will be discussed with the Government.
The central objective of this strategy, supported by the Bank, is to create an environment to stimulate
greater private investment and higher growth. The charter recommends specific actions to: (a) establish
a market-based financial system and develop capital markets; (b) promote private sector participation in
the development of basic infrastructure and services; (c) improve skilled labor and remove restrictions
on the labor market including minimizing government interference in business-labor relations; and (d)
enhance the competitiveness of the private sector in anticipation of a free trade agreement with the EU.
36.           The Bank's FY96-98 PSD program aims at delivering lending and non-lending services
in support of the above strategy. Six projects, including the proposed FMDL, are at various stages of
preparation, for a total lending volume of US$600-700 million equivalent. Non-lending services include
continued participation in the Advisory Committee, sector work on private participation in infrastructure,
and technical assistance for enhancing industrial competitiveness.
(a)    Financial sector. The proposed FMDL comes at the forefront of the Bank's multi-year
PSD program because further reforms of the financial sector are required to achieve the
medium-term objective of a higher rate of economic growth and higher private
investment. Forced placements tax the banking system and distort the allocation of its
resources.  In the absence of market-determined lending rates, there is limited
competition within the banking system. The low development of domestic financial
markets represents a barrier to the necessary increase of domestic savings and contributes
to the shortage of long-term capital for private entrepreneurs. The Treasury relies on its
tight grip on the banking system and institutional savers to finance its deficit: a loss of
control on the fiscal deficit in such a rigid context would imply either hidden money
creation, and thus a potential inflationary pressure, or substantial crowding out of private



12
investable resources. Freeing lending rates and eliminating forced placements of credit,
thereby enabling both the Treasury and the private sector to tap deep, active domestic
financial markets capable of mobilizing large amounts of resources, are therefore key
items on the Government's agenda for the next phase of financial sector reforms. These
measures are supported by the Bank and the IMF.
(b)    Infrastructure. The main objective of the Government is to ensure adequate infrastructure
for private sector development, while containing the impact on the consolidated public
sector deficit. The Government is therefore committed to increase private sector
participation in the provision of infrastructure. Bank assistance includes an FY96 study
on private participation in infrastructure and three projects currently under preparation.
The study will provide guidance on the various options for demonopolization and
privatization. It will cover transport and selected municipal services, such as water and
electricity distribution, urban transport and solid waste management. The results of this
study are expected to be incorporated in the design of several projects currently under
preparation. They include: (i) a power sector reform loan which will support the private
production of electricity by independent power producers, issuance of an Electricity
Code, establishment of a Regulatory Agency, and unbundling of the National Power
Authority; (ii) a municipal finance project which aims at fostering competition in local
government financing, developing private provision of municipal services, and reforming
the state-owned fund which provides term lending to local governments; and (iii) a
second sewerage and water reuse project focussing on cost recovery and the viability of
autonomous agencies dealing with power and water distribution in large cities in view of
their privatization, which in turn will be the main objective of a FY98 project in the
sector.
(c)    Vocational Training.  An FY96 vocational training project is being developed in
coordination with the EU and USAID and will increase the role of private firms in the
design and financing of their vocational training programs, and enhance the role of their
professional associations.
(d)    Enterprise Competitiveness. An ongoing Competitiveness Assessment study financed by
the EU and the Moroccan private sector, and for which the Bank is executing agency,
aims at identifying "clusters" of competitive industries and at strengthening their long-
term viability in the context of the forthcoming free-trade agreement with the EU. In
addition, the Bank is preparing an industrial infrastructure project (FY97). The objectives
of this project are to alleviate the shortage of industrial sites, a major constraint to
domestic and foreign investment, and strengthen support institutions for private industry.
Specifically, the project will focus on: (i) developing privately operated industrial parks
through private concessions; and (ii) providing financing and technical assistance to
strengthen the national system of standards, certification, and technology diffusion.
IV. PROGRAM OF FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
37.           To complement the continued macroeconomic stabilization and acceleration of the
privatization program, the authorities have developed a second phase of the reform program in the
financial sector. The main objectives of this program are to: (a) establish a market-based financial
system, free of any major constraint in the allocation and the pricing of financial resources; and (b)
develop capital markets as a main supplier of long-term capital for private investment. A central piece



13
of the Government's program is to transform the stock of government debt held by banks at below market
interest rates (about DH 1.7 billion) into securities issued at market rates. Such a major substitution
needs to be supported by an improved bond market infrastructure, namely, revamping Treasury bond
instruments and issuance procedures. Other major reforms include the elimination of remaining controls
on interest rates, the implementation of indirect monetary control, the establishment of a foreign exchange
market as a preparatory step towards a market-determined exchange rate and capital account
convertibility, and the privatization of banks. The main elements of the authorities' medium-term vision
of the financial sector are:
(a)    Financial markets. The first step concerns the reform of the market for government
securities to increase liquidity, provide a market-based interest rate structure, which can
serve as a benchmark for the pricing of other securities, and ensure that the Treasury can
meet its domestic borrowing requirements. Complementary reforms of capital markets
will lead to more private equity and bond issues to be measured by an overall increase
in market capitalization and new listings.
(b)    The Treasury will implement a modern domestic debt management system and acquire
the know-how for its efficient operation. It will enable the Government to finance its
borrowing requirements at market terms and discontinue its practice of intercepting
savings before they can reach the private sector, thus removing a major constraint to
private investment. It will also bring about greater fiscal discipline on the Government.
(c)    The Central Bank. The Central Bank will aim to maintain a low inflation rate, which has
been achieved since the late eighties, and implement a monetary policy based on indirect
instruments including open market operations. In parallel, as a first step towards a fully
market-determined exchange rate, and to provide private investors with market-based
instruments to hedge foreign exchange risk, the Central Bank will establish a foreign
exchange interbank market.
(d)    The Banking System will continue to be financially sound and operate according to
internationally accepted prudential norms. The remaining state-owned banks will be
privatized in line with the Government program, with the exception of the agricultural
bank. SFIs will compete freely with commercial banks and will either develop a
competitive edge in their original market niche or disappear. Following the elimination
of the tax on banks represented by the mandatory placements, a downward movement on
interest rates is expected to take place. Lending to small and medium enterprises is
expected to increase as banks become free to price their loans according to the risks and
administrative expenses attached to this category of borrowers. As banks are given
greater latitude for lending, their loan portfolios will become more vulnerable, requiring
further strengthening of bank supervision.
38.           The proposed operation would support the new phase of financial sector reforms. The
Government program includes reforms in four main areas: (a) reform of Treasury financing including the
removal of mandatory placement ratios for banks; (b) indirect monetary control including the
liberalization of lending rates; (c) development of capital markets; and (d) banking system (privatization,
establishment of a foreign exchange market, and bank supervision). A set of indicators will be monitored
to assess the outcome of the program of financial reforms.



14
A.    Reform of Treasury Financing
39.            Progress to date and remaining constraints. In the eighties, the Treasury secured a large
part of the financing of high public sector deficit through foreign borrowing, debt relief and preferential
access to credit at administered interest rates, mainly below market. In 1988, the authorities created an
auction market for T-bills. The share of this market segment progressively increased to 15 percent of
the total domestic debt in 1993. The end of foreign debt rescheduling in 1992 combined with renewed
pressure on the budget deficit led to a sharp increase in Government domestic borrowing requirements,
to DH 8.5 billion in 1993 from DH 1.9 billion in 1991. In 1991-92, the authorities reduced the
percentage of Treasury paper that is placed at below market rates with the banking sector from 35 to 25
percent of sight deposits. However, the remaining ratio of 25 percent imposed on banks, taxes the
banking system and prevents a market-based allocation of its resources. Furthermore, rigid placement
rules imposed on institutional savers are used to channel long-term savings to the Treasury, and constrain
the development of capital markets (para. 44).
40.            Program to be supported under the FMDL. The Treasury will increasingly rely on
market mechanisms to finance its borrowing requirements. The development of an efficient market for
government securities also represents a critical step towards the development of capital markets. Among
the key measures of the Government program, detailed in Annex 1, are: (a) the elimination of banks'
mandatory placements in Treasury bills; (b) reduction of the number of T-bond issues and introduction
of new securities with modern features in order to enhance their marketability; and (c) the elimination
of fiscal incentives on Treasury bonds.
B.     Indirect Monetary Control
41.            Progress to date and remaining constraints. Since 1991, the authorities have established
the basis for an indirect monetary policy by abolishing credit ceilings, reducing access to the rediscount
window, and introducing refinancing at variable rates at the Central Bank. These measures have created
the basis for a more open and competitive environment in the banking system. However, the Central
Bank's refinancing mechanism at variable rates has had limited use as an instrument of indirect control
of liquidity and has not played the role of benchmark for interest rates as originally envisaged by the
authorities9.
42.            Program to be supported under the FMDL. The Government program complements the
reforms of 1991-92, and includes: (a) strengthening the Central Bank's indirect control instruments
through introducing repurchase agreements auctions and open market interventions; (b) liberalizing of all
lending rates; and (c) modifying in the calculation of mandatory reserves from a daily minimum ratio to
an average daily reserve requirement over a monthly period. These measures will further develop the
money market and facilitate the shift to indirect and market-based instruments of credit control. First,
through the auction of repurchase agreements, the Central Bank will establish a market determined
refinancing rate. This refinancing rate will operate as a benchmark for the banking system and the
elimination of all interest rate ceilings will enable its effective transmission in the interest rate structure.
Second, banks will have a wider degree of latitude in their treasury management since significant
variations in their daily reserve account balances will be allowed. This liquidity can be used for market
making activities in the T-bill market and promoting a more active interbank market.
9/     Originally set at 13.5 percent and now at 9 percent, the Central Bank refinancing rate does not reflect the status of
liquidity of the banking system. Since the beginning of 1994, banks have refinanced themselves mainly on the
interbank market at a rate which was at 5 percent by end-December 1994.



15
C.     Development of Capital Market
43.             Progress to date and remaining constraints. Capital market reforms undertaken so far
include the implementation of a basic legal, regulatory and institutional framework including the creation
of a Securities Commission'. As a result of these reforms and of the privatization drive of the last two
years, there has been a significant increase in the market capitalization of the CSE since 1992 (para. 31).
However, investors concentrate their savings in short term, mainly Treasury instruments and bank
deposits (Annex 8), many enterprises are overleveraged towards the banking sector, and private firms
have in the past not issued corporate bonds. Institutional investors play a growing, albeit still limited,
role in the financial sector (para. 27). The correlation that exists between growth, savings, and the
development of institutional investors in fast-growing developing economies, suggests that the institutional
savings sector could play a more active role in supplying long-term capital to private entrepreneurs and
promoting growth in Morocco (Annex 6).
44.            Several constraints prevent the Moroccan capital market from playing a more active role
in mobilizing savings, and providing long-term financing to the private sector. First, the regulatory
framework needs to be further strengthened, notably through the enactment of several laws or decrees.
Second, several policy constraints need to be removed. They include: (a) tax distortions and government
guarantees on bonds issued by PEs; and (b) distortions in the transaction fee structure on and off the stock
exchange floor, which contribute to the predominance of off-floor direct placements. Third, contractual
savings institutions are required to invest scarce long-term resources in Treasury instruments or to place
them at CDG, sometimes at below market rates1". As a result, in 1992, 80 percent of CDG resources
were invested in Government (38 percent) or Government guaranteed (42 percent) securities. Although
CDG resources represent only about 15 percent of commercial banks' deposits, by this mechanism
institutional savers mobilize long-term savings, and the Treasury siphons off a large share of it.
45.            Program  to be supported under the FMDL.  Prior to Board presentation, several
measures, detailed in Annex 1, were implemented. They mainly concern the accounting framework, the
regulation of mutual funds, and the operation of the stock exchange. Further reforms will be implemented
prior to second tranche release. They include: (a) presenting the draft law on corporations to the House
of Representatives; (b) eliminating Government guarantees on domestic bonds issued by PEs; (c) revising
trading fees in order to eliminate the distortions favoring off-floor transactions; (d) enhancing the role
of institutional savings in securities markets on the basis of a comprehensive review of the institutional
savings sector; and (e) strengthening the institutional capacity of the stock exchange and the Securities
Commission.
D.     Banking System
46.            Major reforms aimed at liberalizing the banking system and strengthening the prudential
regulatory and supervisory framework were implemented in the early nineties and supported by the Bank
(Annex 1). Further reforms will aim at: (a) completing the privatization of state-owned banks; (b)
establishing an interbank foreign exchange market; and (c) further strengthening the supervision of banks
and SFIs.
10/    They include: (a) 1992 legislation, making an accounting system mandatory for all enterprises and organizing the
accounting profession; (b) a 1993 Securities Markets law and a series of implementing decrees and regulations; (c)
legislation concerning the creation and operation of brokerage houses and mutual funds acting on the stock exchange;
and (d) laws and decrees regulating the operation of the Securities Commission (Comit6 Deontologique des Valeurs
Mobilieres - CDVM).
11/    Social security funds (Caisse Nationale de Sccuritr Sociale -CNSS), the postal savings system and the Savings Bank
(Caisse Nationale de l'Epargne - CNE) are forced to place all their resources in deposits at CDG at an administered
rate. CNSS deposits at CDG are to be reviewed every three years. They have been set at 9 percent since 1990.



16
47.            Bank Privatization. After the successful privatization of SNI and BMCE in 1994-95
(para. 23), the Government plans to privatize the remaining state-owned banks, with the exception of the
agricultural development bank, CNCA. The shares of the State in the largest commercial bank (BCP),
and in the two large development banks for industry (BNDE), and for housing and tourism (CIH), will
be offered for sale prior to second tranche release. Depending on the financial condition and strategic
orientation of each bank, the Government plans to use one of several of the following privatization
methods: (a) IPO on the Casablanca stock exchange; (b) tender; (c) private placement and direct
negotiation with strategic investors; and (d) direct sales to employees at 15 percent discount from share
listing on the stock exchange. The current situation of the three banks and the Government's strategy for
their privatization is summarized in Annex 4. CNCA, although well-managed, is not amenable to
privatization"2.
48.            Foreign Exchange Market. The establishment of a foreign exchange interbank market
is viewed by the Moroccan authorities as a preparatory step towards a fully market-determined exchange
rate and capital account convertibility. It is expected to benefit the country through an increased inflow
of foreign resources, in particular direct foreign investment which is critical to finance growth without
debt. Combined with the liberalization of interest rates, the introduction of a foreign exchange market
will provide the market signals needed by the Central Bank to set its exchange rate policy accordingly.
Establishing a foreign exchange market will also involve some risks related to the volatility of foreign
exchange markets and the lack of banks' expertise in these activities. Hence, it would be important to
introduce simultaneously appropriate accounting rules and prudential regulations to minimize risk and
record foreign exchange transactions accurately, increase the supervisory capacity of the Central Bank
and provide training to the Central Bank and commercial banks' staff.
49.            Government reforms aim at: (a) the gradual increase of prudential limits on open foreign
exchange positions of banks; and (b) reduction of the requirement for banks to surrender foreign exchange
to the Central Bank, within such limits. Specifically, they include: (a) easing the surrender requirement
of all foreign exchange to the Central Bank; (b) allowing banks to buy and sell foreign currencies against
Dirhams in the domestic market; (c) instituting accounting standards for the treatment of foreign currency
operations by banks; (d) introducing prudential regulations limiting the foreign exchange risk position of
any bank; and (e) increasing the Central Bank's ability to supervise and monitor the foreign exchange
market through the training of Central Bank supervisors.  Commercial banks intend to acquire
experienced personnel and the basic equipment for foreign exchange operations, and to organize intensive
specialized training programs for their staff. Close relationships with their foreign shareholders will
facilitate this process.
50.            Bank Supervision.  In the early nineties, Morocco implemented several reforms to
strengthen the prudential regulatory and supervisory framework, notably in the areas of capital adequacy,
risk-classification and provisioning of assets. Further liberalization reforms supported by the FMDL,
including the freeing of interest rates, removal of directed credit to the Treasury and the establishment
of a foreign exchange interbank market, will increase bank latitude for lending and other risk-taking
operations. Further strengthening of bank supervision will balance the relaxation of economic controls
and ensure the stability of the banking system in a competitive environment. The following measures will
be implemented: (a) issuance by the Central Bank of prudential regulations for the newly established
interbank foreign exchange market; (b) harmonization of prudential regulations for banks and SFIs; and
(c) more frequent on and off-site supervision of banks.
12/    This is mainly due to recurring droughts which force CNCA to periodically restructure its loan portfolio. CNCA is
addressing this structural vulnerability by preparing a drought insurance scheme to be made available to farmers as of
1996 and by diversifying its traditional rural finance activities. However, the impact of these measures will take
some tirne to materialize making CNCA an unlikely candidate for privatization in the short tern.



17
E.     Capacity Building
51.            Complementary to the success of the financial sector reform program is the institutional
capacity required to implement the above regulatory and policy actions.  During appraisal and
negotiations, informal contacts took place between the Bank and bilateral donors on the scope and the
funding of the technical assistance required. As a result of those discussions, there are good prospects
that Canada and France will provide funding for the institutional development program summarized
below. The Moroccan authorities will forward detailed requests to the donors concerned.
52.            The main areas for which technical assistance would be made available are detailed in
Annex 7. They include:
(a)    The CSE is implementing a program, funded by France, to improve the main operational
aspects of stock market trading including the establishment of a central depository system
for securities for a total of about US$1 million.
(b)    A request for technical assistance, including consulting services and training will be
submitted to the Canadian International Development Agency to strengthen the core
activities of the Securities Commission (CDVM), namely the issuance of visas for public
offerings of securities and the supervision of market operations and intermediaries.
(c)    Treasury debt management. There are already exchange programs for staff of the
Moroccan Ministry of Finance at the French Treasury; the Ministry of Finance is
preparing a new request for extending this program.
(d)    The study on contractual savings institutions (para. 45). The terms of reference have
been agreed with the Moroccan authorities and submitted to French authorities, which
have expressed an interest to finance the study.
e)     French assistance would also be provided for the revision of accounting rules on
consolidated financial statements, the reinforcement of the certified accountants'
association and for the development of professional norms, ethical standards and uniform
entry requirements.
F.     Fiscal Impact of Reforms
53.            As summarized in Table 7, and detailed in Annex 3, the cost of reforms is estimated at
about DH 2.2 billion (US$272 million) during the 1995-98 period when the Bank loan would be
disbursed. Beyond this transitional period, the budgetary impact of the financial sector reforms is limited
to 0.17 percent of GDP"3. Sensitivity analysis shows that in case of a lower growth scenario of about
3 percent p.a., the budgetary impact of reforms beyond 1998 would remain below 0.20 percent of GDP,
in line with the objective of maintaining a sustainable fiscal balance.
13/    The direct cost of the ftnancial reforms results from the fact that the Treasury substitutes market termis for the
4.25 percent rate it currently pays on forced borrowing from commercial banks which will be phased out. However,
this cost is mitigated by three factors: (a) some of the additional revenues generated by the banking system will be
taxed; (b) a downward pressure on interest rates expected to result from the elimination of the implicit tax on the
banking sector and containment of the fiscal deficit; and (c) improvement of the domestic debt management, in
particular a well-functioning settlement and clearing system for trading of governnment paper.



18
Table 7: Fiscal Inpact of Financial Sector Reforms
Fiscal Cost of Reforms
Three-year Program:       DH million    US$rnillion           In % of GDP
mid-1995 to mid-1998
1995                   93            11                    0.03
1996                  710            84                    0.21
1997                  1050           125                   0.30
1998                  434            52                    0.12
Total 95-98              2287           272                   0.66
1999-2002"               759            90                    0.17
"Annual average
Source: Annex 3
V. PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Loan Amount and Borrower
54.           The proposed Bank loan, in the amount of US$250 million equivalent, will be made to
the Kingdom of Morocco. The fixed rate single currency loan package would comprise a US$125 million
US dollar Tranche and a FRF 600 million French franc Tranche, for up to 15 years. For each loan
currency Tranche, each semester's aggregate disbursements (Disbursed Amount) will have a grace period
of 3 years and a final maturity of 12 years, both beginning from the rate fixing date for such Disbursed
Amount. The Government of Morocco is eligible for single currency loan terms, since it has authorized
conversion of all its VLR 82 loans. Including the proposed loan, single currency loans to Morocco would
aggregate US$250 million equivalent, about 40 percent of the Bank's planned FY96 lending to Morocco
of US$600-650 million equivalent.
B.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
55.           The proposed FMDL will finance the temporary cost to the Moroccan Treasury of
implementing the program of reforms over a period of three years until mid-1998. Beyond this
transitional period, the budgetary impact will remain limited to about 0.17 percent of GDP per year and,
therefore, consistent with macro-stabilization objectives. The use of the Bank adjustment lending
instrument to help smooth out the incremental budgetary expenditures entailed by the financial sector
reforms is warranted for the following reasons. First, as discussed in Chapter II, Morocco's balance of
payments remains vulnerable to the external environment. Some reserves build-up is prudent, particularly
in light of the 1995 drought and projected deterioration of the current account deficit of 3.5 percent of
GDP, to maintain the level of external reserves at a minimum of 5 months of imports. Second, the policy
reforms supported by the FMDL involve temporary fiscal costs which, in the absence of a narrowing of
the private sector investment/savings gap, will translate into a higher current account deficit"4. In fact,
since this gap is projected to remain at about the same level of 1-2 percent of GDP during the 1995-98
period (Annex 2), the temporary increase in the current account would be very close to the increase in
the public sector deficit. In practice, therefore, the fiscal cost of implementing the policy reforms and
14/    It may be useful to note the national accounts identity: (current account deficit)=(private investment-private savings)
+ (public sector budget deficit). If the public sector deficit increases temporarily, this will translate immediately into
a higher current account deficit except to the extent that the private sector deficit narrows.



19
their balance of payments implications are almost identical. Third, Bank borrowing to finance the
temporary increase in budget deficit is a relevant option in the absence of desirable alternatives, namely
additional taxation or additional domestic borrowing. The scope for increasing tax revenues in the short
run is limited. Raising import tariffs or export taxes, the main option to increase rapidly fiscal revenues,
is likely to be distortionary and would choke off private investment. The reform of the tax system (para.
13) and the downsizing of the PE sector (para. 25) will only improve public savings in the medium-term.
Domestic borrowing would be unwise until liquidity in the market for Government securities increases,
following the development of a secondary market. It might raise interest rates, increase the cost of
Treasury borrowing and could result in crowding out of private investment.
56.           A limited increase in foreign financing is sustainable. The ratio of exports to GDP of
about 22 percent shows that Morocco can generate the foreign exchange to service its external obligations
and the relatively high debt service ratio (32.4 percent in 1994) is projected to decline rapidly. The
program of reforms supported by the Bank loan is also likely to attract further support from the
international community. The African Development Bank and the EU have expressed interest in
providing parallel financing through quick disbursing operations. Preliminary contacts have also been
established with the Export-Import Bank of Japan. The initial reaction has not been negative.
C.    Project Description
57.           The proposed loan would finance imports in an amount of US$250 million equivalent.
It would allow the Treasury to finance the incremental interest to be paid as a result of refinancing at
market rate the stock of banks' mandatory placements of T-bills, currently set at 25 percent of sight
deposits and bearing a below market rate of 4.25 percent. The loan would finance 100 percent of the
foreign exchange cost (CIF) of goods imported from Bank member countries and Taiwan.
D.    Implementation Arrangements
58.           The Government will be the Borrower. The Ministry of Finance and Bank Al-Maghrib
will be responsible for the policy-related aspects of the loan while Bank Al-Maghrib alone will be
responsible for procurement, disbursements, and the maintenance of the loan account.
59.           Release of Funds and Tranching. The proceeds of the loan would be made available in
two tranches. The first portion, of US$150 million equivalent, will be released upon loan effectiveness
and drawn down on the basis of import certification. Several measures, detailed in Annex 1, were
implemented as conditions of Board presentation"5. Following the preparatory work on the financial
sector carried out by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank in consultation with the Bank in 1994,
some of these measures were implemented in late 1994 and early 1995. The second portion of the loan,
of US$100 million equivalent, will be made available after the satisfactory completion of a mid-term
review program, expected in the second half of 1996. The second tranche conditions will consist of:
(a) continued satisfactory overall macroeconomic performance to be assessed in close cooperation with
the IMF, with particular reference to progress towards achieving specific indicators agreed with the
Government and set out in Attachment 1 of Annex 1; (b) satisfactory progress in the implementation of
the Government's overall financial sector reform program as set out in the matrix of policy measures;
15/    They include: (a) the first step in the reduction of mandatory bank placements in Treasury bonds from 25 to 20
percent; (b) introduction of new negotiable govemment securities; (c) elimination of fiscal incentives on Treasury
bonds; (d) establishment of a Central Bank base through the auctioning of repurchase agreements and the development
of open market operations by the Central Bank; and (e) issuance of several decrees on the regulatory framework of
the capital market.



20
and (c) achievement of the following specific conditions laid out in the legal documents:
(i)    elimination of the mandatory Treasury bonds-to-sight deposits ratio;
(ii)   elimination of the ceiling on lending rates;
(iii)   presentation of the draft law on corporations to the House of Representatives;
(iv)   establishment of a foreign exchange market;
(v)    offer for sale of the State's shares in BCP, BNDE and CIH.
60.           Procurement. The proposed loan would be used to finance the CIF cost of eligible
imports and related services procured by the public and private sectors. It is expected that almost all
items financed under the loan would be for the private sector. Ineligible items would include those
financed from other sources, expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for items supplied from the
Borrower's territory, items intended for military or paramilitary use, and luxury items. Eligible
expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs would be limited to US$50 million equivalent each.
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized international commodity markets or
other channels of competitive procurement, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for the procurement of eligible imports estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5 million or
more each shall be awarded through simplified International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Contracts for procurement of eligible imports estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$5 million would be awarded on the basis of established commercial
practice and/or the Borrower's public sector procurement procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
There will be no prior review of contract awards; verification of supporting documents will be on a post-
review basis.
61.           Disbursement. For procurement through ICB, supporting documents would be presented
to the Bank prior to the submission of the first application for withdrawal of funds.  Supporting
documents for ICB would comprise evidence of bid invitations, record of bid opening, bids evaluation
report, and the signed contract. For contracts valued below US$5 million equivalent, disbursements
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) prepared on the basis of information
contained in customs certificates or other appropriate documents showing that eligible goods at least equal
in value to the amount to be reimbursed under the Bank loan had been imported.  Supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit
report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made
available to the auditors and to Bank staff upon request. Withdrawal applications would be consolidated
and submitted in amounts of not less than US$1 million equivalent. Contracts valued at less than
US$50,000 equivalent would not be eligible for financing under the Loan. Goods imported after May 15,
1995 would be eligible for retroactive financing under the loan up to a maximum of US$50 million
equivalent, or 20 percent of the loan amount, in view of the progress already achieved in implementing
the reform program. The closing date of the loan will be June 30, 1998.
62.           Audit. Bank Al-Maghrib would be responsible for maintaining all records of transactions
under the loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. All accounts would be audited within six
months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Certified copies of the audit would be submitted to the Bank and would include a separate opinion with
regard to claims submitted to the Bank on the basis of SOEs.
63.           Monitorable Indicators. Table 8 includes a set of indicators closely related to the program
of financial reforms. Deviations from the projections of Table 8 will trigger discussions with the Ministry
of Finance and the Central Bank to identify underlying problems and explore corrective policy measures.



21
64.           Environmental Aspects. The project is consistent with the Bank's environmental policies
and will follow accepted Bank procedures in this area. In conformity with the policy for financial sector
adjustment operations, no environmental rating has been assigned.
Table 8: Indicators to be monitored under the FMDL
Financial and Private Sector                              Monitoring period
Development Indicators                1994         1995       1996      1997
(estimate)
Bond markets
- Treasury bonds auctions/Total                    20            25        30         35
Treasury domestic debt (%)
- Issues of corporate bonds (DH                     0            0          2          4
billion)
Stock Market
- Market Capitalization/GDP (%)                     14           17        19         23
Indirect Monetary Control
- Central Bank advance rate/interbank              n.a.         2.0        2.0        2.0
rate maximum spread
VI. RISKS
65.           There are two main risks associated with the proposed loan. The first risk relates to the
fiscal sustainability of the reform program. The budget deficit deteriorated from 2.2 percent of GDP in
1992 to 3.8 percent in 1994 and is projected at 4.7 percent in 1995. While some of this deterioration
is due to adverse climatic conditions, there appears to be some slippage on fiscal discipline (para. 11).
A continued high budget deficit would put pressure on interest rates. To contain the cost of Treasury
borrowing, the Government could be tempted to re-establish administrative controls on interest rates and
credit allocation. Reverting to such policies would tax financial intermediation and crowd-out private
investment. Corrective measures to address the recent resurgence of macroeconomic imbalances are
being prepared by the Government, in close cooperation with the IMF and the Bank and will reduce this
risk. These measures, primarily designed to raise public savings, will include a reform of the tax system,
a limitation in the increase in the Government's wage expenditures, and an acceleration of the program
of privatization (para. 13). The Government's commitment to contain the fiscal deficit is recorded in the
Letter of Development Policy. Furthermore, the impact of the above measures is reflected in the
macroeconomic indicators which will be used to monitor macroeconomic performance prior to second
tranche release. The second risk is a deterioration of the banks' financial condition. Freeing both interest
rates and substantial resources for lending will increase the risks associated with greater latitude in bank
lending. Establishing an interbank foreign exchange market creates the scope for risk-taking operations
for which banks have no previous experience. As a result, banks' portfolios will become more vulnerable.
Combined with increased competition as domestic financial markets develop, this may result in higher
provisioning requirements and lower profitability. However, Moroccan banks have demonstrated their
capacity to sustain a sound level of profitability since the first liberalization measures were implemented
in the early nineties. Furthermore, the prudential and supervisory framework implemented in 1992,
combined with prudential measures to be introduced with the new interbank foreign exchange market,
will require banks to continue to operate within prudent guidelines.  To ensure the effective



22
implementation of these guidelines, the Central Bank plans to increase supervision. This will provide the
necessary balance to the relaxation of economic controls and minimize the risk that financial liberalization
comes at the expense of the soundness of the Moroccan banking system.
66.          Financial Benefits and Risks. The Borrower has selected fixed rate single currency loans
in US dollars and French francs in order to improve the management of its external liabilities. The choice
of the Bank loan currencies reflects the weight of French francs and US dollars in Morocco's foreign
exchange receipts, of which about 35 percent is denominated in each of those two currencies. The choice
of a fixed interest rate reflects the Borrower's preference to reduce the risk of interest rate volatility in
view of its current exposure in floating rate loans which account for about 45 percent of its total external
debt. In addition, the Borrower considers that the planning, budgeting and management of its external
debt service obligations would be simpler for single currency loans than for currency pool loans.
VII. OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
67.          As of May 31, 1995, cumulative commitments to Morocco (less cancellations) amounted
to US$6.6 billion, of which US$5.2 billion have been disbursed, US$2.1 billion have been repaid, and
US$1.4 billion are undisbursed. During FY94, gross disbursements were US$310.7 million while
repayments totalled US$251.7 million. Total IFC investments as of May 31, 1995, amounted to US$159
million and comprised sixteen operations. The Status of Bank operations is detailed in Annex 11.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
68.          During negotiations, the following agreements were reached and recorded in the loan
documents.
(a)    The overall content of the Letter of Development Policy and the attached policy
matrix (Annex 1).
(b)    The policy measures to be carried out prior to the release of the second tranche
(para. 59).
(c)    Procurement, disbursement and auditing requirements (paras. 60, 61 and 62).
IX. RECOMMENDATION
69.          I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Date: June 29, 1995
Washington, D.C.



ANNEXES






Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
(UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION OF FRENCH VERSION)
June 27, 1995
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMHENT POLICY
Dear Mr. President:
1.           Over the last decade, Morocco has implemented major adjustment and stabilization
policies that have led to satisfactory economic and financial results. The encouraging progress achieved
since 1983 is prompting us to preserve a stable macroeconomic framework and to ensure a solid
foundation for economic growth and employment. To meet these challenges, annual average GDP
growth must increase from 3 percent during 1990-94 to at least 6 percent in the medium term. A large
part of this additional growth will be export-led. Morocco will also need to become an active partner
in an area of international competitiveness that will be stimulated by the agreement to be signed with the
European Union.
2.           It is widely acknowledged in Morocco that the private sector will play a central role in
accelerating growth and investment. The role of the State will be two-fold. First, it will ensure that
growth is achieved in a stable economic and financial environment, which entails maintaining the budget
deficit at a level compatible with a balance of payments position that encourages private external
financing, in particular foreign direct investment. The State will also create a legal and regulatory
framework that will enable the private sector to consolidate its performance in sectors where it is already
active and to play a key role in others, especially the infrastructure and financial sectors.
3.           To perform this dual role, the Government intends to pursue a program of economic
development based on strengthening the private sector and maintaining a viable macroeconomic
framework, as outlined in Attachment I to this letter. The private sector development program is the
result of joint efforts by the authorities and the private sector that have been under way for more than
a year, particularly through the Monitoring and Development Committee for the Private Sector established
by the Government in June 1994. The work of this Committee has led to recommendations that have
been submitted to the Government for approval. Four main areas are involved:
*     pursuing the liberalization of the financial sector and developing capital markets;
*     developing and modernizing infrastructure and public services via greater recourse to
private investments;
*     ensuring a competitive business environment, in particular by pursuing trade liberalization
and promoting competition;
*     developing primary education and a system of vocational training that responds flexibly
to the needs of enterprises.
4.           To ensure effective implementation  of the private sector development program, the
Government is seeking the assistance of the World Bank in the form of specific studies and financial
support. The first operation, which is the main subject of this letter, concerns the financial sector.



Annex I
Page 2 of 3
5.            A healthy, modern and competitive financial sector is essential to our country's
development objectives. At the beginning of the 1990s, the Government implemented a first series of
financial sector reforms with the help of the World Bank. This first phase focussed on the liberalization
of the banking system. Major reforms were undertaken, such as the removal of credit ceilings,
elimination of selective credit policies, liberalization of interest rates and the introduction of a modem
supervisory and prudential regulatory framework for banks. However, certain constraints continue to
affect the financing of growth. The national savings and investment rates, about 19 percent and 20
percent of GDP respectively, are still appreciably below those of other rapidly growing countries. The
reduction of the budget deficit and the acceleration of the privatization program should lead to an increase
in public savings. At the same time, it is essential to pursue the financial sector reform so as to stimulate
private savings and increase private investment. The key objective will be the establishment of a financial
system relying on market mechanisms, as well as the development of capital markets as a major source
of long term financing for enterprises.
6.            The Government's program for financial sector development is detailed in Attachment
2 to this letter. It covers four areas of intervention:
(a)    Treasury financing. The measures include increased reliance on market mechanisms for
Treasury financing and implementation of a modern infrastructure for issuing Treasury
bonds. The mandatory Treasury bonds-to sight deposits ratio of banks has been reduced
from 35 percent to 25 percent in the first phase. It will now be eliminated in order to
improve private sector access to credit and accelerate the development of a domestic
financial market.
(b)    Monetary control.  The Central Bank will pursue an indirect monetary policy.
Refinancing rates in the banking system will be determined on the basis of reference rates
recently introduced by the Central Bank. The transmission of these rates within the
banking system will be facilitated by the liberalization of lending rates which will also
promote lending operations from the banking system to the private sector.
(c)    Capital Markets.  Following the restructuring of the legal framework in 1993, the
implementation of a regulatory framework will be continued. An infrastructure adapted
to the needs of a rapidly developing market will also be put in place. The objective will
be the harmonization of the Moroccan securities market with international standards.
(d)    Banking system.  The measures will aim, among other things, at continuing the
privatization of the banking system and the establishment of a foreign exchange market
as the first step towards an exchange rate based on market mechanisms and, in the
medium term, the convertibility of the Dirham, as soon as the prerequisites for this are
satisfied.
7.            Furthermore, the Government will implement a program aimed at strengthening some of
the institutions which will manage the financial sector reform. Grants from bilateral and multilateral
sources will be mobilized for the execution of the program.
8.            The Moroccan authorities believe that the reform program will promote the development
and consolidation of the country's capital markets, improve private sector access to the credit market, and
result in an increase in private investment and saving rates.  Indicators to measure these various
parameters have been defined and will help to assess the results of the program.



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
9.           In conclusion, the Government considers that the financial sector reforms described in
this letter constitute a key element of its policy to develop the private sector as the engine for strong and
sustainable growth and a full employment economy. The Government is committed to achieving the
objectives and implementing the measures set forth in this letter and the attached Annexes. To facilitate
their implementation, the Government hereby asks the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) for a loan in the amount of 250 million US dollars. It also requests the Bank to
support the efforts being undertaken in order to obtain cofinancing for this program.
Yours sincerely,
Mohamed Kabbaj
Minister of Finance and External Investments






Annex 1
Attachment No. 1
Page 1 of I
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Macroeconomic Framework
Selected Indicators
1994         1995           1996            1997
(in Percent)
Non-agriculture GDP Growth             3.7          2.7             3.2            3.6
Foreign Debt Outstanding/XGS           239          221             200             182
(As share of GDP)
Current Account                        -2.2         -3.5           -2.9            -2.8
Budget Deficit'                        -3.1         -3.5            -3.0           -2.5
Fixed Capital Formation                20.0         21.2            22.0           22.8
Including privatization receipts.






Annex 1
Attachment No. 2
Page I of 6
Kingdom of Morocco
Financial Markets Development Loan
Matrix of Policy Measures "
Objectives           Main Bank supported Policv                  Board Presentation                              Second Tranche
Measures under the 1991
FSDP
I. Treasury Financing
- Treasury finances itself at   -  Reduction of mandatory   -  Reduction of the mandatory Treasury bonds-  -  Reduction to 15% before end 1995 and
market terms                 Treasury bonds-to sight          to sight deposits ratio to 20%                elimiation of the mandatory Treasury bonds-
deposits ratio from 35 to                                                    to sight deposits ratio
25%
* Increase liquidity of     -  Opening of auction market    -  Adoption of a law on negotiable securities
public securities and       for Treasury bills to        -  Central Bank circular concerning T-bonds
strengthen secondary        insurance companies and         tenders:
market of T-bonds           other enterprises
* including negotiable securities and tap
issues; and
* defining the number of original maturities,
and the number of Treasury securities issues
at 13, 26, 52 weeks (every week); at 2, 5,
10, 15 years (every month)
Eliminate remaining tax   -  Preparation of a study and  -  Elimination of fiscal incentives on Treasury
bias against non-           an action plan on the           bonds
Government fixed            harmonization of fiscal
income securities           treatment of financial
instruments
-  Strengthen public debt                                                                                  -  Completion of training program in domestic
management system                                                                                          debt management
- Strengthening of budgeting and forecasting
system
I/ Specific conditions of second tranche release as set forth in the Loan Agreement are underlined.



Annex 1
Attachment No. 2
Page 2 of 6
Kingdom of Morocco
Financial Markets Development Loan
Matrix of Policy Measures "
Objectives          Main Bank supported Policy                 Board Presentation                            Second Tranche
Measures under the 1991
FSDP
II.  Indirect Monetary
Control
- Implement an indirect    - Removal of credit ceilings   - Issuance of a Central Bank circular        - Calculate the reserve requirement on an
monetary policy                                           establishing the terms and conditions of its  average daily basis over a bi-weekly or
intervention on the monetary market:        monthly period
*    invitation to bid from Central Bank
*    repurchase agreements at banks' request
*    open market transactions at market terms
- Establishment of a single rate   - Base rates are set by Central Bank and
on all variable rate advances  represent the floor and ceiling rates of banks'
from the Central Bank (7      refinancing
days)
- Liberalize interest rates  - Liberalization of rates on                                              - Elimination of ceiling on lending rates
deposists > 3 months
- Ceiling on lending rates set at
lI" time the weighted average
rate of bank 6 and 12 months
deposits over the preceding 6
months. Ceiling adjusted
every semester



Annex I
Attachment No. 2
Page 3 of 6
Kingdom of Morocco
Financial Markets Development Loan
Matrix of Policy Measures "
Objectives           Main Bank supported Policy                 Board Presentation                              Second Tranche
Measures under the 1991
,FSDP
III. Capital Market
Developen
- Diversify financing       - Review with the Bank projects  - Issuance of a first series of decrees on the  - Issuance of a second series of decrees on the
sources for private        to reform the Stock Exchange     stock exchange and the OPCVM                 stock exchange
companies, strengthen       and to create mutual equity
accounting framework,       funds                                                                      - Implementation of an accounting frarnework
and deepen capital markets                                                                               for the OPCVM
- Presatation to the House of Rq reseatives of
the draft law on corporations
- Approval by the Prime Minister of the rules    - Presentation to the Council of Government of
governing the National Council for           the draft law on preparation, publication and
Accounting                                   certification of consolidated financial
statements
- Elimination of Government guarantee on
domestic bond issues by public enterprises
- Increase institutional                                    - Enactment of the law concerning accounting    - Decree of the Minister of Finance setting the
savings                                                     rules to be applied by insurance companies   accounting rules applied to insurazce
companies



Annex 1
Attachment No. 2
Page 4 of 6
Kingdom of Morocco
Financial Markets Development Loan
Matrix of Policy Measures "
Objectives           Main Bank supported Policy                Board Presentation                             Second Tranche
Measures under the 1991
FSDP
- Terms of reference of a study on the situation   - Development of an action plan based on the
and potential role of institutional savers in the    recommendations of the study
development of financial markets; this study
will focus on:
*    Improving the funding mechanisms of
social security and pension funds
*    Revising investment regulations of
insurance companies
*    Establishing a credit rating agency
*    Developing postal savings
Encourage investors to                                                                                - Enactment of a decree defining the level of
trade securities on-floor                                                                               trading fees
and enhance transparency                                                                              - Publication of transactions made by the
of stock exchange                                                                                       Casablanca stock exchange (prices and
operations                                                                                              volumes)
Strengthen the Securities                                - Definition of an organizational chart of   CDVM:
Commission (CDVM) and                                      CDVM, with a job description for key
the Casablanca Stock                                       positions                                  * Preparation of two manuals covering (i)
Exchange                                                                                                 procedures related to the review of requests
and the issuance of visas to OPCVM &
brokerage houses; and (ii) issuance of visas
for public offerings
* Implementation of a training program in the
area of market supervision, monitoring of
brokerage houses and OPCVM



Annex 1
Attachment No. 2
Page 5 of 6
Kingdom of Morocco
Financial Markets Development Loan
Matrix of Policy Measures "'
Objectives            Main Bank supported Policy                  Board Presentation                                Second Tranche
Measures under the 1991
FSDP
- Stock Exchange
* Implementation of an ation plan to sigthen
the regulatory and institutional framework of
the market on the basis of the
recommendations of the G-30, in particular
implementation of a cural deository system
and of a trade setdfmnet and delivmy system.
* Conorming the manageent of stock exhange
tradings, implementation of an automated
quotation system which guarantees market
IV, Banking System                                                                                             transparency and equality of access
- Accelerate privatization                                   - Privatize BMCE and SNI                        - Ofr for sale of Stae's shares in BCP. BNDE
program                                                                                                      and CIH
- Establish a foreign                                        - Issuance of a letter of the Governor of       - Issuance of a circular by the Office des
exchange market                                               Central Bank announcing the creation of a      Changes establishing the foreign exchange
foreign exchange market and inviting banks     market where banks will be authorized to deal
to prepare themselves for the implementation   among themselves and with their clients with
of this market by ensuring proper training of  foreien exchange operations of foreign
their staff and by acquiring the necessary     currencies against fbreimn currencies and of
equipment                                      foreign currencies against Dirham in the
domestic market
- Eliminate the initial minimum provision of   - Issuance by the Central Bank of accounting
DH 100,000 required for opening non-           standards for accounting treatment of foreign
resident Moroccan accounts in foreign          currency operations by banks
currencies
- Increase the foreign currency account limits
of exporters of goods and services from 10%
and 5%, respectively, to 20%



Annex 1
Attachment No. 2
Page 6 of 6
Kingdom of Morocco
Financial Markets Development Loan
Matrix of Policy Measures /
Objectives           Main Bank supported Policy                  Board Presentation                               Second Tranche
Measures under the 1991
FSDP
- Strengthen bank           -  Implement minimum 8%                                                        -  Issuance of a circular by the Central Bank:
supervision                   capital adequacy ratio                                                     *  Specing the modalies for the fiintioning
and operation of the interbank foreign
-  Introduce classification of                                                    exchange market
problem loans and                                                          *  Defining and limiting the maximum daily
provisioning rules based on                                                   foreign exchange position of each bank in
the basis of aging of arrears                                                 any single currency and in all currencies,
and client financial situation                                                which will not be lower than 20% of the
equity of each bank
Loan to a single beneficiary                                               *  Specifying the code of conduct and rules to
limited to 7 % of bank                                                        be followed by the operators
equity (15% for a single                                                   *  Specifying the regulation on supwvision and
corporate group)                                                              monitoring of the market and the prudenial
regulations for the foregn exdiange market.
-  Harmonization of                                                           -  Arr&e  of the Minister of Finances on the
accounting standards                                                          harmonization of the prudential regulations
between banks and                                                             for banks and specialized financial
specialized financial                                                         institutions (BNDE, CIH and CNCA)
institutions                                                               -  Strengthening of banking supervision
following llbealizatio measures on the basis
of:
*  Training on monitoring of foreign exoange
market
* Off-site supervision
* On-site supervision
* Regular submission of reports prepared by
independent, external auditors certified by
the Central Bank



Annex 2
Morocco. Sunmary Macroeconomic Indicators                         Page  1 of 2
Medium-Term Outlook and Resource Requirements
-         Averages------------  Est. -----------------Projections--------------
1980-83   1984-87 1988-92   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  1999  2000
Rates of Change (%p.a):
Gross Domestic Product                3.6%      4.7%    3.9%   -1.1%  11.8%  -3.7%   9.0%   3.3%   3.9%  4.6%  5.3%
Agriculture                        -0.7%    10.3%    1.8%   -6.2%  65.0% -30.0%  44.0%   2.2%   3.0%  3.5%  4.0%
Non-agriculture                     4.5%     3.5%    4.2%   -0.2%   3.7%   2.7%   3.2%   3.6%   4.1%  4.8%  5.6%
Industry                            1.6%     2.6%    3.4%   -2.0%   2.3%   3.8%   3.3%   5.5%   6.8%  7.5%  8.2%
(a/w. manufacturing)              3.8%     3.9%    4.4%   -1.5%   2.0%   4.0%   3.5%   6.5%   8.0%  9.0%  9.0%
Services                            6.3%      4.1%    4.7X    0.7%   4.3%   2.2%   3.1%   2.6%   2.8%  3.4%  4.2%
Per-Capita Consumption               -0.9%      2.8%    2.4%   -2.2%   8.9%  -3.8%   5.5%   0.6%   1.0%  1.0%  1.9%
Domestic lnflation 1/                 8.0%      8.1%    5.1%    3.8%   4.7%   4.5%   4.0%   2.6%   2.0%  2.0%  2.0%
Exports of GNFS 2/                    4.4%      4.6%    4.0%    4.8%   4.6%   3.6%   7.2%   8.1%   8.1%  8.8%  8.1%
Imports of GNFS                      -1.8%     4.81    7.3%    0.4%   5.2%   8.1%   6.3%   5.3%   5.0%  4.6%  4.9%
Ratios to GDP (X):
Gross Investment                     25.6      24.1    23.1    21.2   21.2   21.4   22.4   22.9   23.5  24.2  25.0
Fixed CapitaL Formation              25.0      21.9    22.5    22.4   20.1   21.7   22.0   22.8  23.2  24.0  24.8
Central Government                  7.7       4.9     4.4     6.2    4.5    4.4    5.1    5.2    5.3   5.3   5.3
Other Public Sector                 5.2       5.3     4.9     3.7    3.0    3.1    3.4    3.2    3.1   2.8   2.4
Private Sector                     12.1      11.8    13.2    12.5   12.6   14.2   13.5   14.4   14.8  15.9  17.1
Domestic Savings                     13.5      16.5    18.3    15.7   16.1   14.8   16.0   16.7   17.7  19.2  20.5
Central Government                 -1.5      -1.8     3.0     4.6    2.7    2.8    3.2    3.7    4.3   5.3   6.5
Private Sector                     15.1      18.2    15.3    11.1   13.3   12.0   12.8   13.0   13.4  13.9  14.0
National Savings                     16.1      20.3    22.0    19.1   19.0   17.9   19.5   20.1   21.0  22.4  23.8
Private Consumption                  68.3      67.9    66.0    66.1   70.2   71.6   71.1   70.7   70.4  69.3  67.9
Total Credit Stock                   52.3      55.7    63.8    72.6   65.7   66.0   64.9   63.6   62.2  61.9  60.6
(Olw: Private)                     30.1     33.3    37.7    44.9   40.7   40.9   41.5   41.3   41.1  41.4  41.2
Exports of GNFS                      19.6      23.1    23.2    23.3   21.2   22.3   22.2   23.8   25.3  26.9  27.8
(O/u: mnufactured Goods)              4.6      7.0      8.1     8.0    7.1    7.3    7.3    7.9    8.5   9.1   9.4
Imports of GMFS                      31.7     30.7    28.0    28.8   26.3   28.8   28.6   30.0   31.1  32.0  32.3
Current Acc. Balance                 -9.6      -3.7    -1.1    -2.0  -2.2   -3.5   -2.9  -2.8   -2.5  -1.8  -1.2
Total Government Revenue             21.6      20.3    23.7    27.6  24.1   24.7   23.6   23.7   23.6  24.0  24.0
Goverrnent Expenditure               33.8      29.2    27.6    30.0   27.2   28.2   26.7   26.2   25.6  25.2  25.0
Fiscal Deficit, comit, basis        -12.2      -8.8    -3.9    -3.3   -3.8   -4.7   -4.3   -3.8   -3.2  -2.2  -1.0
Privatization receipts                0.0       0.0     0.0     0.9    0.7    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.2   1.0   0.0
External Debt Burden ():
Debt Outstand. (DOD/GDP) 3/          74.6    113.0    85.7    80.5   66.8   66.0   60.2   58.3   56.3  52.7  48.6
Debt Outstand. (DOD/XGS) 4/         286.9    364.3   281.7   249.3  230.4  219.7  201.1  184.0  169.9 151.8 136.2
Debt Service (TDS/XGS)  4/           37.7      31.3    25.7    30.4   32.4   27.4   23.9   22.3   21.3  25.1  23.0
Memo Items:
Capital Effic.(5-year ICOR) 5/        5.2       6.1     4.7    14.7    6.4   13.0    9.1    5.4    4.4   6.0   4.1
Ext.Resarves (months of imports)      1.3       1.2     3.5     6.2    6.3    5.4    5.2    5.3    5.6   5.4   5.6
Terms of Trade Index (1980=100)      92.1      94.7   106.3   105.5  105.8  106.2  105.7  104.8  103.9 103.0 102.3
1/ Isplicit GDP deflator;
2/ GUFS denotes Goods and Nonfactor Services;
3/ External debt includes MLT, IMF, and short-term;
4/ XGS denotes export of goods & services; includes workers' remittances;
5/ ICOR denotes increaental capital-output ratio;
Sources: Official data; staff estimtes and projections.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
+----------------Morocco. Balance of Payments (USS, million)-----------------
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Exports of Goods & services       8395   8306   8911   8598   9132   9519  10445  11481  12611  13957  15391
Exports of GNFS                   6306   6117   6454   6205   6667   7055   7745   8643   9628  10797  12004
Merchandise (FO8)               4210   4278   3957   3696   4006   4219   4628   5176   5773   6451   7099
Nonfactor services             2096   1839   2498   2510   2660   2836   3117   3468   3855   4346   4905
Imports of GNFS                   7850   7690   8287   7671   8294   9135   9968  10892  11844  12840  13945
Merchandise (CIF)               6908   6872   7366   6657   7148   7895   8603   9426  10295  11187  12169
(0/w: freight & insurance)    627    619    662    695    730    766    805    845    887    932    978
Nonfactor services              942    818    921   1014   1146   1240   1365   1465   1550   1652   1775
Resource balance                 -1544  -1573  -1833  -1466  -1628  -2080  -2223  -2248  -2216  -2043  -1940
Net factor income                 -985  -1115  -1033  -1326  -1295  -1175  -1209  -1289  -1371  -1453  -1519
Factor income receipts              83    199    292    224    339    465    481    508    548    603    663
Investment income, receipts         83    199    292    224    339    465    481    508    548    603    663
Interest receipts                 --     --      --      0    117    241    247    261    290    331    377
Direct investment income          83    199    292    224    221    224    235    246    259    272    287
Factor income payments            1068   1314   1325   1550   1633   1639   1691   1797   1920   2056   2182
Investment income, payments        113    184    330    481    549    583    640    725    825    940   1065
Direct investment income         113    184    330    481    549    583    640    725    825    940   1065
Total interest payments          955   1130    995   1069   1085   1057   1051   1072   1095   1116   1117
Net current transfers             2320   2270   2405   2251   2227   2141   2417   2523   2634   2766   2961
Total current transfers, rec.   2383   2356   2493   2320   2317   2239   2519   2630   2745   2882   3083
Private transfers               2167   2181   2369   2252   2217   2139   2369   2490   2595   2722   2903
Workers remittances           2006   1990   2165   2169   2127   1999   2219   2330   2435   2557   2723
Other private transf.          161    191    204      83      90    140    150    160    160    165    180
Official transfers               216    175    124      68    100    100    150    140    150    160    180
Total current transfers, payts    63        86     87      69     90      98    103    107    111    116    122
Private transfers                 21     29      41     32      35      38     40      43     45      47     49
Official transfers                42     57      46     37      54      60     62      64     66      69     72
Cur. Ac. bal., excl grants        -209   -418   -460   -542   -695  -1113  -1016  -1014   -953   -730   -498
Official capital grants            760    573       0      30     68       0      0       0      0       0      0
LT CapitaL Inflows                 891    963   1243    704    164    928   1307   1487   1645   1007   1182
Direct foreign investment          227    375    503    522    424    637    850   1000   1150   1250   1400
Net LT Borrowing                   664    588    740    182   -327    290    457    487    495   -243   -218
Disbursements (DRS)             1257   1422   1675   1571   1405   1749   1860   1967   2091   2149   2198
Repayment (DRS)                  593    834    935   1389   1732   1458   1404   1480   1596   2392   2416
Other capital flows (net)          355   -165   -223    292    853         0      0       0      0       0       0
(Including short-term capital,
and errors and omissions)
Changes in net reserves          -1797   -953   -560   -484   -624    185   -291   -473   -691   -277   -684
Net credit from IMF             -162   -172   -116   -152   -146    -91    -45         -3      0       0      0
Reserve changes n.e.i.         -1635   -782   -443   -332   -478    276   -246   -470   -691   -277   -64K
Net intl reserves                 2066   3100   3584   3655   4129   3853   4099   4569   5260   5537   6221
Gross reserves, incl. gold        2337   3349   3819   3942   4386   4110   4356   4826   5517   5794   6479
(In months of imports of GNFS)       4       5      6       6      6       5      5       5      6       5      6
Sources: Official data (Office des Changes); staff estimates and projections.



Annex 3
Page I of 2
COST OF REFORMS
(in DH million)
Semestera/    A) UnderlvinR    B) PEP Ratio   C) PEP Size    D) Interest    E) Volume of   P) Interest Cost    G) Tob        H) Toal        1) Incremental    K) CR    L) ICR in
Years         Deosit Base                                    Cost of PEP      Bonds to      of Refuanced    Interest Cost  Interet Cost at   Cost of Reforn    In USS    %of GDP
(at 4.25%)    Refinance at       Bonds                      4.25% (without       (ICR)         million
Market Rites                                     refonm)
1995:1           67670             0.25        16918            359               0                 0            0                 0                0         0            0
1995:11          71054             0.20        14211            302            3553               169          471              377                93        11           0.03
1996:1           74607             0.15        11191            238            7461              354           592               396              196        23
1996:11          78337            0.00             0             0            19584              930           930              416               514        61           0.21
1997:1           82254             0.00            0             0            20563              977           977              437               540        64
1997:11          86366             0.00            0              0           21592              1026         1026              459               510        61           0.30
1998:1           90685             0.00            0             0            22671              964           964              482              434         58           0.12
Total              NA                 NA          NA            899              NA              4419          4959             2568             2287       272            0.66
A) = Total Demand Deposits; the forced T-bond placement at 4.25 percent below market rate (PEP: 'Plancher d'Effets Publics') is computed as a percentage of an underlying demand deposits' base
which is assumed to increase at a rate of 10 percent per year;
B) = "Plancher d'Effets Publics' (PEP) Ratio;
C) = ASB;
D) = C*(4.25/2) percent;
E) = AS(0.25-B);
F) = Eamacket cost of T-bonds for the Trewry: 9.5 percent ; falls to 8.5 percent in 1998 as a result of policies;
G) = D+F;
H)      A*(0.25)*(4.25%/2);
I)  = G-H; Atating in 1997, the Teaury recover 10 percent of the cost of reforms through extr profit taxes on banks
K) 5 1/8.4;
L)  I/GDP



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
COST OF TREASURY REFINANCING AFTER REFORM
YEARS    TOTAL    ORIGINAL REFINANCING COST OF PEP ELIMINATION
DOMESTIC             PEP             OF PEP
DEBT
MLT   ST  IN DH  IN USS  IN % OF
GDP
1999         77605            25949        10379    15569        642        76          0.16%
2000          78441            28543        11417    17126        724        86         0.17%
2001          80489            31398        12559    18839        802        96         0.17%
2002          83163            34538        13815   20723         868       103         0.17%
Assumptions
The Treasury refinunces the 'Plancher d'Effets Publics' ( PEP) by borrowing 60 percent thruugh short term (Sl) bonds, 40
percent through medium-long term bonds (MLT). In addition, the impact on total domestic debt of the assumed I percent drop
in interest rates is computed (it is assumed that 80 percent of all domestic debt can be refinanced, as 20 percent is due to
mature later on). Other assumptions underlying the computation are:
a) the PEP demand deposit base increases at 7 percent per year, down from 10 percent, as funds are increasingly allocated in
alemative fuancial instruments;
b) Traauiy recovers 10 percent of the cost of reforms through taxes on extra bank profits starting in 1997.



Annex 4
Page I of 5
Privatization Indicators
Privatization Transactions (1988-1993)
Argentina                                                                                                                     98
Turkey                                                                                                               92
Mexico                                                                                                     84
Pakistan
Brazil                                                                              65
Philippines                                                                           61
Tunisia                                  27
Morocco                  1 2
Egypt           7
Omlan5
Iran     2
0          10         20          30          40         50          60          70          80         90          100
Develoiine Countries Privatization Revenue (USS billion) in 1988-93
latin America/Carib.                                                                                                     $55 20
Europe/Central Asia                                  $18 00
East/Asia/Pacllc ific                             20
South Asia         $3 60
Sub-Sahara Africa       S240
Middle E./N. Africa    $0.70
0                10                20                30               40                50                60



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
MOROCCO - PRIVATIZATION REVENUE
(As of April 1995)
CUMULATIVE PRIVATIZATION REVENUE
Million DH
8,000
7.214
6,000
4,000
2,000
pril-93June Aug. Oct. Dec. Feb. April June Aug. Oct. Dec. Feb. April
May July Sept. Nov.Jan.-94Mar. May July Sept. Nov.Jan.-95Mar.
Cumulative revenue of $785 million
PRIVATIZATION REVENUE BY COUNTRY
Morocco
Sitzeriand
10.8%
Others
1.1%USA              UK
6.7%   France    10.5%
6.5%



[ _______                                                               Transfers done to 1 May 1995
|Firm or hotel sold  Activity                                P Permentago    Date1 |Metod                                         Buyer                                                 Price paid IMillionj
I   ______________ ______________  ~ sold   Sold    I__   _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _                  DH)J
BMCE                  C ommercial bank                        14O0%    12/94  Casablanca Stock Exchange                          Moroccan                                                         455.3
underwriting from  January.1995 issue
I    2S''O'0'%  Mzg'   ren'der  ''   - - - ........................ 'orocscan''ar'dinte'rn'a't'l'oat;....................................................4'3:
financial institutions
3.08   12f4    o~rkers iayment for 195 transfer                  io'ro' an 
CHELCO              Ready-made clothing                       32.00%   04193  Direct negotiation                                 English, Courtaulds                                                10.2
CIOR                Cement                                    51.00%   08193  Tender followed by direct negotiation    Swiss, Holdercim  subsidiary of Holderbank                                 614.0
34.00%   12193  Casablanca Stock Exchange                         99.1%  Moroccan                                                  329.2
1.22%   01195  Workers                                           Moroccan                                                          10.0
CTM-LN              Inter-urban bus company                   35.00%   07193  Tender                                             Moroccan, consortiun of financial institutions                   111.6
|  CTM-LN I er urban bu co npany 35 00% ~~~................  07.9.3.......r......  .......................................................... ................. ..  ....................................................   onor.u.f....nia
40.00%   06193  Casablanca Stock Exchange                         99.5%  Moroccan                                                    94.3
2.60%   12194  Workers                                           Moroccans                                                           5.2
18.46%   09194  Casablanca Stock Exchange                         Moroccans                                                          48.7
CMH                 Marketing petroleum  products             50.00%   03194  Tender followed by direct negotiation    Moroccan, Hogespar                                                         100.1
Dragon-Gaz          Marketing petroleum  products             50.00%   02194  Direct negotiation                                 Italian, Dragofina                                                 0.85
General Tire        Industry-Tires                            20.00%   10194  Direct negotiation                                 Moroccan, consortium  of financial instiutions                    46.0
2.21%    10194  Workers                                          Moroccans                                                           4.3
MOBIL Maroc    Marketing petroleum  products                  50.00%   05194  Direct negotiation                                 American, Mobil Petroleum  Corporation                           110.0
MODULEC             Electra-mechanical equipment              76.34%   08194  Direct negotiation                                 Moroccan, Ouazzani                                             1 Dirham
...............................                                        oroccns-------------848%.Work.s.Moroca
PETROM              Marketing petroleum  products             51.00%   07193  Tender                                             Moroccan, Groupe Bouaida                                         145.0
SHELL Maroc         Marketing petroleum  products             50.00%   12193  Direct negotiation                                 English, Shell Petroleun International                           450.0
SNEP                Producer of chlorine, soda, bleach    90.00%    10193  Tender                                                Moroccan, Group Ynna Dolbeau Dimatit                             364.3
........... ....  ...............  ............ ................................................................  ... ....................................................... ....................................  ... .................
and vinyl                                  53%WresMoroccans                                                                                                               Underway
SNI                 Financial Holding                         15.63%   10194  Casablanca Stock Exchang                           Moroccans                                                        361.1
51.00%    11194  Tender                                           Moroccan and international consortium  of                       1669.0
financial institutions
SODERS              Yeast manufacturer                        33.34%   02193  Tender                                             Moroccans and French (Lesaffre)                                    27.0
2.39.......   .......... ................................................... ....2........0.19 W kscn-s 1............
2.39N   02193  WorkHs        Moroccans                                                            1.6    e~~~~0  
Po- >



Transfers done to 1 May 1995
| Firm or hotel sold Activity                  Perunbte| Data |MeUod                                Buyer                                      Price paid (Million
If ~ I________  __soldl Sold                                                                                                                              DHI)
SOFACICREDIT  Consumer credit                   35.00%  04194 Tender                                Moroccan, consortium of financial institutions     89.3
i8.37%  04194 Casablanca Stock Exchae              Moroccans                                          40.0
___________   _______________________  1.7%     Workers                             Moroccans                                       Underway
TOTAL Maroc   Marketing petroleum products      50.00%  05194 Direct negotiation                    French, Total Outre-Mer                           300.0
Hotel les Amandiers                            100.00%  02193 Direct negotiation                    Moroccan, Societe Floride                           5.0
Hotel Azghor                                   100.00%  01195 Tender                                Moroccan, Societb Touristique de Ouarzazate        14.55
Hotel Basma                                    100.00%  09193 Tender followed by direct negotiation   Moroccan/Libyan Consortium, Bassamate            50.0
Hotel Casablanca                               100.00%  12194 Direct negotiation                    Moroccan, INTEREDEC-Maroc                         180.0
Hotel del lles                                 100.00%  06194 Tender followed by direct negotiation   Moroccan, Expertotel                             20.0
Hotel Doukkala                                 100.00%  04195 Tender                                Saudi Arabian, Abdulmajid Abu Aliadayel            22.17
Hotel Malabata                                 100.00%  09194 Tender followed by direct negotiation   Saudi Arabian, Ste. Malabata International       55.0
Hotel Oukaimeden                               100.00%  04195 Tender                                Moroccan, Kenzi Hotel                               3.01
Hotel Rissani                                  100.00%  09194 Tender                                Moroccan, Ste. SHAT                                  8.1
Hotel Tarik                                    100.00%  03193 Tender                                Moroccan, United Moroccan Hotels                    15.2
Hotel Toubkal                                  100.00%  04194 Tender                                Moroccan, Beach Club                               38.5
Hotel Transatlantique-Meknes                   100.00%  05194 Tender followed by direct negotiation   Moroccan, Tikida Ismailia SA                     41.0
Hotel Volubilis                                100.00%  04194 Tender                                French, FRAM                                       35.0
Hotel Zalagh                                   100.00%  12/94 Tender                                Moroccan, Ste. Dar Si Aissa                       17.25
Sectoral Distribution of Firms to be Privatized (Exclusing Hotels)
Sector                       Number of Entities             Value-Added of Privatiables /                       Employment
Total Value-Added of Sector
Agriculture                                         3                                        0.06%                                            411
Extractive Industries                               5                                         6.25%                                          1,543
Manufactures                                       41                                         6.12%                                         19,837
Financial Institutions                              10                                      31.32%                                          6,751
Commerce                                            9                                        4.23%                                          3,285
Transport & Communications                          2                                         0.93%                                            820
Services                                            4                                        0.27%                                           1,279
TOTAL                                              74                                                                                      36,612
L 4



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY FOR PRIVATIZING
STATE-OWNED BANKS
(a)    BCP is the largest commercial bank in terms of assets (about DH 40 billion), deposits or number
of branches. BCP is majority owned by the State (55 percent) and Bank Al-Maghrib (11
percent). BCP has specialized in banking services to Moroccan expatriate workers, small and
medium industry lending and housing finance. It has a large portfolio of risk-free government
securities and a relatively small loan portfolio. This explains that BCP's capital adequacy ratio
has been adequate and generally above other commercial banks, although its profitability return
on assets of about 0.5 percent is low in comparison with other banks. The Government intends
to privatize BCP through a combination of tender, IPO on the Casablanca stock exchange and
direct sale to employees. Given BCP's traditional banking products, its privatization is likely to
attract mainly domestic buyers. The State plans to offer its shares of BCP for sale in 1996.
(b)    BNDE is Morocco's industrial development bank. With total assets of about DH 6 billion, it
plays a dominant role in medium- and long-term industrial lending. The State owns 34 percent
of BNDE's shares and an additional 15 percent is held by other publicly controlled institutions.
The Moroccan private sector owns 27 percent and foreign institutions 24 percent. Faced with
competitive pressures from commercial banks, BNDE's profitability has eroded since the early
nineties although it remains acceptable. BNDE is implementing a strategic plan aimed at
developing an advisory and investment banking role and monitoring the structure of costs and
revenue by banking product. This plan was prepared in 1992 under the technical assistance
component of the Bank's last loan to BNDE. Given the nature of BNDE's operations and its
strategic orientation, the Government has hired a foreign investment bank with the mandate to
find a strategic investor. Once this investor has been identified, direct negotiations will follow
to determine the sale price of the State's shares. BNDE's privatization is expected to be
completed before the end of 1995.
(c)    CIH.  The State owns 49 percent of CIH's shares through CDG (36 percent) and Bank
Al-Maghrib (13 percent) and about 10 percent through other publicly controlled institutions. The
privatization of CIH (total assets of DH 21 billion) is scheduled in 1996. However, CIH's
privatization is likely to be more difficult for two reasons. First, CIH is operating a subsidized
housing lending scheme for the low-income population for which it receives direct budgetary
support. This activity is barely profitable and a private investor is likely to require either a
higher fee to operate the scheme or the right to stop its operation. Second, more than half of
CIH's tourism portfolio is affected by arrears. Although tourism represents only about 20
percent of CIH's total assets and several rescheduling arrangements have recently been agreed
upon, the quality of the tourism portfolio may make privatization difficult.






Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
MOROCCO - SECURlTIES MARKET
SHARE TRADING VOLUME, NEW ISSUES AND MARKET CAPITALIZATION
(DH million)
1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992      1993    1994
Trading Volume (DH)                                                70.7  267.99    133.3  512.02    459.6   599.1   4610.4  8647.4
-Official Call Market percent                                    9.7%     3.0%    10.5%     2.1%    11.5%    74.1%   21.7%    26.5%
-Direct Trades (off-floor) percent                              90.3%   97.0%    89.5%   97.9%    88.5%    25.9%    78.3%    73.5%
Market Capitalization (DH) 1'                                      2782    3604      5042    7768    12449    16965   25689   40869
Market Turnover percent 2'                                        2.5%    7.4%       2.6%    6.6%      3.7%     3.5%    17.9%   21.7%
Capitalization/GDP percent                                          NA       NA     2.6%     3.6%      5.1%     7.0%    10.3%   14.3%
Price/Earnings ratio (P/E) 3/                                       NA       NA       5.1      7.4       7.7      8.9    22.8    22.5
Concentration (share in tot. trans. of 10 most traded stock)        NA       NA       NA       NA    80.0%        NA   94.0%       NA
Average Daily Trading volume by market session (million DH)         NA       NA       NA       NA        1.8      2.5     18.6    28.8
Impact of privatization on Average Daily Trading (percent due to    NA       NA       NA       NA      0.0%     0.0%    21.0%    27.4%
privatization) 4'
Percentage of shares traded                                        18%      41%      20%      28%      40%       59%      95%      83%
Percentage of Bonds traded                                         82%      59%      80%      72%      60%       41%       5%      17%
Number of listed companies                                           76       71       71       69       68        68       65      65
1 / Market capitalization as computed by the stock exchange does not include the total market value of each listed company's share capital, but only the value
associated with the number of shares submitted for listing.
2/ Percent of market capitalization. Shares only. Turnover statistics in the Casablanca stock exchange annual reports combine share and bond trading and do
not reflect secondary market activity in listed shares.
3/ Excluding stock dividends.
4/ This value attained 55 percent in the first months of 1995
Source: Bourse de Valeurs de Casablanca, Statistiques, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994



at                  ~~~m
OD                 ~~~0
0
0
m                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CD
september
Ln
so X axcn 
CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
cn  cn~~~~~c
0)~~~~~~~~~
S: 3 z a23v
S xauuv



Annex 5
Morocco: Securities Market
International Stock Exchange Comparison: 1993
Market Capitalization:     Number of listed               Value traded
% GDP                  companies                   (USS million)
Morocco                          10.3                    65                              512
Egypt                            9.2                    674                                75
Iran                             2.6                    124                               311
Jordan                          94.2                    101                             1,377
Tunisia                          6.4                     19                                46
Turkey                          30.2                    152                            23,242
Argentina                        17.2                   180                            10,339
Chile                          102.1                    263                             2,797
Colombia                         17.4                    89                              732
Greece                           13.6                   143                             2,713
India                           44.8                   6800                            21,879
Kenya                           26.3                     56                                14
Nigeria                          2.9                    174                                10
Philippines                     75                      180                             6,785
Thailand                        105.5                   347                            86,934
Japan                           71.2                   2155                           954,341
UK                              121.7                  1646                           423,526
USA                             82.4                   7607                         3,507,223
Source: M.A. El-Erian, M.S. Kumar (IMF), "Emerging Equity Markets in Middle Eastern Countries", Fobruary 1995
Market CaDitalizaton: 1993 International Comparison
120-
s0-
6L0
140-
20  I*.iIM
U~~~~~
tssil~~~~~ cL 






Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
SITUATION AND ROLE OF INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS
1.              The size and the role of institutional investors (savings institutions, pension funds, social
security, and insurance companies) appears relatively strongly correlated with the level of growth and
savings in developing economies (Graph 1).
Graph 1: Comparison Between Institutional Investors Sector, Savings Rate and Growth
Rate
- - - - --* Stock of lnst. Savings/GDP
30              0|                X                             Savings rate/GDP
*Average Growth Rate 88-92
Morocco     Singapore    Malaysia       Chile
Source: World Bank
2.               In Morocco, by comparison, the share of institutional investors remains limited in the
financial sector. Total assets managed by institutional investors are relatively small. In 1993, these funds
amounted to about DH 45 billion or 18 percent of GDP (Graph 2). The pension and social security
systems are underfunded (para. 6). Domestic savings modestly increased between 1970 and 1992, from
15 to 17 percent of GDP, thus lagging behind most fast growing middle-income countries. This is mainly
due to the limited savings generated by the public sector and the low level of development of the
contractual savings sector.
Graph 2: Evolution of Reserves of Institutional Investors
4 5
35 -                                         ~~~~~~~~~~El cEN
MI1 Res. of CNSS
X 20  ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EResources of Pension F.
10  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UInvest of Insurance Co
1990            1991            1992            1993
Source: Central Bank and Ministry of Finance



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
A.    The Postal Savings
3.            The "Caisse d'Epargne Nationale" (CEN) plays a marginal role. Created in 1959, the
CEN is part of the 'Office National des Postes et Telecommunications'. With 1319 branches covering
most of the country, the CEN manages about 650,000 accounts, representing about 2.4 accounts per 100
inhabitants. This is a very low ratio compared to postal savings institutions in developed countries (30
percent in France), but also to most developing countries (more than 15 percent in Asian countries, and
8 to 10 percent in some West African countries). On total savings in Morocco (including term deposits
in banks and other financial institutions), CEN's share amounted to only 2 percent.
4.           Due to its particular position, and the large untapped savings pool (rural savings, clerks,
civil servants), the CEN could mobilize a significant portion of low to middle income households'
savings, if it provided better services and more efficiently managed its assets.  There is a high
concentration of deposits in a few accounts. Deposits greater than DH 24,000 are concentrated in 4
percent of accounts, while 82 percent of accounts have deposits of less than DH 1000 (51 percent of
accounts have deposits of less than DH 100, and are probably inactive). Asset management is constrained
as all the funds must be deposited at the 'Caisse des Depots et de Gestion' (CDG). These funds receive
the interest rate offered to depositors, plus a spread of 0.9 percent to cover management costs.
According to a recent audit of CEN funds management, the cost for the CEN is higher, probably about
1.5 to 2.5 percent. These relatively high uncovered costs limit the development potential of the CEN.
5.           The role of postal savings and CEN will be reviewed in the context of the comprehensive
study on institutional savings to be completed prior to Second Tranche release of the FMDL.
B.    Social Security and the Pension System
6.           The pension system in Morocco is run by four main organizations (three public and one
private) plus a few smaller pension programs run by the banking and insurance sectors. The two major
public pension funds are underfunded, while the private one is profitable and well capitalized.
(a)    The Caisse Marocaine de Retraite (CMR) is for civil servants who pay 7 percent each
of their pensionable income. Membership is mandatory. Even though the Govermment
is statutorily obligated to match this contribution, it pays only as much as is needed to
permit payment of the pensions. In 1990-93, Government contributions fell more than
DH 4 billion short of those scheduled; total arrears of the Government vis-a-vis the
pension system is estimated at DH 12 billion (5.6 percent of GDP in 1993). The CMR
has no reserves, and given current demographics of the system, serious problems in the
medium to long-term are foreseen. If the Government does not pay its obligations in
arrears, either the pensions will need to be scaled down, or individual contributions will
need to be increased.
(b)    Affiliation in the Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociable (CNSS) is also mandatory and
covers all private sector employees. It provides family allowances, short-term benefits
in case of medical disability and death, and pensions. Each benefit category is in theory
financed by separate contributions of employers and employees. The family allowance
system was to be used to redistribute income while the pension system was to accumulate



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
reserves. In fact, the various operations of the CNSS have been combined, hiding the
fact that the surpluses are generated by the family allowance system, and the deficits by
the pension system.  Since 1985, the operational deficit has exceeded the interest
received, and accumulated reserves have started to dwindle. Since 1989, the reserves of
the pension system have stabilized; in 1992, they amounted to slightly less than six
months of pension payments. At present, all the reserves of the CNSS are deposited with
the CDG and are remunerated at an average rate of 8.8 percent.' The newly increased
pension contribution rate will allow CNSS to generate surpluses for only a few years to
come, after which pension payments will start again to exceed contributions.
(c)    The Caisse Interprofessionnelle Marocaine de Retraite (CIMR) is a non-profit
organization which private sector employers can join on behalf of their employees to
ensure a supplementary pension to that of the CNSS. Pension contributions are made
both by the employer and the employee at a rate between 3 and 6 percent of the actual
monthly salary. Employees can recover accumulated contributions, while employers'
contribution must stay with the CIMR. CIMR reserves amounted to DH 2.5 billion at
the end of 1993, or 3.6 times the amount of pensions paid that year. The CIMR
portfolio includes government debt (29 percent), fixed income instruments (28 percent),
real estate investments (5 percent), and stocks (38 percent). The investment experience
of the CIMR has been positive; in 1993 the rate of return on its assets was 11.5 percent,
while unrealized capital gains amounted to about DH 900 million.  There are no
government regulations (except on new foreign investments) regarding portfolio
composition.
(d)    The Caisse Nationale de Retraite et d'Assurances (CNRA) provides pensions to
contractual workers in government service, and is managed by the CDG. Affiliation is
mandatory and in 1993 there were 184,525 contributing workers. At end-1993, total
reserves amounted to DH 8.3 billion, 35 percent of which was invested in government
paper, 18 percent in government-guaranteed bonds and 29 percent in equity. In 1993,
the overall returns on investments were 24 percent, including unrealized capital gains.
(e)    A number of state enterprises run their own pension schemes, while private schemes are
also run by insurance companies. Professional associations maintain supplementary
pension schemes, some of which are managed by CDG. Their reserves amount to about
DH 2.5 billion.
1/I    Deposits prior to end-1989 earn 8.5 percent, while deposits made since then earn 9 percent. These rates of compensation are to
be reviewed in theory every three years.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
C.    The Insurance Industry
7.            The Moroccan insurance industry remains underdeveloped. The insurance industry
includes 23 companies. The reinsurance business is managed by only one state reinsurance company.
The turnover of the insurance industry increased by 13.5 percent in 1993 amounting to DH 6.1 billion
(2.5 percent of GDP). Despite this upward trend, Morocco remains in the low range of developing
countries (Graph 3). In 1993, insurance spending per capita p.a. averaged US$15, against US$890 in
France, and US$1670 in the US.
Graph 3: International Comparison or Insurance Premiums, 1992
5/S 
Source: Sigma, World Ins urance in 1992
8.            The financial situation of the insurance industry remains weak. During the last few years
the technical deficit has remained high, due in large part to problems in the automobile insurance sector.
This sector has realized losses for the last few years, and a number of companies heavily involved in this
segment have gone bankrupt. This situation is partly explained by the fact that automobile insurance
premiums, which are set administratively, are insufficient to cover the ensuing liabilities. In 1994, these
premiums were raised by 12 percent, whereas a 36 percent increase would have been required to restore
profitabil)ity. By end 1993, technical reserves amounted to DH 23.3 billion, an increase of 15 percent
compared to, the previous year. These reserves are subject to prudential guidelines set by the Ministry
of Finance. Forty percent of technical reserves are to be invested in public securities. At end-1993,
47 percent of total reserves were so placed, reflecting the absence of marketable securities; only 14
percent of reserves were invested in the equity market. The overall situation of the insurance industry and
its role in the development of financial markets will be reviewed in the context of the planned study on
contractual savings.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
Capacity Building Program
1.           Institutional capacity reinforcement concerns the following areas: Treasury, CDVM, the
Casablanca Stock Exchange (CSE), Accounting, and Contractual Savings. Technical assistance is being
provided by bilateral donors, mainly France, according to independent arrangements, to BAM and the
Treasury in the areas of monetary policy and domestic debt management. Other technical assistance
requirements and possible funding arrangements with Canada and France are discussed below. The
following box summarizes the areas covered and the potential sources of funding.
AREAS             Cost         Time of       Potential source of       Status
estimate   implementation        funding
TREASURY: debt   US$50,000    10 months          France: Treasury and   Exchange program
management                                       bilateral cooperation   already in place;
new request to be
submitted
CDVM: operations   To be          12 months      Canada               Request to be
upgrading, training   determined                                      submitted by
CDVM/Finance
Ministry
CSE: central        US$lmillion   12 months      France               First tranche of
depository, delivery                                                  US$200,000 under
vs payment (DVP)                                                       implementation
system,training
ACCOUNTING:         US$75,000    12 months       France               Request to be
training, consulting                                                  submitted by
services                                                              Finance Ministry
CONTRACTUAL    US$600,000   10 months            France               Request to be
SAVINGS: study                                                        submitted by
and action plan                                                       Finance Ministry
2.           CSE. The technical assistance program, under implementation, aims to cover the main
operational aspects of stock market trading including the trade settlement and delivery system. A technical
assistance contract proposal has recently been signed between France and Morocco. The agency SBF
(Societe des Bourses de France) provides consulting services, training and software to improve the
working of the market and the skills of its players. In particular, it will prepare:
(a)    an action plan to strengthen the institutional infrastructure based on the G-30
recommendation, notably the establishment of a central securities depository (CSD) and
a delivery versus payment process (DVP); and
(b)   an electronic quotation trading system providing transparency and equality of market
access to all investors.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
3.           The modernization of secondary market trading operations also requires training programs
for about 25 persons from the stock exchange organization and member firms. They will need to
familiarize themselves with the automated quotation system, the new clearing and settlement procedures
and the operations of the central depositary system. Intensive training will be required for four or five
staff members of the stock exchange organization responsible for system operations associated with the
quotation and the trade processing. Training will be provided under the second tranche of the French
technical assistance to the CSE.
4.            Accounting. The main areas for technical assistance for institutional reinforcement in the
area of accounting were discussed and agreed upon during appraisal and negotiations with the Moroccan
authorities. A proposal covering these areas has been submitted by the Finance Ministry to France for
an amount equivalent to US$75,000. The areas covered include:
(a)    Ordre Marocain des Experts Comptables (OMEC). OMEC was created at the end of
1994, and several actions have to be undertaken to enable it to be recognized at the
international level, and ensure a quality control on its own membership. A team
composed of one foreign expert and two Moroccans should, over a period of 12
man/months, prepare a new manual of professional conduct, a quality control mechanism,
the training for quality control, and organize a seminar for the association to introduce
the professional norms of conduct and the standard requirements for its participants.
Additional assistance may be required to allow the Moroccan order of accountants to join
the international accounting associations such as IFAC and IASC.
(b)    Consolidated accounts. The national accounting standards (Code Gen6ral de la
Normalisation Comptable (CGNC), include a chapter on consolidated accounts. It is,
however, obsolete and does not foresee the mandatory disclosure of consolidated
accounts, even for publicly quoted companies. Technical assistance should be provided
to revise this chapter to comply with the Seventh European Directive, and to prepare a
draft law making disclosure and certification of consolidated accounts mandatory (at least
for quoted companies). A consultant should work for 2 man/months with CNC to prepare
the new chapter and the draft law, as well as audit and certification standards.
(c)    Conseil National de la Comptabilite' (CNC). CNC was created in 1989 with the task of
coordinating and summarizing the theoretical and methodological research projects
undertaken in accounting. However, it lacks organizational structure and the logistics
needed for its functioning. Technical assistance to this institution should allow an in-depth
re-examination of its structure, its role and objectives, its funding and its relationships
with the OMEC. A foreign consultant will be needed for a total of 3 man/months to
coordinate the analysis and help prepare an action plan for CNC reform.
5.            CDVM. The Securities Commission (CDVM) is not currently in a position to perform
its basic role.  Although CDVM's legal authority is currently effective, it has no established
administrative procedures, and the active professional staff to undertake most of the interventions
specified in its mandate is very limited (2-3 professionals). Extensive training is required in the two main
areas of the Conseil's mandate: a) the issuance of visas for public offerings; and b) the supervision of
market operations and intermediaries. The staff members of CDVM need to acquire the necessary skills
and knowledge for the review of the information documents submitted by issuers; in addition, they need
training on the supervision of prudential rules and the surveillance of marketing and investment operations
of investment funds (OPCVMs) and securities firms.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
6.            Finally, CDVM  staff will need to learn the techniques, information requirements and
investigation methods associated with the surveillance of stock market trading activities. In addition to
training, the responsibilities and authority associated with key executive jobs need to be defined.
Procedures, guidelines and a time frame for the review of information documents submitted by issuers
must be put in place for the issuance of public offerings visas. Standardized models of information
documents need to be developed as well as guidelines for issuers on the public disclosure of material
information.
7.            During appraisal, the Bank assisted CDVM and the Ministry of Finance in preparing a
detailed proposal for a comprehensive technical assistance program to be submitted to the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA). The technical assistance program would support CDVM
through training of its staff, consulting services, creation of an information center and documents library,
and computerization of some of its functions - direct link with the CSE, creation of a computerized
database on listed companies.
8.            Study on contractual savings. During appraisal, the Bank assisted the Ministry of Finance
in finalizing the terms of reference for a comprehensive study on contractual savings. The study will
focus on the financing and investment policies of the key institutional savers (the insurance industry,
social security, pension system, mutual funds) and on how to enhance their role in the development of
financial markets. It will present recommendations and will lay the grounds for the preparation of an
action plan for reform. The Bank also assisted the Moroccan authorities in identifying possible funding
(estimated at about US$ 600,000) for the study. The terms of reference of the study were informally
discussed with official French representatives and will be submitted to the French bilateral assistance by
the Moroccan authorities.






Distribution of Financial Assets in Morocco
180-
160/
140"
12 Others(bonds,etc)
u  #| l F  i     j         i        F         g             A, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bank Dep osits 
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992     1993
Source: Central Bank and Bourse of Casablanca
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



Annex 9
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET OF DEPOSIT BANKS
AND MONETARY SURVEY
Assets and Liabilities of Deposit Money Banks (In DH Million)
1991              1992                1993
Assets                                    114,309            123.92              3557
- Cash                                     12,405              7,253              8,772
- Claims on the Government                 33,385             39,548             44,657
- Claims on the economy                    54,218             61,833             65,840
- Portfolio of Securities                   8,121              8,567              8,937
- Foreign Assets                            1,623              1,902              1,811
- Fixed Assets                              3,569              4,292              5,032
- Other Items                                 988                515                508
Liabilities                                   39 1912                           13557
- Sight Deposits                           61,757             66,636             70,033
- Term Deposit                             30,383             36,425             42,687
- Credit from the Central Bank              8,398              2,566                965
- External Borrowing                        2,179              3,205              3,729
- Capital Accounts                          9,480             12,393             15,569
- Other Items                               2,012              2,685              2,574
Monetary Survey 1990-94 (In DH Million)
1990         1991         1992           1993         1994
- Net Foreign Assets     21,061       27,873       33,707         38,174        41,497
- Net Credit to the      48,556       51,367       55,470         59,412        65,229
Government
- Credit to the          43,874       59,235       66,020         71,753        79,336
Economy "
- Other Items             1,311       -4,412       -8,690        -11,194       -11,820
Money and             114,802       134,063      146,507        158,145      174,242
quasi-money
1/ Private sector and public enterprises



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Morocco
Most Same region/income group       Next
LtWst single year        recent   Mid-East       Lower-      higher
Unit of                                  estimate    & North     middle-      income
Indicator                                   measure          1970.75      1980-85     1988-93      Africa     income        group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                         local curr.                                  2,568
Headcount index                           % of pop.                ..         26          13
Lower poverty line                         local curr.                                  2,070
Headcount index                           % of pop.                           17           7
GNP per capita                                USS                 550         600        1,040      1,980        1,590      4,350
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                      local curr.                                     ..
Unskilled rural wages
Rural terms of trade
Consumer price index                       1987=100                35          90         136
Lower incomne
FoodaM                                                            ..          91         125
Urban
Rural
SOCLAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services  % of GDP               ..         ..           ..
Gross ernrollment rutios
Primary                                 % school age pop.          62          77          69          97         104         105
Male                                                              78          94          80         103
Female                                        "                   45          60          57          90
Mortality
Infant mortality                      per thou. live births    122.0        97.0        65.6        52.3        39.0        35.8
Under 5 mortality                                                 ..          ..        84.0        69.9        61.5         42.6
Immunization
Measles                                  % age group              ..          ..        76.0        81.3        77.6         82.0
DPT                                                                ..       44.0        79.0        84.0        82.2         74.2
Child malnutrition (under-5)                                       9..         ..          .0
Life expectancy
Total                                       years                 53          58          64          66          67          69
Female advantage                                                 3.1         3.4         3.4         2.3         5.9         5.9
Total fertility rate                    births per woman          6.9         5.1         3.6         4.7         2.9          2.9
Maternal mortality rate               per 100,000 live births       ..        327          ..
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security        % of total govt exp.        ..          ..          ..
Social security coverage               % econ. active pop.          ..         ..          ..
Access to safe water total                  % of pop.            51.0        57.6        72.8        83.5          ..        86.7
Urban                                                         92.0       100.0        100.0       98.7           ..        93.9
Rural                                                         28.0        25.0         50.0        69.0          ..        66.7
Access to health care                                              ..          ..        62.4        87.4
Population growth rate                 GNP per capita growth rate                     Development diamondb
6+     (annual average, percent)                   (annual average, percent)                      Life expctancy
4                                           5
2 -                                         0                     -                      |                             | I | X k . I GNP  Gross
2  __         0                                          per                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prmai,j
0*                         I  l g  | | t 1    1   *^-                  \*             capita         \ /            enrollment
-2 --10
1970-75     198085       1988-93             1970-75    1980-85     1988-93                Access to safe water
a  Morocco                                                                                       Morocco
- Lower-rniddle-income                                                                      - Lower-middle-income
a. See the technical notes, p.387. b. The development diamond, based on four key indicators, shows the average level of developmnent in the country
compared with its incomne group. See the introduction.



Annex 10
Morocco ~~~~~~Page 2 of 2
Most Same regloxnliaonse group       Newt
Latest single year        recent   Mtd.Bat       Lower-       higher
Unit of                                  estima,te    & North     middle.-    ixcome
Indicator                                   measure           1970-75      1980-85     1988.93       Africa     incomse       grOaUP
Resources and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOURCES
Population (mre=-193)                      thousands            17.305      21,816       25,945     261,650   1.096.665     500.507
Age dependency ratio                          ratio               1.03        0.83         0.70        0.87        0.69        0.62
Urban                                       % of pop.             37.7        43.9         47.5        55.2        54.7        71.2
Population growth rate                      annual %               2.5         2.4          2.2         2.7         1.6          1.7
Urban                                                             4.2         3.7          3.2         3.7         2.9          1.8
Labor force (15-64)                         thousands            4,656       6,676        8,567      71,333     459.196      190,136
Agriculture                              % of labor force           52          46           .
Industry                                                            21          25           .
Female                                          "16                             20          21           16         31           29"
Females per 100 males
Urban                                       number               108          100           .
Rural                                                            104          107           .
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                      thou. sq. km          446.55      446.55      446.55   11,021.26   40,682.67   21,848.14
Density                                  pop. per sq. km         38.75       48.85       56.83        23.10       26.52       22.51
Agricultural land                         % of land area         60.31       65.66       68.90        32.10       39.61       41.26
Change in agricultural land                 annual %              1.08        0.18        -1.15        0.04       -0.13        0.08
Agricultural land under irrigation             %3.94                          4.25        4.16        30.59       12.66        8.84
Forests and woodland                       thou. sq. km             ..        0.08        0.09         0.45        5.95        8.04
Deforestation (niet)                        annual %                 .           .        -1.45
INCOME
Household income
Share of top 20% of households            % of income             49           39          46
Shame of bottom 40% of households                                  12          23          17
Share of bottom 20% of households                                   4          10           7
EXPENDITURE
Food                                        %ofGDP                   ..       30.1           .
Staples                                                             ..9.4A
Meat, fish, milk, cheese, eggs                                     ..8.9                    .
Cereal imports                         thou, metric tonnes       1,509       2,177       3,653       38,092      66,281      48,947
Food aid in cereals                            1.75                            518         234        1,249       5,477         544
Food production per capita                 1987 =100               85           91          96         102         101          102
Fertilizer consumption                       kglha                 6.2        10.4         10.4        89.9        48.0        67.8
Sham of agricultum in GDP                   %ofGDP                17.3        16.6         14.3        13.3        15.7         8.0
Housing                                     % of GDP                 ..6.7                   .
Average household size                 persons per household       6.0         5.9          5.7
Urban                                                             5.0          ..         5.2
Fixed investment: housing                   % of GDP                 ..4.1                   .
Fuel and power                              %ofGDP                   ..1.4                   .
Energy consumption per capita            kg of oil equiv.          198         256         299        1,097       1.595       1,632
Households with electricity
Urban                                   * of households             .           .        90.0
Rural                                                              ...                    13.0
Transport and communication                 % of GDP                 ..6.3                   .
Fixed investmient: transport equipmient                             ..1.5                    .
Total road length                           thou. km                50          58          59
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                     persons            13,100      15,536       4,710           ..       3,277
Population per nurse                            ,                    .         918           .
Population per hospital bed                                       700          795         785         633         604          395
oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)         % of cases               .           .14                    56           5.
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                              % of school-age pop.         16          34          28          56          53           53
Female                                                             12          27          29          50
Pupil-teacher ratio: primary             pupils per teacher        42           28          28          26           ..25
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                     24           19          15          21
Pupils reaching grade 4                    % of cohort              85          83          85          95
Repeater rate: primary                   % of total enroll         28           20          15
illiteray                              % of pop. (age 15+)         79           58          51          45           19          14
Female                                % of fern. (age 15+)          ..71                   62          57           ..17
News~r ciculation                          er thou.pop.                   1    IS           1 3         33          74          125
World Bank Intemational Econonmics Department, April 1995



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
The Status of Bank Groun Operations in Morocco
Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of May 31 1995i
US$ Million Amount
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year            Borrw                             Purpose                 Bank      IDA     Undsbursed
Seventy-six loans and five credits fully disbursed                                   4,168.03    45.16
Of which SALs, SECALs, and Program Loans /a
2377       1984  Kingdom of Morocco              Industrial Trade Policy (SAP)         150.40
2590       1985  Kingdom of Morocco              Agriculture Sector I                  100.00
2604       1986  Kingdom of Morocco              Industrial Trade Policy Adjustment II  200.00
2664       1986 Kingdom of Morocco                Education Sector I                   150.00
3001       1989  Kingdom of Morocco              SAL I                                 200.00
2820       1987  Kingdom of Morocco               PERL I                               239.56
2885       1988  Kingdom of Morocco              Agriculture Sector II                 225.00
3365       1991  Kingdom of Morocco               Financial Sector Development         125.00
3463       1992  Kingdom of Morocco               SAL II                               275200
Sub-total                                                                          1664.96
Disbursing Loans
2798       1987  ONPT                            Telecommunications I                  116.00                  5.35
2806       1987  BNDE, BCM, BMCE                  Industrial Export Finance I           68.67                  2.71
2825       1987  Kingdom of Morocco               National Water Supply Rehab.          60.00                 13.53
2826       1987  Kingdom of Morocco               Greater Casablanca Sewerage           60.00                 23.19
2910       1988  Kingdom of Morocco               Power Distribution                    90.00                 49.31
2954       1988  Kingdom of Morocco              Small & Medium Irrigation II           23.00                 11.73
3026       1989  Kingdom of Morocco               Rural Primary Education               83.00                 27.91
3036       1989  Kingdom of Morocco              Agricultural Research & Extension      28.00                 13.68
3048       1989  Kingdom of Morocco              Public Administration Support          23.00                 10.71
3121122    1990  Kingdom of Morocco, CIH         Housing Finance II                     80.50                  2.40
3136       1990  BNDE, BCM, BCME, CDM,           Industrial Finance                    169.46                  7.58
WAFA
3156       1990  Kingdom of Morocco              Forestry Development li                49.00                 26.15
3168       1990  Kingdom of Morocco              Highway V (Sector)                     79.00                  4.33
3171       1990  Kingdom of Morocco               Health Sector Investment             104.00                 56.82
3262       1991 Kingdom of Morocco               Rural Electrification II              114.00                103.23
3283/84    1991  Kingdom of Morocco/ODEP         Port Sector                           132.00                 57.06
3295       1991  Kingdom of Morocco              Rural Basic Education Development     145.00                120.23
3365-73 * 1991  BNDE, BCP, SGMB, CDM              Financial Sector Development         103.83                 35.72
BMCE, BCM, BMCI
3557       1993 ONPT                             Telecommunication Restructuring       100.00                 85.49
3587       1993  Kingdom of Morocco              Second Large Scale Irrigation Impr.   215.00                207.35
3618/21    1993  Kingdom of Morocco, CIH, SGMB    Land Development                     118.00                 80.48
3616/17    1993  Kingdom of Morocco, FEC         Municipal Finance I                   104.00                 77.67
3647       1994  Kingdom of Morocco              Environment Management                  6.00                  6.00
3662       1994 CNCA                             National Rural Finance                100.00                100.00
3664/5     1994  Kingdom of Morocco/ONEP         Water Supply V                        160.00                158.13
3688       1994  Kingdom of Morocco              Irrigated Areas Agric. Services        25.00                 25.00
3765       1994 Kingdom of Morocco               ASIL II                               121.00                121.00
TOTAL                                                                     6,645.49    45.16     1,432.76
Of which has been repaid (only amortization)                        2,064.54    11.18
Total held by Bank and IDA                                          4,580.95    33.98
Amount sold                                                            20.11
of which repaid                                                        20.11
Total Undisbursed                                                                         1,432.76
* SAL, SECAL or Program Loan
\a Approved after FY80



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
Statement of IFC Investments in Morocco
(As of May 31. 19951
Original Gross Commitment
Fiscal                                                                                          (US$Million)
Year                        Obligator                       Tvoe of Business             LQan      Eauitv     Total
1963    Banque Nationale pour le Dev.             Development Finance                    44.25      2.70       46.95
1978    Econ. (BNDE)
1984
1986
1980    Societe Miniere du Bou-Gaffer             Mines                                  12.99     2.35        15.34
(SOMIFER)
1987/   Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH)       Tourism                               67.50        ---      67.50
1990
1988/   Settat Filature (SETAFIL)                 Textile Factory                        3.47       1.67       5.14
1993
1989    Compagnie Maritime Maroco-                Ferry Service                          4.30        ---       4.30
Norvegienne (COMARIT)
1991    Cerame Afrique Industries (CAI)           Ceramics                               3.75       1.69       5.44
1991    Societe ENNASR de Peche                   Agro-industry                          2.46        ---       2.46
1992/   Ciments du Maroc                          Cement                                 28.65       ---      28.65
1994    (formerly CIMASFI)
1992    Banque Commerciale de Maroc               Capital Markets                        12.00       ---       12.00
(BCM)
1992    Banque Marocaine du Commerce              Capital Markets                        12.00       ---       12.00
Exterieur (BMCE)
1992    Credit du Maroc (CDM)                     Capital Markets                        8.00        ---       8.00
1992    Wafabank                                  Capital Markets                        8.00        ---       8.00
1993    International de Financement et           Financial Services                      ---       3.85       3.85
et de Participation (INTERFINA)
1994    Societe Marocaine                         Capital Markets                         ---       0.50       0.50
1995    Siparex-Wafa Dev.                         Financial Services                      ---       4.00       4.00
1995    Societe Financiere Siparex                Financial Services                       ---      0.10       0.10
Total gross commitments                                                        207.37    16.86       224.23
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments,
sales and exchange adjustments                                                61.38      3.69      65.07
Total commitments held by IFC                                                   145.99    13.17       159I16
of which undisbursed                                                          0.00       2.40       2.40
' IFC net. Does not include participants from commercial banks



Annex 12
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare                      9 months
Project prepared by                        Ministry of Finance and Bank Al-Maghrib
with the assistance of IBRD staff
Identification                             September 26 - October 6, 1994
Pre-Appraisal                              October 31 - November 11, 1994
Loan Committee                             April 28, 1995
Appraisal and Negotiations                 June 12-24, 1995
Board Presentation                         July 25, 1995
Expected Effectiveness                     August 10, 1995
Closing Date                               June 30 1998






MAP SECTION






1 2-                                                                             80                                                                              1.
MOROCCO                                                                                                               K 4                                                                                                       S
"AdD"-~~~T tn,
This mop hros boon  prepared                                                         =luont           T
exolosfoely for the convemreece w)Athelu ,,,        =/orD, RVNECPTL
of readers  ond  is  for tire                                        .                      ,"s    '_-         -/t                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
otlerool ose of Thre World BonkIc                                                                  ,''  
Droop The desoinotiotlno osw                                                                                                                                                                                    Q       TON  AN  CIIE
ond  the  beoundornes  shown], ^                                                  -          :          N_ tTWSADCTE
on this mop do not imply 00 the                                                                                                                                                                                         ELVTO  ABVE TO ETR
part of The World Bank Droop,                                       (5 T.Jl-.                             )T=loIooBTvt'EEAtNABV   00MTR
any godbmeot on the legal                                                                                                                                                                                               ECNOI  REEO  BOUNDARIESS
endorsement ntacceptance of                                                                                            *                                                                                                 CNAIREONBUD IS
soch boondaries                                           ..       (                                           *                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL 80UNDARIES
T    .                       w                                                                                                  _    _~~~~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
,.    a#S       r                         .                                                                                                                           (oppronirno's)
-     c,8t cuphrlim                               /                             r,        5U1        10U       I50
L-L                 I                                                 I                                                I                                                                                         u
5an                                                                     ci OMtTEOS~~~~~~~~"
32' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~8
L                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E ..









ll-    h ,  *       .-~
I             I     a  ... t[i. 
~~~~- i_ ;  -W 1.   



