Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19101 -MOR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Loan Nos. 39280-MOR and 39281-MOR
April 9, 1999
Private Sector Development and Finance Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document is for limited distribution. Recipients may only use it in performance of
their official duties, and its contents may not be released without authorization by the
World Bank.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
as of 03/29/1999
Currency Unit   =  Dirham (DH)
DH1.00          =  US$ 0.1033
US$1.00         =  DH 9.6775
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAJ                 Barnamaj al Aoulaouiyat al Ijtimaiya (social priority program)
BAM                 Banque Al-Maghrib (Central Bank)
BCP                 Banque Centrale Populaire
BMCE                Banque Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur
BNDE                Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CDG                 Comite Caisse de Deip6t et de Gestion
CDVM                Comite Deontologique des Valeurs Mobilieres (securities commission)
CEN                 Caisse d'Epargne Nationale
CIH                 Credit Immobilier et H6telier
CIMR                Caisse Interprofessionelle MVarocaine de Retraites (pension fund)
CMR                 Caisse Marocaine des Retraites (pension fund)
CNCA                Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
CNSS                Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale (pension fund)
CSE                 Casablanca Stock Exchange
DAPS                Direction des Assurances et de ia Prevoyance Sociale
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
OPCVMs              Organismes de Placement Collectif de Valeurs Mobiliers (mutual funds)
PEP                 Plancher d'Effets Publics
PSPEs               Private sector and public enterprises
RCAR                Regime Collectif d'Allocation de Retraite (pension fund)
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
SBVC                Societe' des Bourses de Valeurs de Casablanca
SFI                 Specialized financial institutions
SNI                 Societe' Nationale d 'Investissement
TCN                 Titres de Creance Negociables (debt instruments)
MOROCCO FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President:         Kemal Dervi~
Country Director:       Christian Delvoie
Acting Sector Director:    Deane Jordan
Task Team Leader:       Denis Chaput



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Loan Nos. 39280-MOR and 39281-MOR
Table of Contents
PREFACE ................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................................                                           ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEM ENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................................1
A.    Statement/Evaluation Of Objectives.1 I
B. Achievement of Objectives.2
C Major factors affecting the project                                                .6
D. Bankkperformance.7
E. BoroerfroPerformance.7
F. Program Sustainability.8
G. Assessment of Outcome.8
Hl. Key lessons Learned and Future Financial Sector Reforms.9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...............................................................                                     10
A.    Standar d     tables. .........................................................................1
Table s: Summaty of Assessments .1...................................................................                     1
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Creditsn.13..         al.Sector. Reforms.....................     .........................  13
Table 3:  Projed Timetable ...................................................................                           14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million) .............................................. 14
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................                 14
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................................   15
Table 7: Key Indicators for Project Operation .............5...................................................... I 
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants .................................................................... 16
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................................                17
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions .......................................................... . ....... 17
B.    Sector-specific data ............................................................                                     18
APPENDIX: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank aulthorization.



- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Loans Nos. 39280-MOR and 39281-MOR
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Markets
Development Loan (FMDL) to the Kingdom of Morocco, comprising a package of two loans --
Loan No. 39280-MOR (denominated in US$) and Loan No. 39281-MOR (denominated in
French Francs)--totaling US$250 million equivalent. The FMDL was approved on July 25, 1995
and made effective on August 31, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Leila El Hafi (Consultant) under the supervision of
Mr. Denis Chaput, Principal Financial Sector Specialist in the Middle East North Africa Region.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
December 15-19, 1997 and was updated in August 1998. The report is based on material in the
project file and on an evaluation report sent by the Direction du Tresor of the Kingdom of
Morocco.



- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Loan Nos. 39280 & 39281-MOR
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
Since the mid 1980s, Morocco has followed a two-pronged approach to financial sector reform.
Reforms initially centered on liberalization of a largely controlled banking system and on
monetary policy, introducing greater central bank independence, more stringent supervision, and
prudential regulations. More recently, efforts have been focused on the development of capital
markets. The pace of reform has been largely determined by concomitant progress in fiscal
adjustment and other structural reforms. The Bank has supported these efforts through the
Financial Sector Development Project (FSDP) of 1991, and subsequently through the Financial
Market Development Loan (FMDL).
The FMDL totaled US$ 250 million equivalent. This amount consisted of two loans: a fixed-
rate US-dollar loan of US$ 125 million (39280-MOR), and a fixed-rate French-franc loan of FRF
600 million (3928 1-MOR), which at negotiations was equivalent to US$ 125 million. The loans
became effective on August 31, 1995, on which date a first tranche consisting of a blend of US$
and FRF was released in an amount of US$ 150 million equivalent. A second tranche of US$
100 million equivalent was released on October 31, 1996. Due to changes in the US$/FRF
exchange rate, total disbursements under the adjustment operation amounted to approximately
US$ 242.6 million.
Project objectives
The major objectives of the Financial Markets Development Loan were to deepen Morocco's
financial markets and to establish a market-based financial system. The financial market was
largely a bank-based system in which domestic capital markets played almost no role in
supplying long-term capital to the private sector. The Government was channeling a large share
of bank deposits and medium-and long-termn institutional savings to secure the Treasury
borrowing requirements at administered-below-market interest rates, and Morocco's domestic
savings rate was significantly below that of countries which had achieved high rates of
investment and growth. To increase the overall rate of domestic savings and private investment,
further reforms were deemed necessary to develop domestic financial markets, along with other
macroeconomic measures. These policy measures represented a continuation of the financial
sector reform that Morocco had launched in the late 1980s, and which the Bank had supported
through the 1991 Financial Sector Development Project.



- Hi -
The four project components related to policy were:
* Treasury financing at market terms through an increase of liquidity in public securities and
strengthening of secondary markets for T-bonds, elimination of fiscal incentives on Treasury
bonds, and strengthening of the public debt management system.
* Indirect monetary control through the introduction of base rates by Bank Al-Maghrib (BAM,
the central bank) and elimination of the ceiling on lending rates.
* Capital markets development through reinforcement of the legal and accounting framework,
and implementation of a series of measures to bring the markets into compliance with
international standards.
* Banking sector measures related mainly to privatization and the creation of a foreign
exchange market, which would lay the foundation for convertibility of the dirham.
Implementation experience and Results
This loan had 'a satisfactory impact on the stock exchange, Treasury financing, banking
supervision, and indirect monetary policy, but its benefits on private sector financing were
incomplete.
1.   Treasury financing/reduction of public sector's preferential access to savings
By implementing FMDL measures, the Treasury would be more dependent on market
mechanisms to finance its borrowing requirements. The following keys measures were
implemented:
* Fiscal incentives to purchase Treasury bonds were eliminated.
* Access to the T-bonds auction market was gradually broadened to include, since 1995, all
economic agents, residents and nonresidents. While only banks may submit bids on their own
account as well as for customers, the list of participants eligible to submit bids on their own
account was extended in August 1996 to include insurance companies, pension funds, and
mutual funds.
* The maturity structure of short-term as well as medium- and long-term bonds was simplified.
* BAM established, in January 1996, a clearing and settlement system for secondary market
transactions in Treasury bonds.
* Treasury began, in March 1996, to reduce the premium on bonds issued to nonfinancial
residents over bills sold through auctions, in order to unify the market for Treasury bonds.
* In June 1998 an "Arrete" of the Minister of Finance eliminated the plancher d'effets publics
(PEP, the mandatory holding of Government securities) after different phases of reduction of
mandatory placements.



- iv -
In spite of these reforms, government financing continues to absorb a large part of medium and
long-term loanable funds from the banking system. Thus, with 25 percent of commercial bank
assets in government securities, the abolition of the plancher d 'effets publics still has not led to
sufficient resources being made available for lending, including medium and long-term lending
to the private sector. The supply of investment credit remains relatively scarce and the large
demand for housing finance still represents the greatest potential for expanding the banking
market.
2.  Indirect monetary control
The following measures aimed at setting up an indirect monetary policy:
*  Elimination of ceilings on lending rates in February 1996; all banks were required to display
a prime rate.
*  Introduction by the Central Bank in June 1995 of weekly repurchase auctions as the main
channel for bank rediscount. Banks could also enter into five-day repurchase agreements at
rates exceeding those of the repurchase auctions.
*  Shifting, in September 1996, of the Bank reserve requirement calculation from a weekly and
monthly basis to a daily average over a period of one month. This provided banks with
greater flexibility in managing their liquidity and encouraged money market operations.
In spite of these measures, bank lending rates, and short-term rates in particular, are still rigid.
Yields on government securities do not act as proper benchmarks for pricing loans and deposits
since they do not fully derive from market-based practices. The current auction mechanism gives
rise to a mainly administered and segmented allocation of Treasury securities, while rates of
return are not validated by an adequate volume of secondary market activity, which includes a
significant proportion of repurchase agreements transactions as opposed to outright sales and
purchases. Secondary market activity is severely hampered by the proliferation of non-
homogeneous instruments, caused mainly by the primary market auction rules.
3.   Banking sector
The liberalization of banking activity has been accompanied by new prudential regulation in line
with international standards; this regulation was also properly extended to other credit
institutions such as leasing and consumer finance companies:
Strengthening of bank supervision. New classification of non-performing loans and loss
provisioning regulations were adopted in May 1993, followed in July 1993 by the
requirement for independent audits. Provisioning reached 75 percent of required levels at the
end of 1995, and full compliance by all banks was expected to be reached in the financial
statements for 1996. FMDL in 1996 strengthened bank supervision rules concerning banks'
foreign exchange transactions. Beginning July 1996, specialized financial institutions (SFIs)
became subject to capital adequacy and risk concentration ratio rules.
* Bank privatization. Banque Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur (BMCE) and Societ
Nationale d'Investissement (SNI) were privatized in 1995. Banque Nationale pour le



- v -
Developpement Economique (BNDE) was offered for sale in 1996/1997. The restructuring
plan for Credit Immobilier et H6telier (CIH) was adopted in 1997.
*  Establishment of a foreign exchange market. The minimum provision of DH100,000,
required for opening non-resident Moroccan accounts in foreign currencies, was eliminated
in 1995, and the foreign currency account limits for exporters of goods and services were
increased from 10 and 5 percent, respectively, to 20 percent under the FMDL. BAM in 1996
issued regulations establishing an interbank foreign exchange market in which banks are
authorized to deal, among themselves and with their clients, foreign currencies against
foreign currencies, and foreign currencies against the dirham in the domestic market. BAM
issued standards for the accounting treatment of bank foreign currency operations in 1996.
4.   Capital market development
The Casablanca stock exchange index was up by 49.3 percent in 1997, after rising 30.6 percent
in 1996. The market capitalization reached DH 118.7 billion in 1997, or 37.4 percent of GDP.
The exchange has modernized its stock trading system by introducing electronic quotes and
allowing the most active securities to be traded on a continuous basis. A central depository
started its operations in the autumnn of 1998. Morocco set up the institutional structure for
regulation of the securities market. It consists of a securities commission, the Comiti
Diontologique des Valeurs Mobilieres (CVDM), a stock exchange, the Casablanca Stock
Exchange, and a central depository, Maroclear.
The measures listed below show the significant measures that were conditions of the FMDL:
*  Establishment in 1994 of the CDVM to supervise market functioning and ensure compliance
with the new regulations; privatization of the Casablanca Stock Exchange in 1995.
*  Operational upgrades to CDVM; first formal annual report in 1996.
*  Issuance of comprehensive decrees and regulations implementing the new Stock Exchange
Law in 1993, and defining the framework of operation for mutual funds and equity funds in
1995, 1996, and 1997.
*  Implementation of accounting framework for mutual funds in 1996.
*  Presentation of Law on Corporations to the Parliament in 1996.
*  Implementation of an action plan (and approval of related legislation) creating a central
depository system for securities traded on the stock exchange in 1996, of a trade settlement
and delivery system in 1997, and of an automated quote system in 1998.
. Approval by the Prime Minister in 1996 of rules governing the National Council for
Accounting.
*  Elimination in 1996 of Government guarantee on domestic bond issues by public enterprises.
* Enactment in 1995 of the law on accounting rules to be applied by insurance companies, and
issuance in 1996 of a decree by Minister of Finance setting accounting rules for insurance
companies.



- vi -
*  Fiscal neutrality of mutual funds, implemented in 1996.
*  Launching in 1996 of study and action plan on the status and potential role of institutional
savers in the development of financial markets.
*  By August 1996, 13 brokerage firms and 18 mutual funds have been approved. Most of these
have been set up by banks, which are no longer allowed to directly operate on the stock
market.
In spite of these achievements and favorable market conditions, which until now have insulated
the Casablanca Stock Exchange from the recent bear market trends around the world, there have
been almost no initial public offerings of shares by private non-financial enterprises, if those
which were privatized through the CSE are excepted. The total amount of securities issues,
mostly debt instruments, has been dropping since 1995.
Future operations and key lessons learned
The key lessons learned through the FMDL are the following:
*  A continuous long-term partnership with the Government pays off. The Bank should
continue with this approach for future operations on contractual savings which deepen
already initiated reforms. The Contractual Savings and Development Loan that was signed in
June 1998 was developed by the Bank and the Kingdom of Morocco to improve the
accumulation and allocation of long term savings and guarantee the long term sustainability
of the country's pension system. This operation as well as previous ones reflect a continuum
of efforts made by the Moroccan Government and the Bank to tackle the key issues for the
reforms in the financial sector. The Bank and the Moroccan Government have realized the
need for such an ongoing long-term partnership to ensure the success in the implementation
of a sequence of deep structural reforms. Such reforms cannot be achieved in one shot and
require constant monitoring and update. Thanks to these efforts, some important distortions
have been removed from the financial system. The banking system operates according to
internationally recognized norms and standards. It is healthy and has suffered no major crisis,
a record few countries enjoy. Most of the regulatory and policy reforms are in place to
develop the capital market as a main source of long-term capital for private investment. In
sum, Morocco has made substantial progress toward building a modern financial sector.
*  However, the Bank needs to be more realistic in the assessment of the feasibility of certain
policy measures. For example, the privatization program that was initially foreseen as part of
FMDL conditions was too ambitious, probably because of insufficient financial and
institutional analysis and/or of an optimistic assessment of the political constraints on
privatization. A more rigorous approach would require a careful assessment of the different
constraints and risks for each measure included in the loan. That would prevent the Bank
from having to use the waiver solution when implementation of measures fails.
Eventually, the Bank needs to be more rigorous in its monitoring and supervision, to better
anticipate the risk of non compliance with required conditions.



- I -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Loan Nos. 39280-MOR and 39281-MOR
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    Since the late 1980s, Morocco has launched a series of financial sector reforms which
aimed at developing a healthy, modem, and competitive financial sector within the context of an
economic program based on strengthening the private sector and maintaining a stable
macroeconomic framework. The first set of reforms focused on the liberalization of banking
activities and modernization of the regulatory framework. Among the key reforms undertaken,
and which the Bank supported through the 1991 Financial Sector Development Project (FSDP),
are the elimination of direct credit control; the introduction of a revised banking law with new
and more stringent prudential regulation and supervision applicable to all banks, including state-
controlled specialized credit institutions; and the gradual liberalization of lending rates and
reduction of mandatory bank placements. The Financial Market Development Loan (FMDL)
continued and extended these reforms to include the development of capital markets as a major
source of long-term financing for enterprises.
2.    The FMDL totaled US$ 250 million equivalent. This amount consisted of two loans: a
fixed-rate US-dollar loan of US$ 125 million (39280-MOR), and a fixed-rate French-franc loan
of FRF 600 million (39281-MOR), which at negotiations was equivalent to US$ 125 million.
The loans became effective on August 31, 1995, on which date a first tranche consisting of a
blend of US$ and FRF was released in an amount of US$ 150 million equivalent. A second
tranche of US$ 100 million equivalent was released on October 31, 1996. Due to changes in the
US$/FRF exchange rate, total disbursements under the adjustment operation amounted to
approximately US$ 242.6 million.
A.  Statement/Evaluation Of Objectives
3.    The FMDL was designed to support the second phase of the financial sector reform
program of the Moroccan Government. The long-term objectives of this program, initiated in the
mid 1990s, were to: (a) establish a market-based financial system, free of any significant
distortion in the allocation of financial resources; and (b) develop the domestic capital market as
a main supplier of long-term capital for investment. In line with this program, the FMDL
targeted four components of the financial sector (Treasury financing, monetary controls, capital
markets, banking system), with the objectives of: (a) introducing market mechanisms for
Treasury financing and developing an efficient market for government securities; (b) developing
the money market and facilitating the shift to indirect and market-based monetary controls; (c)
diversifying financing sources for private companies and deepening capital markets; and (d)



- 2 -
further liberalizing the banking system and strengthening the prudential, regulatory, and
supervisory framework.
4.    Based on these objectives, the specific policy measures supported by the FMDL mainly
concerned: (a) reform of Treasury financing, including the removal of mandatory placement
ratios for banks of Treasury bonds at below-market rates; (b) strengthening of the Central Bank's
indirect monetary control instruments and liberalization of all lending rates; (c) issuance of
several decrees regarding the stock exchange and mutual funds; and (d) privatization of the state-
owned banks and establishment of an interbank foreign exchange market, together with related
prudential measures.
5.    The FMDL was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (November 23, 1993),
the 1994 Private Sector Assessment (PSA), and the Bank's private sector development (PSD)
program, the core objective of which is to achieve higher private investment and private sector
growth necessary to accelerate the rate of overall economic growth. The FMDL came at the
forefront of the Bank's multi-year PSD lending program' because further liberalization of the
financial sector and the deepening of domestic financial markets were necessary to achieve
higher private investment and savings levels. Furthermore, the development of capital markets
was essential to support the ongoing privatization program and the private financing of
infrastructure.
6.    The principal rationale for the loan was to enable the Government to accelerate the
program of financial sector reforms by financing the temporary fiscal cost associated with its
implementation. The use of the Bank lending instrument to smooth out the incremental
budgetary expenditures entailed by the reforms was a relevant option in the absence of better
alternatives, namely additional taxation or additional domestic borrowing. Raising import tariffs
or export taxes, the main option to rapidly increase fiscal revenues, would have had distortionary
effects such as discouraging private investment. Domestic borrowing was not favorable due to
weak liquidity in the government securities market and to the absence of an active secondary
market.
B.  Achievement of Objectives
7.    All conditions for Board presentation were met by the Government of Morocco. Among
the key measures adopted prior to release of the first tranche were:
* Treasury financing. (a) Reduction of the mandatory bank deposits (plancher d 'effets publics,
PEP) in Treasury bonds from 25 to 20 percent; (b) introduction of new negotiable
government securities; and (c) elimination of fiscal incentives on Treasury bonds.
* Monetary controls. The Central Bank established the framework for its intervention in the
money market, namely introducing repurchase agreements and introducing open market
transactions at market rates.
The FMDL was the first loan of a US$600-700 million multi-year private sector development (PSD) lending
program scheduled for FY 96-98.



- 3 -
*  Capital markets. Issuance of the first series of decrees on the regulatory framnework for the
stock exchange and mutual funds.
*  Banking system. Privatization of Banque Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur (BMCE) and
Societe Nationale d'Investissement (SNI) and first measures aimed at liberalizing foreign
exchange transactions.
8.    Release of the second tranche was made possible with the waiver of two of the six loan
conditions, namely (a) elimination of the mandatory Treasury bond placement ratio (PEP); and
(b) the offering for sale of Government shares in two state-owned banks, BCP and CIH. This
release was based on the President's memorandum dated October 30, 1996, which otherwise
assessed satisfactory overall progress in the reform program, and approved the waiver of the
conditions as described below:
*  The full elimination of the PEP required for the second tranche release was waived upon
request of the Moroccan Government for the following reasons: it was no longer consistent
with fiscal stabilization objectives, given an unexpected expenditure increase in the 1996/97
budget to cover arrears in the state-run pension scheme (see above). The Government
informed the Bank that, as a result, the PEP would be completely eliminated in the 1997/98
budget, about a year later than originally planned. This proposed timetable was respected
with the issuance in June 1998 of a decree by the Minister of Finance eliminating the PEP
(see table below).
Mandatory holdings *                        1990-1997            Today
Reduction phase
Plancher d'effet public (minimum portfolio of BTs,   35% (1990)  Eliminated
introduced in 1967)                         33.5% (January 1991)   (June 1998)
32% (July 1991)
25% (June 1993)
20% (May 1995)
10% (September 1996)
5% (December 1997)
* Mandatory holdings ratios are calculated as a % of bank liabilities, mainly sight deposits.
*  The offer for sale of BCP was waived on the grounds that BCP's charter needed to be
amended as a precondition for sale. Although the related draft legislation was put on the
agenda of the Council of Government on June 3, 1997, it was not discussed. The draft
legislation took longer to prepare than originally anticipated because of the complexity of the
changes required to disentangle the ownership of the Government in the head office from the
regional cooperatives. The draft now must be approved by the Government, thus clearing the
way for privatization. The draft legislation sets the new status of the BCP, the proportion of
shares that will be introduced on the stock market, and the management structure and
organization.



The offer for sale of CIH was waived because the deterioration of its portfolio (due to a
major unforeseen downturn in tourism in 1995) made its short-term privatization unfeasible.
A restructuring plan was adopted by the CIH board in July 1997, and the DH 6 billion debt
related to its tourism portfolio was rescheduled. Some hotel resorts might be sold to foreign
investors. These measures should improve CIH's situation and therefore its prospects for
privatization.
9.   In line with the actions required by the FMDL, shares of BNDE were offered for sale on
two separate occasions, but the offerings were unsuccessful. The first offer was launched in late
1996, but the three potential buyers offered less than the asking price of DH 156 per share. The
second offer took place in May 1998 on the basis of DH 190 DH per share. There were no
serious potential buyers and the operation failed. The Government is now thinking about a
different marketing approach.
10.   The measures required for the release of the second tranche were implemented except for
the waivers described above. These measures are detailed as follows:
*  Improved Treasury financing. The program's objective was to enable the Treasury to finance
itself competitively at market rates. This has been achieved through implementation of the
policy measures agreed upon in the loan, including reduction of the PEP, adoption of
legislation on negotiable securities, introduction of new regulations by the Central Bank on
the maturities and tender features of Treasury bonds, and training of the Direction du Tresor
staff in debt management techniques.
* Indirect monetary control. The program aimed at the implementation of indirect monetary
control policy by the Central Bank through interest rate liberalization, establishment of new
rules for Central Bank intervention in the money market, and its reserve requirement policy.
All related measures have been implemented.
*  Capital market development. The program's principal objective was to enhance capital
market development, improve transparency of the market and its participants, and create the
conditions for an active capital market to be used as a source of corporate finance. The
measures stipulated in the loan policy matrix relating to capital market reform have been
adopted, including a second series of laws and regulations on the stock exchange and mutual
funds. In line with this objective, a draft law on corporations (societes anonymes) aiming at
modernizing the legal framework of the companies and facilitating their access to the capital
market was adopted.
* Banking system. The main program objectives were to complete the bank privatization
scheme and establish a foreign exchange market. The bank privatization condition was not
achieved. The offer for sale of shares of Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP) and Credit
Immobilier et H16telier (CIH, the housing and tourism bank) were actually waived upon
request of the Moroccan government and the waiver was approved by the Bank on October
1996. The Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE) was also one of the
banks that had to be privatized. Its privatization was not waived at that time since following a
first but unsuccessful share offering, it was expected that the next privatization attempt would
be more promising. The other policy measures relating to the banking sector were



- 5 -
implemented: they included namely; the issuance of a circular detailing the functioning of the
new foreign exchange market, its accounting standards and risk exposure requirements; and
the adoption of two decrees by the Minister of Finance: one relating to prudential regulations
on the foreign currency exposure, and the other to the harmonization of prudential
regulations for banks and specialized financial institutions.
Other policy actions. The Government took an important action, which anticipated the future
reform program of the financial sector, by paying part of its contributions-to the pension fund
for civil servants (Caisse Marocaine des Retraites) at an additional expense of DH 1 billion
(about US$120 million). This represented the first step in the forthcoming reform of
contractual savings.
11. Macroeconomic framework (see table 7). Macro-economic objectives have been
partially achieved. Real GDP growth in 1997 dropped by 2 percent due to poor weather
conditions, after a strong recovery year in 1996 (+12 percent). Agricultural growth fell by 26
percent while growth in the nonagricultural sector almost stagnated at 3.3 percent. Prudent
monetary policy and marginal increases in import prices contributed to keeping inflation very
low: 1 percent of GDP in 1997.
12.   The overall budget deficit increased to -3.6 percent of GDP in fiscal year 1997/98, from
3.5 percent in 1996/97. If privatization receipts are included, the budget deficit increased to -3.2
percent in fiscal year 1997/98 from -2.0 percent in 1996/97. Government revenues and
expenditures in fiscal year 1997/98 increased by 2 percentage points each, to 24.3 and 28.7
percent of GDP, respectively, due to higher tax revenue and greater expenditure on the wage bill.
The wage bill increased from 10.68 percent in 1996/97 to 11.3 percent in 1997/98 after the
"social dialogue" between the Government and the unions. Exceptional revenues received from
state enterprises, such as dividend payments, helped contain any budgetary slippage.
13.   The evolution of the Moroccan economy in 1996 pointed to a sharp improvement
compared to the previous year: real GDP grew by 12 percent (-7.6 percent in 1995); the current
account deficit turned out to a current account surplus of 0.4 percent of GDP (against a deficit of
3.5 percent in 1995). The budget deficit including privatization receipts fell to -2 percent in fiscal
year 1996/1997 after reaching -5.2 percent in 1995. Agricultural production, which increased by
78.8 percent, accounted for most of this favorable GDP perforrnance. Revenue performance (up
by 12 percent over 1995) benefited from an anticorruption campaign, while the level of overall
expenditures remained basically unchanged; recurrent expenditures rose by 4 percent - largely
on account of a 8 percent increase in wages and salaries - while capital expenditures fell by 14
percent.
14.   The ratio of foreign debt outstanding to goods and services exports has improved globally
from 191 in 1995 to 164 in 1997, reaching therefore the targets required by FMDL. This
improvement is mainly due to the decrease in the foreign debt stock, and also to a slight increase
in exports of goods and services. This progression had a positive effect on the current account
which was in line with the FMDL targets from 1995 to 1997.



-6 -
15.   Most of the project monitoring indicators are globally satisfactory:
* Treasury bonds auctions reached 50.3 percent of total domestic Treasury debt in 1996, 15
points above target and their amount has more than trebled between 1994 and 1997.
*  The stock market soared between 1995 and 1997: the market capitalization reached DH
118.7 billion in 1997, or 37.4 per cent of GDP, against DH 50.8 billion and 17.9 per cent in
1995. This performance is far beyond what was estimated in the indicators required by
FMDL (23 per cent ratio in 1997).
*  Interbank market rates became more steady and started fluctuating in the limits of the spread
set up by the Central Bank. Interbank market rates have not deviated significantly too much
from the central bank advances' floor rate since the maximum spread between the central
bank advances' floor rate and the average interbank rate shifted between 1.4 per cent and 1.8
per cent, below the indicator of 2 per cent.
*  The market has been slower than expected in introducing corporate bonds. So far, there were
no private non-financial corporate bonds issues in Morocco: the targets were respectively DH
2 billion and DH 4 billion for 1996 and 1997.
D Private investment rose from 16.1 per cent of GDP in 1995 to 17.2 per cent in 1997, however
these rates were below the levels expected from FMDL indicators in 1996 and 1997 (16.0 per
cent and 17.5 per cent). In line with this evolution, gross fixed capital formation hardly
picked up and remained low at 20.7 per cent in 1997, against a target of 22.8 per cent.
*  Gross national savings to GDP ratio increased from 17.3 per cent in 1995 to 20.4 per cent in
1997. In 1995, it was 2.2 points below expectation, this gap against the target required under
FMDL monitoring shrunk in 1997 to 0.1 point only.
C.  Major factors affecting the project
16.   Two main risks were associated with the loan program. The first was related to the fiscal
sustainability of the reform program. The risk was that an increase in the budget deficit would
exert pressure on interest rates, with the possible outcome of reestablishing administrative
controls on interest rates and credit allocation in order to contain Treasury borrowing costs. The
budget deficit actually deteriorated from 2.2 percent of GDP in 1992 to 3.2 and 5.2 percent in
1994 and 1995, respectively. Most of this deterioration should be attributed to the adverse
climatic conditions. To restore economic balances, the Government has already initiated
measures to raise public savings, including tax reform policies, a limitation in the increase in the
Government's wage bill, and an acceleration of the privatization program. In fiscal year 1997/98
the budget deficit, including privatization receipts, represented -3.2 percent, which did not meet
the 2.5 percent expected by FMDL. This was due to actual privatization receipts being below the
budgeted amounts.
17.   The second risk had to do with the financial condition of banks potentially being
jeopardized by the risk associated with freeing lending interest rates and financial resources for
lending. In addition, the establishment of a foreign exchange market could have exposed the
economic agents to risk-taking operations with which banks had no previous experience.
Consequently, banks' portfolios would have become more vulnerable and, given the higher
degree of competition in the market, banks would have been forced to incorporate higher



- 7 -
provisioning requirements and, hence, lower profitability ratios. This risk did not materialize. In
fact, the risk exposure of Moroccan banks is relatively limited, and credit expansion in recent
years has been moderate. The commercial banks are currently in a position of significant
liquidity, with liquid assets representing more than 41 percent of their total balance sheet. The
exposure of Moroccan banks to exchange risk is also limited since less than 1 percent of loans
and banks deposits are denominated in foreign currency and the banks have foreign exchange
positions well below prudential limits. Furthermore, the profitability of commercial banks
improved over the period 1993-1996, while that of the specialized banks, the Caisse Nationale
de Credit Agricole (CNCA) in particular, deteriorated sharply. It is important to note, however,
that the enhanced profitability of commercial banks was due mainly to the abolition of the PEP,
and thus to the increase of the relative weight of loans on the banks' balance sheets.
D.  Bank performance
18.   The Bank's performance was globally satisfactory. Project preparation took about 18
months until Board approval. During this phase, the Bank correctly diagnosed the areas of the
sector that needed development, and identified in most cases good solutions. The appraisal phase
involved teams with economists specialized in the Moroccan financial sector, the IMF, and the
Moroccan Government. The appraisal team was proactive, and organized a seminar on "Capital
Markets Development" for the Government. Supervision missions visited Morocco regularly.
19.   The FMDL project was selected as one employing current best practices in the use of
performance monitoring indicators, as highlighted in the Monitoring and Evaluation Plans in
Staff Appraisal Reports Issued in Fiscal Year 95, Report 15222.
20.   However, the original project objectives were only partially achieved. Having a more
realistic assessment at appraisal would have avoided the waiver of conditions about one year
after the loan was made effective. CIH and BCP's privatization conditions were waived to allow
the release of the second tranche. A more detailed analysis of the particular legal form of BCP
would have indicated that privatization of BCP would require substantial changes, making the
achievement of this condition very unlikely in the timeframe of this project. The feasibility of
privatizing CIH also should have been assessed more carefully, since CIH, unlike a typical
commercial bank, also fulfills social and economic development functions in the areas of social
housing and tourism infrastructure programs. Similarly, BNDE's privatization could have been
tackled more aggressively during the Bank's supervision. The major reason for the failure of the
different privatization attempts might also be due to a problem of valuation of assets and
liabilities in the transfer process to the private owners.
E.  Borrower Performance
21.   The Borrower's performance was in general satisfactory. The Moroccan Government
participated actively and showed very good cooperation at each supervision. Moreover, the
Government's contribution to the completion report constitutes a fair assessment of the loan
outcome.
22.   However, the Borrower could not meet two of the six loan conditions and requested a
waiver. The request for waiver was explained by different factors, the major one being the severe



-8 -
drought that affected the Moroccan economy. The Government finally implemented one of the
conditions that was waived - the elimination of the PEP - but not in the scheduled timeframe.
23.   The audit of the first tranche SOE was qualified due to potential double counting of an
amount equal to US$8 million. The audit of the second tranche was also qualified due to
duplicate and ineligible claims for an amount of US$8.5 million. As a result, the Borrower
submitted replacement documents which were accepted by the auditors and the Bank. Audits for
the tranche statements of expenditures (SOE) were eventually satisfactory.
F.  Program Sustainability
24.   The program sustainability is likely if we consider the continuous dialogue between the
Bank and the Moroccan authorities. The Financial Sector Development Program in 1991 was
laying the basis for further reforms in 1995 with the FMDL. The achievements of the FMDL
were deemed satisfactory enough to launch the reforms of the contractual savings and to agree
on a Contractual Savings Development Loan in 1997. So, the reforms supported by the FMDL
have been reinforced and consolidated since 1995. Nevertheless, in spite of favorable trends and
significant measures that modified deeply the functioning of the financial sector, further financial
sector reform is still needed to increase the financial sector contribution to economic growth.
G.  Assessment of Outcome
25. Overall, the FMDL project is rated satisfactory. The Bank loan was committed
expeditiously and met with substantial disbursement success. The project achieved the stated
objectives within an acceptable level of success. The implementation of the FMDL policy
measures gradually reduced direct Government intervention in the banking sector and reinforced
the role of market forces in the allocation of financial resources; improved the capacity of
financial institutions to mobilize domestic savings; enhanced the effectiveness of monetary
policy instruments; contributed to reducing the crowding out of financial resources by the
Government; and promoted competition among banks while strengthening their financial
soundness. Morocco now has a healthy commercial banking system and an emerging capital
market, both of which are necessary for the development of a modem and productive private
sector.
26. Nevertheless, in spite of the elimination of the mandatory placement by banks of
government bonds (the PEP), and the creation of a system of govenment security dealers,
activity in the secondary market remains thin. One of the objectives listed in the policy matrix
was to increase the liquidity of government securities and to strengthen the secondary market for
the T-bonds. This objective seems partially fulfilled. This mechanism led to an interest rate
structure that remains partly administered. The lack of activity in the secondary market as well as
distortions in government bonds' pricing are caused mainly by deficiencies in the auction
mechanism which leads to a proliferation of thinly-capitalized-single issues of government
bonds. Eliminating the PEP was certainly a step towards a more market based process but a
thorough review of the auction mechanisms and of the instruments used is still needed to bring
about an efficient government securities market.



- 9 -
27. There was significant progress in the capital markets following legal and regulatory
measures conducted under the FMDL. However the capital markets development has not offered
a sufficient diversification of financing sources for private companies. Over the recent years,
there has been no initial public offering (IPO) by a private non-financial firm on the Casablanca
stock market, either in the form of marketable debt instruments or as an increase in share capital.
The growth in market capitalization has been due primarily to rising share prices. It reached DH
118.7 billion in 1997, or 37.4% of GDP. As regards to the supply of bank credit, commercial
banks have significantly increased their lending to the private sector, from about 44% in 1992 to
more than 65% of total lending by the end of 1997.
H.  Key lessons Learned and Future Financial Sector Reforms
28. The key lessons learned through the FMDL are the following:
*  A continuous long-term partnership with the Government pays off. The Bank should
continue with this approach for future operations on contractual savings which deepen
already initiated reforms. The Contractual Savings and Development Loan that was signed in
June 1998 was developed by the Bank and the Kingdom of Morocco to improve the
accumulation and allocation of long term savings and guarantee the long term sustainability
of the country's pension system. This operation as well as previous ones reflect a continuum
of efforts made by the Moroccan Government and the Bank to tackle the key issues for the
reforms in the financial sector. The Bank and the Moroccan Government have realized the
need for such an ongoing long-term partnership to ensure the success in the implementation
of a sequence of deep structural reforms. Such reforms cannot be achieved in one shot and
require constant monitoring and update. Thanks to these efforts, some important distortions
have been removed from the financial system. The banking system operates according to
internationally recognized norms and standards. It is healthy and has suffered no major crisis,
a record few countries enjoy. Most of the regulatory and policy reforms are in place to
develop the capital market as a main source of long-term capital for private investment. In
sum, Morocco has made substantial progress toward building a modern financial sector.
*  However, the Bank needs to be more realistic in the assessment of the feasibility of certain
policy measures. For example, the privatization program that was initially foreseen as part of
FMDL conditions was too ambitious, probably because of insufficient financial and
institutional analysis and/or of an optimistic assessment of the political constraints on
privatization. A more rigorous approach would require a careful assessment of the different
constraints and risks for each measure included in the loan. That would prevent the Bank
from having to use the waiver solution when implementation of measures fails.
* Eventually, the Bank needs to be more rigorous in its monitoring and supervision, to better
anticipate the risk of non compliance with required conditions.



- 10-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FINANCLAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Loan Nos. 39280-MOR and 39281-MOR
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
A.  Standard tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 7:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Non applicable standard tables:
Studies Included in Project (none)
Economic Costs and Benefits (n/a)
Compliance with Operational Manual Statements (n/a)
B.  Sector-specific data
Graphs
Graph 1:   Market Capitalization (in million dollars) in 1997
Graph 2:   Market capitalization / GDP in 1997
Graph 3:   Number of listed companies in 1997
Graph 4:   Market Capitalization in Casablanca Stock Exchange - 1997
Graph 5:   Casablanca Stock Exchange General Index - 1997
Graph 6:   Turnover Ratio (%) in 1997
Graph 7:   Financial Market Deepening Ratio M2-currency/GDP
Tables:
Table 1:  Emerging Stock Markets, 1997
Table 2:  The Casablanca Stock Exchange, 1994-1997
Table 3:  Market Capitalization by Industry
Table 4: . Privatizations through the Casablanca Stock Exchange, 1993-1997
Table 5 :  Evolution of interest rates, 1994-1997
Table 6:  Debt instruments issuers as of December 31, 1997



A.   Standard tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
(1/)           (V)               (V ()
Macro Policies                      E]               / 
Sector Policies                      E, En
Financial Objectives                E                                 E                 E
Institutional Development                           E Cl                                I
Physical Objectives                 E                E                El
Poverty Reduction                   E               E                 El
Gender Issues                       E                E                El
Other Social Objectives             E                E                El
Environmental Objectives            E                E                El
Public Sector Management            E                E                El
Private Sector Development          E                                 El                El
Other (specify)                     E                El               El"



-12-
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                      (/)                       (V)
v                 F~l                       E]
Higl
B. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                     (/)                       (/)
Identification                     E lII
Preparation Assistance               ]                                               izi
Appraisal                            ]                                                5
Supervision                        E                                                  El
Highly
C. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(/) (0)                        (1/)
Preparation                                  a                             [l
Implementation                              El              E/l
Covenant Compliance                                                         El
Operation (if applicable)                                   El
Highly                                           Highly
D. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
E                               El)                El ()  



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                  Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. Loan 28060-28067              Increase exports through intermediation loans,  05/05/87  Closed on 12/31/95
Industrial Export Finance     and improve export promotion and appraisal
US$170 million                capacities of the borrowing banks.
2. Loan 30010                    Further structural adjustment through tax    12/01/88     Closed on 12/31/89
Structural Adjustment I       reform, strengthened public investment, trade
US$200 million                liberalization, and improved debt management.
3. Loan 31360-31367               Support private sector economic diversification  12/05/89  Closed on 06/30/96
Industrial Finance            and exports through intermediation loans
US$170 million
4. Loan 33650-33730               Strengthen the financial sector and move    06/25/91     33650: Closed on 06/30/93
Financial Sector Development  towards indirect monetary control; support                33660: Will close on 12/31/98
US$235 million                private sector through intermediation loans               33670-33730: Closed on 12/31/97
5. Loan 34630                    Consolidate structural reforms through public  04/30/92   Closed on 12/31/93
Structural Adjustment II      expenditure switching, external trade reform,
US$275 million                and the development of social sector strategies
Following operations
6. Loan 43400-43401              Improve the mechanism of long-term savings   06/09/98     43400: Will close on 12/31/98
Contractual Savings Development I mobilization and allocation through the reform        43401 : Will close on 12/31/98
US$100 million                of contractual savings institutions.



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    [              Date Actual
Identification                           February 8-17, 1994
April 27-May 12, 1994
September 26-October 6, 1994
Pre-appraisal                            October 31-November 11, 1994
Loan Committee                           April 28, 1995
Appraisal and negotiations               June 12-24, 1995
Letter of Development Policy             June 27, 1995
Board Presentation                       July 25, 1995
Signing                                  August 1, 1995
Effectiveness                            August31, 1995
First Tranche Release (if applicable)    August 31, 1995
Second Tranche Release                   Novemnber 12, 1996
Loan Closing                             June 30, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million)
FY96         FY97          Total
Appraisal Estimate                                 150.00       100.00        250.00
Actual                                             150.09        92.60        242.69
Actual as % of Estimate                            100.06        92.60         97.08
Date of Final Disbursement                        Novemnber 30, 1996
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
Item/Source          Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)  Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million)
1. First Tranche                       150.00                              150.09
2. Second Tranche                      100.00                              92.60
TOTAL                          250.00                             242.69
Of which: IBRD                         250.00                              242.69



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators monitored under the FMDL
Financial and Private Sector Development Indicators     1994              1995                     1996                     1997
estimated    Actual    estimated      actual     estimated     actual
Macro - Financial Indicators
- Private domestic investment"1/GDP (%)                       16.1        15.0        16.1         16.0        15.9        17.5         17.2
- Gross national savings/GDP (%)                              19.3        19.5        17.3         19.8        20.0        20.5         20.4
Capital markets
- Treasury bonds auctions/Total Treasury domestic debt (%)    20.1        25.0        25.7         30.0        40.3        35.0         50.3
- Issues of corporate bonds (DH billion)                      0.0          0.0         0.0         2.0          0.0         4.0         0.0
- Market capitalization/GDP (%/0)                             14.6        17.0        17.9         19.0        23.5        23.0         37.4
Indirect Monetary Control
- Central Bank advance rate/interbank rate maximum spread (%)  NA          2.0         1.5         2.0          1.4         2.0          1.8
1/ Includes Public Enterprises.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Bank estimates.
Table 7: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Macroeconomic Framework -- Selected Indicators
1994              1995                      1996                     1997
Estimated     Actual     Estimated     Actual      Estimated     Actual
(in Percent)
Non- agriculture GDP Growth                             2.6    |    2.7          2.3          3.2          3.5    |    3.6          3.3
Foreign Debt Outstanding/XGS1'                     |   210    |   221            192    j    200          173    |    182           163
(As share of GDP)                                    l
Current Account                                        - 2.4        -3.5        -3.6         -2.9         0.3          -2.8        -0.2
Budget Deficit2'                                        -3.2        -3.5        -5.2         -3.0         -2.0         -2.5         -3.2
Fixed Capital Formation                                20.7         21.2         21.4        22.0         19.4         22.8         20.7
1/Includes workers' remittances. 2/ Includes Privatization receipts. Data for 1996 are FY96/97.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Bank estimates



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised                  Description of                                    Comments
type     status  . fulfillment  fulfillment          Covenant
date        date
Audit        3.03 (a)   1        CD       06/30/96                Sound maintenance of accounts
Audit        3.03 (b)   I        C       06/30/96                 Audit of accounts in (a)           The audit for the first tranche statement of expenditures (SOE) was
qualified due to potential double counting for an amount equal to
US$8 million. The audit of the second tranche was also qualified
due to duplicate and ineligible claims for an amount of US$8,5
million. As a result the Borrower submitted replacement
documents which were accepted by the Audit and the Bank.
Flow        3.02      3          C                                Procurement, as per Schedule 3
Flow         Schedule  3         C                                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
I                                                    loan
Flow         Schedule  3         C                                Interest and Principal repayment
2                                                    provisions
Flow         Schedule  3         C                                Procurement, as per World Bank
3                                                    guidelines
Flow         Schedule  10        CP       03/04/1996              Actions referred to in Paragraph 4(b) The second tranche was released in 11/96 based on a memorandum
4                                                    of Schedule I to this Agreement    of 10/30/96 from the President recommending release with waiver of
(conditions for 1I tranche release)    two of the six specific actions included in Schedule 4 of the loan
agreement namely: a) the elimination of bank mandatory Treasury
bond placement ratio (PEP), and b) the issuance of offers for sale of
government shares in two state owned banks, BCP, and CIH. The
PEP has been eliminated in June 1998, and privatization has not
been implemented yet for BCP, and CIH.
Review       3.01 (a)   9        C       03/04/1996               Exchange of views or progress of
actions under project
Review       3.01 (b)   9        C        03/04/1996              Progress report to be submitted to the
Bank
Covenant types:                                                                                                  Present Status:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                 8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting                  C  =  covenant complied with
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9  CD =  complied with after delay
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds          11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource  CP =  complied with partially
4. =  Counterpart funding                                   allocation                                        NC =  not complied with
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                               regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                        13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement



- 17 -
Table 9: Bank Resources: StaffInputs
(Thousands of US$)
Stage of Project Cycle                                 Planned              Revised              Actual
Weeks   US$   Weeks  US$  Weeks  US$
Preparation to Appraisal                        n/a         n/a                             212.8    694.8
Appraisal-Negotiations                          n/a         n/a                                4.4      31.8
Negotiations through Board Approval             n/a         n/a                                7.4      31.2.
Supervision                                     n/a        n/a          57.5    196.9        59.9    199.5
Completion                                      n/a        n/a           7.0      25.2         2.0       5.4
TOTAL                                          n/a        n/a         64.5    222.4       286.5    962.8
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                 Specialized   Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of          Month/        of      Days in     Staff Skills   tation        ment       Types of
Project Cycle        Year       Persons     Field     Represented     Status     Objectives    Problems
Through appraisal: Ist
Mission                02/94      4         8           TM, E, F
2nd Mission            05/94      6         12          TM, E, F
3rd Mission            09/94      2         8           TM, E
4thMission             11/94       7         10         TM,E,F,L
Appraisal through      06/95-     5          10         TM, E, F, L        _            _
Board Approval         08/95
Supervision
04/96      5         8           TM, E, F           S            S          OLC
06/97      3         3           TM. E              S            S          OLC
Supervision/Completion   12/97    2         6           TM. F              S            S
Legenda:            Skills represented:
TM    Task Manager
E     Economnist
F     Financial Specialist
L     Lawyer
Types of problems:
OLC Other legal covenants



- 18 -
B.   Sector-specific data
Graph 1 Maiket Capitalization (in million dolias) in 1997
70,000
60,000
40,000
120,000                                                    _      _
10,000                                                          laMer-
* Jordn Tunisia
0         2          4         6          8         10        12
Graph 2: Market capitalization / GDP in 1997
100%
90%
80%                                            _
70% 
60%      ' 
50%            ~''
10%
* In lieu of 1997 GDP, 1996 GDP was used.



- 19 -
10$                             143      139
160
1401                74
120-
100                                      ~~~~~~~~~~34
80-
60 -
40
20]
Graph 4: Market Capitalization in Casablanca Stock Exchange -
1997
140,000                                                               40
120,000                                                               35
1Ou00,000                                                            30 12 .t 0i;0 i-0 - 0 00;tX t0 - ;;i -.-iL'; ..ijjj 2  SSj$21ti i/   !In million dirhams
80,000                                                               25  +- %of GDP
20
60,000
15
40,000                                                                 0
20,000
0                                                                0
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997



- 20 -
Graph 5: Casablanca Stock Exchange Gene ral Index - 1997
800                                -  -                        60
700
50
600
500                                                            40        General Index
400                         \                 *        *       30   +-Change in index(%)
300
20
200                                                            10
Io                                                              I _-o
0,                                                           0
1992     1993     1994      1995     1996      1997
t}Iungaiy-  _-   -      g                                                  ;~~~~~~~~~Taian
E                                        Mgyptorocco
Graph 7: Financial Market Deepeniing
120% rRatio M2-culrmncy/GDP
l    00%_                                                              Thailand!
80%, --- -- =
60%                        Egypt         MoroccoI
400/%
| 40% F ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~- - ~~ - ~ ~~ ' ~ * Tunisia
20% l           ._-_
1991        1992       1993        1994        1995         1996        1997
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   



-21 -
Table 1: Emerging Stock Markets, 1997
Market    Trading Value   Change in   Number of  Turnover
Capitalization   (in million  index in   listed    Ratio (%)
(in million   dollars)    dollars (%)  companies
dollars).
Africa                    280,971       53,546                   1,810
included:
Egypt                      20,830        5,859         18.0       650        33.5
Morocco                    12,177         1,048        37.8        49         10.0
Tunisia                     2,312          285        -47.0        34         8.7
Latin America             609,710      299,435                   2,267
included:
Argentina                  59,252       25,702         17.3        136       49.5
Columbia                   19,529         1,894        24.1        189       10.3
Venezuela                  14,581        3,858         23.2        91        31.3
Asia                      872,673     2,136,268                 11,513
included:
Korea                      41,881       170,237       -69.4       776        188.4
Indonesia                  29,105       41,650        -74.2       282        69.3
Thailand                   23,538       23,119        -80.0       431        37.5
Eastern Europe            183,138       44,071                   2,593
included:
Russia                    128,207        16,362       142.7       208         19.8
Hungary                    14,975        7,684         60.9        49         75.9
Poland                     12,135        7,977        -18.5        143        77.7
Western Europe            136,219      101,502                     675
included:
Turkey                     61,090       59,105        109.9       257        129.7
Portugal                   38,954       20,932         43.6        148       65.8
Middle-East               146,802       66,898                   1,079
included:
Kuwait                     25,888       170,237        36.9        74        144.9
Jordan                      5,446          501         11.8        139        10.0
Total                   2,229,513     2,701,720           -     19,937          -
Source: IFC, World Bank



Table 2: The Casablanca Stock Exchange, 1994-1997
1994       1995       1996        1997
Market Capitalization
In million dirhams                           39 825      50 780     75 583    118 666
% of GDP                                        14,0        18,3       23,9       37,4
Trading value (in million dirhams)                       8 648     23 201      20 357     32 334
Stocks                                        7 235      20 713     18 063      27 658
Government bonds and other securities          1 406      2 484      2 127       4 638
Other                                              5          4         22          38
Share of Market Capitalization
Share in value traded by of 10 most traded stocks (  85      87         88          77
Number of listed companies                                  61         44          47         49
Total Dividends distributed (in million dirhams)          968       1 245       1 713      2 086
Total Dividends/Total Market Capitalization   2,43%       2,45%      2,27%       1,76%
Casablanca Stock Exchange General Index                 342,33      342,39     447,13      667,52
Change in index (%)                            31,78        0,02      30,59      49,29
Source: Casablanca Stock Exchange Company



Table 3: Market Capitalization by Industry
In million dirhams   Change in %       Share in %
97/96
1996         1997                   1996       1997
Banking                                  26 928     37 793         40%        35,6       31,8
Holding companies                        16 542     25 745         56%        21,9       21,7
Food                                      9 651      15 523        61%         12,8      13,1
Oil and Mining                            6 028       8 944        48%         8,0        7,5
Building Material                         5 552      15 468       179%         7,3       13,0
Sugar Industry                            3 206      2 955          -8%        4,2        2,5
Consumer Credit                           2 673      5 500        106%         3,5        4,6
Metal Industry                            1 306      2 126         63%          1,7        1,8
Others                                    3 728      4 612         24%         4,9        3,9
Total        75 614     118 666        57%       100%       100%
Source: Casablanca Stock Exchange Company



Table 4: Privatizations through the Casablanca Stock Exchange 1993-1997
Companies          Sector        Privatization  Shares %  Price per Number of Privatization   Number of
Date       Offered   share      shares   Gross revenue    shares
offered   allocated    (in Million    subscribed
Dirhams)
SAMIR          Oil refinery            17-mars-96      30,00      243  6 192 450          1 505    10 975 751
BMCE            Banking                 24-janv-95     14,01      325  1 401 000           455      8 533 127
SONASID         Steel                   14-juin-96     35,00      308  1 365 000           420     2 235 041
SNI            Holding                  01-nov-94      15,63      300  1 203 678           361     7 456 924
CIOR           Building materials       21-dec-93      34,00      230    715 700           165     5 505 613
SMI             Metal                   17-juin-97     20,00      396    329 018           130     3 637 163
FERTIMA         Chemicals              07-mars-96      30,00      174    690 000           120      3 077 567
CTM-LN          Transportation          03-juin-93     40,00      250    337 224            84      1 540 447
EQDOM           Consumer credit         27-juin-95     18,00      360    200 000            72       691 168
CTM-LN          Transportation           05-oct-94     18,46      280    174 100            49       448 138
SOFAC           Consumer Credit          05-avr-94     18,37      290    137 775            40       541 500
GENERAL TIRE Tire Manufacturing         15-fevr-95     20,00      228    126 000            29      1185 600
Total                                                       3 430
* Source: Ministry of Privatization



Table 5  Evolution of interest rates (1)
Annual rates in %                                                                   Money Market rates
Dec. 1994     Dec. 1995    Dec. 1996   Dec. 1997
Bank Al-Mahgrib Repos
- 7 days                                                                        12             7           6,5         6,5
- 5 days                                                                        nc           8,5            8            8
- 24 hours                                                                      nc            nc           12           12
Interbank Market
Weighted Average Rate (WAR)                                                    5,25           7,7         6,85        6,69
End of Month WAR                                                                  8             8          6,52        6,74
Deposit banks and other specialized financial institutions            Deposit interest rates (Per cent per annum)
Dec. 1994     Dec. 1995    Dec. 1996    Dec. 1997
Sight deposits                                                                  NR            NR           NR           NR
Savings Account
- National Savings Fund                                                        9            8             8           8
- National Agricultural Credit Institution                               7 (miti)      7 (miii)     7 (min)
- Banks                                                                  7 (mini)      7 (min)      7 (min)     7 (min)
Source: Banik Al-Maglirib, An1nual Report
NR: Not remunerated



Table 5: Evoltitioni of interest r ates (2)
Notes and iBondis isstied by The Treastiry
Treasc r), bills issued.for I/ihe ;blic                                  l)cc. 1994      Dec. 1995    D1ec. 1996    Dec. 1997
- 6 iioitlis                                                                    9,5           9,5           8,5          7,5
- I year                                                                         10          10,0           9,0          7,5
-3 years                                                                       10,5          10,5           9,5            8
-5 years                                                                         II          11,0          10,0          8,5
Current account niotes
- Required subscription                                                        4,25           4,25          4,25  Eliminiated
- Free subscription                                                     Market rate   Market rate    Market rate  Market rate
2- year bonds
- Moroccans Living abroad 10                                                                  10           9,5          8,5
5-y,ear bonds
- Capital accounit                                                              9,5            9,5             9           9
- I year-note issued by National Agricultural Credit lIstitutioti              4,25           4,25          4,25            -
Noles anid Bonds issued by, Fitancial arici No Fir nancial hIstitdions
- 5 year-note                                                                   10,5           tic            10
- 7 year-note                                                                   10,5            10            10
- 8 year-note                                                                   NC              10            10
-10 year-note                                                                    1 1         10,25         10,25          to
-15 year-note                                                                    I 1          10,5             -         10,5
Coiunmercial paper                                                                 Free           Free          Free
Source: Bank Al-Maglhrib, Anmiial Report



-27 -
Table 6: Debt instruments issuers as of December 31, 1997
Type of instruments & Name of the      Sector       Initial amount    Balance as of
Issuer                                   (in million    December 31, 1997
Dirhams)   (in million Dirhams)
Certificates of deposits
BCP                                      Banking               1 000
BNDE                                     Banking                700                607
CIH                                      Banking               1 500              1 188
MEDIAFINANCE                             Banking                300                 65
SGMB                                     Banking                500                 90
WAFABANK                                 Banking               1 110               991
Debt instruments issued by consumer credit or leasing companies
ACRED                                 Consumer Credit           250                250
EQDOM                                 Consumer Credit           350                350
MAROC LEASING                            Leasing                300                108
SOGELEASE MAROC                          Leasing                300                172
SOMAFIC                              Consumer Credit            144                144
WAFA IMMOBILIER                          Mortgage                100
WAFABAIL                                 Leasing                250                218
WAFASALAF                            Consumer Credit            400                381
Debt instruments issued by other companies
MAROCAINE VIE IMMOBILIER                Real Estate              70                 70
Total               7 274              4 634
Source . Bank Al-Maghrib, Conseil Deontologique des Valeurs Mobilieres



APPENDIX: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



APPENDIX
Page 1 of 7
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT ON THE
CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTRIBUTION OF THE BORROWER
Unofficial translation of the French version
INTRODUCTION
I - With a view to continuing the reform of its financial sector, Morocco concluded a loan agreement with
the World Bank in August 1995. This reform, which deepens the one undertaken with particular emphasis
since 1991 with support from the Bank, is part of a far-reaching program designed to promote private
sector development. Through the establishment of a capital market founded on market mechanisms, it
aims, in essence, to raise savings and investment rates to the levels necessary to achieve strong and
sustainable economic growth.
2 - The reform program was implemented in generally satisfactory conditions. Indeed, the
macroeconomic framework remained stable and in line with the agreed objectives, except in 1995, when a
severe drought caused slippages in the area of government finance and prices. Almost all of the measures
were implemented as planned. Only two measures were renegotiated with the World Bank, i.e., removal
of the government securities floor (PEP) and the sale of government holdings in the BCP and the CIH.
These measures could not be carried out either for exceptional reasons or because the problems involved
in their implementation were underestimated. They were not abandoned, however, but merely postponed
to a later date (the PEP was removed on June 30, 1998).
3 - Judging by the performance indicators selected for the program, the results of the reform appear to be
satisfactory overall. For example, it resulted in the near-total elimination of the privileges enjoyed by the
Treasury in respect of financing. Moreover, expansion of the Treasury bond auction market and its
improved liquidity enabled the Treasury to strengthen its market-based financing and obtain better terms.
The reform also facilitated the diversification of financial instruments, particularly as a result of the
establishment of a market for negotiable debt securities (TCN) and the creation of mutual funds.
Similarly, modernization of the stock market brought about a substantial improvement in the performance
of the market, the capitalization of which increased sharply. However, the reform has yet to produce all of
the expected effects in terms of the development of alternative financing. The direct financing instruments
created as part of the reform (corporate paper and bond issues) have so far been little used by businesses.



APPENDIX
Page 2 of 7
I     CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES
1 - In the early 1990s, the government launched an initial series of financial sector reforms with support
from the World Bank. During that reform phase, the emphasis was on liberalization of the banking
system. Consequently, major reforms were undertaken such as the loosening of credit controls, the
elimination of selective credit policies, and the introduction of rules on the supervision and prudential
management of banks.
2 - Continuing the financial sector reform is part of the government's strategy to develop a competitive
economy based more fully on private sector dynamics. It is one component of a broad structural reform
program designed to modernize the basic infrastructure, promote professional training, improve the legal
and institutional framework of business, and enhance the economy's competitiveness with a view to
creating a free-trade area with the European Union. In this context, the objective of the financial sector
reform is to increase the rate of savings sufficiently to achieve the level of investment necessary to ensure
strong economic growth. This is to be accomplished through the establishment of a modern and efficient
financial system operating on market terms, and the development of the capital market as a major source
of business financing.
3 - The financial system development project, as described in the Letter of Development Policy sent by
the Minister of Finance to the World Bank, covers four areas of intervention:
(a)    Treasury financing: The measures include increased reliance on market mechanisms for Treasury
financing and the creation of a modern infrastructure for the issuance of Treasury bonds. The
mandatory Treasury bonds-to sight deposits ratio of banks was reduced from 35 percent to 25
percent in the first phase. To improve private sector access to credit and accelerate the
development of the domestic financial market, it should be eliminated altogether.
(b)    Monetary control: The Central Bank should pursue an indirect policy to control the monetary
aggregates. Refinancing rates in the banking system will be determined on the basis of the
reference rates recently introduced by the Central Bank. The transmission of these rates within
the banking system will be facilitated by the liberalization of lending rates, which will also give
the banking system greater latitude in granting credit to the private sector.
(c)    Capital markets: Following modernization of the legal framework in 1993, the implementation of
a regulatory framework should be continued. An infrastructure adapted to the needs of a rapidly
developing market should also be put in place. The objective will be the harmonization of the
Moroccan securities market with international standards.
(d)    Banking system: The measures will aim, among other things, at continuing the privatization of
the banking system and the establishment of a foreign exchange market as the first step toward an
exchange rate based on market mechanisms and, in the medium term, the convertibility of the
Dirham, as soon as the prerequisites for this are satisfied.
4 - The loan obtained from the World Bank will be used to finance the temporary cost to the budget of
implementing the program of reforms and, in particular, removal of the government securities floor. The
loan, amounting to US$250 million, can be disbursed in two tranches. The first, totaling US$150 million,
will become available once the modalities for the entry into force of the loan agreement have been
fulfilled. Disbursement of the second tranche of US$100 million, is subject to the implementation of a



APPENDIX
Page 3 of 7
certain number of specific measures and the attainment of progress satisfactory to the Bank in executing
the program of reforms as a whole.
II.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1)    Macroeconomic context:
Despite severe droughts in 1995 and 1997, the macroeconomic context has remained stable
overall. In fact, GDP, following a significant increase of 10.4 percent in 1994, fell 6.6 percent in 1995,
before expanding 12.1 percent in 1996 and then decreasing 2 percent in 1997. This unstable growth,
reflecting developments in the agricultural sector, had some impact on the growth of nonagricultural
GDP, the annual rates of which were slightly below the rates projected for 1995 and 1997, i.e., 2.3 percent
and 3.3 percent, respectively, compared to the initial estimates of 2.7 percent and 3.6 percent.
The underlying equilibria continued to improve following the problems caused by the drought in
1995. Consequently, the Treasury deficit, which stood at 5.2 percent of GDP in 1995, amounted to 2
percent in FY 1996/1997 and 3.2 percent in FY 1997/1998. Similarly, the external current account deficit,
which went from 2.4 percent of GDP in 1994 to 3.4 percent in 1995, showed a surplus of 0.4 percent of
GDP in 1996, before posting,a slight deficit of 0.3 percent in 1997.
However, the fact remains that the slump in business activity in 1995 and its impact on the state
budget were at the root of the renegotiation of a specific program measure, namely, total removal of the
PEP.
2)    First-tranche measures
1 - The measures for the first tranche of the loan, or, rather, those upon which presentation of the project
to the Executive Board of the World Bank depended, have all been implemented. These measures,
grouped according to the areas of intervention of the reform, are the following:
a) Treasury financing:
i) Reduction of the PEP from 25 percent to 20 percent of bank liabilities: this measure was
implemented by decree of the Minister of Finance in May 1995, the objective, of course, being to ensure
Treasury financing on market terms;
ii) Elimination of tax incentives for Treasury bonds: this measure was introduced in the 1994
finance law, which, beginning in 1995, eliminated the exemption granted individuals for the interest
earned on subscriptions to loans issued or guaranteed by the Treasury. The objective was to harmonize
the tax treatment of government and private financial instruments;
iii) Reform of the T-bond auction market: this reform was implemented by the decree of the
Minister of Finance of January 23, 1995 and the BAM implementing circular. The aim was to open this
market to all investors, increase its transparency, and promote the emergence of a secondary market. The
main adjustments introduced at this level are:
- Admission to the market of any individual or legal entity, resident or nonresident;
-  Dissemination of a quarterly issuing calendar as well as auction results;



APPENDIX
Page 4 of 7
- Standardization of the securities issued, which were previously of only 3 types: short-term
bonds (13, 26, and 52 weeks), medium-term bonds (2 and 5 years), and long-term bonds
(10 and 15 years);
- Introduction of the technique of assimilation, which allows for the formation of bond pools,
thereby promoting the emergence of a secondary market;
- Designation of Treasury securities dealers, responsible for managing the auction market.
iv) - Adoption of the law on negotiable debt securities: this law was adopted and promulgated by
Dahir of January 26, 1995. By instituting a negotiable debt securities market, this law made it possible to
expand the range of investment instruments offered to investors and to develop a number of sources of
alternative financing. This law, as well as the implementing provisions adopted in July and October 1995,
specifies the modalities under which this market will operate, the securities that can be issued on it, the
conditions governing access to the market, and the rules necessary for its security and transparency. Three
types of securities can be issued on this market:
- The 10-day to 7-year certificates of deposit that banks can issue;
- The 2- to 7-year finance company bonds that can be issued only by finance companies
authorized to receive funds from the public at a term of more than 2 years;
-  The 10-day to 1-year corporate paper, which only companies can issue.
b) Indirect control of credit:
i)    Publication in June 1995 of a Central Bank circular setting forth the conditions of its intervention
on the money market. This circular replaced the former means of intervention, based in particular
on automatic, fixed-rate refinancing, with indirect instruments designed to impact the monetary
aggregates through indirect money market rates. The new, indirect instruments introduced by this
circular are the following:
- One-week Central Bank repurchase operations at a rate constituting the floor (currently
6 percent);
- Five-day bank repurchase operations at a rate constituting the ceiling (currently 7.5 percent);
- Twenty-four-hour Bank Al-Maghrib or bank repurchase operations at a rate 4 points above
the ceiling (i.e., 11.5 percent);
- Open market operations, i.e., outright purchases and sales of Treasury bonds on the secondary
market.
c) Development of the financial market:
i)  the publication of an initial series of provisions implementing laws promulgated in 1993 on
the stock exchange and mutual funds;
ii) Approval in July 1995, by decree of the Prime Minister, of the rules governing the National
Accounting Council;
iii) Promulgation of the law on the accounting obligations of insurance companies in January
1995;
iv) Finalization in June 1995 of the terms of reference for a study on institutional savings;
v)   Preparation of a CDVM (securities commission) organizational chart in June 1995.
d) Banking system: the measures implemented in this area are designed to accelerateprivatizations in
the banking sector and create the conditions necessary for the establishment of a foreign exchange
market; they are:
i) Privatization of the SNI in 1994, followed by the BMCE in 1995;



APPENDIX
Page 5 of 7
ii) Forwarding of a letter from the Governor, dated July 3, 1995, to the GPBM, announcing the
creation of a foreign exchange market and inviting banks to prepare for the establishment of that market;
iii) Publication of a circular by the exchange control authorities on July 12, 1995, raising the
percentage of earnings from exports of goods and services to be paid into an account in foreign currency
from 10 percent and 5 percent, respectively, to 20 percent, and eliminating the requirement of an initial
payment of DH 100,000 for nonresident Moroccans to open accounts in foreign currency.
3)    Second-tranche measures:
1 - The second-tranche measures were implemented in accordance with the program, except for two
measures included in the specific conditions, i.e., removal of the PEP and the sale of government holdings
in the CIH and the BCP, which could not be carried out because of unforeseen negative factors or because
the problems involved in implementing these measures were underestimated. In fact, as explained in the
letter sent by the Minister of Finance to the Bank on September 25, 1996, removal of the PEP in 1996,
given the widening of the Treasury deficit in 1995 as a result of the drought and the effect it had of
increasing the FY 1996 debt burden, would have further expanded the deficit for that fiscal year.
As for the other measure, it should be pointed out that the government's holdings in the CIH
could not be sold within the time frame established by the program because of the need to restructure that
agency's portfolio following the crisis in the tourism sector in 1995.
Lastly, the sale of government holdings in the BCP proved not to be possible until after passage
by congress of the legislation amending that institution's charter.
At the request of the Minister of Finance and with the approval of the World Bank, these
measures were eased as follows:
- Instead of eliminating the PEP in 1996, reduce it another 5 points in September 1996 and
agree to remove it entirely under the 1997-1998 finance law;
- Formulate a CIH reorganization plan aimed at improving its financial position instead of
selling the government's interest, as originally planned;
- Advance the process of approving the reform of the new BCP charter instead of selling the
government's interest in that institution's capital.
2 - Subject to the above modifications, all of the specific measures were implemented. They consisted of
the following:
i)    Reduction of the PEP from 20 percent to 15 percent in January 1996 and then to 10 percent in
September 1996.
ii)    Elimination of the loan rate ceiling by decree of the Minister of Finance in February 1996. This
full-scale liberalization of interest rates is aimed, among other things, at improving the access of
SMEs to financing by promoting bank competition and allowing banks to set their own rate based
on the degree of exposure.
iii)   Passage of the draft law on corporations by the House of Representatives in July 1996. The aim
of this law is to modernize the legal framework of corporations by increasing the transparency of
their management and facilitating their use of the capital market.
iv)    Publication in March 1996 of a circular from the exchange control authorities and of the
corresponding BAM implementing circulars, with a view to the creation in June 1996 of an
interbank exchange market. Banks participating in this market were authorized to carry out
transactions in foreign currency against dirhams among themselves and with customers, and were
free to determine exchange rates within the band defined by the Central Bank. This market also
affords banks the opportunity to develop exchange risk hedging instruments.



APPENDIX
Page 6 of 7
v)    Sale of government shares in the capital of BNDE and formulation of a CIH reorganization plan.
Reform of the BCP charter is currently in the process of being approved.
3 - All of the other 2nd_tranche measures were implemented, with the exception of one related to the law
on the preparation, publication, and certification of consolidated financial statements, which could not be
carried out owing to the lack of the requisite technical assistance. Among these measures, particular
mention should be made of the following:.
-  With regard to monetary policy, publication of a BAM circular dated September 10, 1996,
simplifying the method of determining the monetary reserve by authorizing banks to calculate the
amount of that reserve an on average daily basis.
-  In respect of the financial market:
i)   publication of a second set of provisions implementing the laws on the Securities Exchange
and mutual funds (see appendix and Annex 2).
ii)  Elimination of the government guarantee for public enterprise bond issues. The CNME was
notified of this measure by the Ministry of Finance on January 16, 1996;
iii)  Formulation, with the support of the French consortium SBF-SICOVAM, in May 1996, of
a plan of action designed to strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework of the
Securities Exchange;
iv)  Establishment of accounting rules for insurance companies by decree of the Minister of
Finance on May 8, 1996;
v)   Finalization in September 1996 of a plan of action to promote institutional savings.
- Regarding the banking system:
i)   Publication in April 1996 of circulars on the creation of the foreign exchange market and
pertaining more specifically to the modalities under which that market will operate, the
determination of exchange positions, the professional guidelines to be followed by
participants, and the definition of accounting standards applicable to foreign exchange
operations carried out on that market.
ii)  Harmonization of the prudential rules (risk-spreading coefficient and capital-debt ratio) for
banks and former OFSs (BNDE, CIH, and CNCA) by decree of the Minister of Finance
dated July 23, 1996.
HI - ASSESSMENT OF THE RESULTS OF THE PROJECT
1 - Although it seems premature to assess so broad a reform, it can be said, in regard to the performance
indicators selected for the program, that the positive effects of this reform are obvious, especially in the
areas of Treasury financing, monetary policy, financial instruments, and the stock exchange.
However, the program has not yet produced all of the desired effects in terms of direct financing of the
private sector.
2 - In the area of Treasury financing, the reform led not only to increased financing of the Treasury on
market terms, but also to improved liquidity in the auction market and lower rates. In fact, the Treasury
relied increasingly on the auction market as the stock of T-bonds subscribed by auction more than tripled
in the 1994-1997 period, significantly boosting their share of total domestic debt. This result is due partly
to the opening of the auction market to new participants, particularly insurance companies and mutual
funds, and partly to the improved liquidity of that market following the launch of the secondary market in
1996. Volume on the latter market has expanded steadily since then, amounting to DH 29 billion at end-
1997 and DH 33 billion in the first half of 1998 alone. The growth of the auction market has even enabled
the Treasury to benefit from lower rates, particularly since 1997.



APPENDIX
Page 7 of 7
3 - The monetary impact of the reform is evidenced by the adoption of an indirect monetary policy based
exclusively on interest rates. This policy had the positive effect of stabilizing theinterbank market, where
rates have moved within the fluctuation band defined by the Central Bank's reference rates. Rates on the
interbank market are therefore not far from the BAM floor, insofar as the spread between these two rates
has remained below the limit established in the program. This policy also made it possible to control the
money supply, the growth of which has generally conformed to the monetary authorities' objectives. It
should be noted, however, that intervention by the Central Bank has so far not included open market
operations.
4 - The effect of the reform on the stock market was to significantly improve its performance, as clearly
demonstrated by the trend of the major stock market indicators. Thus, stock market capitalization in the
1994-97 period almost tripled, going from DH 40 billion in 1994 to DH 119 billion in 1997. Expressed as
a percentage of GDP, it amounted to 37 percent in 1997, compared to 24 percent in 1996 and 18 percent
in 1995, far exceeding the levels envisaged in the program.
5 - The reform also led to the diversification of financial instruments through the establishment of mutual
funds and the creation of a negotiable debt securities market. In fact, mutual funds have multiplied rapidly
since their official introduction in December 1995. Their number has increased uninterruptedly since
then, reaching 54 by end-1997, 35 of them SICAVs and 19 FCPs. The savings collected by these entities
have grown considerably. The net assets of mutual funds, for example, which were no more than DH 239
million at end-December 1995, soared to DH 2.7 billion in 1996 and then to DH 10.6 billion in 1997 and
nearly DH 17 billion by end-June 1998. The negotiable debt securities market has also experienced major
growth since its official launch in January 1996. The first issues on this market occurred in October 1996
and have grown constantly since then. The stock of these securities at end-December 1997 totaled DH 3.6
billion, including DH 1.8 billion in certificates of deposit and DH 1.7 billion in finance company bonds.
6 - However, the reform has yet to produce all of the expected effects in terms of the development of
alternative financing instruments. The significant growth of the negotiable debt securities market involved
only those instruments issued by banks and finance companies (certificates of deposit and finance
company bonds). By end-1997, there had been only one issue of corporate paper by a private enterprise.
Similarly, bond issues on the financial market have been limited to companies that used that type of
financing before the reform (C.I.H.). Lastly, it should be emphasized that private enterprises have yet to
avail themselves of opportunities on the international financial market, even though international rates
have fallen substantially and the foreign exchange market created in June 1996 affords exchange risk
coverage. The use of all these direct financing instruments could have exerted competitive pressure on the
banking system and, in so doing, led it to improve access to financing in the economy as a whole and
among SMEs in particular.
Signed by:
Mr. Abdeltif Loudyi
Directeur du Tresor et des Finances Exterieures
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
Royaume du Maroc



