Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3928 MOR
                              Loan Agreement
                   (Financial Markets Development Loan)
                                  between
                            KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated August 1, 1995
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3928 MOR
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated August 1, 1995, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 27,
1995, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve development of the
Borrower's financial markets (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution; and
    (B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter
provided;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank,
dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a) "Bank Al-Maghrib" means the central bank of the
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Laws (Dahir) No.1-59-233 dated June 30, 1959, and No. 1-61-258
dated December 30, 1961, as amended.
    (b)   "French Franc" and "FRF" each means the lawful currency
of the Republic of France.
    (c)   "Dollar Loan Tranche" means the amount specified in
Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement.
    (d)   "French Franc Loan Tranche" means the amount specified
in Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement.
    (e)   "Loan Tranche" means either the Dollar Loan Tranche or
the French Franc Loan Tranche.
    (f)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period commencing
on January 1 and ending on December 31.
    (g)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986).
    (h)   "Environmentally Hazardous Goods" means goods
prohibited to be imported under the laws of the Borrower or
international agreements to which the Borrower is a party.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement: (a) an amount equal to one hundred twenty five
million dollars ($125,000,000), and (b) an amount equal to six
hundred million French Francs (FRF600,000,000).
    Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of a Loan Tranche
not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of each Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of each Loan Tranche in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.08. (a) Bank Al-Maghrib is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
Page  3
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
    (b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts Bank Al-Maghrib with responsibility
for the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan
and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to
be furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts
of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, including the
Program indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Bank, and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
                Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by
                independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and
                the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                time to time reasonably request.
    (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents or
Page  4
                custom certificates as appropriate) evidencing
                such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audits referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
    Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
    Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance and External Investments of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance and External Investments
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                MINFIN                   36147
                                         36936
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT)
Page  5
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                       By/s/  Mustapha Cherkaoui
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By/s/  Daniel Ritchie
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in
this Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by
notice to the Borrower:
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                      refuse
       122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                      or not containing tobacco
                                      substitutes)
       525                --          Radioactive and
                                      associated materials
       667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                      semiprecious stones, unworked or
                                      worked
       718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                      parts thereof, fuel elements
                                      (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                      nuclear reactors
       728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals
Page  6
                                      (except watches and watch cases)
                                      and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                      wares (including set gems)
       971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)
    (b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
    (c) payments made for goods imported prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such goods imported before that
date but after May 15, 1995;
    (d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $50,000 equivalent;
    (e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
    (f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
    (g) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $50,000,000 for petroleum products and expenditures in
excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $50,000,000 for
foodstuffs; and
    (h) expenditures for Environmentally Hazardous Goods.
3. Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may
be required by the Bank upon the basis of statements of
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify.
4. No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of $150,000,000,
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program,
and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken.
5.  If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph
4 above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the
Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.  General Definitions
    For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings.
    (a) "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of a Loan Tranche
withdrawn from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
Page  7
    (b) "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.
    (c) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
    (d) "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest
Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.  Interest
1.  The principal amount of each Loan Tranche shall be divided
into Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each
Disbursed Amount of a Loan Tranche outstanding from time to
time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate
Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as
described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.  (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche withdrawn and
outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at
a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
          (ii) LIBOR Total Spread.
    (b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount of
the Dollar Loan Tranche until final repayment thereof, interest
on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the
applicable:
          (i)  Dollar Fixed Base Rate; plus
          (ii) Dollar Fixed Total Spread.
    (c)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche withdrawn and
outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at
a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  PIBOR Base Rate; plus
          (ii) PIBOR Total Spread.
    (d)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount of
the French Franc Loan Tranche until final repayment thereof,
interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal
to the applicable:
          (i)  French Franc Fixed Base Rate; plus
          (ii) French Franc Fixed Total Spread.
3.  For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
terms have the following meanings.
    (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche is
withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for
value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably
Page  8
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in
which each Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche is
withdrawn:
          (i)   one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for
                such Interest Period, below (or above) the London
                interbank offered rates, or other reference
                rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
    (c)  "Dollar Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed
Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche, the equivalent of the London
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for
value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed
interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of
such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (d)  "Dollar Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed
Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche:
          (i)   one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                below (or above) the London interbank offered
                rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund
                single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
         (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
                Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
    (e)  "PIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche is
withdrawn, the Paris interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in French Francs for value the first day of such
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest
Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment
Date preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum.
    (f)  "PIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in
which each Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche is
withdrawn:
          (i)   one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for
                such Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris
                interbank offered rates, or other reference
                rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                loans or portions thereof made by it that include
Page  9
                such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
    (g)  "French Franc Fixed Base Rate" means, for each
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche, the
equivalent of the Paris interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in French Francs for value on the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (h)  "French Franc Fixed Total Spread" means, for each
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche:
          (i)   one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                below (or above) the Paris interbank offered
                rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund
                single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
         (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
                Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
4.  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR
Total Spread, Dollar Fixed Base Rate and Dollar Fixed Total
Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan
Tranche, and of PIBOR Base Rate, PIBOR Total Spread, PIBOR
Fixed Base Rate and PIBOR Fixed Total Spread applicable to each
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche, promptly
upon the determination thereof.
5.  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
C.  Repayment
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of each Loan Tranche
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November
15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be
payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each
installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed
Amount.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of any Disbursed Amount of
either Loan Tranche would, pursuant to the provisions of said
Page  10
paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2010, the Borrower
shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all such
installments.
3.  After each Disbursed Amount of a Loan Tranche shall have
been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                                Procurement
Part A:   General
    Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, subject to
the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured:
1.  by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, under
contracts awarded in accordance with such procedures, provided
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the
Bank; and
2.  by other purchasers:
          (a) under contracts awarded on the basis of
          international shopping procedures in accordance with
          the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
          Guidelines; or
          (b) in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of
          the Guidelines, under direct contracting procedures in
          accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the
          Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Prior Review
    With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than
$10,000,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Post Review
    Except for contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statement of
expenditures, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to each contract not
governed by paragraph 1 of this Part.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                  Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                      of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.  Continued maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
Page  11
framework, consistent with the objectives of the Program, as
determined on the basis of macroeconomic indicators acceptable
to the Borrower and the Bank.
2.  Elimination of the mandatory placement by the Borrower of
Treasury bonds with commercial banks (Plancher d'Effets
Publics).
3.  Elimination of the ceiling on lending rates.
4.  Presentation to Parliament of a draft Law on Corporations
(Loi sur les Societes Anonymes).
5.  Publication of a circulaire by the Office des changes
establishing a foreign exchange market.
6.  Issuance of offers for sale of the shares held by the
Borrower in Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique,
Banque Centrale Populaire, and Credit Immobilier et Hotelier.
