Page  1
December 30, 1998
H.E. Fathallah Oualalou 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco
Re:
Morocco -- Loan Numbers 3928-MOR: 
Financial Markets Development Loan Amendment to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (the Agreement) dated August 1, 1995, as amended, 
entered into between the Kingdom of Morocco (the Borrower) and the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank”). We also refer to the Bank’s letter to 
Your Excellency, dated December 29, 1998 concerning the interest rate determination 
implications resulting from the replacement of the French Franc currency by the Euro 
currency effective January 1, 1999. 
By the present, the Agreements are hereby amended as follows: the term “PIBOR”, 
wherever it appears in the Agreement, is replaced by the term “LIBOR”. Therefore, the 
terms “PIBOR Base Rate” and “PIBOR Total Spread” appearing in Schedule 2 to the 
Agreement shall henceforth read “LIBOR Base Rate” and “LIBOR Total Spread”, 
respectively. In addition thereto, the phrase “Paris interbank offered rate” appearing 
in Sub-paragraphs 3 (e) and 3 (g) of Part B in said Schedule is modified to henceforth 
read “London interbank offered rate”, and the phrase “Paris interbank offered rates” 
appearing in Sub-paragraphs 3 (f) (ii) and 3 (h) (ii) of Part B in said Schedule is 
modified to henceforth read “London interbank offered rates”.
Please confirm your official agreement to the foregoing, as the Borrower’s 
authorized representative under the Agreement, by duly signing and dating the 
corresponding form of confirmation below and returning this amendment letter to us at 
your earliest convenience.  A signed duplicate original of this amendment letter is 
enclosed herewith for the Kingdom of Morocco’s official records.
All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, shall 
remain in full force and effect.
This amendment letter shall become effective as of the date it has been fully 
executed by the parties thereto, and its provisions shall apply as of the first Rate 
Fixing Date and Interest Period and Interest Payment Date falling due after January 1, 
1999.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie 
Country Director 
Maghreb Department 
Middle East and North Africa Region
Page  2
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou
Authorized Representative
Date: April 20, 1999
