*Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
-    ,- , t  ..: T  '-   i,-4;i   IFAN   I ' '-
A,t Th r; VIIAN   Al 4AY                                                Report No. P-5947-IRN
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUICTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
US$157.0 MILLION
TO THE ISLAmIC REUIC OF IRAN
FOR THE
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FE1BRUARY 19, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of January 1993)
Official Exchange Rate        -     US$1.00 - Rls 70         Rls 1.00 = US$0.01430
Competitive Exchange Rate     -    US$1.00 = Rls 600         Rls 1.00 = US$0.00167
Floating Exchange Rate        -     US$1.00 = Ris 1450       Rls 1.00 = US$0.000689
for a selected list of imports
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENT
1 millimeter (mm)                   =       0.039 inches
1 centimeter (cm)                   =       0.394 inches
1 meter (m)                         =       3.280 feet
1 kilometer (km)                    =      0.620 miles
1 square kilometer (kn2)            =       0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                      =      2.470 acres
1 cubic meter (in)                  =     35.310 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM)        =     35.310 million cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)   =      35.310 cubic feet per second
1 liter (1)                         =       1.057 quarts
1 liter per second (1/s)            =      0.033 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                     =      2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                    =      2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AB          Agricultural Bank
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FFYP        First Five-Year Plan
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
GOI         Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
I&D         Irrigation and Drainage
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LOs         Liaison Offices
MEAF        Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MBD         Million Barrels Per Day
MIGA        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
NOE         Ministry of Energy
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAD         Provincial Agriculture Department
PSC         Project Steering Committee
Rls         Iranian Rial
RWA         Regional Water Authority or Company
TSR         Tehran Stock Exchange
GOVERMNT OF ISLAMIC R1EPUBLIC OF IRAI
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 - March 20



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ISLANIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower                       Government of Islamic Republic of Iran
Beneficiaries                  About 46,000 farm families, four Regional Water
Authorities (RWAs) of the Ministry of Energy
(MOE), and four provincial agriculture
deparments (PADs) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA).
Loan Amount                    US$157 million equivalent
Terms                          17 years, including a 5-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Financinit Plan                            Local       Foreign      Total
--------------US$ Million-----------
Government  154.7           -        154.7
World Bank    -         157.0        157.0
Total       154.7       157.0        311.7
Economic Rate of Return :    18.8 percent
Staff Appraisal Report  :    11393-IRN
Maps                     :    IBRD Nos. 24171, 24172, 24173, 24174, 24175
m:\iran\irrg\copgs
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESI!ENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANM FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FOR THE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT I ROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
for a proposed loan to the Islamic Republic of Iran, for US$157 million
equivalent, to help finance the Irrigation Improvement Project. The loan
would be at the Bank's standard variabie interest rate with a maturity of 17
years, including five years of grace.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. RECENT PERFORMNgE
Background
2.    Iran is a lower middle-income country with a 1991 population close to 58
million people, growing at about 3 percent per year. Per capita income is
estimated at US$2,320 (1991). Iran's principal natural assets are its
petroleum and gas deposits, respectively, 95 billion barrels and 17 trillion
cubic meters; other valuable minerals; and substantial "gricultural and water
resources. The country has made impressive progress to date in expanding
education and health coverage. Preliminary results of a population census
conducted in 1991 and Government-UNICEF reports prepared in 1992 indicate that
the literacy rate is 74 percent, 70 percent of the population has access to
health care, child immunization rates are over 80 percent, and infant
mortality rates are 37 per thousand live births. The education and health
services are severely pressed, however, with the effects of very high
population growth over the past decade as well as shortages of administrative
and financial resources that intensified in the 1980s.
3.    For most of the 1980s, the Iranian economy operated under crisis
conditions. The effects of the long war with Iraq (1980-88), which started
shortly after the 1979 Revolution, were exacerbated by a disruption in
international economic relations; a sharp decline in real terms in the world
price of oil, the country's main source of export earnings and public
revenues; a huge influx of refugees; and severe natural disasters.  Many
entrepreneurs and skilled workers departed, and large sums of capital were
transferred abroad. Iran's economy became dominated by public and quasi-
public sector companies.  Wartime exigencies were used to justify the
extension of regulations into prices, distribution and external trade.
4.    Economic performance during the 1980w was mixed, with a fast rate of
economic growth in the first half followed by a decline in output and rising
inflation in the second half. Iran emerged from the 1980-88 war facing large
reconstruction and developmental expenditure needs, but hampered by acute
financial imbalances and highly distorted domesti factor and product markets.
(See Economic Report No. 9072-IRN of July 30, 1991.) Soon after a cease-fire
with Iraq in August 1988, Iran began reforming the economy. The reform
measures, which emphasized revitalizing market mechanisms, rebuilding basic



-2-
infrastructure, and deregulating the economy, underpinned a steady growth of
the economy beginning in 1989 and received wide support in Parliamentary
elections held in April 1992.
Policies and Performance
S.    The thrust of recent policies has been to correct price distortions in
the economy and progressively reduce financial imbalances while cushioning the
poor from adverse impacts. This has not buen easy, but the Government has
persevered in its efforts, closely studying reform experiences elsewhere and
adapting measures to suit Iran's conditions. Thus it has attempted to ensure
that exchange rate and other price adjustments in the country are syncnronized
with the implementation of an adequate social safety net.
6.    An important step was taken In January 1991 when the Government reduced
the number of exchange rates from seven to three (the basic rate of rials
70!/US$  the competitive rate of rials 600/US$; and the floating rate, lately,
of rials 1500/US$) and granted non-oil exporters the floating rate. From
then, it continually moved items imported at the basic rate to the more
depreciated rates. As the items were moved to depreciated exchange rates,
their domestic prices were decontrolled, reducing the number of controlled
items from 296 in 1989 to 10 in 1992.
7.   A proposal has now been passed to unify the exchange rates and undertake
corresponding tariff reforms. The exchange rate unification represents a key
step in the reform process. To mitigate its impact, consumer prices of a
number of essential commodities that hitherto were imported at the basic rate,
and that feature importantly in the consumption basket of low income groups,
will initially be shielded from the effects of exchange rate unification
through explicit budget subsidies and foreign exchange will be allocated for
their imports. In all, such imports would represent about 15 percent of total
imports. As regards trade reform, which is to be far reaching, the Government
has decided to eliminate quantitative restrictions and to reduce tariff levels
and dispersion, with a maximum rate of 30 percent for most goods.
8.   Among other recent key reforms, the income tax schedule was revised,
cutting the number of brackets from 19 to 9 and reducing the top marginal rate
from 75 percent to 54 percent. Public utility rates, while still
significantly below marginal costs, were raised on a number of occasions in
the past two years, with increases ranging between 65 percent (for
electricity) and 800 percent (for overseas airfares). In banking, credit
ceilings have been abolished, and deposit and lending rates have been
adjusted; and a decision has also been made to permit the establishment of
private, nonbank financial institutions. A landmark Privatization Decree was
passed in June 1991, followed by identification of 390 public manufacturing
and trading firms for divestiture. Of those firms, 185 have already been
divested and the rest are in various stages of preparation for sale.
m:\rian\frrVmnop



-3-
9.    The implementation of key reforms has helped to stimulate economic
growth and to lower budget deficits. From a low base following the 1980-88
war, GDP grew on average 7 percent per year in real terms during 1989-S2. The
general government deficit was reduced from 9 percent of GDP in 1988 to ar.
estimated 2 percent in 1992. With lower deficits, the growth of net credit to
the Government and that of broad money declined between 1988 and 1990. This
helped to lower inflation from 29 percent in 1988 to around 10 percent in
1990. Since then, however, inflation has edged up to an estimated 20 percent
each year in 1991 and 1992. The rate of inflation could be higher still in
1993/94 in view of the further exchange rate adjustment and corresponding pass
throughe to domestic prices expected to occur over that period.
Table 1: SELECTED MACROECONONIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, 1980-92
(Percentages)
Annual Averages           Est.
1980-85  1986-88  1989-90  1991t    *m
GDP Growth Rate               8.3   -2.7    6.5    8.1    7.0
Conswption per Capita Growth Rate    7.0  -10.6    5.5    3.0    1.3
Domestic InfLation           14.9   19.0   12.5   19.5   20.0
Debt/GDP Ratio /j             4.1    3.4    6.4   10.1   13.0
Debt/Exports G&S             34.5   58.3   47.5   59.7   73.2
Debt Service/Exports G&S      5.9    5.4    3.4    4.3    5.3
Gross Fixed Capital Formation /GDP   19.0   13.0   12.0   13.7   13.0
Fh.cal Batance/GDP           -6.6   -7.7   -2.8   -2.4   -1.3
Current Account Balance/GDP  -0.1   -1.8    0.1   -6.7   -2.3
/{ From 1987, rfaL values of GDP converted to US dollars usirng ank staff estimates of
trade-weighted average exchange rate*.
10.   The rapid restoration of oil production and export facilities over the
past four years, together with the high oil prices reached in 1990, had helped
Iran's external accounts. The overall balance of payments totalled a positive
US$2 billion in 1989/90. In 1991, the balance of payments deteriorated
sharply as oil prices fell 20 percent while the volume of imports rose 30
percent, turning the current account from a US$300 million surplus in 1990 to
a deficit of US$7.8 billion (equivalent to 7 percent of GDP). Given its
limited access to medium- and long-term capital, Iran filled the large current
deficit in 1991 mainly with short-term credit and the use of official
reserves.
11.   The rise in 1991 imports in part reflected the anticipation of the
exchange rate unification and the devolution of letter of credit operations
from the Central Bank to the commercial banks. At the same time, the
appreciation of the currencies of the main suppliers vis-&-vis the US$, in
which most exports are denominated, added to a sharp rise in external payment
obligations during 1992. As a result, a tight cash flow situation developed
from mid-1992, leading to payment delays to suppliers and banks. There are at
m:XiranXirrgVmop



-4-
present close to US$4 billion in late payments outstanding, mainly on short-
term debt (letters of credit), some overdue by up to six months. This
situation is expected to perslst while efforts are made to bring it under
control. Steps taken to control the situation include close Contra! Bank
monitoring, on a daily basia, of letters of credit opened by Iranian
commercial banks, negotiations of revised payments schedules and efforts to
obtain bridge financing to clear the longest overduos. These actions, combined
with a tight fiscal and monetary policy, shouLd control further growth in
short-term debt and the Government expects to resolve the issue of delayed
payments by the end of 1993.
12.   In the last decade, Iran kept the stock of its external debt well within
manageable limits. By preliminary estimates, external debt at the end of 1992
was about USS15 billion (13 percent of GDP), of which US$3-$4 billion
represented medium- and long-term debt and the rest short-term and trade-
related credits. The debt service ratio in 1992 was about 5 percent.
Nevertheless, Iran's access to medf.um- and long-term financing in
international capital markets continues to be limited. The Government's
ongoing economic reform program is thereby constrained by the limited
financing available to undeetake the large backlog of reconstruction and
development expenditures, as indicated by the relatively low levels of
investment in the economy. In seeking the necessary finance, the Government
needs to be prudent in its external borrowing and maintain a better balance
between short and medium- to long-term borrowing.
13.   Iran also needs to deploy its limited resources towards productive uses
and minimize inessential expenditures, including military expenditures. A
review of recent trends indicates the size of Iranian military expenditures
peaked during the most intense fighting with Iraq in 1984-86 but declined
thereafter through 1990. Some sources report an upturn in military spending
in 1991, especially in arms imports. On the basis of data available, Iran's
military spending is estimated to have equalled about 4 percent of GDP and 18
percent of government expenditures in 1991. For the Middle East as a whole,
the proportions were, respectively, 12 percent and 32 percent in 1990.1/
Bank GrouP Lendimn and Portfolio Management
14.   Iran has been an I8RD member in good standing since December 1945,
having joined the IFC in December 1956. It stopped borrowing from the Bank
when the 1973/74 oil price rise dramatically improved its resource situation;
in fact, Iran lent resources to both the Bank and the Fund in the mid-1970s.
Throughout the period of the 1979 Revolution and the war with Iraq, Iran
continued to service Bank debts. With its infrastructure impaired at the end
of the war and its economy in disarray, Iran requested Bank assistance in the
reconstruction and development task facing the country.
1/    Data extracted from U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,  oxrld
Military Exenditures and Arms Transfers. 1990.
m:\irsnkfrr\gmop



-5-
15. As the IBRD and IFC had been inactive in Iran for 17 years, the Bank
agreed with the Government to undertake an economic assessment. While this
work was in progress, a severe earthquake hit northern Iran in June 1990. At
special government request, the Bank approved a US$250 million loan as an
emergency operation in March 1991. Soon after, macroeconomic and key sector
reviews and an assessment of financial prospects were completed and prevented
in the economic report (9027-IRN) of July 30, 1991. During FY91/92 three
loans (including the emergency operation mentioned above) totalling US$384
million were approved, of which US$100 million had been disbursed by the end
of December 1992. Llthough limited, experience to date on project
implementation by the Government is good, and given the sound quality of
project preparation thus far, satisfactory performance on project
implementation can be expected in the future.
B. EXTEZNAL ENVIRONNENT
16. Iran's balance of payments has been volatile in recent years even as the
country has moved rapidly to restore oil production and export facilities
damaged during the 1980-88 war with Iraq. For the foreseeable future, oil
will continue to dominate the country's merchandise exports, which averaged
US$17 billion per year in 1989-91, 90 percent from oil. However, oil income
appears to have levelled off as the country has reach.d its OPEC production
quota and oil prices over the medium term are forecast to remain flat in real
terms. Iran has the second largest natural gas reserve in the world, and,
when developed in the long run, gas could provide substantial export earnings.
Export earnings over the me_ium term could be raised with concerted efforts to
promote non-oil exports, comprising traditional items (e.g., carpets, fresh
and dried fruit and nuts, spices, handicrafts) and more modern manufactured
goods (e.g., canned foods, electrical goods, fabrics, paints, petrochemicals).
The First Five-Year Plan (FFYP) for 1989-93 had clear targets for the growth
of non-oil exports. These exports have responded strongly since 1991,
following the exchange rate incentives (notably, the floating rate and the
abolition of foreign exchange surrender requirements) accorded to non-oil
exporters. From an average of around a billion dollars a year in 1988-90,
non-oil exports reached US$2.6 billion in 1991 and an estimated US$3.5 billion
to US$4 billion in 1992.
17.     While export earnings can, thus, grow steadily, Iran's import needs
are also expected to be high in the medium term as the Government liberalizes
the trade regime further and undertakes reconstruction and growth-related
investments. Consequently, the current account deficit is projected to
average US$3 billion (about 4 percent of GDP) in 1993 and 1994. The deficit
is projected to decline to around US$l billion (1 percent of GDP) by 1997 and
ttrn into surplus two or three years thereafter, as exports respond fully to
trtde reforms and reconstruction is completed. Until that time, however, the
large import needs point to substantial external financing requirements. The
required capital should be contracted on maturities and terms that closely
match the country's debt-servicing capacity. Assuming that policy reforms are
maintained and that appropriate borrowing terms are secured, Iran is
creditworthy for external borrowing, including borrowing from the Bank.
18. There are thus two main external factors conditioning Iran's future
prospects--the evolution of export earnings and access to international
capital markets. The most significant determinant of export earnings is oil
revenue, in turn depending on world oil prices and Iran's oil export volume.



-6-
To examine Iran's axternal vulnerability in this rogard, a scenario involving
lower oil receipts, higher import prices and higher interest rates was
analyzed. The analysis indicates that the impact of various downside
assumptions in 1997 could translate to a shortfall close to US$4 billion
(equivalent to a loss of resrves wvrth 1.7 months of imports of goods and
services). Iran- could withstand such events provided the events are short-
lived.
19.   If, on top of the above downside events, capital disbursements in 1997
are, say, half those currently expected (around USS4 billion), the combined
financing shortfall would strain the country's reserves severely. In such a
case, the continued liberalization of external transactions in particular, and
of the rest of the economy in general, would be jeopardized, and long-term
growth set back significantly.
C. GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT POLICIES AND BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Government Develunment Oblectives
20.   The basic objectives of Irr.n in the medium term are to advance the
market orientation of the economy and to improve the living standards of the
population. To attain these goals, Iran intends to: (a) continue the economic
policy and social safety net reforms initiated during the FFYP; (b) rebuild
essential infrastructure and upgrade the provision of social services, with
clear regard to conserving the environment; and (c) mobilize sufficient
capital to undertake reconstruction and growth-related investments.
21.   Economic Policy Reforms.  The policy reforms initiated during the FFYP
focused on strengthening the macroeconomic incentives framework while
providing generalized food, fuel and other subsidies to the population, and on
launching privatization of state enterprises in industry and services (paras.
5-8). The Government now intends to safeguard macroeconomic incentives by
ensuring that fiscal and monetary eiscipline are maintained.  It views such
discipline as essential to advancing private sector development. It also
intends to protect social groups adversely affected by the reform process.
22.   On the fiscal front, two priorities have been identified for efficient
mobilization of public revenues and private savings; these are the
introduction of taxes on consumption and greater cost recovery by public
enterprises. For over two years now the revenue authorities have been engaged
in designing a suitable VAT-type sales tax. In this process, the authorities
have studied experiences of various countries worldwide and have obtained
technical assistance from the Fund. The Government expects to complete the
design of the VAT and the necessary legislation for implementation during
Iran's Second Plan (1994-98) period. The Government has also undertaken to
attain marginal cost prices for public utilities during the Second Plan
period. On this issue, the Government, in the context of several proposed Bank
operations, has been working closely with Bank staff to estimate long run
m:\fr&n\irr\nmop



-7-
marginal costs of items such as power, gas and sewerage, and to design phased
actions for marginal cost pricing.
23.   On the monetary front, the Government intends to continue libera'.izing
deposit and lending rates, and to develop open market instruments df monetary
management (e.g., primary and secondary markets for government paper) as
alternatives to direct instruments such as reserve requirements and liquidity
ratios. The focus of financial sector reforms in the near term is going to be
the introduction of muore competition in banking, including the establishment
of private nonbanks very recently authorized by Parliament. In preparation for
the establishment of nonbanks, the Central Bank is making plans to strengthen
the regulatory framework and its supervisory functions.
24.   In the privatization program thus far, out of about 550 public
enterprises falling under sector ministries, 180 have been returned to the
original owners, 24 have been listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange (TSN), and a
few have been sold directly. Recently, the Government decided to entend
privatization modalities beyond share offerings through the TSE; this should
allow for the acceleration of the privatization process, and the continued
expansion of the Stock Exchange in major cities is being encouraged. The
Government has also been relaxing the regulatory framework: it has removed the
49 percent ceiling on foreign ownership of firms; has proposed liberalizing
labor laws; and has relaxed investment licensing. Through joint ventures,
Iran has begun attracting needed foreign technology and investment.
25.   To continue protecting those adversely affected by economic reforms
while maintaining fiscal viability, the Government has devised a blueprint for
restructuring the existing social assistance and welfare system. The
blueprint outlines a reform of the subsidy system for price controlled goods,
including the introduction of targeted social assistance programs and the
development of a strong data base to allow monitoring of changes in living
standards. The blueprint also makes a number of proposals aimed at improving
administration of social assistance, in order to overcome the existing overlap
between institutions and leakages from the system. Government administered
social assistance and welfare in Iran is supplemented by a variety of group-
oriented non-governmental organizations funded by charitable contributions and
incomes from businesses and properties managed by them. In addition, the
Iranian Red Crescent society and Islamic foundations provide health services
and other forms of relief in various parts of the country.
26.   Reconstruction.  The Government's medium-term reconstruction strategy
has two basic elements. The first--vital for selecting economically efficient
location and size of investments--is establishing efficient pricing policies.
The second involves fixed capital formation, with clear regard to
environmental conservation and efficient management of physical assets. The
concern for setting efficient prices underlies Government policy, described
above (para. 22), to continue adjusting water, power and transport charges and
tariffs towards long run marginal costs.
m:\iran\frrg\mop



27.   In rebuilding economic and social infrastructure, the Government has
embarked on a large scale effort to reconstruct and upgrade Iran'e irrigation,
transport, power, water supply, education and health infrastructure. The war
with Iraq resulted not only in considerable damage, but also a deferral of
maintenance and renewal investments and a lack of resources to develop
critical facilities. Accordingly, after the end of war, the bulk of the FmP
investment program was allocated to reconstruction of infrastructures 35
percent to public buildings, including schools and hospitals, and residential
housing; 31 percent to transport and communications facilities; and 16
percent to water and power. Besides scarcity of finance, the Fm P investment
program has been impeded, however, by critical bottlenecks--in particular,
inadequate locel construction capacity and heavily damaged ports--in some of
the very infrastructure that needed rebuilding. For the next Plan, therefore,
the Government intends to stress completion of ongoing projects and projects
to complement investments already in place.
28.   The Government recognizes that a combination of rapid population growth
and urbanization, effects of natural disasters and war, and a highly distorted
price system have led to some serious environmental problems. A comprehensive
study to design an environmental strategy will be started soon with
Government, UNDP and Bank participation. Meanwhile, the Government has already
prepared a National Water Master Plan and, as the next step, will be defining
an action plan for its implementation and monitoring. Also, to deal with the
severe traffic congestion and high air pollution levels in Tehran, the
Government is pursuing some public transport initiatives such as a metro line
and a recently opened pilot trolley bus line, but their impact will depend on
structuring incentives to encourage the use of public transit.
29.   Mobilizing Canital. Iran's FFYP includes an explicit Government
objective and target for mobilizing external capital amounting to US$27.4
billion for a five-year period. This foreign financing was to be obtained for
project specific purposes, and from different sourcess a) US$9 billion for
project financing, with service payments to be met from the earnings of the
projects themselves; b) US$3 billion in the form of long-term suppliers'
credits for financing dams and power stations; c) some USS10 billion largely
for industrial development based on buyback contracts, whereby the borrowers
would repay the creditors in the form of the output so produced; d) US$2.2
billion for a petrochemical complex under a buyback arrangement; and e) US$3.2
billion for the development of offshore gas reserves, to be amortized in kind.
A number of contacts with various external sources have occurred since the
FFYP was launched, with some but not complete success. By mid-1992, frame
agreements to obtain upto US$14 billion over the medium term had been made.
While the country's borrowing strategy for the next Plan (beginning March
1994) is still under consideration, present indications are that Iran would
continue to seek financing for project-specific purposes.
m: Xi ran\i rrg\mop



-9-
Macroeconomic Prospects
3C.   The policies described above would enable the Iranian eccnomy to attain
the high potential it has for growth over the medium term. Construction and
the commodity-producing sectors, underpinned by continued raforms of the
exchange, trade and price systems, are expected to be the main sources of
growth. In particular, the shift in relative prices towards tradeables would
sustain the growth of agricultural and induntrial output and exports. (see
Section B for export and balance of payments prospects.) The country's very
large gas reserves, moreover, when developed, can contribute substantially to
maintaining oil output at present levels and to increasing electricity
generation, as well as provide the basis for additional petro-chemical and
metallurgical industries if financing can be raised for the major investments
needed.
31.   Real GDP growth in 1993-97 could feasibly average 5 to 6 percent per
year, enabling a modest growth of real incomes and consumption per capita to
take place. Such growth, moreover, could be attained with incremental
capital-output ratios of around four as several past investments in
petrochemicals now come on stream, as a stronger incentives framework reduces
the extent of unused capacity, and as more efficient private sector
investments and production are encouraged by policy reforms.
32.   Provided that the fiscal measures (a general consumption tax; a
reduction of exemptions and efficient revenue administration) er-isaged in the
reform program are carried out, government revenues, both oil and non-oil,
could increase sharply, enabling a strong recovery in much needed public
investments, as well as giving the Government the means to finance a targeted
social safety net program for a temporary period. Under the reform program,
moreover, public sector deficits would be small, and the private sector would
not be crowded out.
Table 2: PROJECTED MACROECONOMIC PERFORRANCE INDICATORS, 1993-2000
(Percentages)
Averages
'993    194I  1995  1996-2000
GDP Growth Rate  4.3   4.6    4.75.7
Conaumption per Capita Growth Rate    0.6     0.6   0.8    1.3
Inflation                            23.0    18.0  14.0   12.0
Debt/GDP Ratio                       29.0    33.0  34.0   25.0
Debt/Exports G&S                     120.0   125.0  125.0   85.0
Debt Service/Exports G&S              8.0     9.0  13.0   16.0
Gross Fixed Capital Formation/GOP    15.2    15.7  16.2   18.4
Fiscal Balance/GOP                   -2.9    -2.9  -2.7    1.0
Current Accoumt Batance/G9P          -4.2    -3.4  -2.7   -0.1
World Bank Transactions             -----(in US million).---
Disbursemsnts                 111.0   209.0  335.0
Aoortization                    6.0     7.0   4.0
Interest                       10.0    17.0  33.0
Necorandm Item:
18RD Disbursements/Total Capital Required (t)    2.9  6.0   8.8
m:1VranXirrg\m*p



- 10 -
Bank Assistance Stratevt
33.   Introduction.  The Government of Iran is keen to implement additional
policy reforms as part of the country's current development objective to
reorient economic management away from the pervasive government interventions
of the last decade towards greater reliance on market mechanism. The
Government's economic team is committed to the reforms; is like-minded in its
views on the nature and pace of these reforms, in spite of opposition to them
from various segments of the society; and has the support of the country's
leadership to proceed on the course that it has embarked upon. The Government
has sought, and been responsive to, dialogue with the Bank, on the reforms and
on economic and sector policies in general. In order to undertake the
liberalization measures that are part of the reform program and address the
large reconstruction and development needs, Iran requires a significant amount
of resources. Despite the low level of external debt and the course of
macroeconomic policy, Iran's access to external loan or risk capital remains
very limited, in part because of the effects of more than a decade of
international isolation. Thus, the program of economic reform and development
and reconstruction needs to be associated with a renewal of relationships with
the international community at large.
34.   Having been inactive in Iran for over 17 years, the Bank itself has had
to proceed gradually, first developing its knowledge base of the Iranian
economy and seeking to understand the country's development constraints, the
Government's policies and its expenditure priorities. The Government,
likewise, has had to familiarize itself with Bank operational policies and
procedures. Against such background, the major objectives of the Bank's
country assistance strategy at present are to assist the Government implement
a sound economic reform program; support the rehabilitation of the Iranian
economy and human resources development; and help Iran reintegrate itself into
the international community of nations and reestablish access to international
capital markets. To achieve these objectives, an assistance program involving
three related instruments has been initiated: (i) an active program of
economic and sector work; (ii) the reinitiation of investment lending; and
(iii) the mobilization of other international financial resources, including
the cofinancing of Bank operations.
Objective One: Assisting Implementation of Economic Reform Program
35.   The principal instrument to help advance Iran's policy reforms is the
Economic and Sector Work (ESW) Program. The program would provide the basis
for pursuing and expanding the dialogue initiated through the CEM completed in
early FY92. Responding to specific official requests for policy advice, SSW
during FY92 focused on: (a) exchange and trade reform, emphasizing the
synchronization of trade reforms (a reduction of quantitative restrictions and
the rationalization of tariffs) with envisaged reforms in the exchange rate
regime; (b) industry and mining sector policies, including the divestment of
state-owned enterprises; (c) subsidy reduction and compensatory actions
relating to a social safety net; and (d) the efficient management of financial
m:\iran\i rrg9Nop



- 11 -
resources, especially external assets, in the context of viable public sector
borrowing requirements.
36.   The ESW Program for FY93-94 has also been designed to match Iran's
economic reform priorities and, in addition, to enhance the knowledge base and
provide the policy underpinnings for the Bank's lending program. To help
advance macroeconomic reforms, an economic report is planned to analyze recent
trends in, and medium-term policy options for, domestic and external resource
mobilization. The same report would also review the status of recent financial
sector reforms and suggest necessary measures to promote liberalization of the
financial sector. Another economic report is planned to describe and assess
medium-term development and expenditure policies and priorities of Iran's
Second Plan (1994-98). Government policies to accelerate the privatization
process and further develop the private sector will be supported with a
private sector assessment report, while a poverty assessment report and a
prospective study, jointly with the Government, will track implementation of
the social safety net program and recommend modifications to maintain
sufficient coverage, access and affordability of the program. To address
Iran's concern for environmental conservation, an environmental strategy study
is planned to provide an overview of the specific environmental problems of
the country and assist the Government in devising its own national
environmental action plan.
37. Three studies are planned in FY93-94 to extend the Bank's sector
knowledge base and underpin prospective operations. An agricultural services
study is to examine detailed policies ani institutional practices in: sector
planning and resource allocation; research; extension; marketing; and the
supply of chemical inputs, seeds and agricultural machinery. A transport
sector review is planned to: synthesize key policy measures--relating to
pricing and ownership--and institution-building actions intended by
Government; assess transport sector costs and expenditures; identify future
investment needs; and examine the potential for private sector financing of
transport investments. In view of the significance of the energy sector in
Iran, an energy assessment report is planned to analyze current and longer
term issues, options and expenditures in the sector. This work would be
carried out under the aegis of the Bank-UNDP Energy Asseasment Work Program.
Objective Two: Economic Rehabilitation and Human Resources Development
38. To implement the second objective of our assistance strategy, lending
for investment projects would gradually increase from an average of about
US$200 million p.a. during FY9l/92 to about US$600-700 million for 3-4
projects by FY96, provided the economic reform program remains on track and
the implementation of projects is satisfactory. The proposed operations would
address sector policy and investment and institutional issues highlighted
earlier in the discussion of Iran's development objectives and policies.
Infrastructure would be allocated 30 percent of planned lending; agriculture
and human resources development, 25 percent each; and the energy sector, 20
percent.
m:\iran\rrg9\op



- 12 -
Table 3: The Bank's Lendfs Program, FY92-96
X ot     No. of
Lendis    Prolects
Agriculture           25        5
Energy               20         3
Infrastructure        30        5
Human Resources       A         5
TOTAL                100        18
39.   0erations in aariculture would support the Government in its efforts
to: enhance cost recovery; redirect public investment priorities to stress
rehabilitation and the upgrading of infrastructure, such as irrigation
networks; stimulate private investment; strengthen the provision of adequate
support services, such as extension, research and marketing to farmers; and
adopt national strategies for the conservation of land, water, forestry and
fisheries.
40.   The focus of infrastructur  operations would be to assist the Government
relieve, through investments and demand management, the existing heavy burden
on facilities and also to provide critical rail links and port equipment.
Important facilities are still out of commission, and major investments are
required to bring production, processing, transportation, storage and shipment
facilities back to pre-war standards. Special emphasis would be given to
halting the deterioration of the urban environment by augmenting badly lacking
services and to strengthening national and municipal investment planning and
financial performance. Finally, all infrastructure operations would address
the issues of cost recovery and sector pricing. In nvironment, a Global
Environmental Facility Project would assess the options for reducing
greenhouse emissions from urban transport in Tehran, while a possible Bank gas
sector operation would help reduce the emission of 002 through the reduction
of gas flarings. The gas sector operation would also aim at supporting a
rationalization of domestic gas prices and the establishment of a legal and
regulatory environment that would enable broader private sector participation,
including risk capital, in the oil and gas sector at large.
41.   Projects in the 22w h sector would assist the Government in introducing
sound pricing and better cost recovery practices, promote energy conservation,
increase efficlency in generating and improve system planning both in the
Ministry of Energy and in the regional power companies. This is in line with
the recommendations of the two energy policy papers recently submitted to the
Board. The Bank's work emphasizes that physical reconstruction is
insufficient without the proper structuring of incentives, particularly the
pricing of fuel and public services, and that the encouragement of the private
sector requires the creation of an enabling environment involving, inter alia,
m:%fran%irru\nmp



- 13 -
the establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework, with
pricing mechanisms that reflect risk-sharing arrangements.
42.   In human resources develogment, the proposed Bank project in health
would support the expansion of family planning services, strengthen and expand
primary health care and develop mechanisms for population policy development.
The Bank's strategy would support the education and training efforts that are
needed to develop a skilled and mobile labor forcel in spite of pravious
gains, an estimated 40 percent of the work force remains illiterate. To
increase earnings potential in the longer term, Bank strategy focuses on i)
upgrading general education, particularly at the elementary and guidance
levels, by improving physical infrastructurel providing incentives to overcome
the shortage of rural teachers; and improving teacher training programs and
in-service training; ii) strengthening technical and vocational training at
the secondary and post-secondary levels and improving labor market mechanisms,
such as employment services; and iii) expanding higher education, through a
project supporting the development of the private, nonprofit Islamic Azad
University.
Objective Three: Assist Access to Capital Markets
43. With the initiation of a Bank assistance program, and through the
cofinancing of individual operations, Iran's access to world financial markets
is expected to improve and its reliance on short-term financing and barter
arrangements to decline. Ongoing support to the Central Bank in managing
external assets and liabilities is also expected to improve access to and the
terms of external financing, which, thus far, has been limited and has
exhibited high premia and short maturities. The Government is keenly
interested in the catalytic role the Bank could play in mobilizing the
external capital that is required, in larger amounts and at more attractive
terms, to implement the economic reforms and undertake reconstruction.
Accordingly, cofinancing would be actively sought in order to obtain adequate
resources for each project while limiting Bank exposure. The proposed energy
sector operations would be the main vehicles for attracting significant
cofinancing from commercial banks and export credit agencies, but cofinancing
from export credit agencies and bilateral programs should also be feasible for
some of the proposed infrastructure operations.
m:\iranXirrg\mop



- 14 -
Table 4: OBJECTIE AND INSTRUMENTS
OF COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STATEGY, FY92MM
A. Assltg Implementatin of
Ecoomic Rdorm Program:
1. Exchanee Rate and Trade    Multiple exchange mtes wre first reduced from 7    In contea of folmowup to Trade Policy
Poliev                    to 3 and GOI has now decided to unify mates at  Report, rwecommend measu  to
close to markt rate; GOI has also docided to  strengthen export promotion and deview
olimnate most QRs, lower maximum tariffs from  anti-dunping measures.
475% to 50%, and raise minimum tariffs from 0%
to 5%: decision made to eliminate foreign exchange
budgeing; import licensng streamlined.
2. Pricing p_igX            Pde contols have been relaxed, reducing        Phase out remaining price contro; In
conrolled hms fom 296 in 1989 to 10 in 1992;    context of proposed operations, establish
price enforcement courts abolished; public utility    and implement phased progmms to set
price have been adjusted upwards periodically.  irigation, power, gas, petuolm product,
raiway and port prices pogreasvely
closer to long ran marginal costs of
supply.
3. FLsa PoliJ               Income tax schedule has been simplified and top    In process of next two CEMs analyze
marginl rate reduced from 75% to 54%; tax     medium-term revenue and ecpenditure
exemptions have been reduced and tax          options, focusing on status of poposals to
administration vasdy improved; public spending is   design and inpanent VATtype sales tax
better controled such that overal fiscal deficit was   and on public investment program.
reduced from equivalent to 9% of GDP in 1988 to
around 2% in 1992.
4. Financial Sector Policy   Credit ceilings have been abolihed; deposit and  In the context of next CEM, review
lending rates have been raised and new, term  additional measures-e.g.,prudential
deposit instrumen  set up; commercil bank     rglations and supervision-neded to
obligations to hold Government paper have been  sustain recent reforms; explore optumns for
reduced; decision made to permit private nonbaiks  open market instruments of monetary
to operate; Tehran Stock Exchange has been    managemen; suggest fuither action to
revived and provincial exchanges are being set up.   develop local aptal makets.
S. Soial Safety Net Policv  Scope and costs of genealized food, fuel and other  ESW will track implementation of social
consumer and producer subsidies have been     safety net program; a joint Bank-GOI
reduced; GOI has decided to institute transparent    study will monitor progress and
means of budgeting for the costs of basic consumer  effectiveness of the new social saty net
subsidies at the same time as exchange rate is  program and suggest needed
unified; a blueprint for eventual system of targeted   modifications.
cash transfer has been drafted.
(continued)
m: \i rankfrrg\mop



- 15 -
B. F     renomI Rebahatatlon
and Human Resourtes
Deve1openrt:-
1. Improve Sector level      Agricultural proe interventions, including public  Soek oontinued applcation of sound
Policies                   procurement, distibution and price fixing, have  pricmg policies in various sectors in the
been reduced to a large extent; GOI has undetaken  course of proposed sector wok in
to adjust, over time, pries of publicly produced  agrioulural sernies, transport and energy;
goods (e.g., oil, gas) to economio pries, and those  reinforce such policies in the context of
of public utilities to long run marginal costs; policy   proposed operations in irigation, power,
environment for private sector has been improved    water supply and sewage, and ports and
with, for example, divestiue of state enterprises,   railways; where our knowledge is
streamlining of investment and trade loiensing, and   insufficient-e.g., education and helth
removal of ceilgs on foreig ownership of firms.   care pricing and financing- include
components to study and design suitable
policies; in the course of assessing private
sector, foblow up and recommend
measures to further ease regulatory
A                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fianwk.
2. Finance Piority Proiecls  Three investment operations have been approved:    The Irrigation Improvement Project, a
in Productiv              dthe Emergency Loan for the Earthquake Recovery    Health and Family Pbnning Project and a
nfiattm  and               Project; the Sistan River Floodworks Project; and    Power Sector Efficiency Imp ovemt
Social Sectors            the Tehmn Drainage Project.                     Projed have been negotiated. Other
projects in advanced stages include a
Sewerage Project for Tehran, and a Ports
and Raihlwy Pject. Prepations are
underway for projects in  ementary,
vocadonal and tey level education, in
gas flaring Teduction, and folow up and
complementary operations in irgation,
power and water supply and sewge.
3. StreneIen Sector          As components of the operations approved to date,   Planned secotor work and dialogue are to
Institutions               equipment, training and technical assistance have    identify instituion-building needs in
been provided for earthquake disaster mitigation  agriuural serices, transport and energy
capability; for flood monitoring and loss prevention  sectors; upooming operations in health and
units; and for strengthening construction      education are to include components to
management and financial planning within the   strengthen sedor plning and
Municipality of Tehran.                        management capabilaies through provision
of equipment, training and, when
l_______________________________________ necessary, technical assistance.
C. Assist Access to Capital
Markets.
1. Improve Manaeement of     A report has been prepared for GOI reviewing   Agree with 001 on steps and funds
Iran's Extemal Liabilities  medium-term financing arranged in recent years  needed to initiate aining of selected
and identifying policies and training required to    candidates fromn Finance Ministry, the
access alternative sources of financing, such as  Central Bank and local commercial banks.
syndicated loans and, eventualy, bond issues.
2. Mobilize Cofinancing for    Potential cofinanciers have been contacted; the  Maintain contacts with and involve
Investment Operations      prospective energy sector operations have been  potential cofinanciers-commercial banks
identified as main instrments for atracting    and export crdit agencies- in the course
significant cofinancing.                       of processing energy sector and some
infrastructure operations.



- 16 -
Financial Reguirements and Bank Assistance
44.  Estimated Bank disbursements from the loans approved during FY91 and
FY92 and for the proposed lending program would represent only about 7 percent
of Iran's external financing requirements (about US$20 billion) for the period
1993-97. Cost sharing in Bank operations would adhere to the established
policy and guidelines and, thus, limit the Dank's share of total project cost
to a maximum of 60 percent, as suggested for lower-middle income cduntries.
Based on the lending program as currently planned, the Bank's share in Iran's
stock of MLT debt would rise from around 2 percent at present (a figure
reflecting the long hiatus in our lending relations with Iran) to a projected
7 percent in 1997. As it is expected that Iran's exports and its debt
servicing capacity would be increasing over the medium term, the volume of
Dank lending envisaged would not constitute a burden on the country's project-
ed earnings. The Bank has been the only multilateral agency from which Iran
has ever borrowed large amounts of medium- and long-term funds. To this day,
therefore, the Bank has always held virtually all debt Iran owed to multilate-
rals. The only exception to this practice was a $30 million loan from the
Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) in 1990. Iran also has not made use of INF
resources in recent years; the last time Iran made a Stand-by purchase was in
1960.
45.   The scenario projected for this statement has retained the above
features of Iran's borrowing practice. The scenario has not assumed any IMF
purchases, and has projected a maximum of $30 million in net disbursements by
the IsDB in any year and $S50 million in net disbursements by the IFC in any
year. In comparison, IBRD net disbursements are projected at $105 million in
1993, rising to $410 million in 1997 and declining thereafter. Thus, as in the
past, projected debt owed to IBRD will be found to constitute up to 85 percent
of debt owed to preferred creditors (defined to include multilaterals only).
Relative to Iran's export earnings, annual debt service payments to the Bank
are projected to remain well within acceptable limits. service payments to
IBRD equalled an estimated 0.2 percent of Iran's export earnings in 1992t this
ratio is projected to remain below 1 percent through the year 2000.
IFC and MIGA Activities
46.  Like the Bank and Fund, the IFC stopped lending to Iran in the mid-
1970s. At the initiative of the Government, contacts were renewed with a
reconnaissance mission in January 1990, and more missions have since visited
the country. IFC operations and advice are expected to form an integral part
of Bank Group assistance to the country. A prospective program of IFC
operations could comprise investments and technical assistance in resource-
based projects, the Qeshm Free Area, hotel renovations and management, the
production of building materials, small and medium industries, and capital
markets and privatization. Iran has not yet signed the MIGA Convention.
m: \i ranki rrg\mop



-17 -
Cooperation with other Multilateral Institutions
47.   Iran is a member of the Islamic Development Bank and has been a member
of the IMF since December 1945. After a 12-year hiatus, formal Article IV
Consultation discussions between Iran and the Fund were resumed early in 1990.
There was considerable support at the Fund Board for the reform measures Iran
implemented in 1991. The next Article IV Consultation discussions are
scheduled to take place around May 1993, but no Fund Stand-by or financial
involvement is currently contemplated for Iran.
D. SUMMARY ASSESSMENT
48.  Iran has embarked upon a program of economic reforms and has a
Government that is willing to undertake reforms that will increase reliance on
market mechanisms and that will enhance the role of the private sector in the
economy. The macroeconomic reforms are being accompanied by social safety net
programs and high government priority for human resources development
programs. At the same time, Iran has huge reconstruction and development
needs following an extended period of war. Despite the current short-term
debt payment problems, the country is creditworthy, with relatively low levels
of external debt, little debt to the Bank and favorable export prospects,
provided it carries out reforms to strengthen the trade sector. The
Government has been seeking Bank advice and support for its endeavors. In
response, the Bank's assistance strategy would help the Government in
implementing a reform program, in undertaking economic rehabilitation and
human resources development and in gaining access to other sources of external
capital. To this end, the Bank would undertake an active program of economic
and sector work, increase investment lending gradually to about US$600-700
million per year for 3 to 4 projects and help mobilize other international
resources to support Iran's economic reforms.
49.   There are two downslde risks to the Bank assistance strategy. First, a
failure to sustain the pace of reforms because of political instability or
concerns over temporary dislocations resulting from adjustment measures. Over
the past four years, however, the Government has taken decidedly poeitive,
albeit cautious, steps to adjust economic policies with considerable success
in growth and fiscal performance. It also remalns cc'imitted to press on with
further reforms. Second, an unfavorable external environment, involving low
oil prices and insufficient lLT capital inflows, could result in unsustainable
financial imbalances and a weakening of long term growth prospects. Over time,
the major means to reducing this risk is for Iran to complete ongoing reforms
and reconstruction, and thereby reduce its dependence on oil prices and on
extraordinary capital requirements related to reconstruction.
50.  The Bank expects to monitor the reform process and macroeconomic
management in Iran through close collaboration with the Fund. Important
policies to be tracked during 1993 and 1994 will include the unification of
the exchange rate, the passage and implementation of a new Custom tariff
m:X1r*n%irtv\mop



- 18 -
schedule, the implementation of a revised basic foods subsidy scheme, the
design of a general consumption tax and the progress of measures to establish
nonbanks. Iran's external borrowing strategy, and trends in debt servicing,
would also continue to be reviewed closely. The measures to implement these
key policies are expected to progressively lower the external current account
and the fiscal deficits, and to contain and gradually lower inflation while
permitting modest growth in per capita incomes in real terms (see Table 2).
The scenario depicted in Table 2, which would be refined and updated
periodically, would provide quantitatively monitorable indicators of the
status of macroeconomic management.
51.   In addition, in the course of preparing, appra.sing and supervising
investment operations, the Bank would seek up front agreement on actions to
strengthen sector policies and institutions and monitor progress on the agreed
actions. Such progress would be important for the Bank to maintain its
proposed level of support. Over the next two years, in particular, the Bank
will focus on progress in adjusting power tariffs, in pricing agricultural
inputs and products at closer to economic prices, in designing actions for
greater cost recovery in water supply, sewerage, ports and railways, and in
improving sector planning and coordination capabilities in the agriculture,
power, transport, education and health sectors. As stated earlier (para. 15),
Iran's project implementation record has been good thus far, although the
existing Bank portfolio there comprises only three ongoing operations. In
preparing and appraising projects thus far, th~e approach taken has been to
identify and resolve basic policy and implementation issues early in the
project cycle; this practice would be continued. The Bank's future portfolio
management wil3 also emphasizes regular supervision to help attain forecast
progress in physical works and disbursements; mid-term development impact
assessments of projects; and timely preparation of Project Completion Reports.
PART II - THE PROJECT
Proiect Obiectives
52.   The overall objectives of the project are: (a) to enhance water
resources management through the rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation
and drainage (I&D) systems; (b) to upgrade research and extension in order to
raise crop output, farm incomes and foreign exchange earnings through
increased agricultural production; and (c) to improve the planning and
implementing capacity of sector institutions, including the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) and the Ministry of Energy (MOB).
Proiect Description
53.   The project comprises the improvement and upgrading of four existing I&D
systems serving a net irrigable area of about 90,600 ha and the
intensification of agricultural services on this area and on another 16,400 ha
in the Tajan subproject. Existing main and secondary canals would be provided
with concrete lining, and in some areas new canals would be added. Main and
secondary drains would be improved and expanded to cover all the service
areas. The tertiary systems would be developed selectively using concrete
m:Xiran\irr9\mop



- 19 -
flumes (canalletes), concrete-lined laterals and, in rice areas, unlined
laterals and open tertiary drains. On-farm development would include
selective subsurface drainage and land levelling with emphasis on water
management at the tertiary and farm levels. The Agricultural Service Centers
and research stations would be reinforced through the upgrading of existing
staff, the construction of facilities and the provision of additional staff,
vehicles and specialized equipment.  Provisions would be made to import and
sell a limited amount of specialized farm machinery in order to develop the
market.  Special emphasis would be given to strengthening the operation and
Maintenance (O&M) of all facilities, from the main down to the tertiary
system, to encouraging farmer participation through users groups and to
addressing critical environmental issues. Provisions would be made for
engineering services for design, construction supervision and specialized
studies. The project would also provide training for staff in the
implementing agencies through on-the-job training, workshops, seminars,
graduate fellowships, and short, specialized courses abroad.
The Proiect Area
54.   The overall project area of 107,000 ha is composed of four subproject
areas: Behbahan (11,500 ha) in Rhuzestan province; Moghan (35,600 ha) in East
Azerbaijan; Zarrineh Roud (36,000 ha) in West Azerbaijan; and Tajan (23,900
ha) in Nazandaran. The beneficiary population of about 282,000 live in 46,000
households. In general, land in the subproject area is privately owned and
farmed. The existing irrigation and drainage (I&D) systems are either
traditional or partially completed with a low overall irrigation efficiency,
varying from 20 to 30 percent due to poor water conveyance and inefficient on-
farm water use. Waterlogging problems in the low lands depress crop yields
and keep significant areas permanently or intermittently uncultivated.
Water Source
55. All four subprojects receive their water supply from existing
infrastructure and will operate within current water allocations. one
subproject, Moghan, receives water from an international waterway. The
subproject lies along the right bank of the Aras River. The Aras forms the
boundary between Turkey and Armenia and, further south, forms the boundary
between Armenia and Iran and between the Republic of Azerbaijan and Iran.
Under two agreements the former USSR agreed to share equally the downstream
Aras River waters with Iran. Since the republics of Armenia and Azerbaijan
are bound by USSR treaties, adequate agreement exists between the two
Republics and Iran relative to the Aras River. There is, in practice,
exceptionally good coordination between Iran and Azerbaijan regarding the
operation and maintenance of the joint head works. The subproject, which is
purely an improvement and rehabilitation of existing facilities, will cause no
harm to any riparians, nor can it be harmed by upstream or downstream
developments. No formal agreement exists between Turkey and Iran, but Turkey,
being an upper riparian, will not be affected.
m:\iran\1rrg\mop



- 20 -
Proiect Cost and Financina
56. The project is estimated to cost about US$311.7 million equivalent, of
which about US$157.0 million equivalent, or about 51 percent, corresponds to
the foreign cost. Project financing would consist of a government,
contribution of US$S154.7 million for the local cost, plus a Bank loan of
US$S157.0 million for the foreign cost (Schedule A). Procurement and
disbursement arrangements are provided in Schedule B.
Proiect Management and lmplementation
57.   The Government of Iran (GOI), represented by the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Finance (MEAF), would be the borrower, and MOA, MOE, the four
Regional Water Authorities (RWAs) and the four Provincial Agricultural
Departments (PADs) of the provinces of Khusestan, East Azerbaijan, West
Azerbaijan and Mazandaran would be the beneficiaries. Execution of the
subprojects would be carried out by the RWAs and PADs according to their
mandates: each of the four subproject RWAs would execute the maial, secondary
and tertiary I&D systems, and the four PADs would be responeible for
implementing on-farm and agricultural developments. To guide the project in
policy matters, GOI has established a project steering committee (PSC) at the
central level chaired by a Deputy Minister of MEA". Its members include the
MOE Deputy Minister for Water Affairs and the MOA Deputy Minister for Projects
and Planning. Gol has also established Liaison Offices (L0s) in MOA and MOE
to ensure the effective implementation and coordination of the project. The
L0s would also coordinate the environment components, which would be
implemented with the collaboration of the Department of Environment. Project
preparation is well advanced, and the first group of tenders are sdheduled to
be announced in May 1993. The project would be implemented over a period of
eight years. The timetable of key processing events s given in Schedule C,
and the Status of Bank Group Operations in Iran is g_ven in schedule D. Maps
(IBRD 24171, 24172, 24173, 24174 and 24175) and the Staff Appraisal Report No.
11393-SRN, dated February 9, 1993, are also attached.
Rationale for Dank Involvement
58.  Following an economic review in 1990/91 (Reconstruction and Economic
Growth, Report No. 9072-IRN), a country assistance strategy was designed to
help rebuild the Iranian economy. The strategy focuses on economic policy
reforms, on reconstruction and on addressing sector policy and investment and
institutional issues. As Iran's access to international capital is limited,
the Bank's role is a key one. To date, the Bank has approved three projects
within this strategy - an earthquake recovery project, a flood control project
and an urban drainage project. The agriculture sector has been selected for
this fourth project because it is an important productive sector with large
rehabilitation requirement. The criteria used for subproject selectic.l were
that the project should yield relatively quick returns in areas of economic or
social priority, and that the project should contribute to the evolution of
sector policy. The four subprojects selected are thus either in areas
m:Iramirrwmap



- 21 -
affected by the War (Behbahan) or have very good economic potential (the other
three schemes). The preparation of all subprojects is well advanced, and
investments will complete existing schemes, so the project will yield
relatively quick returns in comparison with other potential subsectoral
investments in irrigation. With regard to sector policy, 001 is pursuing a
strategy of full cost recovery for 06M costs and recovery of 40 percent of on-
farm development costs. The project will support and advance implementation
of this new cost recovery policy for the sector. Finally, Iran and the Bank
are cooperating on sector issues and the project serves as a vehicle for a
dialogue on technical Issues and on areas where Iran could use the Bank's
experience such as prevention of environmental degradation.
Environmental and Social Asgeeta
59.   The project has been placed in environmental screening Category "B,"
consistent with O.D. 4.01 "Environmental Assessment," and has been subject to
field-based environmental review. The review indicated that the project would
have a generally positive impact on the environment by improving water use
efficiency and protecting csoil resources from waterlogging and salinization,
An Environmental Management Plan would be implemented to supports (a)
institutional strengthening and training; (b) water quality management
programs; (c) agricultural chemical management programs; (d) subproject -
specific environmental actions; and (e) special environmental studies.
Procedures would be developed with the Cultural Heritage Organisation to
address the protection of any unrecorded archaeological sites discovered
during construction activities. The project would support tpecial studies
focussed on addressing the following long-term environmental management
issuest the Shadegan Marshes Protected Regional management Plan and the
Maroon River Migratory Fish Management Plan (Behbahan); the management plan
for the man-made "Abbandans" ecosystems and the Tajan River Migratory Fish
Management Plan (Tajan); and an Orumiyeh National Park Management Plan,
including Zarrineh Roud delta/wetlands protection (Zarrineh Roud).
Resettlement
60.   The GO0  is funding, from its own resources, the construction of the
Maroon River Storage Dam. The construction has made it necessary to resettle
49 families (totaling 342 individuals) because the lands and the village
located immediately upstream o' the dam would be flooded by the reservoir.
Although the resettlement is not associated with the Behbahan subproject it is
occurring in the area of the subproject. GOI has, therefore, agreed that the
issue be addressed as an element of the proposed project.  MOA has prepared a
settlement plan consistent with the provisions of 0.D. 4.30 "Involuntary
Resettlement," which provides a detailed plan for the resettlement of the
villagers, including an implementation schedule and budget. The plan has been
prepared in consultation with representatives of Dej-e-Mahtabi and local
authorities. MOA has formally advised the Bank of the Government's commitment
to implement the plan and has appointed a resettlement coordinator acceptable
to the Bank.
m:\i rsn\i rrg\mop



- 22 -
Agreed Pointo
61.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations on particular features of
implementation, notably: appointment of an independent pa.&e! of experts on
dam safety for two dams not part of the project but under construction
upstream of project investments; the resettlement plan for dej-e-Mahtabil and
the establishment of the Liasion Offices. The COx has also informed the Bank
of its policy on financing and recovering O&M and capital costs on irrigaton
schemes.
Proiect Benefitg
62. The primary benefit of the project would be the incremental agricultural
production resulting from increased water use efficiency, reclaimed lands and
improved pr-oduction techniques. As a result of the increased production,
about 46,000 farm families are expected to enhance their incomes. The
economic rate of return (ER) of the project and each subproject based on the
floating market exchange rate (rials 1,450 per US dollars) has been estimated
at about 18.8 percent (total project), 22.6 percent (Behbahan), 1S.6 percent
('oghan), 20 percent (Zarrineh Roud) and 24.5 percent (Tajan).  Switching
value analysis indicates that it would take a 36 percent decrease in benefits,
or a 58 percent increase in costs, to lower the ERR to 10 percent, which is
considered to be the lower range of the opportunity cost of capital in Iran.
Risks and Sustainability
63.   The project faces economic, financial, institutional and technical
risks. The economic risk stems from the current wide disparity between
economic and financial prices. The Government is committed to bringing
domestic prices in line with international prices. In the interim there is a
risk that a rapid change in the relative prices of agricultural inputs versus
outputs may change incentives in the short term to invest in produdtivity
enhancing inputs such as fertilizer. The Government is monitoring the
evolution of the incentive structure and, by adjusting support prices for
principal products, should be able to smooth out the transition to the new
relative prices. The financial risk concerns the contributions required from
the Government as its contribution to the project and to sustain O&m until
full cost recovery for O&M is achieved. GOI has affirmed its commitment to
the full financing of both the investment and recurrent costs of the project
and has made appropriate provisions in both the five-year plan and the 1993
annual budget. Institutional risks include the number of institutions
involved at different levels and the lack of experience that these
institutions have in the implementation of this type of project. However,
cooperation has begun satisfactorily during preparation, and the coordination
arrangements agreed both at the subproject and central level would reduce the
risk. The technical risk is that O&H would not be adequately carried out.
During implementation, the subprojects would be fully equipped and financed
for O&M. Thereafter, the provision for full recovery of O&M costs would
m:XiranXirrg\mop



- 23 -
ensure adequate financing, while the growth in the experience and the
authority of the water user associations should help ensure adequate standards
of services. Sustainabilitv of irrigation investments is one of the major
objectives of the Government's policy of moving to full recovery of O&M costs.
In addition, the developme,it of water user associations should allow
increasing decentralization to farmer institutions, with a corresponding
increase in motivation and responsibility.
Recommendation
64.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 19, 1993
m:i ran\i rrg\mop



- 24 -
O-liIDULL
ISLMIC REPUBLIC OF XRAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVMENT PROECT
ESTIMATED COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Proiect Cost Summary
Piats                           LSS                       X Total
-------------------.......  .....................------X Foreign            ase
Local   Foreign     Totat    Local  Foreign    Total Exchange        Costs
A. Irrig./Drnge.Iprovement    97793.4  77404.5  175197.9    67.4           53.4    120.8       44.2      46.4
B . Agricultural Development    25348.6  33000.1   58348.7        17.5     22.8     40.2       56.6      15.4
C . Irr.JOrainage On-Farm Dev   16671.2   21532.1  38203.3        11.5     14.8     26.3       56.4      10.1
D . Project Fac.inctuding O     13785.8  26438.6  40224.4         9.5     18.2     27.7       65.7      10.6
E . Institutional Support
1. Project Coordination      4001.5      723.0   4724.5       2.8       0.5      3.3       15.3       1.2
2. TA and Training           8637.9   10531.1   19169.0       6.0       7.3     13.2      54.9        5.1
3. Strengthenirg MOA/NOE      1553.0   5443.3   6996.2         1.1      3.8      4.8      77.8        1.9
4. Inst.Support Subprojects 14937.3  14967.5   29904.8        10.3     10.3     20.6       50.1       7.9
........ ............... _ .____..........  __.___...................___............._.____................  __....____
Sub-Total                        29129.7  31664.8  60794.5    20.1         21.8     41.9       52.1      16.1
F . Enviroewmnt                  4030.6    869.2   4899.9          2.8      0.6      3.4       17.7       1.3
G . Resettlement                   316.5       0.0     316.5       0.2      0.0      0.2        0.0       0.1
__________............._.___................   .........................................__.__..............______.___._______
Totat BASELINE COSTS            187075.8  190909.3  377985.1    129.0    131.7   260.7         50.5     100.0
Physical Contingencies        13078.5  13865.1   26943.6        9.0      9.6     18.6       51.5       7.1
Price Contingencies          142842.5  135935.7  2m778.2       16.7     15.8     32.5      48.6       12.5
____.____ ....................._._....  _ _.._.___.............._.___..............____...........___...... __
Total PROJECTS COSTS            342996.7  340710.2  683706.9    154.7    157.0   311.7         50.4     119.6
__._._._.______............__._______.__._______......___________...._..__....___...........................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0- 1/271I1993  14:05
Financina Plan
Local            Fore ian         Total            Percent of
----------US$ million----------                    Total  cost
GOIz                               154.7           --                154.7             49.6
IBRD                              --               157.0            157.0              50.4
Total                             154.7            157.0            311.7             100.0
Estimated completion dates June 30, 2001.
2a of which US$16.6 million will be taxes and duties.
m:\iran\irrg\mop



- 25 -
SCHEDULE B
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Procurement Method
Proiect Components
---------Amount in USS Million-------------
ICB   LCB   IS    DC    Other         ot_aI
1.  Civil Works               136.4  30.7                          167 1
(64.0)(13.5)                         (77.5)
2. Equipment, Vehicles
and Materials            60.6   7.0  4.5   3.5                75.6
(48.9) (6.1)(3.7) (2.8)              (61.5)
3.  Engineering Services                                 12.5       12.5
(6.0)      (6.0)
4.  Technical Assistance
and Training                                       27.1       27.1
(12.0)     (12.0)
5.  Miscellaneous                                        29.4       29.4
*C_)       (-)
Total                         197.0  37.7  4.5   3.5    69.0       311.7
(112.9)(19.6)(3.7) (2.8)  (18.0)    (157.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed under the Bank
loan. other procurement methods would apply to engineering services,
consultants and training.
Disbursement Amounts by Cateaories
Description of          Amount USS  Percent Expenditure
Cateaorv Number   Goods or Services        Millions    To Be Financed
1           Civil Works              70.0         100 percent of foreign
expenditure
2           Equipment/Vehicles       56.0         100 percent of foreign
and Materials                        expenditure
3           Technical Assistance    16.5          100 percent of foreign
and Training                         expenditure
4           Unallocated              ALI
Total Loan Amount          157.0
Estimated Disbursement (USS Million)
----------------IBRD Fiscal Year--------
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  21
Annual                   5.0   11.0  18.0  26.0   32.0  30.0  22.0  13.0
Cumulative               5.0   16.0  34.0  60.0   92.0 122.0 144.0 157.0



- 26 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Prolect Processing Events
(a)   Time Taken To Prepare                     Seven Months
(b)   Prepared by                         s    Government and FAO/CP
(c)  Preappraisal Mission                       June/July 1992
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure          I    October 12, 1992
Ce)  Negotiations                         s    January 18-22, 1992
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness       s    June 1993
(g)   List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs     s    None



- 27 -
SCHEDULE D
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Status of Bank Group Operations
Statement of Bank Loans
(As of December 31. 1992)
Amount in USS million
(Less Cancellations)
Loan
No.     FY      Borrower                    Project                Amount     Undisbursed
33  Loans closed                                                  1.022.73
3301     1991    Islamic Republic of Iran   Earthquake Recovery   250.00             148.13
3478     1992    Islamic Republic of Iran   Sistan Flood Control   57.00              57.00
3479     1992    Islamic Republic of Iran   Tehran Drainage          77.00            77.00
TOTAL                                           1,406.73           282.13
Of which repaid                                 1,007.64
Total held by Bank                                399.09
Amount sold                    78.55
Of which repaid                78.55
m:\iran\schd.wkl



MAP SECTION



ir                   4   _MIS\RMOGNI;\ ANERBAIS 4                                                                                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
2 Koyo  tMairoQ   1C a s p i a n                                                         TURKMENISTAN                                   LOCATION OF SUBPROJECTS
6ari'z    Astdw
Dg (                                                                               )? ArdebEi   7'  S e a  ,                                                          Subproject Sites
Boitonoha   Mianol                                                 -                                   0    '                                         Paved Roads
0 * jJr m l\ Kh.Ikh h                                 A_                                   aOche                                       Highways
ReXlR<nyDb   cJ(>\<asht  \_  0W<  4X^g  g_Omon   Az*dshahr            Hokmobod                Soo             '          Railroads
mohI2bod.Hom*a                                                                                                                  Somok
Gorgo                 -Soltonbod     Maslhod                1t        Airports
ndorreh0             Toakesto                                                                       Neyhab.-                                       Rivers
r' sisof Kesro!J oRudshe,dl                                      Torb ,: '                         Seasonal Lakes/Flooded
0          ~           a_ feh                            ,non                             K      0h m oo Torbot-e-Heydony*h       -           Areas
350                                             Sav*h 0                                                                                        -                     Cities
Hamodanh                  ^''     G  r e a t  S a I t  D e s e r t                                  t         gPoic 
Z        0         Province Capitals
,2Klr,4v~orro.i  7=MOI.Ye    Arok                                                                                                              *         National Capital
ESmomobedO   i Boruj.rdO 0      Ko,hon         I-   '                                                              z      _ _        International Boundories
B irlo o d \   3  h r o   o        ( IM     IL E S
r 0                      0      50      100    150    200
Mu  Isfoban 0                                                                                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 100O  200  300  400
'g tlSoeK o       rd KILOMETERS
r 0    eat  S and   D e s e r t                                         --1o r      r f  rho W-o1d o-
}  I R  A~  TQ   8   .   #   5  A          X                                                                                                        w)  oeo s 'erh.d"^+w^>ir  do ;T. Wold; Boo
wo  >                                                                                     00,                  T'. --P d. --t 7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZoI'~   oorororhoo olb0ropdoor oply. .. rho
r 0                                             ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o .00ro.. ei.  bndot,i.
_  <  \\ G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                       An.,o<tX"-''"  o"> ' >t>'L 
ORomslitr                 '-I                                                                                                                       300
BEHBAHAN        0Yosuj                                              Kermon-S                          / 
300                    d,-an Ab:                                                                                                             Z      don
~/        t \-                 \    Kozeruno    \-.@Shirora                 Sirionor                    Oorzin               Mir
-__  _  KUWA*(i1 'Boft 0                                                                                 00,
450                            K                       4l&Buhelsr         "      o,FPoa                                  Sobzeooran
TURKEY    '                   ..JJ&roAl                                                                                    Dri
TU>@  (j   't, OtGlmtniszon  '>s_   tX  0t  \ <                                                                              \ ~~~~~~~P A  K  I S T A  N
AW IN)            *.ioo      "'7~*.                                                                                                           trnrronsoar                      AK S
"RAO          ISLAMIC REP.                                                                                          00;Itborez    '
FIRAN            '      ,ondorabbosO                                                             OMinrob
o                                   0                                                    ontdor Long*h0 
am        SAUDI       UATBAHRAIN
wg | ARABIA                                                        IN                                            MAN|
_    C               OMAlil                      t   | 00                                                    MAN                                     Chbobho,             
'o    .                                               . : >   J  . .   50^ A  QATAR                 50Cr 60'                                                 6bo_
__I       _________ ___ ILl



Cas pian
Sea
IS AMIC REPUSLIC    nA N
OF I ANA 
RU        '
111
(Nt ForV;             St  Ioe o C
Mop ~ ~ ~~evlpmn 
.-&T&EIRI                                           -     YN  S
, t                    F                     ]      6    o shOhid DcmA]          N
SAI *1 po ri n                                                                                               poISLAMIC REPUBUC OF IRA
S ecAreo                                                             IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MoN                                                 TAJAN SUBPROJKTE9
.   REKA                         P~~~~~~~~MRCJCT AREA ROUNDAR es                        7 TOWNSAND VtlAGES
.REKA'  ,'                      IRIUGATION DEVeLOPMENT - 7.500 HECrARES                 WCADS
AGRICTUARAL D9OPMENT - 23,900 HECTARES                $T_7ATE FARM S
SARI                                             -+ PROJECT FINANCED                                            PONDS 
GOVERNMENT FR4AN4CED
MAIUN D2ANS 
PROJECT FINANCED 
CS1WIREM                                                           GOVEP4MN0   FINANCED 
laTMEERS
APPOMATE SCALE
SHAMRAwmANm4 ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~          lphs pl  I  ldbPajli  a



IBRD 241:
DIVSION DAM,                                                                                                                                                                          NOWROZUR   DA W                        '_ |
-t V   t  .............                                                                                                     i    o    t,.                 DI8JERSIONDAM;L ''   Betoz^    <'D     -'R9N DAMA.
CO |    t   J   t   HJ  ZONE5  9   2ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
O F I R AN
_                                                                                                                                                                  T  O w    c   _  _   b URN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - i I   C W
To Bokan
ZONE 3                             ZO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARIE RU UBRJC
ZONE A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DVRINDM
ARAD                                                                         NE 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MINDAN
N  ~~~~~~~                                                                                         Rd  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ A~~~~60
~~~~. o i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~o I o o & o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$~1
I To O~miyah Lake                                                                                                                                                                                               I                      IZAErdR



IBRD 24174
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MOGHAN SUBPROJECT
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES
L       J SURSURFACE DRAINWGE                                                                   1ArO
LILAND LEVEUNO:    S
77   __]MEDIUM
MAIN CANALS
-_MAIN DRAINS  |  z
PUMPING STATIONS
iVILLAGE$                                                                                  #<                                                        
- -INTERNATIONAL BSOUNDARY                         A           _t3 3, 500 H                                                                     A                             O
LoCin^                             -INDUSTRIRolAL  STATE                             A                               
NDOUZJAAAD
;7                                       {oMesh~~~~~~~kin-Shahr                                                                                                             rdabil                        
OF IRAN
~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~                                                          U~~~~~~~  30     60       90      120j
KILOMETERS
DECEMBER 1992



IBRD 24171
TURKMENISTAN
t  ? IStAMIC  REPUBLIC  (^MAIWHDTN> \                                                                                                                                                                  < 
Hst A g         O f                                                                                                                  l R E P U 8 L I C
AUS  I kAA)I
_ ,/t . Maroon Reservoir
rO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UUX REC U AS
IL        'IO                   I'l         I0
SffE                                                                   KILOMETER
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ToAhz                                                                                                                                                                                                  BEHBAHAN SUBPROJECT
"E''PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE
LAND LEVELING:
~]  HEAVY
\ BE              BAHAE                                                                          MEDIUM
MAIN AND PREMART CANALS
~A~MAIN DRAINS
4t  W / T>9eRls                                            _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q-M-NG;
UN-9. CONSTRUCTION
FUTURE PLAN
ARCHEOLOGICAL SITE
ff'R P h"# E                                                                                                                                                                       _    ROADS
-,kLs              *                                                                                                   _- d                                                                                      RIVERS
I _                                                                                                                  _                                                              DECER 199:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEB 



