S776-q/&AI
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
~~' ~~   ~  I ~'N    i~.      KT
',ai  . !7t jTO\ "t;        !)'
3- K 1    HPkg o    ; rZ A r  T h! l      7'j-            Report No. 11393-IRN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRRjCGATIONq ImMPRvFNN PROJECT
FEBRuARY 19, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
lTs dooument has a resticted dkisbution and may be used by recpents only in the performane of
their official duties. Its contents may no otherwise be adloed wtot Wodd Bank authoiaIon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(As of January 1993)
Official Exchange Rate         -     US$1.00 - Rls 70         Rls 1.00 - US$ 0.01430
Competitive Exchange Rate      -     US$1.00 = RIB 600        Rls 1.00 -US$ 0.00167
Floating Exchange Rate         -     US$1.00 a Rlo 1450       Rlo 1.00 - US$ 0.000689
for a selected list of imports
HEASURES AND EOUIVALENT
1 millmeter (mm)                     -      0.039 inches
1 centimeter (cm)                    -      0.394 inches
1 meter (m)                          =      3.280 feet
1 kilometer (km)                     -      0.620 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)             -      0.386 aquare miles
1 hectare (ha)                              2.470 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                   =     35.310 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCMi         .     35.310 million cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (ml/sec)   =      35.310 cubic feet per second
1 liter (1)                                 1.057 quarts
1 liter per second (1/s)                    0.033 cubic feet per second
1     iram (kg)                      -      2.205 pounds
1     -c ton (t)                     -      2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AB          Agriculture Bank
ASC         Agriculture Service Center
CBI         Central Bank of Iran
CHO         Cultural Heritage Organization
CORC        central Organization of Rural Cooperatives
DAP         Diammonium Phosphate
DC          Direct ContractVng
DOE         Department of Environment
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP      Food and Agricultural Organization Cooperative Program
FFYP        First Five-Year Plan
CDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
rOI         Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran
NYV         High-yielding Variety
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
I&D         Irrigation and Drainage
IPM         Integrated Pest Management
IS          International Shopping
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LOs         Liaison Offices
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MEAF        Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MENA        Middle East and North Africa
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MOE         Ministry of Energy
mOJ         Ministry of Jihad-e-sazandgi
Mcm         Million Cubic Meters
O0M         operation and Maintenance
PAD         Provincial Agriculture Department
PaO         Planning and Budget Organization
PPO         Plant Protection Organization
PSC         Project Steering Committee
Rla         Iranian Rial
RWA         Regional Water Authority or Company
SAO         Shahrestan Agriculture Office
SCO         State Cereals Organization
SOB         Statement of Expenditures
SIR         Scheme Irrigation Requirement
TSP         Triple Super Phosphate
WAD         Water Affairs Department
WID         Women in Development
GOVERNMENT OF ISL4MIC REPUBLIC OF nRAN
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 - March 20



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ISlIAIC REPUBLIC OP RAn
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
gonents
Chaper                                                                              Patte No.
Loan and Project Summary ........               ...............          .   i-iv
I. IAZf
A.  The Uconcqy........            .....................................        I
B.  The Agriculture Sector ........................ ...........                 2
C.  The Irrigation and Drainage 8ubsewtor ..................                    5
D.  Rationale for Bank Involvment .........................                     6
11. THE PROJECT AREA
A.  Physical 6............................................                      6
B.  Irrigation and Drainage Systes ......................... 8
fTI.  TEPROJZCT
A.  Prcoject Objectives ......................................                  9
B.  ProJect Description            ......... ..        .......... .....        10
D.  Project Cost and Flnancing Plan .........................                  14
3.  Procurement and Dlsbursement... ..                                         16
F.  Accounts and Audits          ............       ........... ......         19
G.  Environmental Aspect ...................................                   19
Ho                                                      ooooo***m**o .o............................... 20
IV.  ORGAIZATION AND NANK&fh
A.  Institutional Arrangement ...............................    21
B.  Agriculeural servces.             ........................ .....           25
C.  supervision Plan    ..............................                         26
This report is abased an the findfngs of an spprisatl mission to Iran in OctIMr/Noweer 1992 coprised of
Mesrs. Aied Khan (Task Manager); Christopher Vard (Seior Operations Offi er); Stephen Lintner (Senior
Enwirormntal Speciaest); Dlirt van der Sluljs (Senior Agrlculturatlist); ad Motafa Ahi (Coneultent -
Sociologist). In the preappraisot mission of July 1992 the folloting also participated: Raj Krisuhn
(Internatil LegaL Advior); Joumes ter Vruut (Senior Agriculturalist); Sheith A. shnen (Consultnt -
Engineer); ft. Sipho Moyo (Swwr Intern); an lemnrd       (Consultant Eologist). Peer revewers for
the report included Me. Marjorie-Ann Brea (Senior Ecist);  d Ulrich Kuffr (Prineipal Water
Resources Enginer). The report as prerd ider the ovetll swervlslon of Mrs. ftozi Okonjo-Itela
(Division Chief, GMS) end approved by Nr. R_I K. Chopre (Director, MH); end Mr. Caio Koch-Weser. Vice
President, Middle East and North Africa Region.
M:NMRANXIRRMCON    eIrTS:uery 16, 1993
This document ha a stdcted dtrIbution and may be usd by rpints only in the peorannce
of their ofici duties Its contents may not otherwise be discled wihout World bak authodration.



ChaDtSz
V.  AG-RICULTURE SUPPORT SERVICES AND DEVElENTlf2
A o ........................................................    26
S.  Present ane Puture Cropping Patterns ....................    27
C.  Yields and Production...... 4-444444*..                     28
VI. MUARKTM,  PRICES AND INCOMES
A.  Marketing and Processing  ........................          29
B3. Prices*.*.......                       ....                 30
C. Incomes ...................................... 30
D. Cost Recovary    44444444 *444***4@*................. ...    30
VII. BENEFITS. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND 31 1
B. Ecoz:omic Analysis .......4444*44444444444                   32
VIII. RT. . ......... .CH. AD                     ,                   36
3.1  Project Cost Summary .............i..........................    12
3.2   Financing Pln....... 4    .....16
3.3   Disbursemet Schedule ......................................     16
7.1   Resultsth8ummarysis...........................                  33
IN ANNIXRB
ANNEX I    THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
ANNX IT    TE PROJECT ARMA AND TECHNICAL CHARACTEISTICS
Table 1   Climatological Data... ............... .*.*.....*     ..... 53
Table 2    Current Land Use and Farm Size Distribution .......       54
Table 3    Monthly Sche_  IrrlgatLon Requirements......              SS
ANNEX III  PROJEC  DESCRIPTION _    COST ESTIMATS
Table 1   RequLrement Related to OK S8ytm ...................        63
Table 2    Requirements Related to Agri¢ultural Aspet       te       64
Table 3    RequLrements Related to the EnvirorArt .....              66
Table 4    Summary of Conerltant's Input ........................     67
Table S    Estimated TraLning Requirements.................... *      69
Table 6    Project Cost Su.may 7..........                    ...    71
Table 7    Project Components According to Summary Accot ......*   73
N:URAI%RUG%CoUTEmTS:Febuwy 16, 1993



ANNEX III PROJEC DESCRIPION AND COST ESTIMATES (continued)
Table 8    Subprojects by Project Component ......................  74
Table 9    Behbahan Subproject-Project Cost Summary .............0    75
Table 10   Moghan Subproject-Project Cost Summary ..............**     76
Table 11   Zarrineh Roud Subproject-Project Coot Sum,ary ........      77
Table 12   Tajan Subproject-Project Cost Summary ................      78
Table 13   Central Level-Project Cost Summary.**..............         79
Table 14   Procurement Arrangements .....................              60
Table 15   Proposed Processing Schedule for Consultants, Civil
Works and Equipment ...............................   81
Table 16   Implementation Schedule ............................        86
Table 17   Disbursoment Amount by Category ......................      68
Table 18   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .................       90
Table 19   Schedule of Critical Actions to be Completed During
Initial Period of Implementation ...................     91
ANNEX IV    ENVIRONMEN=  MANAGEMBNT AND RESVETTLMENT PLAN
Table 1    Implementation Schedule ..............         ... .....     10
Table 2    Cost Estimate... ............ *O... .........111
ANNEX V     SUPERVISION PLAN
Table 1    Supervision Plan         .....................              114
Table 2    Project Key Monitoring Indicators.*c...      t              115
ANNEX VI AGRIgULTOUQl PRODUCTION
Table 1    Sebbahan - Pregent and Projected Cropped Areas.........     122
and Yields
Table 2    Moghan - Present and Projected Cropped Areas ... .......    123
and Yields
Table 3    Zarrineh Roud - Present and Projected Cropped ........      12S
areas and Yields
Table 4    Tajan - Present and Projected Cropped Areas ..........      128
and Yields
Table 5    Summary of Current and Proposed Cropping Intensities.       129
Table 6    Incremental Production of Major Crops................       130
Table 7    Project - Research and Extension Staff ...............      131
Requirements
Table 8    Pesticides Used in Four Subproject Areas .............      132
ANNEX VII   MARKETS. PRICES AND INCOMES
Table 1    Financial and Economic Prices of Major Crops .........      135
Table 2    Projected Increase in Not Farm Incoms ...............       137
Table 3    06M   Cost Recovery in the Subprojects ................. .  138
Table 4    Projected Increase in Water Charges... ..............       139
Table 5    o0N Cost Recovery and Incremental Incoms ............       140
Table 6    Capital Cost Recovery and Incremental Inome .. .......      141
Table 7    Farm Models and Income Analysis......................       142
N:-IR\NU\tftG\ONTST:Febr%wy 16, 1993



ANNEX VIII ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AlD COST IEC9VERY
Table 1   Estimated Future O&M Cost ............................      151
Table 2    Economic Rate of Return Analysis,
sensitivity Analysis ......................... .....     152
Table 3    Economic Rate of Return Analysis, Subprojects .......      153
Table 4    Cropp,.ng Patterns and Margins Behbahan ..............     15S
Table 5   Cropping Patterns and Margin  Moghans.................      156
Table 6    Cropping Patterns and Margins 8arrinsh Roud ...........    158
Table 7    Cropping Patterns and Margins Tajan..................  .  160
Table 8    Calculation of Economic Commodity Prices ..............    161
ANNEX IX BRIEF TERMS OF REFERE"NC FOR VARIOUS CoNSULTANCY
SERVICES
ANNEX X     SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE
PROJECT FILES
CHAMSE
1     Ministry of Agriculture - Organization
2     Ministry of Energy - organization
3     Regional Water Authoritses - Typical Organization
4     Provincial Agricultural Departments - Typical organization
MAPS        IBRD NO. 24171, 24172, 24173, 24714, 24175
N:%UAIMIRC0VS:FebnntY 16, 199



ISLANIC   UM9 9LIc oD IR
I4IAT u mROVm1NmT PROJRCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summarv
Borroer:          Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran
Beneficiariest    About 46,000 farm families, four Regional Water Authorities
(RVAs) of the Ministry of Energy (MOB), and four Provincial
Agricultural Departments (PADs) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA).
Loan Amounts      IBRD Loan - US$157 millior equivalent
Terms*            Standard variable interest rate for a term
of 17 years, including 5 years' grace
project           The overall objectives of the project are:
Objectives:       (a) to enhance water resources management through the
rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation and drainage
systems (I&D) in four subprojects; (b) to upgrade research
and extension in the four subprojects in order to raise crop
output, farm incomes and foreign exchange savings through
increased agricultural productiong and (c) to improve the
planning and implementation capacity of sector institutions,
including the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Energy.
Project           The project comprises the improvement and upgrading
Descriptions      of four existing irrigation and drainage systems serving a
total net irrigable area of about 90,600 ha and the
intensification of agricultural services on these 90,600 ha
and on an additional 16,400 ha. The subprojects are
Behbahan (11,500 ha) in Rhusestan province, Moghan (35,600
ha) in East Azerbaijan, Zarrineh Roud (36,000 ha) in West
Azerbaijan and Tajan (7,500 ha) in Maxanderan. Existing main
and secondary canals would be provided with concrete
linings, and in some areas new canals would be added. Main
and secondary drains would be improved and expanded to cover
all the subproject areas. The tertiary systems would be
developed selectively using canalletes, concrete-lined
laterals (in rice areas, unlined laterals), and open drains.
On-farm development would include selective subsurface
drainage and land levelling with an emphasis on water
management at the tertiary and farm levels. The
Agricultural Service Centers and research stations serving
the project area wo3uld be reinforced through the upgrading



- 1A -
of existing staff, the construction of facilities and the
provision of additional staff, vehicles and specialized
equipment. Provision would also be made for the import and
sale of specialized farm machinery. Special emphasis would
be given to strengthening the operation and maintenance of
all facilities from the main down to the tertiary system, to
developing farmer participation through user groups, and to
addressing critical environmental issues. Provisions would
be made for consul' w  y services for design, construction
supervision and spe- ilized studies. The project would also
provide training for staff in the implementing agencies
through on-the-job training, workshops, seminars, visits,
graduate fellowships and short, specialized courses abroad.
Euvirounents      The project has been placed in environmental screening
category aB,  consistent with O.D. 4.01. An environmental
management plan would be implemented to support
institutional strengthening and training, water quality
monitoring, agricultural chemical management, and special
environmental studies.
Resettlements    Some resettlement, not caused by the project but b-y:.
construction of the GOI funded Maroon River Dam, is
occurring in the project area. Some support, consistent
with O.D. 4.30, would be provided under the project to the
planned resettlement of 49 families (342 persons) from the
village of Dej-e-Mahtabi, Xhuzestan, who have been forced to
relocate into the Qehbahan subproject area.
lenefits          The Project would benefit 46,000 families farming a net
arable area of about 107,000 ha. The estimated ERR is 18.8
percent.
Risks:            The major risks are (1) economic:  rapid changes in relative
prices, as domestic prices come in line with international
prices, may adversely affect incentives in the short term
(e.g., as fertilizer prices go up rapidly, use may drop to
below economically optimal levels until output prices
adjust); however, the Government intends to maintair support
prices during the adjustment period, and the economic
analysis shows good long-term profitability; (2) financial:
there may be insufficient and/or untimely availability of
local funds; the Government has affirmed its commitment to
finance project expenditures phased over eight years and to
make provisions in the forward budget for this; the track
record on project finance has been quite good to date, and
performance would be monitored closely during
implementation; (3) institutional: the implem nting agencies
lack practical experience in working together on a large
project; cooperaton has begun during preparation and
N:%IRANIU NKUIUWUR:F*samry 5, 1993



- iII. -
coordinating arrangemants should reduce the risk but
performance will require careful monitoring, partlcularly ln
the early year; (4) 12ghnLgals the risk of Liadequate
operation and maLntenance would be minLmized by technical.
organizational and flnancial measures. DeneficiarLes'
contribution to costs and theLr urganlzatlon in user
aosodiatlons will help ensure a-1equate standards of service.
*rebect CGM Stmv
Riots                       lSS                     % Total
-Z. ........................... X Foreign                          k.e
Local  Forign    Total   Locat Foreign   Total Exchange    Costs
* - ................................ ........................ ..................................................... 
A . IrrigSDrng..Iqwovtmsnt   97793.4  77404.5  175197.9    67.4    53.4   120.8      44.2     46.4
1 .  gricultural  veloinmNt   248.6  33000.1  S38.7    17.5    22.8    40.2          56.6     15.4
C. Irr./Draifn On-Pam 0Dev   16671.2  21532.1  38203.3    11.5    14.8    26.3       56.4     10.1
0 . ProJect Fec.inctluding 06   1373.8  26438.6  40224.4    9.5    18.2      7.7     65.7      10.6
E . lstitutionsl Siport
1. ProJect Coordination   4001.5    723.0   *724.5      2.8     0.5      3.3     15.3       1.2
2. TA ad Trainin          837.9  10531.1  19169.0       6.0      7.3    13.2     54.9       S.1
3. Strengthening NMOE      55I3.0   544.3   6996.2      1.1      3.8     4.8      77.8      1.9
4. tnst.SLport S*roJects 14937.3  14967.5    4.8       10.3    10.3    20.6      50.1       7.9
=; .............................................. ...............................................
ISu-Total                    29129.7  31664.8  60794.S    20.1    21.8    41.9       52.1      16.1
F . r "mlent                  4030.6    869.2   4899.9      2.8     0.6      3.4     17.7      1.3
a . ResettleMent               316.S      0.0    316.5      0.2     0.0      0.2      0.0      0.1
Total SSELINE COSTS         187075.8 190909.3 3775.1   129.0   131.7   260.7         50.5    100.0
Physical Contigncfes       13078.S  13865.1  26943.6     9.0      9.6    18.6    '1.S        7.1
Price Contingecies        1428.S  135935.7 27877.2    16.7    15.8    32.5        48.6      12.5
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,........_ __ ........ ...... .............. .. .........................
Total PROJECtS COSTS        342996.? 340710.2 68376.9   154.7   157.0   311.7        50.4    119.6
......................... ..........  7...............                            ......................... 
Vaulo Scaled bVy OOIn00 .0 - 1/271993 14U:O
LQal           Poreion        Total           Percent of
---- -- 18$ millilon              ----            a  cot
IO11                           154.7          --              154.7           49.6
IBRD                           --             17.0            157.0           50.4
Total                          154.7          157.0           311.7          100.0
Natimated Completion Dates December 31, 2000.
J/ Of which US$16.6 million would be taxes and duties.
N:AIRNMIRRASl        :february S, 1993



- iv -
Estlmated Annual Riburjgementg
IDRD Fiscal earz
ZX,A 4       Em  Em E7 E1 EY9               F
(US$ Million 2quivalent)------
lEAD                     5.0  11.0  18.0  26.0  32.0  30.0  22.0  13.0
Percent of Total         3.2   7.0  11.5  16.6  20.4  19.1  14.0    8.3
Cumulative Percent       3.2  10.2  21.7  38.2  58.6  77.7  91.7  100.0
N:s%IMLURRG%SUUIY:PebnarY S 1993



I.  CIROD
A.the Zconq
1.01        Iran's economic policies and performance in the last decade were
influenced by the revolution in 1979 and by the war with Iraq from 1980 to
1988. During the, war years, the economy was subjected to many forms of
control and administrative intervention, and economic performance was mixed.
A fast rate of GDP growth (averaging 8 percent per year in 1980-85) in the
early years was followed by a decline (3 percent per year in 1985-88) and
rising inflation (averaging 20 percent per year iz 1985-88) due, in large
part, to excess money supply created to meet growing public deficits (on
average, equal to 8 percent of GDP each year during 1985-88). Following the
end of the war in 1988, Iran prepared the First Five-Year Plan (Fm P) spanning
1989-1993. The policy objectives in the MFYP include the progressive
elimination of financial imbalances, the decentralization of economic
decision-making and the privatization of state enterprises in various parts of
the eco,omy.
1.02        Since the inception of the FFP, the Government has initiated
sound policy changes. Additional macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms
nevortheless will be required to consolidate and advance the reform process.
A major distortion has been the multiple exchange rate system. In January
1991, the Government reduced the number of rates from seven to three (the
official rate of rials 70/US$, the competitive rate of rials 600/VS$, and the
floating rate, lately rials 1450/US$), and a proposal has been submitted to
Parliament to unify the rates by end-March 1993. Other recent policy reforms
have includeds a large effective depreciation of the rial, especially for non-
oil exporters; widespread removal of non-tariff barriers on imports at the
floating rate; decontrol . many domestic prices, along with dissolution of
price enforcement courtas introduction of a less onerous incxme tax schedule;
steep increases in public utility rates; abolition o.. credit ceilings; and a
decision to permit private nonbank financial institutions.
1.03       Implementation of key reforms has helped to stimulate economic
growth and to lower budget deficits. From a low base that ensued from the
1980-88 war, GDP grew an average 7 percent per year during 1989-92. The
general government deficit was reduced from 9 percent of GDP in 1988 to an
estimated 2 percent in 1992. With lower deficits, the growth of net credit to
government and that of broad money declined between 1988 and 1990. This
helped to lower inflation from 29 percent in 1988 to around 10 per¢ent in
1990. Since then, however, inflation has edged up to around 20 percent each
year in 1991 and 1992.
N:%JAUflG \EXT.SAR:FebmrY 16, 19



-2-
1.04        The rapid restoration of oil production and export facilitles over
the past four years, together with the high oll prices reached ln 1990, helped
Iran's external accounts. The overall balance of payments totalled a positlve
$2 billion ln 1989-90. In 1991, however, the balance of payments deteriorated
sharply as oll prices fell 20 percent while the volume of lmports rose 30
poroen-. This underscores the importance of export diverifLcation for Iran to
reduce its vulnerability to oil prlce fluctuations. Before increasLng its
output and exports on a sustairnable basis, Iran will need to further improve
economlc lncentlves and make substantial investments to rehabilitate its
productive infrastructure.
Count?! Dialogeu and Bank Stratejr
1.05        The reform process has been remsrkably successful thus far, and
the stage has been set for an accoleration and deepening of reforms to
continue developing the economy. The key to efficient growth and longer- -rsm
development in Il -n is to complete the exchange rate and price reform and to
enhance the role of the prlvate sector. This would need to be accompanied by
the corresponding trade reforms, compensatory mechanisms such as *tage
adjustments and social safety nets, and the mobilization of domestic and
external resources to underpin policy reforms, finance development
expenditures and strengthen essential public and private sector institutions.
1.06        These steps are an lntegral part of the Governments plan.  The
Government has adopted a program of progressive movement towards exchange rate
unification and world market prices (including those in the agriculiure
sector) and elimination of subsidies, notably for agricultural inputs and
equipment. Work is also going ahead on the design of a social safety not
program.
1.07        Against this background, Bank country strategy aims to: (i)
support the Government's economic reform program; (ii) support the
rehabilitation of the Iranian economy and human resources development; and
(ili) help Iran strengthen its links to the world economic and financial
system and reestablish access to international capital markets. To achieve
these goals, the Ban' program comprises economic and sector work, investment
lending, and the moblilzation of other international financial resources
through cofLnancLrtg and technical assistance.
B. The Agriculture Sector1
1.08        Physical and Human Resources.  About 51 percent of Iran's 165
million hectares (ha) are made up of mountains, lakes, desert land and towns;
11 percent are cultivated or fallow; 7 percent are forested; and 31 percent
are marginal or rangeland. About one fourth of the geographic area is
XJ    This sectlon li based on the recent Agricultural Sector Note (Report No.
10549-IRN, Green Cover, Nay 4, 1992). A fuller description of the
sector is glven ln Annex I.
N:%IRA%RRG%\TEX.8:Febmry 16, 1993



- 3 -
potentially suitable for agricultural production, but in many areas rainfall
in inadeqpate to permit cultivation without irrigation. The range of natural
conditions creates differing agro-eaological zones and a wide variety of
farming systems. Of the total popuiation (57 million people), 41 percent live
and work in rural areas, and 29 percent are employed in agriculture. There
are an estimated 3.15 million farm units. Women play an important role in
agriculture, particularly in llvestock husbandry and in the labor-intensive
production of crops like rice.
1.09        Land Use and Production Tatterns. The cultivated area in Iran is
presently an estimated 16.5 million ha, of which 7 million ha are under
irrigation. The share of agriculture in the economy was 19 percent in 1990.
In the period immediately after the revolution, agricultural output grew
rapidly under the stimulus of government incentives to cereals production.
Growth was much slower ln the second half of the 1980s, as the possibilities
for inciting further production through incentive policies wero exhausted, and
the low level of capital investment during the 1980. began to have its effect.
Wheat represents about 50 percent of the total area under cultivation; two
thirds of the crop is rainfed, and one third is irrigated. An additional 20
percent of cultivated land is devoted to barley. Rice: sugar beet, cotton,
oil seeds and forage crops occupy most of the remainder of the cultivated
area. Horticultural crops are also important in terms of value added. After
successive land reforms, about 91 percent of land is now owner-operated. The
growth in agricultural production over the last decade has been accompanied by
a substantial increase in input utilization and mechanization.
1.10        AQicultural Instftutions.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is
responsible for supervising rainfed and irrigated crop development, research
and extension. In the field, KOA delivers its services to farmers through its
25 Provincial Agricultural Departments (PADs), which enjoy substantial
autonomy. Bach PAD is responsible for coordinating agricultural development
and services in the ostan (province), as well as for supervising the
ShaNrestan Agricultural Offices (SAO*) at the shahrestan (county) level. Th.2
SAOs, in turn, supervise the 700 Agriculture Service Centers (ASC) at the
deh4stan (district) level, which are 4n direct contact with farmers. PADs are
coordinated by the Project and Planning Department of MOA (Charts 1 &nd 4).
The agriculture extension service is small for a country of Iran's size.
Where the service is operational, there is a high level of commitment, and the
yields are higher among farmers benefitting from extension.  However, the
challenge for extension remains great, as crop and livestock yields for most
farmers have been stagnant over the last decade. There are eight agricultural
research institutes coverings seed and plant improvement; soil and water
research; plant pests and diseases; agricultural engineering; sugar beet;
livestock production; animal health; and forestry and rangelands. Research
infrastructure is generally adequate, and the stations are reasonably
equipped. The Agriculture Bank (AB) is the main institution supplying
agricultural credit in Iran. Interest rates are, at present, below inflation
rates. For the period 1984-a9, the recovery of loans was 83 percent.
Proposals ar being discussed for the Second Five Year Plan for the gradual
transformation of the AS into an autonomous, deposit-taking institution with a
N:.\1MI\1P\RTEXT.SAR:PerurY 16, 1993



broad-based rural portfolio. There are, in addition to the AS, numerous
informal sources for credit. A study, to be finarr7ed under the project, would
assess constraints and development needs for rural financial markets.
1.11        IRpUt Sun=ly an  rAim RogLn4Y.  Chemical inputs and agricultura.
machinery have been distributed with heavy subi4lies by government agencies.
Government has proposed in the context of the 't   4 budget to eliminate price
subsidies on chemicas ;:-puts. Fertilizer prices were doubled in 1992. In
addition, there ar,: o"vr_ to involve the private sector more. Already 50
percent of pestici' -s Atr. being distributed through licensed private
retailers. Some feid..zer is being ecld by the factories to private
businesses and the ?e-tilizer Company has begun to contract with private
stockilts for fertilixer distribution. The Government's goal is to allow
prlvate comercial firms to compete on an equal footing with the Fertilizer
Company and the cooperatives in the import and sale of chemical inputs. The
production of cereal seeds is carried out by the parastatal Seed Company, and
distribution is through the ASCs and cooperatives. Supplies are adequate to
renew seeds nationwide every three years. Seeds for industrial crops are
produced and distributed by the agro-industrial companies that buy and process
the crops. Horticultural seeds are produced locally and, together with
imported seeds, are general'y available from private stockists. Agricultural
machinery has been distributed by the Agricultural Machinery Development
Company ("Bonuah") under MNA. Government plans to privatize Bongah. The
domestic assembly of tractors and combines is carried out in two e*tisting
plants. In addition, two new tractor manufacturing plants are under
construction.  There are more than 100 private manufacturers of agricultural
equipment. The Government has begun to move progressively towards pricing
machinery imports at market rates. Private imports at the free market rate
currently exist for various implements and for scarce items like spare parts.
It is expected that, as the exchange rate is progressively unified, private
sector interest will increase.
1.12       A&riculture Policy in the 1980s.  The Government's overriding
objective during the 1980s was to achieve food self-sufficiency. The basic
policy instruments adopted in pursuit of this objective weres (i) output
price supports and input subsidies; (il) marketing interventions, in the form
of public Input supply and output marketing; and (iii) technical and
organizational support to producers, through extension services and
cooperatives. These policies did encourage producers to increase output and
marketed volumes. However, the policies had significant negative effects,
including: (i) the virtual elimination of competition and its attendant
efficiency effects, from the cereals market; (11) the diversion of resources
from more efficient uses, and the nonsustainable exploitation of groundwater
and marginal lands; and (iii) high costs for the Government--accounting for up
to 19 percent of the total budget deficit.
1.13        Future Agriculture Strategv.    Recent sector analysis has helped
develop a strategy to reverse the degradation of natural resources, to
increase investments in the agriculture sector and to improve the economic
return from these resources. Government's policies in the context of the
N:%1R*M%RRABT-.SUR:Frebwry 16, 19



First Flive Year Plan and future policies being discussed for the Second Five
Year Plan focus on four areas. First, maa .conomig  a  liJv, for a more
efficient allocation of resources and for sustainable growth, would includes
unifying the exchange ratel liberalizing output pricing to encourage private
sector marketing activity and allow price signals to be freely transmitted)
phasing out input subsidies to allocate resources economically between various
subsectors; and reforming the credit policy of AD to permit its gradual
transformation into a rural financial intermediary. Second, sector nolicv,
would cover: formulating a national policy for water resources management and
irrigation development; introducing competition and market prices into the
production and distribution of inputs and tractors; and stimulating private
sector development of processing and marketing facilities for agricultural
produce. A third adjustment would be a strateav for institutional development
that would redefine the role of the Government and reorganize state agencies
to provide the necessary support services. Finally, there should be a
strateav for environmental protection, including programs for resource
conservation.
1 14       On macroeconomic and sector policy, the Government has begun
implementing many of the measures (exchange rate unification and market
liberalization, the phasing out of subsidies, financial sector reform and
private sector promotion). These moves, implicitly, represent a shift away
from the previous self-sufficiency strategy towards one based on comparative
advantage. On institutional development, work remains to be done, and the
government and the Ulorld Bank are cooperating in a program of studies and
analysis (an Agricultural Services study in FY93 and an irrigation sector
review to be carried out under the present project). On the environment, the
Government is working with FAO/CP to prepare a Natural Reb..urces Project for
Bank financing (FY94)
C. The Iriatlon and Arainate Subsector
1 15       1ater Resources   Iran has the highest per capita water
availability in the Middle East (2150mP per capita each year against the
average for the region of 950m3). Resources are, however, not evenly spreads
only ten percent of the country has enough water for agriculture, and there is
growing competition from municipal and industrial use around large towns. The
country has a history of irrigation extending back over several thousand
years. The countryside is covered in U&stas, long tunnels conveying water from
the mountain aquifers to farming areas. During the 1980s, due to the war
effort and reduced oil revenues, Government capital investment in irrigation
decreased significantly. As a result, there is now an important completion
and rehabilitation backlog on many schemes.
1 16       Water Sector Institutions   The Ministry of gnergy (KOB) has two
responsibilities: (i) energy supplies, and (ii) water resources. Within MOE,
the Water Affairs Department (WAD) has responsibility for overseeing and
coordinating planning, development, management and conservation of water
resources. Fourteen publicly owned regional water companies or authorities
(RWAs), reporting directly to MOE, are responsible for feasibility studies,
NzU1RM1RRG\TEXT.SU:Febfsfy 16, 19



-6-
project execution and subsequent management (Charts No. 2 and 3). the RWAs
have substantial autonomy, and the technical and financial muuagement of the
four companies involved in the project appears adequate. Partial cost
recovery is practiced, and new initiatives to further decentralize to user-
owned companies at the irrigation scheme level could increase user
participation.
D. Rational* for Bank InvolveMgnt
1.17        Following an economic review in 1990/91 (Reconstruction and
Economic Growth, Report No. 9072-IRN), a country assistance strategy was
designed to help rebuild the Iranian economy. The strategy focuses on
economic policy reforms, on reconstruction and on addressing sector policy and
investment and institutional issues. As Iran's access to international
capital is limited, the Bank's role Ls a key one. To date, the Bank has
approved three projects within this strategy - an earthquake recovery project,
a flood control project and an urban drainage project. The agriculture sector
has been selected for thLi fourth project because it is an important
productive sector with large rehabilitation requirement. The criteria used
for subproject selection were that the project should yield relatively quick
returns in areas of economic or social priority, and that the project should
contribute to the evolution of sector policy. The four subprojects selected
are thus either in areas affected by the War (Dehbahan) or have very good
economic potential (the other three schemes). The preparation of all
subprojects is well advanced, and investments will complete existing schemes,
so the project will yield relatively quick returns in comparison with other
potential subsectoral investments in irrigation. With regard to sector
policy, Gol is pursuing a strategy of full cost recovery for 0s& costs and
recovery of 40 percent of on-farm development costs. The project will support
and advance implementation of this new cost recovery policy for the sector.
Finally, Iran and the Bank are cooperating on sector issues and the project
serves as a vehicle for a dialogue on technical issues and on areas where Iran
could use the Bank's experience such as prevention of environmental
degradation.
II. THE PImOJn ARn2
A.  hAnicel Materiastis
2.01        Location, Climate and Boilg.  The overall project area of 107,000
ha is composed of four subproject areas: Behbahan (11,500 ha), in ghusestan
province; Moghan (35,600 ha), in Zast Azerbaijan; Zarrineh Roud (36,000 ha),
in West Azerbaijan; and Tajan (23,900 ha), in Naand-eran. Climatic conditions
in the subproject areas vary from semi-arid in Behbahan, Moghan and Sarrineh
Roud, with average rainfall. of around 300 m, to sub-humld in Tajan, with an
2/ A fuller description of the project area is given in Annex II.
M:%IRANRRGXTEXT.SAR:Febnumy 19, 19



-7-
average annual rainfall of around 650 mm. Soils in the four areas are of
alluvial origin. They are deep, with textures that vary from silty loams to
clay loams. With the exception of parts of the Behbahan and noghan schemes,
the subproject areas have moderate to insignificant slopes. This has led in
some areas to poor surface water evacuation and drainage problems, which can
be corrected by drainage and land levelling, together with improved water
management.
2.02        Ponulation. The Behbahan subproject area has a rural population
of about 13,000 in 2,250 households. The population is largely sedentary,
although some households practice seasonal migration with their flocks to the
adjacent mountains.  The population of the Moahan subproject is about 43,oO0
in some 6,500 households. The population, formerly largely nomadic, has
settled in the area over the last 50 years in the successive phases of
development of the Moghan plain. There is also a large nomadic population on
the fringes of the subproject area, estimated at about 40,000. The population
of the Zarrineh Roud subproject area, largely of Kurdish and Turkish origins,
is estimated at 104,000 in 17,170 households. There are mome transhumant
pastoral peoples living in the hills bordering the subproject area. At Taiia
it is estimated that there are 121,000 people in 20,100 households. Women are
widely active in farming; within family farming operations, they carry out
most manual weeding, and participate in harvesting and threshing. At Hoahan
and Zarrineh Roud women often work as contract laborers for weeding and fruit
and vegetable harvesting. At Tajan, women play an active role in all stages
of rice production.
2.03        Land and Farming. Excluding all infrastructure, the total not
arable project area covers about 107,000 ha. Of this area, 77 percent is at
present irrigated, 16 percent rainfed and the remaining 7 percent is marginal
land used for grazing or left uncultivated, mainly due to salLnity and drought
problems. In general, land in the subproject areas is privately owned and
farmed. Plots are quite sma. l, and fragmentation is a problem in some areas.
Farmers generally participate in traditional groups for some purposes, and
theae groups represent a potentially valuable asset for the project.
2.04        Research and Extension.  In each of the subproject areas there is
an agricultural research center, and Tajan benefits from two centers, with one
dedicated to research on rice. For extension, there are 17 ASCO In the
project area; Tajan has 5, and the other 3 subprojects have 4 each. In all
ASCs, there is a shortage of qualified subject matter specialists and
technicians.
2.05        Mechanization.  Levels of mechanization vary by subproject,
depending on farm size. The Moghan subproject is almost totally mechanized
for all farm operations. In the other subprojects, land preparation is
generally mechanized, by tractor or, on the small farms at Zarrineh Roud and
Tajan, by power tiller. There are some constraints due to the timely
availability of the right equipment and the lack of farmer training. There is
particular scope for Introducing new, small farm machineries for rice and
N:%1RAN%URRG%TT.SAR:FGbMrUY 16, 1993



- a -
horticultural production and modern irrigation equipment on the small farms at
Tajan and Zarrineh Roud.
2.06        Chemical Innuts. Ursa is the most common fertilizer used
Diammonium phosphate (DAP) is also popular. Triple super phosphate (TSP) and
potassium sulphate are used in relatively small quantities. Pesticide use is
widespread. The extension service provides training in pesticide use and
safety. In the subproject areas there is an adequate network of rural
services cooperatives and other outlets for inputs, and storage capacity is
adequate. The supply of inputs for strategic crops (cereals, sugar beet, oil
crops) is generally adequate, with aome local shortages or delays in the
arrival of supplies. The supply of fertilizer, other than urea and DAP, has
been intermittent, and micronutrient fertilizers adapted to local soil
conditions have been hard to get. Changes underway in the inputs market are
expected to relieve these constraints. Progressive increases in price will
reduce some marginal demand for uneconomic uses. On the supply side, new
production capacity is under construction. Any imbalance between supply and
demand is, thus, likely to be ironed out. The increasing use of private
sector outlets should reduce problems of timely distribution and product mix.
2.07        Agricultural Credit. The main sources of finance available to
farmers in the project area are family financing, supplier credit, credit from
the agroindustrial companies and AB credit. The AB has branches serving each
of the subproject areas. The branches are adequately staffed and capable of
handling increased volumes of credit under the project.
2.08       AarL¢ultural Potential. The farmers of the project area are in
general skilled and responsive to technical change. Tajan farmers are
technically the most advanced, followed by those at Moghan. Bohbahan
agricultural practices are the least sophisticated. In all subproject areas,
however, improved water availability and control, coupled with a revived
extension effort based on techniques and varieties already known to research
and extension, would stimulate the progressive adoption of higher productivity
practices.
B. Irriaation and Drainage Svstems
2 09       Gener. The existing systems are either tradicional or only
partially completed modern ones, which are extremely wasteful of the scarce
water resources. In addition, maintenance has been poor. overall irrigation
efficiency is low, varying from 20 to 30 percent due to both poor water
conveyance and inefficient on-farm water use. As a result, there is not
enough water to extend the presently irrigated area or to increase yields in
the existing areas. Also, waterlogging problems in the low lands depress crop
yields and keep significant areas permanently or intermittently uncultivated.
2.10        Water Availability and Reaurements.  All four subproject areas
receive their primary water supply from existing water management
infrastructure and the projects would operate within current water
allocations. The main source of irrigation water for Behbahan is the Maroon
N:%IRANItRG%TEXT.Ml:F*bruery 16, 19



9-
River. Moghan draws its water from the Arab River. The Zarrineh Roud and
Tajan areas are fed by the rivers of the same name. The Scheme Irrigation
Requirements (SIR) for the potential "with project" situations were computed
assuming a planned overall irrigation efficiency of 50 percent to be achieved
under the project (Annex II) for each subproject area. The calculations show
that, on the basis of available river flows, irrigation requirements for each
scheme could readily be met at all times of the year.
2.11        The Moghan subproject area lies along the right bank of the Aras
River.  The Aras is an international watercourse 1072 km long that originates
in Turkey, forms the boundary between Turkey and Armenia and, further south,
forms the boundary between Turkey, Armenia and Iran. Subsequently, it flows
in a south-easterly direction and forms the boundary between Armenia and Iran
and then between Aserbaijan and Iran before it enters Aserbaijan and empties
into the Caspian Sea. Of about 100,000 km2 total catchment area of the Aras
river, 39 percent is situated in Armenia and Azerbaijan, 23 percen1r in Turkey
and 38 percent in Iran. The contributions of these countries to the Aras
river flows are not proportional to the catchment area of the river. Thus, of
the flows, about 25 percent are formed in Turkey, 35 percent in Armenia, 23
percent in Iran and 17 percent in Azerbaijan.
2.12       According to a treaty of January 8, 1927, Turkey and the former
USSR agreed that each country would share 50 percent of the frontier river
waters. Under two agreements of August 11, 1957 and of July 27, 1963, the
former USSR agreed to share equally the Aras river waters downstream with
Iran. since Armenia and Azerbaijan have both declared that they are bound by
USSR treaties, adequate agreement exists between the two republics and Iran
relative to the Aras river. Furthermore, there is an exceptionally good
coordination between Iran and Azerbaijan regarding the operation and
maintenance (O&N) of the Moghan headwork, including a routine exchange of
relevant data and periodic meetings of a joint commission. Water sharing
arrangements are agreed in considerable detail1 Adequate information on
future upstream and downstream development from Moghan is available. It is
clear that the project would cause no harm to any riparians, nor could it be
harmed by upstream or downstream developments. No formal agreement exists
:etween Turkey and Iran- but Turkey, being an upper riparian, would not be
affected by the project.
Al    At Mil-o-Moghan, Iran and Azerbaijan are each entitled to withdraw 640
million t3 of water annually with a maximum abstraction of 80 m3/sec at
any time. Water downstream of Mil-O-Moghan may be equally withdrawn by
Iran and Azerbaijan. Armenia, Azerbaijan and Iran are obligated to
allow a flow of 10m3/sec downstream for environmental purposes.
N:%!RAN%IEGtTEXT.SM:Febmruy 16. 199



- 10 -
A.  Prolegt Objectives
3.01       The overall objectives of the project are: (a) to enhance water
resources management through the rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation
and drainage systems (I&D) in four subprojectas (b) to upgrade research and
extension in the four subprojects in order to raise crop output, farm inAcomes
and foreign exchange savings through increased agricultural productionl and
(c) to improve the planning and implementation capacity of sector
institutions, including the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Energy.
B. Project Descrt2tion
3.02       The project comprises the improv ment and upgrading of four
existing irrigation and drainage systems, serving a total net irrigable area
of about 90,600 ha and the intensification of agricultural services on these
90,600 ha and on an additional 16,400 ha in Tajan. The subprojects are
Behbahan in Khuzestan (11,SOO ha), Moghan in Bast Azerbaijan (35,600 ha),
Zarrineb Roud in West Azerbaijan (36,000 ha), and Tajan in Nasanderan (7,500
ha); agricultura. services would be provided for an additlonal 16,400 ha in
Tajan. ExLsting main and secondary cnals would be provided with concrete
linLng, and, in some areas, new canals would be added. Main and secondary
drains would be improved and *xpanded to cover all the subproject areas. The
tertLary systems would be developed selectively using canalletes, concrete-
lined laterals (in rice areas, unlined laterals), and open drains. On-farm
development would Lnclude selectlve subsurface drainage and land levelling
wLth the emphaeie on water management at the tertiary and farm levels. The
Agricultural Service Centers and research stations serving the project area
would be reinforced through the upgrading of existing staff and through the
construction of facilitLes and the provisLon of additional staff, vehicles and
specLalized equlpment. Provision would also be made for the import and sale
of specialized farm machlnery. Speclal emphasis would be given to
strengthening the O&M of all facllities from the main down to the tertlary
system developing farmer partlicpation through users groups and to addressing
crltical environmental issues. Provisions would be made for consultancy
serviees for design, construction supervision and specLalized studies. The
project would also provide for the implementLng agencies through on-the-job
training, workshops, semlnars, visits, graduate fellowships and short,
specialized courses abroad.
C. Detalled Features1
AJ The technieal characteristics of the project are descrLbed in more detail
in Annex III.
N:lUEN%IR8TEXT.nSA:Fsbruy 16, 199



- 11 -
3.03        Irrigation and drainaae imDrovement would include the
cor.struction, or lining, of main, secondary and tertiary canals and drains and
of irrigation lift and drainage pumping stations. The component would
continue a program already begun. The programs by subprojer- tre shown below.
In the case of Koghan and Zarrineh Roud, the works comprise is lining of main
canals and the construction of drainage systems. In the case of Behbahan,
works are largely to complete the tertiary canals and drainage systems. Only
at Tajan would the new construction of canals be undertaken.
a.baF    " ubsuac Sri~   .n ":0 F.a ' 'd;F..l  FEg BF ; ¢on. tFFmFFFOy': XEQ,  2E,zlF 
.. . ......-._                   .    := 
3.06    on-tarm develonment would compitse subsurface drainage and land
levelling and pilot on-farm water management demonstration schmws in selected
tertiary units of each subproject to monitor and improve water management.
Subsurface drainage is proposed for seriously waterlogged areas. Land
levelling would be required at Behbahan,, Moghan and Zarrineh Roud in areas
with undulating topgraphy and slopes of more than S percent. A pilot on-fam
water management program would be set up tot (a) improve the efficiency of
on-farm water application; (b) organize farmers to irrigate and cultivate the
tertiary block units under a proarranged rotation schedule; (c) assure te
maintenance of tertiary canals, drains and on-farm ditchel and (d) determine
constraints to a tlmely and adequate supply of water.
3.07     nPromect  facilities. includingco per ftion and maintenande would
inulude the construction of offsces and staff housing in all four subprojects.
l l        o bi\r aa\TEoT.g adr:FebRthRa 16, IM



- 12 -
Additional staff, vehicles and equipment for the O&M of the I&D systems of all
four subproject areas would also be provided. (For details refer to Annex
III, Table 1.)
3.08        Research and Extension.    The component comprises the
institutional strengthening of the Agricultural Service Centers (ASCs) and
research services in all four subproject areas as well as sale of specialized
farm machinery and implements to farmers of the Sarrineh Roud and Tajan
subprojects. Research and extension facilities in the subproject areas exist
but require equipment and staff in order to make their programs more effective
and better geared to specific problems in each area. Research and extension
staff would be increased. There would also be provisions for additional
offices and operational facilities, houses, vehicles and special equipment for
research and extension purposes, including farm machinery, mobile film units
for extension and equipment for research. Special emphasis would be given to
training. To facilitate the introduction of new production technologies and
crops, some equipment (e.g., seed drills and maize combine attachments) would
be provided for testing. For each subproject, a pilot program to test ways of
developing a woen's extension unit would be set up, building on the existing
women's departments at the provincial level and taking account of national and
local customs and constraints. To assist small farmers who are poorly served
by the existing agricultural machinery system, a component would provide
financing, up to a total of US$14 million, for the import and sale of selected
small farm machinery at Zarrineh Roud and Tajan. (For detailed requirements
refer to Annex III, Table 2.)
3.09        Env jygnMent.  The environment component would comprise: (i) the
strengthening of the environmental management capacity of MOA, MOE, DOE, PADs,
RMAs and consultant.s through specialized training programs, seminars and the
provision of equipmcnt; (ii) the development of model surface and groundwater
monitoring programs and agricultural chemical management programs for each
subproject; (iii) erosion control programs for canal banks (Moghan) and river
channels (Tajan), and an archaeological sites survey (Behbahan); and (iv)
special environmental management studies of the shadegan Marshes Protected
Area, Lake Oruyimeh National Park, nab-ban111V on the Tajan plain and fishery
resources in the Maroon and Tajan Rivers. The field offices of DOB
responsible for each subproject area would be strengthened through the
provision of additional staff and the construction of offices, staff housing
and guard quarters. Provisions would be made for the procurement of vehicles
and specialized equipment for field surveys and investigation, for the
monitoring of water quality and for the control of agro-chemicals.
(Requirements for the environmental aspects are summarized in Annex TIU, Table
3.)
7echnical Assistance
3.10        Consultancy services would include: (a) engineering services at
the subproject level; (b) consultants at the central level (the "central
consultants") to carry out specialized studies, such as an irrigation sector
review and feasibility studies for three or four selected priority schemes for
each subproject, as well as studies on themes common to all subprojects, such
W:'.RAN%IRRG%TW.SAR:Febmry 16, 9M



- 13 -
as monitoring and evaluation and the development of O&M manuals: (c)
specialized consultants to conduct two separate studies - a rural financial
markets study and assistance on hydrometric monitoring; and (d) a panel of
independent experts on dam safety. Total provision for coa'qultancy is 2,400
staff months of local professional input and 350 staff months of
internationally recruited services (Annex IS, Table 4).  MOA and NOR have
prepared terms of reference for the engineering services, which are crucial to
initial mobilization and start cf the project. AglMraUces were obtained at
negdciations that MOA and KOS would contract the services with consultants
whose experience, qualifications, terms and conditions of employment are
acceptable to the Bank. Award of contracts is expected soon after .loan
effectiveness.
3.11        Regarding the oanel of independent experts, the Government is
financing the construction of two large dams in the project area. From a
strict financing or water supply point of view, the project has no concern
with these dams. However, both of these dams will serve the future expansion
of irricstion in the river basin, and their future safety is of concern to the
Government. assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would engage an independent panel of experts not later than December 31, 1993,
under terms of reference and contract conditions agreed with the Bank, to
review technical design, construction procedures, future reservoir filling and
operation, instrumentation for future monitoring and all safety aspects of the
Maroon River and Shahid Rajai Dams. The panel would continue the review
during the construction period and for a minimum of two years after the
completion of construction through periodic visits. The project would provide
for 16 staff months of services, adequate to allow 6 visits by panel members.
3.12        The trainina component would comprise overseas and on-the-job
training for the managerial and technical staff of M0k and MOE, the foui RWAs,
the four PADs, the Department of Environment (DOE), the AB and private sector
consultants. It would also provide long-term graduate fellowships for
specialized project-related subjects. (For details see Annex III, Table 5.)
3.13        Pr_oJect liaison offices (L081 and institut_ional strAnotb2ning
would comprise: (i) the provision of staff, rented offices, office furniture
and vehicles for the LO to be established in Tehran; and (ii) support to the
planning units of MOA and MOP through the provision of additional staff,
specialized services, vehicles and equipment. The structure and functions of
the LOs are described in Chapter IV. Support would be provided to strengthen
the capacity of OA for sector planning and programming in the form of
training, short-term technical assistance and the provision of equipment for
various services in the Projects and Planning Department (Agricultural
Statistics Service, Remote Sensing Service, Rural Economics Research Center,
Planning and Budget Division and Evaluation and Control Division).   In MOE,
the project would provide institutional strengthening for the Technical Review
Department, the Water Resources Planning Department and the Water Resources
Investigation Bureau, in the form of computers and the automation of a field-
to-headquarters-relay system; staff training; and the provision of equipment
N:\1RA\1IRRG\TXT.SAR:February 16, 1993



- 14 -
for the Water Resources Investigation Bursau for a semi-automatic transmission
system for two or three selected river basins.
Status of Proiect Prearat ion
3.14        During a joint FAO/CP and Bank identification mission that visited
Iran in October 1991, 4 subprojects were selected from a list of eleven
subprojects proposed by the Government. Priority in tha selection was given
to completing ongoing activities that could bring immeCiate benefits and
contribute to the Government's objectives of increasing agricultural
production and farm inecmes. The Government entrusted the work of collecting
additional information on the four subprojects to the three consulting firms
currently working on them. The consultants completed preliminary preparation
reports for each subproject in December 1991. An FAO/CP team visited Iran in
January/February 1992 and submitted a preparation report in May 1992. This
report formed the basis of the Bank's preappraisal in June/July 1992. The
appraisal was conducted in 2etober/November 1992.
3.15        The consultants for the Behbahan scheme are expected to complete
the design and tender documents for the first two years work on land levelling
and subsurface drainage by April 1993, for contract award by January 1994. At
f.ohan, surveys and detailed designs are underway for works to be contracted
in January 1994 for implementation during the first two years of the project.
This covers: the lining of the remaining 17 km of main canals, works related
to the secondary and ICD systems and 'ertiary development.  For the Zarrineh
affi and Taan subprojects, contract documents are ready for a large part of
the main canals and drains in both subprojects and for secondary canals and
drains in Zone 1 of Zarrineh Roud. The tender documents for these works would
be modified and additional works added to allow contract award by January 1994
and construction during the first half of the project period. Standard tender
documents would be used for international competitive bidding (ICB) for civil
works and goods.
D.  Proiect Cost and Financinf Plan
Protect Costs
3.16        Total project cost is estimated at about IR 684 billion (US$311.7
million), with US$157 million, or 50.4 percent, in foreign exchange. Project
costs were based on detailed quantities of civil works ready for tendering,
amounting to about 20 percent of all such works to be financed under the
project. For the remaining 80 percent, preliminary plans and design have been
prepared by consultants for the main and secondary systems, and detailed
sample areai designs have been prepared for the tertiary systems and on-farm
developmen1: works. The detailed, preliminary and sample area designs were
used to obtain the quantity estimates for the project a.ea. Unit rates were
obtained from various contracts recently awarded. The contractors pay taxes
and duties ranging from between 3 and 7.S percent for civil works contracts
and imported equipment. This is reflected in the unit rates. All costs are
based on prices as of December 1992. Physical contingency factors were based
on the degree of pre;aration and the firmness of details available, as
:NIRMNIRGTOEXT.SAR:February 16, 1993



- 15 -
followas 8 percent for the main and secondary I&D system; 5 percent for staff
housing and for technlcal assistance related to design and construction
supervision; 10 porcent for tertiary systems, O&M equdpment, agriculture*
environmental and miscellaneous actvilttisl and 12 percent for on-farm
development activities. No phywical contlngency was applled to lncremental
staff, technLcal asesitance for specLalLsed studies, office facilities or
vehicles.   Costs due to expected prlce  increases over the Lmrl.ementation
period amount to about 12.S percent of the base cost, plus physlcal
contingencLes in VS dollars on the basis of the following annual inflation
rates.
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
--------------- perent ------------------
Foreign Exchange Component       3.8     1.9     2.7    3.4       3.6     3.6     3.6     3.3      2.9
Loal Currency Comnent           23.0    18.1    14.2    12.4   10.6    13.4    12.9    12.9       11.6
Costs were converted between Iranlan rials and US dollars at the floatLng rate
of Rls 1450 to US$1. All costs were estivated in Us dollara. The implicit
exchange rate used for calculating price contingencies is based on the
constant purnhasing power parity of the Iranian rlal. The project completion
date is December 31, 2000.
3.17            Details of cost estimates are presented ln Annex III, Tables 6-13,
and are summarized in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1 - Project Cost Siamary
Iials                         USS                      X Total
-S...........................    ...........................-X  Foreign  Dae
Local  Foreign    Tottl  Local Foreign   Total Exchange    Costs
A . tIrrg./brttgedqarove..nt   97793.4  77404.5  175197.9    67.4    53.4   120.8         44.2     46.4
S. Agricultural DevelopMznt   25348.6  33000.1  58348.7    17.5    22.8    40.2           56.6     15.4
C . Irr./Draiuige On-Fam Bow   16671.2  21532.1  38203.3    11.5    14.8    26.3         56.4      10.1
D . Project Fac.Iclutdng 0ON   13785.8  26438.6  40224.4       9.5    18.2    27.7       65.7      10.6
a . Instftutial Suoport
1. Project Coordination     4001.5    723.0   4724.S       2.8      O.S      3.3      15.3      1.2
2. TA and Training          8637.9  10531.1  19169.0       6.0      7.3    13.2       54.9      5.1
3. Strengthening NOU/NE     1553.0   5443.3   6996.2       1.1      3.8      4.8      77.8       1.9
4. Inst.Support SubproJects 14937.3  14967.5  29904.8    10.3    10.3    20.6         50.1      7.9
..............................  .................................................................................
Sub-Total                      29129.7  31664.8  60794.S    20.1    21.8    41.9          52.1     16.1
F . Erwfr.ment                  4030.6    869.2   4899.9       2.8      0.6     3.4       17.7      1.3
C . Resettlement                 316.5       0.0    316.5      0.2      0.0      0.2      0.0       0.1
... .........  ..................... ................................. _..........................
Total BASELINE COSTS          187075.8  190909.3 377965.1   129.0   131.7   260.7         50.5    100.0
Physical Contirnencies      13078.S  13865.1  269.3.6       9.0      9.6    18.6       51.5      7.1
Price Contingencies        142842.5  135935.7 27877.2    16.7    15.8    32.5          48.6      12.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................... ......................__ _...... ............._.
Total PRWECTS COSTS           342996.7 340710.2  66706.9   154.7   157.0   311.7         50.4    119.6
. .................... ......................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 1/27/1993 14:05
X:%IRAN%IRRMTEXT.SAR:sFbruary 17, 1993



- 16 -
Financing Plan
3.18        The proposed Bank loan of US$1S7 million would financo about 54
percent of the project cost net of duties ard taxes, and would meet all the
foreign costs. All local currency expenditures, including custom duties for
imported equipment, would be financed by the Government. The proposed
financing plan is summarized in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2:  Financing Plan fUSS  Million)
Local       Foreign     Total
IBRD           -           157.0        157.0
Govrnment      IS4.1                    1S4.7
Total          154.7       157.0        311.7
S. Procurement and Disbursements
£tocuement
3.19        As described in Chapter IV, NCE is responsible for the irrigation
and drainage investments down to the tertiary level, and MOA is responsible
for on-farm investments and for agricultural development. Both Ministries
have delegated execution of subproject investments to their provincial
agencies. MOE to the appropriate RWAs and MOA to the e&propriate PADs. all
subproject-related procurement for civil works, equipment and materials would
be the responsibility of the concerned RWA and PAD. Zach agency would work
with the assistance of its consultants. The procurement of equipment and
materials for environmental support, and the engagement of central
consultants, would be carried out by the MOE W. Procurement for the project
would be in accordance with World Bank guidelines. The procedures to be
adopted are set out below (paras 3 20-3.24). Procurement arrangements are
summarised in Annex III, Table 14, and details for proposed equipment and
civil works tender processing and completion schedules are shown in Annex SII
Table 15.
3.20        Eauiuuent and Materials. All equipment and materials, mainly O&M
equipment, specialized agricultural equipment and vehicles, to be financed
from the Bank loan proceeds would be procured in accordancc with Bank
guidelines. Iranian manufacturers competing under ICE would receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIP price or the prevailing
custom duty applicable to non exempt importers, whichever is less, provided
they can prove that the value added to the product in Iran exceeds 20 percent
of the ex-factory bid price. After Bank review and agreement on standard bid
documents, currently under preparation, the Bank would review only technical
specifications and special contract conditions for equipment and materials
estimated to cost U8S$1.0 million equivalent or more. Other contracts would be
subject to ex-post review after contract award. These limits would result in
the prior review of contracts representing about 80 percent of the total
equipment cost.
Nz.\RANI\tRRG\TEXT.SAR:FebrUsy 16, 199



- 17 -
3.21        Equipment and materials to be procured under 1CB procedures total
US$60 million. For more economical procurement, the requirements of all four
subprojects would be packaged, specifying the number of items for delivery and
payment by each subproject. Where the compatibility of spare parts with
installed equipment is required, or where items are available from a sole
source of supply only, contracts would be negotiated directly with the
manufacturer or authorized agents. International shopping, based on at least
three price quotations from at least two countries, would be used for
laboratory equipment and for items of small value, with a maximum value of
US$200,000 for each purchase. There would be an aggregate limil. on negotiated
sole supply sources and on international shopping, of US$3.5 million and
USS^.5 million respectively.
3.22        Small items costing less than US$100,000 and miscellaneous
equipment and materials for office, laboratory and field investigations, as
well as office supplies and equipment not suitable for ICB, may be aw=xded on
a competitive basis to reliable suppliers after quotations have been obtained
from at least three such suppliers. The aggregate amount of such locally
procured goods would not exceed US$7 million equivalent.
3.23        Civil Work".  The civil works for the main, swondary and tertiary
I&D systems, and for a large part of on-farm development, would be grouped
into packages, each package with a value exceeding US$4.0 million. Such
contracts are suitable for ICB and would represent about 80 percent of the
total civil works. For these larger civil works contracts, contractors would
be prequalified in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. Bids would be
invited from pre-qualified firms/contractors. Civil works for some on-farm
development, project facilitisa and staff housing are small and scattered
throughout the four subproject areas. Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used for these contracts.
3.24        In the case of equipment and materials, after Bank review and
agreement on standard bidding documents, the Bank would review only the bill
of quantities and the special conditions for all ICB contracts. All LCB
contracts below US$1.0 million equivalent per contract would be subject to
post-award review on a selective basis, and those exceeding US$1.0 million
would be subject to post-award review. The Bank would review sample bidding
documents for LCB procurement before bids were invited for the first contract
under the project.
3.25        Consultant Services. The three consulting firms currently
previding services for subprojects are competent and are financed by the
Government. Their services would be retained under the project on the grounds
of efficiency and to move swiftly towards early implementation. The new
contracts for services to be paid under the project are estimated to be about
US$12.3 million equivalent. These contracts would be subject to review by the
Bank and each would be based on terms of reference, consultant's proposals,
staff months (not a percentage contract) and contract conditions acceptable to
the Bank. Dank financing would be limited to the foreign cost of services
under the new contracts. Additional consultant services would be required for
N:-\RM\1RRG\TEXT.SAR2Febnwry 16, 1993



- 18 -
the preparation of specialized studies at a total estimated cost of US$12.9
million equivalent and for the panel of experts for US$1.6 million (paras.
3.10 and 3.11). These services would be pro-ided by experts or consulting
firms vecruited in acoordance with Bank guidelines. Bank financing would be
limited to the foreign cost of these services.
3.26        The Bank loan of US$157 million would be disbursed in eight years
against the categories and at rates summarised in Annex III, Table 17.
Disbursement would be made in foreign currency only for the expenditures
eligible for such payment.
3.27        Disbursement withdrawal applications would be initiated at the
subrpoject level, signed by the concerned RWA/PAD authorized representative
end toxvarded to the BDnk through the LO of MOA or NOE. For expenditures at
the central level, the concerned LO would initiate the disbursement request.
Most disbursements are expected to be against withdrawal applications or
through letters of credit. In accordance with the Bank's disbursement
procedures, the Bank would accept requests for special commitment and for
direct payment for a minimum amount of US$100,000. Disbursements would be
made against full documentation, except for payments against contracts of less
than US$300,000 equivalent, which would be disbursed against statements of
expenditure (SOs). It is estimated that total procurement under SOEs would
be about US$S.0 million. Supporting documents for WSO claims would be
retained at each subproject and made available for inspection by Bank
supervision missions and project auditors.
3.28        A special account would be set up to finance eligible expenditures
under the Bank loan. The special account would be located in a commercial
bank to be designated by the Central Bank of Iran (CDI), to which the Bank
would make an initial deposit of US$3.0 million.
3.29        Glven the long hiatus in lending to Iran, there is no disbursement
profile for the country. The implementatlon period for the project is
estimated at seven and one-half years (July 1993-December 2000) as shown ln
Annex III, Table 16. The istimate is based on the duration of contracts,
specified construction methods and construction experlence in Iran. It is
aatiLopated that disbursement would be completed by June 30, 2001, about six
matht after scheduled project completion. The disbursement profile is
projected over an eight-year period, from July 1993 to June 2001. The profile
follows fairly closely the disbursement for Bank-wide irrigation projects an4
agriculture projects in the MMNA region, with minor divergence in later years
as tke project is expected to be completed in 32 quarters against 34 in the
Bank-wide proflle. A schedule of estimated disbursements is detailed in Annex
III, Table 18, and summarized in Table 3.3 below.
M:NIRIRMTM.Aru:Fery 16, 1M



- 19 -
Table 3.3s Disbursement Schodule (US$ milliont
EYU9  MM  I=           E9    F9    F9    E n Z
Annual             5    11    18    26    32      30    22    13
Cumulative         5    16    34    60    92    122   144   157
F. Accounts and Audits
3.30        MOA, MOE and PADs are all government agencies, and RWAs are
established under the law governing government enterprises. The accounts of
all Government agencies and corporations are subject to audit by government
auditors.1 Each implementing agency would maintain separate and readily
identifiable accounts for the project activities reflecting all expenditures,
in accordance with appropriate accounting practices. The existing accounting
systems in MOB, MKo, RtAs and PADs would be able to produce satisfactory
accounts at the level of each subproject and headquarter component. LOe would
jointly define the format of project accounts to be followed by each agency
and would bring these accounts together into a single document. The
Government has appointed as independent auditor the State Audit Corporation,
which is a competent professional body to certify the project accounts and the
statements of expenditure and would submit the accounts and audit certificate
to the Bank within nine months of the end of the financial year.  In order to
familiarize the implementing agencies with the required accounting procedures,
provision has been made under the project for W0s, with consultant support, to
train accounting personnel and help install the accounting system within each
agency. This would help ensure the timely preparation of accounts.
3.31        assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOl would cause MOA,
MOM, MOAs, PADs and DON to: (L) keep contracts and documents for dLsbursements
agaLnst SOEs at least one year after the end of each fiscal year; (LL) have
their accounts audited by the State Audit Corporation (to include the
examination of SOEs and audlts of special accounts); and (iii) furnish the
audited accounts, together with the audltor's reports, within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year.
G. Environmental Asnects
3.32        The project has been placed in environmental screening category
rB", consistent with O.D. 4.01, "Environmental Assessment," and has been
subject to field-baeed environmental review. An Env$ronosntal Management Plan
would be implemented to support: (a) institutional strengthenLng and training;
(b) water quallty management programs; (c) agricultural chemical management
programs; (d) subproject specific environmental actions; and (e) special
environmental studies (Annex IV). The F an has been developed ln
collaboration with Iranian authorities and prepared on the basis of missions
1/ Government agencies by the Government Auditing Organization [Diwan-e
Muhasebat]; RWAs by the State Audit Corporatlon).
N:\1RAW\1RRG\TWTSAUzFebnswY 16, 1993



- 20 -
by environmental specialists to Iran during preparation, preappraisal and
appraisal. An environmental review indicates that the project would have a
generally positive impact on the environment by improving water use efficiency
and protecting soil resources from water logging and salinization in existing
irrigation areas. Potential environmental management problems associated with
the degradation of water quality and the use of fertilizers and pesticides
would be addressed by special programs under the supervision of project-funded
environmental specialists in each subproject area. Procedures would be
developed with the Cultural Heritage Organization (CHO) to address the
protection of unrecorded archaeological sites discovered during construction
activities.
3.33         The project would support institutional strengthening and
training activities for environmental management at the national and local
level. Special training would be given concerning the use of environmental
assessments in the project planning and implementation process. Training
programs would be open for the participation of cooperating government
organizations and experts from consulting organizations. Support would be
specifically provided for DOE offices in each project area (8ehbahan,
Parsabad, Miyandoab and Sari); the DOE office in Shadegan, which is
responsible for the Fhadegan Marsh Protected Region; and the Fisheries
Research Center of Mazandaran. Subproject specific environmental aetions
include: the preparation of an archaeological and historical site survey
(Behbahan), a canal bank erosion control program (Moghan), the establishment
of a small protected area and the upgrading of bird census methods (Moghan), a
river channel erosion control program (Tajan) and an environmental analysis of
the proposed Stage II development of Zone 9 (Zarrineh Roud).
3.34        The pro;  .t would promote the incorporation of environmental
concerns into the planning, design, implementation and monitoring of
irrigation and drainage projects. This would include the preparation of an
environmental analysis section for the irrigation subsector study and
environmental assessments as part of project-funded feasibility studies. The
project would support special studies focused on addressing long-term
environmental management issues related to the development of irrigated
agriculture. This would include the preparation of: the Shadegan Marshes
Protected Region Management Plan (Behbahan); the Maroon River Migratory Fish
Management Plan (Behbahan)l the management plan for the man-made uAbandanu
Ecosystems (Tajan subproject); the Tajan River Migratory Fish Management Plan
(Tajan); and the Orumiyoh National Park Management Plan, including Zarrineh
Roud delta (Zarrineh Roud).
H. Resettlement
3.35         As a major component of the long-term economic and social
development of the province of Rhuzestan, the Government of Iran is presently
funding from its own resources the construction of the Maroon River Storage
Dam, approximately 15 km upstream of Behbahan. In order to construct the dam,
it was necessary to resettle the residents of Dej-e-Mahtabi (49 families
totaling 342 individuals) because their village and lands located immediately
N:%tUNUURMMff X."M:FdWwry 16, 1993



- 21 -
upstream of the dam would be flooded by the reservoir. Following the receipt
of initial compensation from the Government in early 1991, the villagers
relocated themselves to the Behbahan area, largely in the vicinity of the
established vlllage of Mansourieh. The informal process of resettlement has
not worked well. These resettled from Dej-e-Mahtabi have been seeking a
resolution of the problem and wish to be collectively relocated in another
area in the Behbahan plain.
3.36       Although the resettlement of Dej-e-Mahtabi is not associated with
the Behbahan subproject, it was agreed that this issue would be addressed as
an element of the present project. MOA has prepared a settlement plan,
consistent with the provisions of O.D. 4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement," which
provides a detailed plan for the resettlement of the villagers, including an
implementation schedule and budget. The plan has been prepared in
consultation with representatives of Bej-e-Mahtabi and local authorities,
following a review of alternative solutions by the concerned parties. The
plan would relocate all members of the village to the presently vacant and
fully serviced housing of the War Refugee Foundation in Vahdat Township and
provide them with agricultural land in the nearby area. The implementation of
the plan would include: the resolution of all outstanding compensation due to
the villagers; agreements on access to housing and agricultural lands before
June 30, 1993; and the transfer of titles to housing and agricultural lands
not later than September 30, 1993. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Government would implement the plan. A resettlement coordinator
acceptable to the Bank has been appointed. (For details refer to Annex IV
(paras. 32-421).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND LNAGM
A. Institutional  rranaements
The Borrower and Concerned Ministries
4.01        The Borrower would be the Government, represented by the Ministry
of Economic Affairs and Finance (HEAP). The Government would make available
the proceeds of the loan to the implementing authorities on a grant basis.
The beneficiaries of the loan would be MOA, MOE and the relevant RWAs and PDAs
of each subproject. KEAP would be the interlocutor of the Bank in all aspects
related to the loan agreement.
4.02        The ImoleMentina Aaencies. The execution of the subprojects would
be carried out by the relevant PADs and RWAs, according to their mandates.
Each of the four subproject PADe would be responsible for implementing on-farm
and agricultural developments, and RWA would execute the main, secondary and
tertiary I&D systems. MOA and MOE would make the necessary budgets available
to PADs and RVAs, which are fully staffed with professionals and technical
employees. Because both MOA and MOB will be involved in the subprojects there
is a need for coordination of execution and Government has designated a lead
N:\iR\RRQ\TT .SUR:FdX%wry 16, 1993



- 22 -
agency for each subproject to do this.  For two subprojects (Behbahan and
Moghan) the lead agency is MOA, and for the other two (Sarrineh Roud and
Tajan) it is MO0.  The lead agency would coordinate the implementation of the
subprojects in question through a subproject coordinator designated for the
task.
4.03        Provincial Acriculture Departments.  Each PAD is headed by a
Director General in the provincial capltal. Typically, the Director General
is supported by three line Deputy Directors (Technical, Executive, and
Infrastructure, Soil and Water) and two staff deputies (Planning, and Finance
and AdminLstration). To facilitate subproject implementation, each PAD
Director General would designate a Subproject Manager. This officer would
assiot the Director General in carrying out subproject-related
responsibilities and coordinate PAD activities with other concerned agencies.
4.04        ReBlonal Water Authorities.  RWAs are established under the law
regulating government enterprises. These companies enjoy considerable
technical and financial autonomy within an approved work program and budget.
The managing director of each RWA is appointed by the general assembly and
usually is also the chairman of the board. As the managLng director enjoys
substantial independence in managing the company, management decisions are
expeditious, and actions are taken promptly. Each RWA would designate a
subproject Manager, who would assist the Managing Director in implementing
relevant subproject components and in coordinating RWA subproject-related
activities with other concerned agencies. Much of the planning, design and
construction supervision of I&D systems (and their on-farm development) under
each subproject would be carried out by a consulting firm, as is the case with
ongoing works. Accordingly, there would be no need to change the existing
arrangements of the implementing agencies for supervising the impldmentation
of civil works and administering consultant contracts.
4.05        Responsibilities of Imnlementina Acencies.  Each implementing
agency would: (iL) formulate subproject policies based on guidelines from the
Li (ii) prepare annual plans and budgets; (iii) implement relevant subproject
components; (iv) account for expenditures for all project funds and present
them for audit annually; (v) monitor progress and submit periodic progress
reports; and (iv) administer contracts for civil works and consultants at the
subproject level.
Coordination Arranaements
4.06        ¢eneral Structure.  The project would be implemented by two
Ministries, MOA and MOE, and the four provincial departments of each ministry.
Because of the complex institutional and budgetary arrangements, GOI has
worked out, with the full agreement of the institutions concerned, mechanisms
for effective coordination at both the policy and the working level. To guide
the project in policy matters, GOI has established a Project Steering
Committee (PSC) at the central level. It has also established LOu in MOA and
MOE to ensure the effective implementation and coordination of the project.
N:%1RAN%IRRG%TW.SAR:Febmry 16, 1IM



- 23 -
LOs would operate as the P8C se6retariat and would report directly to their
respective deputy minister.
4.07        Proiect Steerinq Comittee (PSCI. The P8C is chaired by a Deputy
Minister of NEAF and its members Include the MOA Deputy Minister for Projects
and Planning and the MOB Deputy Minister for Water Affairs. P8C would
continue to function throughout the project implementation period, and its
membership would be extended to include a representativo of the PRO. The main
functions of the PSC would be tos (L) approve annual work programs and budgets
and ensure that funds were available; (ii) monitor project performance against
programs; and (iii) coordinate with other government departments and resolve
problems that might emerge during execution. The PSC would arrange
participation in its meetings, whenever required, by representatives of DOM
and of the Cultural Heritage Organization. LOs would assist the P8C in the
performance of its functions.
4.08        Liaison Offices LOs). MOA and MOE have set up WOe in Tehran to
coordinate implementation by PADs and RWAs; to provide support in specialized
areas; and to harmonize and consolidate work programs and reports and budgets
and accounts between MOA and MOE. Assurances on these arrangements were
obtained at negotiations. The full time MOA L0, reporting directly to the
Deputy Minister, would be backed up by an agricultu-al economist (for M&l), a
budget and accounits officer, a part-time procurement engineer, technicians,
support staff and consultants. The MOE LO, -eporting directly to the Deputy
Minister would be headed by a full-time liaison officer backed up by an
irrigation and drainage engineer, an economist (for MUZ), a procurement
engineer, technicians, support staff and consultants. A Common Activities
Unit, organizationally attached to the MOA LO, and jointly staffed and funded
by YOA and MOE, would be responsible for consolidated reports and for
coordinating environmental activities.
4.09        The major responsibilities of LOs would be: (a) reviewing the
draft annual work plans of each subproject to determine consistency with
project targets and with the overall implementation schedule, and preparing
consolidated annual work plans for the project for submission to the Bank by
December 31 of each year; (b) coordinating and monitoring project activities;
(c) reviewing the quarterly and annual progress reports of each subproject and
preparing consolidated project reports for submission to the Bank, (d)
consolidating the accounts for the project; (e) reviewing disbursement
applications and submitting them to the Bank; (f) arranging special studies by
central consultants; (g) preparing standard specifications for quipment,
vehicles and spare parts and carrying out procurement where it is cost-
effective to do so; and (h) assisting in the preparation of the mid-term
progress report and the Project Completion Report.
4.10        To assist both Los in common project activities and coordination,
consultants would be required. For administrative reasons, the consultants
would be engaged by the MOE LO. The MOE LO would retain the services of a
joint venture of a local and an international consulting firm and/or
individual consultants to assist in coordinating project implementation and in
NsURAN%RRRG%TEXT.SWR:VbrUmrY 16, 193



- 24 -
carrying out specialized studies and training staff involved in the project.
In addition, the central consultants would provide experts for the
institutional strengthening of the planning functions in MOA and MOR. For the
investigation and establishment of the automatic relay system, a separate
specialized firm would be engaged by MON.
Operation and Maintenance
4.11       O&M of Public System.  Under the authority of RWA, each subproject
has a Water Management Unit, called Amur-e-Ab, headed by a director. The
Amur-e-Ak. is responsible for water distribution, for the O&M of works in the
subproject and for the recovery of water charges from beneficiaries. While
the functional structure of Amur-e-Ab is satisfactory, there is a dearth of
engineers -nd technicians in all four subprojects. Under the project, the
Amur-e-Ab for each subproject would be strengthened with additional engineers,
technicians and support staff, as shown in Annex III, Table 1.
4.12        Traditional maintenance practices, insufficient equipment and
inadequate funding have been the major causes of the poor upkeep of the
existing ICD facilities in each subproject area. The central consultants
would undertake a review and analysis of ongoing O&M activities in each
subproject and would prepare a program of O&M work, which would indicate the
nature and amount of work required to operate and maintain facilities
adequately, together with related requirements for equipment and financial
resources. Items to be analyzed and reviewed include: maintenance priorities,
frequencies and schedules, work procedures and controls. The project would
provide the additional equipment and spare parts required for each subproject.
Annual O&M activities would be carefully monitored, analyzed and evaluated by
the concerned agencies, with the objective of improving management and
procedures.  ONO  and MOA, with the assistance of consultants, would undertake
a review of current and future projected O&M activities in order to: (i)
develop a program for adequate O&M, outlining requirements for staffing,
equipment and financial resources by June 30, 1994; (ii) initiate the
implementation of the agreed program by March 31, 1995 and (iii) provide an
adequate annual budget for O&M purposes based on actual need, as detailed in
the program.
4.13     Water User GrouDs. In three of the subproject areas, traditional
organizations exist to manage water rights and to participate in the O&M of
the system. At Behbahan, the kotg is responsible within blocks of 10-25 ha,
and the village is responsible for groups of kotes. The kta contracts for
water delivery with the Amur-e-Ab and is responsible for collecting and paying
over water charges. At Sarrineh Roud, the dahsh operates like the Sehbahan
bar& at the tertiary level, with the leader (aar-daheh) contracting with the
Amur-e-Ab and collecting water charges. There is a hierarchy of water
controllers at Tasian, recognized by both the Amur-e-Ab and farmers. The
delivery of water to the village level is managed by the abvar and paid by the
Amur-e-Ab; within the village, the ditch rider (kadkhoda) and the farm
distributors (tilmai) are employed and paid by the farmers. The hadkb2da
organizes collective maintenance, and the village council mobilizes water
N:%1RAN%IRRG%TEXTJA3:Fbmty 16, 199



- 2S -
charges.  Only at Mo.han is a modern administrative system operational;
farmers generally sign individual contracts; the Amur-e-Ab delivers the water
and takes care of maintenance; and farmers pay their water charges direct to
the Amur-e-Ab.
4.14        Under the project, the existing organizations would be retained,
but emphasis would be given to building on their foundation to achieve more
farmer participation. ASCs would assist the existing water user groups in
improving their organization and operations. At Moghan, ASCs would encourage
the setting up of groups. In each subproject area a small number of tertiary
demonstration blocks would be set up to train water user groups and to monitor
proper water management practices. Above the block level there is need for an
organization to coordinate the transfer of water from the main delivery system
(under MOE) to the on-farm system; under the project, such an organization
would be managed by farmers with MOA guidance. Under the project, irrigation
advisory groups would be established at shahrestan level in each subproject,
bringing together operational staff from Amur-e-Ab and from SAO. This group
would also function as a forum to resolve problems relating to the amounts of
water provided by the system, the cropping patterns used and their water
requirements, and the problems of system operation.
B. A&iculural Servlcesl
4.15        Research and extension activities in the four subproject areas are
coordinated by the MoA PADS. There are five stations supporting the four
subproject areas. Scientific back-up is provided by senior researchers from
the five central cesearch institutes. The SAO chiefs are responsible for
planning extension activities and for administering the allocation of inputs
in their areas. Extension work is done by ASCs, of which there are 17 in the
4 subproject areas. (Research and extension staff requirements are listed in
Annex VI, Table 7).
4.16        For the sale of small equipment to farmers at Zarrineh Roud and
Tajan (Para. 3.08), agourances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government would cause MOA to: (a) seek tenders from local private importing
firms with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; (b) make
foreign exchange available from the loan to the lowest evaluated bidder for
each item at the free market rate, to cover the offshore costs of importing;
and (c) to ensure that imported equipment would be sold only to the farmers of
the Tajan and Zarrineh Roud subprojects. The component would serve to develop
the market, and subsequent imports would be through the usual private
channels. Foreign exchange would be sold at free market rates; farmers would
pay the full cost set in the tender; and the Iranian rials equivalent would be
paid to the Ministry of Finance. LWs would be responsible for coordinating
the process and for supervising and evaluating the outcome.
4.17        The project would generate a demand for extra investment and
working capital financing. It is likely that most financing needs would be
satisfied without recourse to institutional credit, although the needs for
equipment finance and for working capital finance for smaller farmers trying
N:\IRAN%1RRG\T!Xt.SM:February 16, 1993



- 26 -
to move to a higher level of productivity may have to be satisfied by a formal
institution, probably the AB, which is the main financial institution in the
field of agricultural credit. To assist the AD in its development during a
period of economic adjustment, a study of rural financial markets would be
carried out under the project, leading to the development of an appropriate
policy and business plan for the AB. In addition, a small training program
for the AB has been included; this would boneflt staff at headquarters and ln
the subproject area branches. Given the current direction of policy changs
discussed in Chapters I and II, and the improvements in supply patterns and
product availability that are starting to emerge, it is likely that input
supply would not be a constraint under the project, and, therefore, no
provision for incremental input supply has been made.
C. Supelvision Plan
4 18        Proiect monitoring and coordination would be the responsibility of
each subproject coordinator, who would submit progress reports to the relevant
LOs by mid-March and mid-September of each year. These would be consolidated
and distributed within the Government and dispatched to the Bank by these X08
at the end of March and the end of September of each year.
4 19        World Bank Sunervision Missions would normally be held in May and
November of each year. A tentative supervision plan is shown in Annex V,
Table 1; it provides for 17 supervision missions over the life of the project,
including a mid-term review requiring 226 staff weeks. Because of the sise of
the project and the lack of recent experience between the Borrower and the
Bank, a minimum supervision time of 30-34 staff weeks a year would-be required
in the first 3 years of the project. A mid-term review of all project
activities would be conducted jointly by MOA, MON, DOE, R50s, PADs and the
Bank. To facilitate the review, Los, with assistance from consultants both at
the central and subproject level, would prepare a detailed report for
submission to the Bank by June 30, 1997, for a joint review by September 1997.
Section It of the Project Completion Report would be prepared by LOs and
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date.
Assuranceg were obtained at negotiations that LOs would submit (a) a detailed
progress report for the mid-term review by June 30, 1997; and (b) Section 1I
of the Project Completion Report not later than six months after the loan
closing date.
V. AGRICULTUL PRCUCTION
A. Gneral
5.01       The improvements proposed under the project would result in
increased agricultural production arising from: (a) increased cropping
intensities; (b) an expansion in irrigated areas from bringing under
cultivation lands that were currently either fallow or waterlogged; and (c)
increased crop yields resulting from intensification, better and more timely
availabillity of water and improved cultural practices. Within the total net
irrigation improvement area of 90,600 ha, about 11,400 ha would contribute
N:%jRAUl\IRftG%EXT.SAR:February 16, 1993



- 27 -
benefits from a second crop and there will be horizontal expansion of about
16,300 ha.
B. resent and Future Cro9MLgS Patterns
5.02       8Ohbaha.  The main production constraints for the Bebbahan area
are a shortage of irrigation water and the relatively poor quality of the
water, particularly in the summer. At present, winter cultivation on 8,630 ha
is predominantly wheat and barley with some broad beans, vegetables and flax.
Summer cultivation on only 570 ha is limited to traditional rIce, mixed
vegetables and sesame. There are some 220 ha of alfalfa grown all year round
to food local and nomadic livestock herds and some 600 ha of orchards.
Current cropping intensity for a net irrigable area of 11,500 ha is about 88
percent, which excludes the area under tree crops. Bsehbahan enjoys a
comparative advantage for early season vegetable crops, and there is
increasing demand for vegetable oils. Hence, an expanded area for vegetables,
broad beans and flax has been proposed for winter and spring crop production.
No increase of area is proposed for lands under alfalfa and orchard. Under
the project, almost all of the net irrigable area of 11,500 ha would be under
cultivation during the winter and spring periods.  In the summer, water would
remain the overriding constraint. Farmers are expected to reduce the
traditional rice area and convert to an availablo High-Yielding Variety (RYV)
of rice developed and tested by the Dez research station. Water saved through
the reduction of the rice area and improvements in overall water efficiency
would allow the cultivation of additional areas of sesame, mixed vegetables
and maize. The proposed cropping intensity would be about 112 percent.
5.03        oahan.  The scheme has two areass 20,850 ha is without any
constraint and requires only minimum land levelling; 14,750 ha has constralnts
and requires subsurface drainage and land levelling. The soils are fertile.
Wheat is the most important winter crop, but the long growing period makes
double-cropping difflcult. Barley has a shorter growth duration and is mainly
used for animal feed. Cotton, followed by sugar beet and soybeans, is the
main summer crop. Due to wastefulness in the use of available water supply
and poor drainage, the current cropping lntensity is low, on average 104
percent. Besides soybeans, other oil crops like rape/colsa and sunflower
would become part of the new cropping patterns. In addition, varietal
research and better husbandry are expected to improve the rather low sugar
content of the beet. Proposed cropping intensity after project implementation
is estimated at 125 percent.
5.04        Zarrineh Roud. The scheme is divided into (1) about 10,500 ha of
irrigated land, presently producing annual crops, alfalfa and tree crops,
without major physical constraints; (Li) 9,500 ha of irrigated land with
constraints to efficient crop production caused by high water tablesl and
(iII) 16,000 ha of sparsely cultivated fallow wasteland, affected by hlgh
water tables and, in places, also by salinity. Wheat and barley are the most
important winter and spring crops. Sugar beet, mixed vegetables, maize,
sunflower and sorghum are the main summer crops. Lack of drainage, low
N:\1IM\IRMTEXT.SM:Febmry 16, 19



- 28 -
overall Irrigation efficiency and poor water management are the constraints
that limit the availability of water, forcing some of the farmers to depend
on rainfed agriculture and leaving about 20 percent of the area waterlogged
and with Insignificant production. Colza and maize forage would be
introduced, respectively, as winter and summer crops. Expansion is also
expected in beet, oil seeds and, possibly, cotton. The fruit orchard
production system would be modernized by introducing new dwarf varieties and
the hedge row production system with drip and micro-jet irrigation. Vineyards
would expand, in particular, in the former rainfed lands. The long growing
period for winter wheat reduces the chances of double cropping. Generally the
area cultivated with winter barley would be cultivated during summer with
sugar beet, spring wheat or barley, mixed vegetables, maize, sunflower and
sorghum. The overall proposed cropping intensity is about 12S percent,
against a current intensity of 70 percent.
5AS        Taian.  currently about 54 percent (16,400 ha) of the total schme
area of 29,900 ha is served by a traditional irrigation system of the spate
irrigation type, making use of shallow water storage ponds called ab-boz ans
and the reuse of drainage water intercepted throughout the system. The
predominant crop during the sunmer months is rice - 70 percent a traditlonal
variety and 30 percent on HYV. Due to drainage problems, the double cropping
of fall clover and wLnter wheat is currently practlced on only a small part of
the rice lands. Citrus (2,270 ha) and mlxed vegetables are the other
important crops in this tradltlonal irrigated area. Rainfed agriculture is
practiced ln the remaining 13,800 ha wLth wheat, barley, clover and soybeans
grown during the wlnter season and cotton, soybeans, mixed vegetables and some
oil seed crops followlng during the summer season. Because of good quallty
groundwater from both shallow and deep aquifers, there are about 3,500
privately owned tubewells in both traditional irrigated and rainfed areas.
Groundwater ia used as a supplemental source for crops other than rice.
5.06        Because yields are already fairly high ln the traditlonal
irrigated areas, irrigation development under the project has been limited to
7,500 ha of the currently rainfed area of 13,800 ha. These 7,500 ha would
serve as a pilot project to test the gains that might be realLzed both from
irrigatLng the balance of the currently rainfed areas and from modernizing the
irrigation system on the current traditionally irrigated areas. These 7,500
ha would be fully developed with I6D facilities extending from the main to the
tertiary level. However, th6 water supply would remain constrained until the
completion of the dam in the late 1990g. Until then, only about 3,000 ha
would be under rLce crop, and the remaining area would be cultivated with
mixed vegetables, clover, cotton, soybeans and sunflower during the summer
season followed by wheat, barley, mixed vegetables and clover during the
winter season. In the previously rainfed areas, the overall proposed cropping
intensity would increase from 95 to about 125 percent. In the traditional
irrigated area of 16,100 ha, there would be a minimum shift in rice variety or
area cultivated during the summer season. However, larger areas would be
cultivated with mixed vegetables, clover and wheat during the winter season.
N:%1RM\1RRG%TEXT.SAR:Februery 16, 1993



- 29 -
C. Yields and-Production
5.07        Overall production increases from the project would be
considerable, including S5,500 tons of wheat, 150,000 tons of sugar beet and
20,100 tons of barley annually. Full details and a discussion of factors
affecting current and future yields and production for each .ubproject area
are explalned in Annex VI. Following is a summary of yield prospects. At
Behbahan, yields of most summer crops are depressed by the relatively high
salt content of the water from the Maroon River during low flow periods. At
Maghan, the variable soil structure and subsoil compaction keep yields
suboptimal. At barLnbh RouAd, the areas without constraints are generally
Class I and II land, and yields should rise fast. Areas with constraints are
generally Class 1I and III lands, so even after the provision of subsurface
drainage and land levelling, the project3d yields, although sometimes double
current yields, are likely to remain lower than those for areas without
constraints. In areas currently waterlogged and with soil salinity,
subsurface drainage is being provided, and it is expected that these areas
will become productive. At Taian, due to good soil conditions (Class I),
favorable weather in spring and summer, and low pest and disease pressure,
yields under irrigation are expected to be high. The projected crop yields in
the area to be newly irrigated would be the same as in the traditional
irrigation area. However, cropping intensity is expected to be higher than in
the traditionally irrigated areas.
VI. MARKETS. PRICE$ AND INCOHES
A. Naketinu and Processing
Marketin0
6.01        Markets are, on the whole, adequate to absorb incremental
production. Markets for several important crops are organized and dominated
by the Government although this would change within the context of the reform
program. For wheat, the Government administers a large scale purchasing
program. There is no large-scale government procurement for the other
cereals. Industrial crops are purchased by parastatal or supervised private
companie&i that work within the framework of government support programs.
Although fruit and vegetable production has considerable potential for
development, markets are seasonal, and there are wide price fluctuations
between high and low seasons. Fruit and vegetable production is also
particularly hampered by the shortage of cold storage capacity and poor
packing and handling facilities. However, fruit and vegetable production can
be very profitable, and it is an attractive component of the overall cropping
pattern.
frocess2ig
6.02        Processing capacity for the industrial crops is, in general,
adequate. Only at Zarrineh Roud is there a capacity constraint - for sugar
N:1RAK%tRRB\TEBT.S:Fdetaary 16, 19



- 30 -
beet. The Ministry of Industry has prepared a feasibility study for a second
sugar plant in 6he area.  Unless this investment takes place, sugar beet
production will not be able to expand. In this case, other crops, such as
oilseeds, could be grown without jeopardizing the subproject's economic
viability or farmers' financial revenues.
B. PrLice
6.03        Guaranteed minimum prices are established by the Government for
virtually all major crops, including basic staples (wheat, rice, potatoes),
meat, and sugar beet, cotton and oilseeds. At present, guaranteed prices are
below world market levels if the floating exchange rate is applied. On the
input side, local prices for fertilizer and pesticide are highly subsidized,
and import parity prices for fertilizers at the floating exchange rate are
more than 10 times domestic price levels. The Government has announced a
program to eliminate subsidies on agricultural inputs over a five-year period
beginning in 1992. This has already resulted in a doubling of fertilizer
prices for the 1992/93 season. The prLces of major crops are shown in Annex
V5I, Table 1.
C. ncomes
6.04     Present levels of farm income vary conslderably wlth farm size,
agricultural potentlal and levels of husbandry. At Behbahan, water
constraints and poor husbandry depress farm lncomes, which presently average
Rls 1.5 to 2.0 milllon a year. At Nojhan, where soils and husbandry are good
and water is no constralnt, average family income from agrlculture is Rls 2.7
illIlon, and from agriculture and llvestock together, Rls 3.9 million. At
ZarJLnel Roud, family income was estimated in 1992 at Rls 4.8 milllon, of
whLch 40 percent was from agrLculture, 18 percent from livestock and the
balance from services and handLcrafts. Income from agrLculture is, thus, a
modest Rls 1.9 mllion, reflecting the small size of plots. At Taian, where
plots are small but agrlculture ia profitable and productive, incomes are
around Rls 2.5 million annually.
6.05        On the basis of the crop models, indicatlve farm models were
prepared for each of the four subprojects in ordQr to allow an assessment of
the likely benefits at farm level expected to be generated by the project. On
the basis of these models, farm-level incomes are expected to improve
significantly, in the range of 153 percent at Moghan to 346 percent at
Sarrineh Roud. The projected increase in net farm incomes is shown in Annex
VII, Table 2.
D. Cost Recovery
6.06        Cost Recovery and Flnance for Operation and Malntenance.  The law
provides for the recovery of O&M costs. There are, at present, some
shortfalls in this process. In addition, under the project, system
maintenance requirements and costs would go up. At negotiations, the
Government stated its commltment to the followlna orlncioles: (i) full
N:IRAM1RRG%TEXT.SAM:Febmry 16, 19



-31-
budgetary provisions for rising O0M costs; (ii) the full recovery of C'M costs
from farmers within three years of the complotion of Project investments
(Current O0M cost recovery, projected increases Ln water charges and
incremental farm Lncomes for each subproject are shown in Annex VIZ, Tables 3
to S.); and (iii) provision of adequate budget to meet shortfalls until full
recovery is achieved.
6.07        Cagotl Cogt Recovery. The law requLres that farmers contribute
40 percent to the capltal cost of on-farm development works. The cost of
these works averages US$525 per ha for land levelling and US$650 per ha for
tlle drainage. At negotiations, the Goverment glated that lt would recover
40 percent of the cost of on-farm developments ln equal lnetallments; without
interest, over 10 years. (CapLtal cost recovery and incremental lncomes are
shown for each subproject ln Annex VII, Table 6.)
6.08        FamEs' OCanaci  to Pay. Water charges, at present, represent on
average 7 percent of farmers' production costs. Under tie Project, farmers'
net lncomes would increase conslderably. However, O&M costs are projected to
increase more than other costs. As a result, when full recovery of O&M costs
li applied, the proportion of farmers' costs would be greater than at present.
The increases would, however, not represent a very large part of f4rmers'
incremental net incomet between 5 percent at Moghan and 10 percent at
Dehbahan. For the recovery of capital costs, if 40 percent of the cost of
land levelling is recovered in equal installments without interest over 10
years, the payments would be affordable for farmers at between 3 and 12
percent of incremental revenue. With the exceptLon of previous wastelands in
Sarrineh Roud, where a special arrangement may be implemented for equity
reasons, the total impact of 06M and capital coat recovery is, therefore, ln
the range of 7 to 15 percent of incremental farm income, which L considered
affordable.
VII. =EFEPM . ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS
A. henefits
7.01       The pcimary benefit of the project would be the incremental
agricultural production resulting from (L) increased water use efficiency in
the irrigation schemes through improved water delivery and land levelling;
(ii) the reclaiming of waterlogged lands through drainage; and (iLi) higher
agricultural productivity as a result of the adoption by farmers of improved
agricultural production techniques. (Annex VI, Table 6, shows the estimated
incremental production for the moat important crops.) Ae a result of the
increased agricultural production, farmers' incomes are expected to increase
signiflcantly. Thie is confirmed by the indicative farm models which were
prepared for each subproject (Annex VII, Table 7). The typical farmer's net
income would increase within sight years, at Behbahan and Moghan by 153
percent, at Sarrineh Roud by 317 percent and at Tajan by 165 percent. In
total, about 46,000 farm fam$lies are ex;ected to banefit from the Project.
Ns%tRAiM1RRG%T.SAR:Febmry 16, 1993



- 32 -
7.02        Project production is expected to be entirely for the domestic
market. Total annual incremental production after full implementation is
expqcted to equal the equivalenti of U8S45 million. The effect on the balance
of payments iu represented by the import parity equivalent of incremental
production for the main traded crop products (wheat, barley, rice, maize,
cotton, sugar and oilseeds), estimated at US$29 million each year.
7.03       ,Other benefits from the project include:  the benefit to farmers
around the oubproject areas from the improved agricultural services; benefits
to health accruing from improved drainage; and benefits from the environmental
protection measures.
. Economic Analysis
7.04     iconomic rates of return have been estimated for the project as a
whole, as well as for each of the subprojects (Annex VIII, Table 2). The
analysis, which has been carried out in constant 1992 prices, takes into
account all proposed investment and incremental recurrent costs, with the
exception of: some research and extension costs that benefit farmers outside
the subproject areas; the cost of a small proportion of infrastructure at
Zarrineh Roud that benefits farmers outside the subproject area; the
apportioned costs of the main canal in Moghan serving other areas; the cost of
equipment for sale, which is taken into account in crop production costsa the
cost of environmental measures, where benefits are not readily quantifiable;
and that part of the costs of instltution building and studies that is not
directly related to project benefits, including costs at the central level.
In the case of three subprojects, there are ongoing contracts that form a part
of the overall development. That part of the cost falling after the expected
effectiveness date of the present Project has been included in costs. The
benefits have been derived from the projected incremental production that is
expected to occur as a result of the project and, in the case of three
subprojects, from losses due to further waterlogging and salinity that woulJ
have occurred without the project. Annex VIII describes the basic assumptions
that were adopted to adjust financial prLces to reflect their economic values,
as well as the basic methodology used in the analysis. Commodity prices were
based on World Bank projections. For foreign costs, the current floating rate
of Rls 1,450 has been used. The economic prices used are summarized in Annex
VII, Table 1. The analyses were carried out over a 25-year period,
corresponding to the expected life of project investments.
N:\IRX\IFRG\TEXT..M:Febmury 16, 1993



- 33 -
7.05        The results of the economic analysis are shown belows
Table 7.1:  Results of the RoonMir, AMalsis Per Sab=ject
Su*AroJect Economic   Share of   Hectar"   Economic   Econmic   Cropping lnteity (X)
Rate of    Totat             Costs     Costs per
Return (X)  Flnanclot        (US$      ha (USS)
l_________ Costs (2)          mittlion)           PTI  PYS  Cam.
Baan       22.6       8       11,500     18.0     1.S65     88   112  +27X
Noshan     15.6       36      35,600     85.1     2,390    104   125  4202
Z.rriruh   20.0       38      36,000     79.0     2,194     70   125   7x
Roud
Tajan      24.S       I1       7.500     17.4     2.320     95   125  *32X
Central               8
Totat      18.8      100      90,600     199.5    2,202
project
Source: Annex Vill
7.06        At Behbahan and &Whan, the project would basically complete and
rehabilitate existing schemes. In the case of Behbahan, the cropping
intensity would increase from 88 percent to 112 percent at full development
(year 8) and at ioghan from 104 percent to 125 percent. The economic rate of
return at Behbahan (22.6 percent) is higher than at Moghan (15.6 percent),
reflecting the lower per hectare cost of the works needed to complete the
schemes ($1,565/ha in Behbahan versus $2,390/ha in Moghan). The economic rate
of return at Sarrineh RoLu is 20 percent. Development costs per hectare are
$2,194. This subproject has the highest expected increase in cropping
intensity. On the other hand, potential yields are limited in the previously
waste lands. In the case of the Tajan subproject, yields and areas under high
value crops, such as vegetables and Tarom rice, increase substantially. These
benefits offset the higher development costs ($2,320/ha) and lead to a rate of
return of 24.5 percent. The cropping intensity of the scheme would increase
from 95 percent to 125 percent, but not beyond as there would be a water
availability constraint until the dam was complete. The overall rate of return
of the project is 18.8 percent.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.07     The robustness of the economic returns to the project and its
subprojects has been tested by sensitivity and switching value analysis for an
economic rate of return of 10 percent, which is considered to be the lower
bound of the range of the opportunity cost of capital in Iran (Annex VIII,
Table 2). Returns to the project and the individual subprojects have been
N:\IRANI\tRR0\TEXT.SAR:Februery 16, 1993



- 34 -
found to be qulte robust to wide-ranging deviations from the base case
assumptions.  Switching value analysis indicates that it would take a 36.5
percent decrease ln beneflts, or a 58 percent increase ln costs to lower the
economic rate of return of the project to 10 percent. A 25 pereeni decrease
in benefits would reduce the overall rate of return to 13.1 per ent. A 2S
percent increase in costs would decrease the rate of return to 14.3 percent.
A two-year delay in benefits would lower the rate of return to 13.3 percent.
However, the analysis has been conservative in assuming that the first
(modest) benefits would come on stream only in year three. The risk of such a
lag is correspondingly limited.
7.08     For the individual subprojects, the economic rates of return would
fall between 19.3 percent (Tajan) and 11.4 percent (Moghan) for a 25 percent
increase In costs and between 18.0 percent (Tajan) and 10.3 percent (Moghan)
for a 25 percent decrease in benefits. with benefits lagged two years, the
rate of return to subprojects would be in the range of 17.1 percent (Tajan) to
11.1 percent (Moghan). With cost overruns of 36 percent or a decrease in
benefits of 26.5 percent, the economic return to all subprojects, separately,
would still be at, or above, 10 percent.
7.09     The analysis shows that the rate of return is somewhat sensitive to
the assumed foreign exchange rate. Had the rate been assumed as Rls 920 to
the US dollar (which was assumed as the exchange rate during preappraisal),
the overall rate of return would have been 13.6 percent. Above an assumed
exchange rate of Rl 830/US$, all subprojects would achieve an economic rate
of return above 10 percent.
C. Risks
7.10        The risks that the project faces are economic, financial,
institutional and technical. The economic risk stems from the current wide
disparity between economic and financial prices for some items, particularly
fertilizers where economic prices are 10 times current financial prices. The
Government is committed to bringing domestic prices in line with international
prices, and there is a risk that a rapid change in the relative prices of
agricultural inputs versus outputs may change incentives in the short term to
invest in productivity - enhancing inputs, leading, for example, to a lower
than expected use of fertilizer. Two factors should mitigate the impact of
this risk: First, the Government is monitoring the evolution of the incentive
structure and can, by adjusting support vrices for principal products, smooth
out the transition to the new relative prices; and second, the economic
analysis shows that incentives for crops under a nondistorted price regime
remain good, although with some changes in the order of profitability. Once
input and output prices have achieved their new equilibrium levels, farmers
will thus face a generally attractive set of incentives.
7.11        The financial risk concerns the large contribution required from
the Government to finance its share of the project and the contribution
required to sustain the OEM of the schemes until full cost recovery can be
N:\IA\NIRRC\TEXT.SU:FGbuMrY 16, 19



- 3S -
obtained. The government has affirmed its commitment to the full financing of
both the investment and recurrent costs of the project and has made provisions
in both the Five-Year Plan and the 1993 annual budget for relevant project
expenditures. Expearence under the present plan has been that priority
projects receive the full programmed allocation in the annual budgets. If
inflationary conditions prevail, this track record may be put at risk.
Provisions would, thus, need to be monitored closely through the annual work
programming process.
7.12        Institutional risks include the number of institutions involved at
different levels and the lack of practical experience that these institutions
have in working together to implement a project. A particular gap.is the lack
of working relations between MOR and MKo at the subproject level. However,
formal coordinating Instruments like the Provincial Agricultural Committees do
already exist, and the project would provide support in practical coordination
at all levels. It is expected that, over time, cooperation would become
habitual and effective, but the process would require careful monitoring in
its early stages.
7.13        A second institutional risk is the lack of motivation of staff,
especially those in the civil service, where the value of salaries had, until
recently, eroded to very low levels. A recent general pay increase of about
80 percent have done something to restore incentives. As it is not possible
to pay project-specific inducements without undermining the integrity of the
system, a series of merit-related rewards has been built into the project
design, notably training and study tours intended to build capacity in
specific skills needed. It is expected that these, combined with the
incentive of working within a good management structure on a project providing
valuable experience, will be adequate to motivate staff.
7.14        The technical risk is that O&K would not be carried out
adequately. During implementation, the subprojects would be fully equipped
and financed for O&K, and a comprehensive OGM program would be designed and
implemented. Thereafter, the provision for full cost recovery should ensure
adequate financing, while the growth in the experience and the authority of
the water user associations should bring pressure from farmers to ensure
adequate standards of services.
N:MIARRONETAXTsF.bruary 16, 19



- 36 -
VIII.  AQFIIMFNzL UEAH ANDLu5Q NDAmNI
8.01        The following assurances were obtained from the Government at
negotiations$
(a) MOA and NOB would contract with consultants whose
experience, qualifications, terms and conditions of
employment were acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.10);
(b)   MOB would engage an independent panel of experts before
December 31, 1993, under terms of reference and con-tract
conditions agreed with the Bank to review technical design,
construction procedures, instrumentation and all safety
aspects of the Maroon River and Shahid Rajai Dams (para.
3.11)t
(c)   GOI would cause MOA, MOB, RAs, PADs and DOE to: (i) keep
contracts and documents for disbursements against SOls at
least one year after the end of each fiscal year; (ii) have
their accounts audited by the State Audit Corporation (to
include the examination of SONs and audits of special
accounts); and (iii) furnish the audited accounts, together
with the auditors' reports, within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year (para. 3.31);
(d) GOI would implement a settlement plan for the displaced 49
families of Dej-e-Mahtabi Village expected to be inundated
because of the construction of the Maroon River Dam (para.
3.36);
(e)  GO! would cause MOA and MOB to maintain adequately staffed
Liaison Offices (para. 4.08);
(f) GO! would cause MOAM: () to seek tenders from local private
X               importing firms with qualifications and experience; ($$) to
make foreign exchange available from the loan to the lowest
evaluated bidders for each item, at the free market rate, to
cover the offshore costs of such import; and (iii) to ensure
that imported equipment would be sold only to the farmers of
the Tajan and Zarrineh Roud subprojects (para. 4.16); and
(g) MOA and MOB would submit: (i) detailed progress reports for
the mid-term review by June 30, 1997; and (ii) Section TT of
the Project Completion Rep rt not later than six months
after the loan closing date (para. 4.19).
8.02        GO! has also informed the Bank that it woulds (i) provide an
adequate recurrent annual budget to cover the rising OGM costs; (li) ensure
N:\IoA\IRR\TtXT.SO:FebtY 16, I



- 37 -
the full recovery of O&M costs from farmers within three years of the
completion of project investments  (iii) provide an adequate budget to meet
shortfalls until full recovery is achieved; and (iv) recover 40 percent of the
capital cost of on-farm development in equal installments spread over 10 years
after the completion of such on-farm facilities (paras. 6.06 and 6.07).
8.03        With the above assurances, the project wou).d be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$157 million for a term of 17 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Borrower would be the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
P:AIXRItTEXT.A:Februy 16, 4993



-38-                             ANX I
Page 1 of 8
The Agriculture Sector
A. The Aurlculture Sector1
1.          Geo&rapLea1 Characteristles.  The geographic area of Iran is 165
million ha, of which about 51 percent is mountains, lakes, desert land and
towns, 11 percent is cultivated or fallow, 7 percent is forested and 31
percent is marginal land and rangeland. Two large mountain ranges, the
Elborz, lying east-west in the north of the country, and the Sagros, lying
north-west to south-east, surround a high plateau which is largely desert.
These physical conditions determine climate, hydrology and agricultural
potential. About one fourth of the geographic area is potentially suitable
for agricultural production, but in many potentially fertile areas rainfall in
inadequate to permit cultivation without irrigation. Overall, about three-
fourths of the country receives less than 250 mm of rainfall per year, and
ome 43 percent of crops are irrigated, genew ally through modern storage and
gravity systems or traditional conveyance 8' itms (aanats).
2.          &MIcultural Areas. The major areas for agricultural production
are in the northern provinces and in the central and southwestern provinces of
3sfahan, Wars and Xhuzestan, where there are good soils and where winter
snowfalls and rains recharge aquLfers and provide perennial rivers for
irrigation. The range of natural conditions creates different agro-ecological
zones and a wide variety of farming systems.
3.          Llvestock is an important natural resource and contributes some
35 percent to total agricultural production. Sheep and goats predominate.
Forestry (12.2 million ha) and Xr elands (21.6 mIlLon ha), together covering
20 percent of the country, are an important productive and ecological
resource. Fgishing, notably from the Caspian Sea and the Persian Gulf, is
concentrated on high value products, such as caviar and shrimp.
4.          *a=   Igp"Ilo.  Of the total population (57 million people), 41
percent live and work in rural areas and 29 percent are employed in
agriculture. There are an estimated 3.15 mLilLon farm units.  The Ministry of
Agriculture (HOA) has estimated that rural incomes average only half of urban
incomes and there is a high rate of rural-urban migration. It was estimated
in 1987 that 1.35 millLon farm famdiles, or 40 percent of the total, could be
classified as poor. There are 734,000 faru families with less than one
hectare of land, and a further 500,000 households engaged in agriculture but
not owning land. Women play an important role in agriculture, particularly in
livestock husbandry and production of labor-intensive crops like rice. The
role of women in rural areas and the requirements for their support need
careful study as pazc of a wider evaluation of human resources for
agriculture.
sJ    Thls sectlon is based on the recent AgrLcultural Sector Note (Report go.
1O049-mM, Green Cover, May 4, 1992).
n:%1annIrrnnun12



- 39 -
Page 2 of 8
land Use and Productton Patterns
5.            gnped u reas. The cultivated area is presently an estimated
16.5 million ha, of which 7.0 million ha is under irrigation, 6.S million ha
under rainfed agriculture and some 3.0 million ha under fallow.   About 1.0
million ha of the irrigated area is under perennial crops (mainly fruit trees
and vineyards). Finally, some 28.5 million ha of land are not in production
because of lack of water.
6.          A*igultural Output. The share of agriculture in the economy was
19 percent in 1990. In the period immediately after the revolution,
agricultural output grew rapidly under the stimulus of Government's incentives
to cereals production. Growth was much slower in the second half of the
1980s, as possibilities for inciting further production through incentive
policies were exhausted, and the low level of capital investment during the
1980s began to have its effect. Despite incremental fertilizer use, the
increase in production resulted largely from expansion of the cultivated area
rather than from increases in yields. About 65 percent of value added comes
frem crop production and 35 percent from livestock products. Wheat represents
about 50 percent of the total area under cultivation. Of this, two thirds is
rainfed and one third is irrigated. An additional 20 percent of cultivated
land is devoted to barley, giving traditional rainfed cereals the lion's share
among crops in terms of land use. Rice, sugar beet, cotton, oil seeds and
forage crops occupy most of the remainder of the cultivated areas.
Horticultural crops are also important in terms of value added. Livestock
output consists of about 60 percont meat, 30 percent dairy products and eggs,
and 10 percent other by-products.
7.          Production Systems. After successive land reforms about 91
percent of land is now owner-operated. Land reforms have not affected
traditional inheritance practices, and fragmentation is a problem in some
areas. In the mid-1970., it was estimated that 80 percent of the country's
farm families were engaged in traditional agriculture, using animal or manual
land preparation and practicing rainfed or traditional (aanat) irrigation
technlques. The growth in agricultural production over the last decade was
accompanied by a substantial increase in input utilization and mechanization.
Total fertilizer consumption, triggered by concessionary pricing, increased
from 1.0 million tons in 1979 to 1.5 million tons in 1989. The number of
tractors in the country increased three fold, from 71,000 in 1979 to 215,000
in 1990, the number of tillers and combines also increased during the same
period.
8.          Rh* oSent* since the Revolution the conservation of natural
resources has not been a priority. The cheapness of equipment and of chemical
inputs comblned with high cereals procurent prices encouraged the ploughing-
up of previously uncultivated natural grazing lands, often without regard to
contours, and resulted in accelerated soil erosion. This is leading to
sllting-up of dams and waterways and to degradation of traditional rangeland
systems. The problem was exacerbated by inadequate maintenance of canals and
irrigation schemes.
n:%nAlrn9nl2



-40-                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 8
ASrl¢ultural rast&=&Mg;
9.*         MM )nistcrv of ASr,cultUr  (NOA) is responsible for supervising
rainfed and irrigated crop development, research and extension. There are
also a number of agro-industrial corporations and marketing organizations
under Its direction. At the central level MOA has six technical and three
support and service departments each headed by a deputy minister as shown in
Chart 1. The MOA employs some 67,620 people, including about 47,800 higher
level staff. In the field, the MOA delivers its services to farmers through
its twenty-four Provincial Agricultural Departments 4PADs) which enjoy
substantial autonomy. Each PAD is responsible for coordinating agricultural
developmoent and services in the gu1M (province), and for supervising the
Shahrestan Agricultural Offices (SAO) at shabmstan (county) level. The 8AOs
in turn supervise the 700 Agriculture Service Centers (ABC) at dehsntan
(district) level, which are in direct contact with farmers. PADs are
coordinated by the Project and Planning Department of XOA (see Charts No. 1
and 4).
10.         The aariculture extension  ervlice is small for a country of Iran's
size. Where the service is operational, there is a high level of commitment
to extension at field level and in agricultural education, and there are
higher yields among farmers benefitting from extension. However, the
challenge for extension remains great, as crop and livestock yields for most
farmers have boen stagnant over the last decade. The major problems faced by
extension ares (i) coverage, as only a few, usually larger, farmers benefit at
present; (ii) planning, as extension is largely supply driven and not very
responsive to farmers real needs and constraints; (iii) institutional
structure, as responsibility for crop extension is with NOA; for livestock,
rangelands, and water conservation, forestry and animal health is with NOJ.
In addition, aA's extension responsibilities are limited by technical inputs
and advice being provided by the crop promotion agenciess sugar beet
processing factories; Oilseed Company; (iv) the distortions in prices which
make the provision of responsible technical recomAendttions accommodationi. by
extension very difficult and (v) management and staff, which are too thin on
the ground to meet the real need, and are virtually non-existent in areas such
as monitoring and evaluation of impacts. In the past there were teams of
female extension agents working essentially in home economics, but these were
dispersed at the Revolution. Recently, KOA has established small teams of
female agriculturally trained graduates in each of the PADs at provincial
level. At present these Women in Development (WID) specialists are doing
diagnostic work, trying to find out what the women farmers' main constraints
are, and how extension can help them.
11.         There are eight aigcultural research institutes coverings seed
and plant improvement; soil and water research; plant pests and diseases;
agricultural engineeringp sugar beetp livestock productiona animal health; and
forestry and rangelands. The agricultural research institutes run 26
provincial centers and 150 field stations and employ some 6,900 personnel.
Infrastructure is generally adequate and the stations are reasonably equipped.
12.         The Agriculture Dank (AS) is the main institution for aarigultural
cgeit in Iran. Lending operations by AS have been governed by the Islamic
m:frnW%1nvVn12



- 41 -
ANh    I
Page 4 of 8
banking system since 1984. In 1989, AS made some 450,000 loans directly to
farmers and about 800,000 loans were extended to farmers through cooperatives.
Interest rates are at present below inflation rates. For the period 1984/89,
recovery of loans was 83 percent. The recent Sector Note recomended gradual
transformation of AB into an autonomous deposit - taking initiation with a
broad-based rural portfolio. There are in addition numerous informal sources
cf credit. A rural financial market survey, to be financed under the Project,
would assess constraints and development needs.
13.        There are 3,100 rural Sa  ratLUe societies and 1,100 agricultural
cooperatives covering more than 57,000 villages throughout the country. The
total membership of the systam is 5 million. The Central Organization of
Rural Cooperatives (CORC) under the NOA supervises the activities of these
cooperatives. Agricultural cooperatives channel loans to farmers, distribute
input supplies and purchase their produce.
14.        The Ministry of Jihad-e-Sazandegi (N0M) was augmented in 1990 by
the fusion of the autonomous rural development "crusade" launched after the
revolution and the livestock, forestry, rangelands and fisheries departments
of MOA. OJ has about 80,000 staff. Popular participation is a watchword for
NO0 operations, which encourages beneficiary participation in rural
development. WOJs technical departments include: Rural Infrastructure:
(roads, electricity, water supply); Livestock Affairs: (animal health and
husbandry); Pastoral Nomads: (pastoral systems); Forestry and Rangelandss
(forest and rangeland protection and management); and Fisheriess (inland and
marine fisheries).
15.        The Kinistry of Energy (NOS) has two responsibilities:  (i)
energy supplies, and (ii) water resources. The latter includes constructing
and operating large hydraulic works. (i.e., dam more than 50 m high); and all
primary and secondary irrigation distributlon networks serving units of more
than 60 ha. Within NO0, the Water Affairs Department (WAD) has responsibility
for overseeing and coordinating planning, development, management and
conservation of water resources. Fourteen publicly owned regional water
companies or authorities (RWAs) reporting dlrectly to NOE are responsible for
feasibility studies, execution and subsequent management; the WAD provides
supervision, coordination and technical back-up to these water companies (see
Charts 2 and 3). The NO0 employs 33,000 people in the headquarters department
and in the water companies. The RWAs have substantial autonomy and the
technical and financial managemnt of the four companies involved in the
Project appears adequate. Partial cost recovery Is practiced, and new
initiatives to further decentralize to user-owned companies at the irrigation
scheme level could increase user participation.
Innut Sumolv and Farm Machinerv
16.        Aarochemical Inputs.  In line with Government policy to maximize
cereal production, chemical inputs and agricultural machinery are distributed
by government agencies with heavy subsidies. The parastatal Fertilizer
Company is responsible for import and wholesales distribution of fertilizer
(1.4 million tons in 1990). National production of fertilizer and pesticides
provides about half of current consumption and some 600,000 tons are imported
each year. The distribution pattern in each province is set by NOA; the
*X1mran%rrg9an12



- 42 -
ANN 
Page 5 of 8
Fertilizer Company then delivers the inputs to the semi-wholesale level,
predominantly to the cooperative unions, which then distribute the fertilizer
to the rural service cooperatives. Wholesale deliveries are also made to the
individual crop promotion agencies (sugar beet companies, oil Seed Development
Corporation, Cotton Corporation, Iran, Tea Organization).
The rationing system favors cereals, oil crops, cotton and tea. The effective
exclusion of private operators from all except the retail level and the
supply-driven nature of the distribution system have dulled the market's
ability to signal effective demand. More importantly, the low price of
fertilizer (in 1992, urea cost $13 a ton at the free market exchange rate) has
led to exaggerated demand and represents a high opportunity cost for the
economy. in marginal production situations the use of this cheap fertilizer
can cost more foreign exchange than it saves. In the case of pesticides,
private retailers and the cooperatives share the market, under the technical
supervision of the Plant Protection Organization (PPO).
17.        GoverAmant has proposed in the contest of the 1993/94 budget to
eliminate price subsidies on cheamial inputs. Fertiliser prices were doubled
in 1992. In addition, there are moves to involve the private sector more.
Already 50 percent of pesticides are being distributed through licensed
private retailers. Some fertilizer is being sold to private businesses by the
factories, and the Jertilizer Company has begun to contract with private
stockists for fertilizer distribution. Government's goal is to allow private
cowmercial firms to compete on an equal footing with the Fertilizer Company
and the cooperatives in the import and sale of chemical inputs.
18.        seeft. Production of cereal seeds is carried out by the
parastatal Seed Company, and distribution is through the ASCs and
cooperatives. Supplies are adequate to renew seeds nationwide every three
years. Seeds for industrial crops are produced and distributed by the agro-
industrial companies that buy and process the crops. Horticultural seeds are
produced locally, and, together with imported seeds, are generally available
from private stockists.
19.        Asricultural NMachierv.  Agricultural machinery has been
distributed by the Agricultural Machinery Development Company (Ijgngah") under
Koh. Dongah was established in the 1950 to: (i) limit the number of makes
of farm machinery to those that were well adapted to the country; (11) train
drivers and mechanics; and (iii) support development of a domaetic tractor
assembly industry. Dongah does not have a legal monopoly on import of
agricultural equipment or spare parts, but has received preferential access to
fo--ign exchange (since 1991 at the *competitive* rate). Private sector
competition is thus negligible. Government plans to privatize Dongah.
Domestic assembly of tractors and combines is carried out in two sxisting
plants. In addition, two new tractor manufacturing plants are under
construction. There are more than one hundred private manufacturers of
agricultural equipment, whose products are tested and distributed by Bongah.
MM\lMr9\Gn12



- 43 -
aM=I
Page 6 of a
Machinery prices have been low, reflooting the access to foreign exchange at
below-market rates, and demand has been strong. Rationing rules have been
devised. There are an estimated 215,000 tractors in the country, equivalent
to one tractor for every 60 ha of arable land, which represents a very high
level of tractorisation.
20.         Administrative restrictions on spare parts import have created
shortages, and there appears to be an excessive number of tractors out of
commission (about 30 percent of the national fleet). Government has begun to
move progressively towards pricing machinery imports at market rates. Private
imports at the free market rate currently exist for various implements and for
scarce item like spare parts. Facilitating the importation of more modern
and versatile tractors and farm equipment and of spare parts by both the
public and private sector, would improve the technical and economic efficiency
of farm mechanization. It is expected that as the exchange rate is
progressively unified, private sector interest will iacrease. Government will
need, however, to reexamine the monopoly role of Bongah ln licensing imports.
A&Miculture Sector Ob1e2tives and Policies
21. *gPolic in the 1980s.  The Government s overriding objective for
the last decade has been to achieve self-sufficiency in wheat and rice by the
mid-1990s and to maximize output of other products. The basic policy
instruments adopted in the 19805 in pursuit of thie objective were: (i) price
interventions in the shape of output price supports and lnput subesdies;
(LL) marketing interventions, in the form of public input supply and output
marketing; and (ill) technical and organizational support to producers,
through extension and the cooperatives. These policies dld encourage
producers to increase output and marketed volumes. However, the pollcies had
signLficant negatlve effects, including: (i) the virtual elimlnation of
competition and its attendant effLciency effects from the cereals market;
(Ui) the high rates of subsidy for cereals production diverted resources from
more efficient uses and encouraged nonsustainable exploitation of groundwater
and marginal landsl (UiL) the single tier system of prlces applied favored the
LnefficLent or more remote producers; and (iv) there was a heavy cost to the
Government budget -- up to 19 percent of the total budget deficit.
22.         Future Amriculture Strateav.    Recent sector analysis by
Government has developed elements for a strategy to reverse the degradatlon of
natural resources and investments in the agrlculture sector and to lncrease
the economlc return from these resources. Government's pollcies in the
context of the First FLve Year Plan and future pollcies being dlscussed for
the Second Flve Year Plan focus on four areas. First, mzffg2conom$c JolLcv
for more effLeLent allocation of resources and for sustaLnable growth would
include: unLfying the exchange rate; liberalising output pricing to encourage
private sector marketLng actlvity and allow price signals to be freely
transditted; phasing out input subsidies to allocate resources economLcally
Xf rnmfrr%snt12



- 44 -                            M= 
Page 7 of 8
between various subsectors; and credit policy reform for the Agricultural Bank
and its gradual transformation Into a rural financial intermediary. Second,
sff tor pLolc, would covers a national policy for water resources managament
and irrigation development; introducing competition and market prices into
production and distribution of inputs and tractoras and stimulating private
sector development of processing and marketing facilities for agricultural
produce. A third element would be a strateg= for institutional dvoelopoent
that would redefine the role of government and reorganize state agencies to
provide the neceosary support services. Finally, there should be a 1trteav
f or environm etal orot&Lcn, including programs f;r resource conservation.
23.         On macroeconomic and sector policy, Government has begun
implementing many of the measures (moving towards exchange rate unification
and market liberalization, phasing out of subsidies, financLal sector reform,
private sector promotion). On institutional development, work remains to be
done, and Government and the World Bank are cooperating in a program of
studies and analysis (Agricultural Services Study in FY93, irrigation sector
review to be carried out under the present Project). On the environment,
Government is working with FAO/CP to prepare a Natural Resources Project for
Bank financir4 (PY94)
B. tM  IrrIAtion and Drainare Subsector
24.         waterReusurces  Iran has the highest per capita water
availability in the MENA region (2150m per capita each year against the
average for the region of 950m3). Under average rainfall conditions of 240nm,
about 130 billion m3 of water is available for economic usage. Existing
schemes currently harness about 70 billion m3 for agriculture.
25.         Irriaation.  Iran has a history of irrigation extending back over
esveral thousand years. The countryside is covered in ganatk, long tunnels
conveying water from the mountain aquifers to farming areas. Almost six
million ha, about 36 percent of the total arable land, are under irrigation in
Iran. Modern schemes include 19 large dams with combined original capacity of
about 15.6 billion n3, several small dams, diversion weirs and irrigation
pumping stations; and both modern and traditional main and secondary canal
systewm. However, irrigation schemes have often remained incomplete. As a
result, national water use efficiency is lses than 30 percent. During the
1980s, due to the war effort and reduced oil revenues, Government capital
investment in irrigation decreased significantly. Little was done to complete
ongoing schemes or to maintain completed schemes. As a result, there is now
an important backlog of completion and rehabilitation in many irrigated areas.
Also poor drainage and salinization are evident in several schemes.
26.         In the FFYP, investments in irrigation were proposed that would:
(i) provide an additional 6.7 billion m3 of irrigation water annually
irrigating an additional 200,000 hal (Li) extend existing schemes down to
tertiary level on a further 430,000 hal and (iiI) improve water use officiency
by lining canals and modernizing traditional schemes. The estimated
investment cost for this program Is Rls 1,500 billion. Half of the additional
s:.1ran\ing\an12



- 45 -
Page a of 8
water was to be drawn from existing reservoirs, and the remainder from new
dams, water harvesting, diversions and pumping schemes. The MP includes
provision for the four subprojeocts which compose the present Project.
sr%fr%n\frrg\sn12



- 46 -
Amiga-IL
Page 1 of 10
THE PROJECT AREA AUD TECHNICAL CHA4CTERX8TICS
A. Location. Climate and 80il8
1.         Location.  The overall Project area of 107,000 ha (net) is
composed of four subproject areas. These are Behbbahan (11,500 ha) in
Xhuzestan province, Moghan (35,600 ha) in East Azerbaijan, Zarrineh Roud
(36,000 ha) in West Azerbaijan, and Tajaz (23,900 ha) in Kazanderan (see IBRD
Map No. 24171). All subproject areas are served by paved roads.
2.         Climatic condLtions in the subproject areas vary from semi-arid in
BDbbahan, Moghan with average rainfalls of around 300 mm, to sub-humid in
Tajan, with an average annual rainfall of around 650 mm (Annex 11, Table 1).
There is no risk of frost in Behbahan, where the average temperature in
January is about 120C. In Moghan and Tajan, average temperatures in the
coldest month (January) are 3.20C and 5.1°C respectively. Frosts can occur
occasionally, but are not generally severe enough to limit the growth of
winter crops. At Zarrineh Roud, where mean monthly winter temperatures in
are -20C in January and -1oC in February, the incidence of frost is high
during winter and crop growth is limited to the period from mid-April through
October. Annual evapotranspiration is 2,234 mm in Behbahan, 827 mm in Moghan,
1,184 mm in Zarrineh Roud, and 838 m in Tajan.
3.          Soils in the four subproject areas are of alluvial origin. They
are deep, with textures that vary from silty loams to clay loam.. Soils in
Moghan and Tajan are mainly class I, those of 8ebbaban class II and of
Sarrineh Roud class I to III. In terms of fertility, Moghan has the best
soils, followed by Tajan, while Behbahan has relatively the least fertile
soils. With the exception of parts of the Behbahan and Moghan schemes, the
subproject areas have moderate to insignificant slopes. This has led in some
areas to poor surface water evacuation and drainage problems, which can be
corrected by drainage and land levelling, together with improved water
management.
B. rt-.' tion and Public Services
4.          The Iehbahan sub-project area has a rural population of about
13,000 in 2,250 households divided between 22 villages. The population is
largely sedentary, although some households practice seasonal migration with
their flocks to the adjacent mountains. The population of the Moahan
subproject is about 43,600 in some 6,500 households in 42 villages. The
population, formerly largely nomadic, has settled in the area over the last
fifty years with the successive phases of development of tha Moghan plain.
There is also a large nomadic population on the fringes of the subproject
area, estimated at about 40,000. The population of the Zarrineh Roud
subproject area, largely of Kurdish and Turkish origin, is estimated at
104,000 in 17,170 households in 77 villages. There are some transhumant
%m%Irnnvrrg.12



47 -Amex ZZ
Page 2 of 10
tribal people living ln the hills bordering the subproject area. At Taian it
is estimated that 121,000 people in 20,100 families live in the 114 villages
in the subproject areat due to the proximity of the town of Sari only about 58
percent of this population is engaged ln agriculture.
S.          In general the provision of public services has lagged behind the
development of production infrastructure. At igluahan only three of the 22
villages have health centers or access to safe water; only four villages have
public telephones. Half, however, have post offices and all but one are
connected to electricity and to the road network. At Mochan access to safe
water is higher (10 villages out of 42) but only two-thirds of villages have
electricity and only one third have a post office and access to the paved road
network. At Zarrineh-Roud, access to safe water and to health services are
the main problems. Taian, adjacent to the provincial capital of Sari, Le the
best served area and most villages have access to essential services.
6.          Women are widely active in farming. Within family farming
operations, women carry out most manual weeding; and participate in harvesting
and threshing. At Moahan and ZarriM nRhoud women often work as contract
laborers for weeding and fruit and vegetable harvesting. At Taian, women play
an active role in all stages of rice production.
C. hand
7.         lMLnd Us. Uxcluding all infrastructure, the total net arable
Project area covers about 90,600 ha. Of this area, 73 percent is at present
irrigated, 20 percent rainfed and the remaining 7 percent is marginal land
used for grazing or left uncultivated, mainly due to salinity and drought
problems (see Annex U1, Table 2). Nore than 35,000 ha, or 32 percent of the
total Project area, is affected by varying degrees of waterlogging and
salinity, due to poor drainae and poor water management practices (see Annex
U1, Table 2). In most areas irrigation is necessary to sustain crop growth in
the spring and summer months when rainfall is inadequate. Of the four
subprojects, Behbahan is the most drought sensitives at the other extreme
Tajan has only three months of water shortages, from mid-Nay to mid-August.
Rainfed cropping is generally practiced in winter in areas not served by the
irrigation system. Rainfed production in summer, however, is usually risky
and unproductive. The Zarrineh Roud and Tajan subprojects have substantial
areas under tree crops.
8.          Land Holdinas.  In general, land in the subproject areas is
privately owned and farmed. Plots Are quite small and fragmentation is a
problem in omae areas. This may require some local action under the Project.
Farmers generally participate in traditional groups for some purposes and
these groups represent a potentially valuable asset for the Project. At
B bkhan 72 percent of land is private, 23 percent is vao£ (religious
endowment) and 5 percent is state land. Most of the private land is held
under a communal tenure system called moshaa in which each individual has a
right to a fixed number of hectaresl actual plots are allocated annually by
lottery to farmer groups called kata, and lands are then allocated to
individuals within the kote. Typical holding size is 7 ha. On private land
mz\ranUfrr9%M12



- 48 -
Amnex I
Page 3 of 10
not under the communal moshaa system, fragmentation is a problem. The
predominant production system is individual exploitation, although ktat
members may share tasks. On the XSvo lands the predominant production system
is the cooperative. At Moahag, all private lands are individually owned, and
family farming is the predominant mode of production. About 10 percent of
land in the subproject area is subject to aijwih, short term tenancy; and a
further 10 percent is share-cropped. Farm sizes vary from 1 ha to 16 ha, the
typical farm size is 7 ha and only 12 percent of farms are under 3 ha. At
Zarrineh Roud typical plot sizes are very small with about 3.7 ha, and two
thirds of farms are under 5 ha. Fragmentation is also a problem, with the
typical farmer working four or five plots. The dominant mode of production
(80 percent) is family farming, but most farmers belong to traditional
associations called dahnh. About 15 percent of land is farmed by production
cooperatives. At Taian, land is all privately owned and plots are smal. - 64
percent under 3 ha, 91 percent under 6 ha. Typical farm size is 2.7 ha.
Fragmentation through lnheritance is becoming a problem. About half the farms
are family owned and operated. Tenancy and share cropping are much more
common than In other subprojects - about 45 percent of land is farmed in these
ways. The balance of the land (under 5 percent) is farmed by production
cooperatives.
D. Producer ehicegS
9.         Research and Extension.  In each of the subproject areas there is
an agricultural research center, and Tajan benefits from two centers, with one
dedicated to research on rice. There is a shortage of qualified research
scientists and technicians in these centers except for those in the Tajan
area. The ASC is the front-line in the PAD's service and extension hierarchy.
There are 17 ASCs in the project area; Tajan has five and the other three
subprojects have four each. In all ABCs there is a dearth of qualified
subject matter specialists and technicians.
10.        MechanLzation. Levels of mechanization vary by subproject,
depending on farm size. The Noghan subproject is almost totally mechanized
for all farm operations. In the other subprojects, land preparation is
generally mechanized, by tractor or - on the small farms at Zarrineh Roud and
Tajan - by power tiller. There are some constraints in the timely
availability of the right equipment and in lack of farmer training.
Improvements in these constraints leave scope for improving land levelling,
seed bed preparation, seed row drilling, and fertilizer and pesticide
application would significantly improve yields. There is particular scope for
introducing new small farm machineries for rice and horticultural production
and modern irrigation equyipment on the small farme at Tajan and Zarrineh Roud.
Cereal harvesting is generally mechanized, by combine harvester or by self-
propelled mower binders, but reaping is done by hand on the smaller plots.
Threshing is usually done by tractor-powered stati -ry threshers, which give
a finely cut straw much appreciated by livestock. HarvestLng of oil seeds and
sugarbeet is generally done by machines provided by the lnduetrial firms that
a:%frnmMrrgan12



- 49 -
nane I I
Page 4 of 10
purchase the crop. Cotton harvesting is done by hand, although there is
interest in moving to mechanized picking since wages are on the increase.
11.         Bongah, the farm machinery company, has offices in each provincial
capital. Farmers in the subproject areas can order tractors and implements
through their ASC. A rationing system operates which favors larger farmers or
groups. This way entail a wait of up to several years, or farmers may simply
be denied 'he right to purchase. However, the number of tractors in each
subproject area is more than adequate, and tractor and mechanical harvesting
services are widely available. In some areas, machinery cooperatives operate,
with some technical support from the ASCs. Workshop services are adequate,
with some constraint on the availability of spare parts.
12.        CheMical Invuts. Urea is the fertilizer used most commonly.
Diammonium phosphate (DAP) is also popular. Triple super phosphate (TSP) and
potassium sulphate are used in relatively small quantities. Pesticide use is
widespread and application is done by individual farmers, specialist
applicators and aerial spraying contractors (Noghan). Application rates are
reported to often exceed those recomended by the ASC's due to the private
purchase of pesticides. The extension service provides training in pesticide
use and safety, pesticide containers contain application and safety
instructions in Parsi, and safety equipment is available and reportedly
frequently used. The supply and pricing system for agrochemical inputs was
described in Annex I. In the subproject areas there is an adequate network of
rural services cooperatives and other outlets, and storage capacity for inputs
is adequate. Supply of inputs for strategic crops (cereals, sugar beet, oil
crops) is in general adequate, with some local shortages or delays in arrival
of supplies. Supplies of inputs for other crops are not provided for in the
rationing system, although cooperatives have some latitude in allocating
fertilizer, and fertilizer destined for strategic crops is diverted by farmers
to other crops. Supply of fertilizer other than urea and DAP has been
intermittent, and micronutrient fertilizers adapted to local soil conditions
have been hard to get.
13.        Changes underway in the inputs market are expected to relieve
these constraints. The progressive increases in price scheduled will, over
five years, multiply prices by up to a factor of ten. This will certainly
reduce some marginal demand for uneconomic uses. On the supply side, new
production capacity is under construction that will make the country at least
self-sufficient in urea. Any imbalance between supply and demand is thus
likely to be ironed out. The increasing use of private sector outlets should
reduce problems of timely distribution and product mix. Since the start of
liberallzatlon in the input. market, a dozen blending companies have been set
up that mix micronutrient fertilizers suitable for regional conditions.
14.        Aaricultural Credit.  The main sources of finance available to
farmers in the Project area are family financing, supplier credit, credit from
the agroindustrial companies and AS credit. Needs for cereal crops can
,l1rsn%insXan12



- 50 -
A     T
Page 5 of 10
generally be satisfied by AB credlt managed through the rural ervice
cooperatives. For industrial crops, agroindustrial company credit is
generally adoepate. AS has branches servLng each of the subproject area,
where its lending has more than doubled in the last two years. The branches
are adequately staffed and capable of handling increased volumes of credit
under the Project.
15.         &rMigltural Potential. The farmers of the Project area are ln
general skilled and responsive to technical change. Tajan farmers are
technically the most advanced, followed by those at Noghan. Debbahan
agricultural practices are the least sophisticated. In all subproject areas,
however, improved water availability and control, coupled with a revived
extension effort based on techniques and varieties already known to research
and extension, would stimulate progressive adoption of higher productivity
practices. The techniques which would need to be demonstrated include
improved land levelling and better on-farm water management, combined drill
seeding and fertilizing, timely crop establishment with the use of high
quality seed and varieties, better crop husbandry practices and the rational
use of pesticides and fertilizer top-dressings.
E. Irrigation and Draina=e Ssteams
16.        General. Water availability and the extent of the irrigation and
drainage (I&D) infrastructure and its shortcomings vary greatly from one
subproject to another. These aspects and the ongoing works in each of the
subproj ects are discussod below. In general the existing system are either
traditional or only partially completed modern ones which are extremely
wasteful of the scarce water resources.  In addition, maint nance has been
poor. overall irrigation efficiency is very low, varying from 20 to 30
percent as a result both of poor water conveyance and of inefficient on-farm
water use.   As a result of the inefficiency, there is not enough water to
extend the presently irrigated area or to increase yields in the existing
areas. Also, waterlogging problems in the low lands depress crop yields and
keep significant areas permanently or intermittently uncultivated.
17.        Water Availabillty and Reauirements. All four subprojects receive
their primary water supply from existing water management infrastructure and
will operate within current water allocations. The main source of irrigation
water for Behbahan is the Maroon River. Moghan draws its water from the Aras
River. The Zarrineh Roud and Tajan subprojects are fed by the rivers of the
s _ name. The mean annual flows at the diversion point of each subproject
area: 1,380 million cubic meters (NCN) for the Maroon River; 7,600 am for the
Aras River; 2,222 MCK for the Sarrineh Roud; and 529 NCM for the Tajan River.
The scheme Irrigation Requirements (SIR) for the potential "with project3
situations were computed for each subproject area net of effective rainfall,
using PAO methodology for estimating crop irrigation requirements and climatic
data, employing selected cropping patterns and assuming a planned overall
unlIsan%frrgia12



- 51 -
Pag 6 of 10
irrigation efficiency of SO percent to be achieved under the proposed
project.2 The calculations show that, on the basis of available river flows,
irrigation requirements for each scheme could readily be met at all times of
the year, except in the case of Tajan where allowance has been made for 86 CMO
pumped annually by some 3,500 private tubevells whlch already exist ln the
subproject area.
The Subproie@t Areas
18.        In general, water availability is adequate at all times of the
year, under current and modified demand. Irrlgation system are designed on
the basis of modified demad.
19.        Bhba    subproject has a net areas of 11,500 ha. It will
operate as a run-of-the river scheme supplied by the existing diversion weir
until a reservoir dam now under construction is completed in the late 1990..
The entire primary and secondary canal and drainage system is complete and the
tertiary system is under construction. About 3300 ha requires sub-surface
drainage and 800 ha requires land levelling; soe 1700 ha requires leaching
and soil amendment. The schem layout is shown in IMBD Map 24175.
20.        At MNghan, river diversion works were completed in 1970, with cost
shared between the two rLparians, ex-USSR and Iran. The quality of river
water is excellent for irrigation. The net commad area includes 3S,600 ha of
private small fares that is the object of the Project, and 30,300 ha of state
farme. The maln canal is routed through a man-made lake whose capacity has
been reduced by siltation.  There is a need to solve this siltation problem,
to check excessive seepage from the earthen canals at more permeable locations
(17 5 km) and to stabilize eroding bank slopes in weak sections (60km). The
entire subproject area is served by secondary and tertiary canals which were
originally unlined. Concrete lining of secondary canals serving 4,100 ha is
being carried out under an ongoing contract  Under a separate contract,
tertiaries serving 5,330 ha are being replaced by canalettes. Both these
contracts are scheduled to be completed by June 1995. Works remaining to be
done are: concrete lining of secondary canals serving about 21,000 ha; and
provision of canalettes and tertiary drains servLng 27,400 ha. The existing
main and secondary drains have not provided the required drainage relief and
some 12,000 ha are waterlogged, with groundwater table only 0.5 to 2.0 m belov
ground level. This area needs subsurface drainage. Sme 1500 ha are
currently being levelled, a further 14,400 ha ned mechanLial levelling to
improve water application. The schme layout is shown in  IRD LMap 24174.
2.1 The monthly SIR for each subproject area and corresponding river or
available flows are shown in Annex II, Table 3. Cn an annual basis the SIR
amount to 122 MCM for Bebbahan, 640 3CM for Noghan, 750 MCM for Sarrleh Roud
and 385 NCR for Tajan.
m:%franIrr%snl12



- 52 -
Page 7 of 10
21.        At 2azineh Roud water regulated by the 20 year old Yarminabad
earth dam is diverted by a free-flowing weir. The quality of water is good
for irrigation. The potential lrrlgable area is 49,000 ha, of which 36.Q00 ha
have been developed. All maln canals (105 km) except the last 17km of the
left bank canal were originally bullt as earthen channels, complete wlth
structures. Recent upgrading works, scheduled to be completed in March 1993,
include concrote lining of the right main canal over a length of 5 km, a
pumping statlon of 1.4 m3/sec capacity for Zone 8 area of 1,400 ha, and the
main and secondary I&D system for Zone 3 area of 7,430 ha. The irrigatLon
works required for completing the scheme ares (a) concrete lining of the main
canals over a length of about 100 km; (b) extension of the left main canal by
17 km, with lLning; (c) secondary concrete-lined canals and surface drains in
Zones 2,4,5 and 8 covering 24,800 ha net; and (d) tertiary I&D system over the
entire command area.  In addition a total area of about 7,500 ha needs
subsurface drainage to mitigate serious waterlogging and related salinity
problems, and 4500 ha require land levelling. Tho scheme configuration is
shown in IBRD Map 24173.
22.        At Taian present farmers divert water by artisanal means from the
Tajan River for lrrigation or to fill man-made storage ponds called abandan,
which occupy some 3600 ha. The system will change to controlled diversion
with the completlon by *acember 1992 of a welr on the river near the city of
sari and subsequent ancillary works. The free-fall concrete weir will be 264
m long and 7.5 m high. Subproject design is based on this run-of-the-rlver
system. Government is financing the construction of the Shahid Rajai Dam, a
concrete arch type dam, 150 m high; this storage dam will improve water
relLablilty, but will not be completed untll the late 1990s. The subproject
area is rich in groundwater from both deep and shallow aquLfers, which are
used for supplemental irrigation. The quality of river water is very good and
groundwater is generally suitable for lrrigation.
23.         The subproject area has traditlonally been irrlgated by canals
owned, operated and maintained by farmers. The scheme has four development
Zones as shown in IBRP Map 24172. The run-of-the-river scheme under the
Government financing would inelude constructlon of main and primary canals to
serve current traditional irrigation area of about 16,400 ha in Zones 1, 2 and
4 and full development of I&D system under the project from main to tertlary
level to serve current rainfed area of 7,500 ha in Zone 4. A second phase of
development covering Zone 3 and remaining raLnfed area of 6,000 ha would be
undertaken after completion of the dam. There are two ongoing contracts, the
first for the constructLon of the main canal and a slphon under the river, and
the second for the Zone 1 main canal and its primary branch and four secondary
canals and maln draln. The fLrst contract is scheduled for completlon by
September 1994 and the second by March 1996. The planned works to be carrled
out under the Project include the maln I&D system ln Zone 4 as well as
secondary and tertlary canals and open draLns.
m"tr&n%1rr9%n12



-53-                                    ANNEX II
.Page 8 of 10
Table t
ISLAMIC REPUSLIC OF tRAM
IRRIGATION IIIPROVEHNtT PROJECT
Project Ctinatle Data
Jan.   Feb.   Nar.   Apr.   NOY    Jams   Jul.   Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   Nov.   Oee.   Anual
Behbehan:
Rah4fall M       97.3   38.6   33.0   23.2    6.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.6   33.1   72.2    311.9
Teuperature C    11.6   12.3   17.3   23.2   28.6   33.2   35.1   34.3   31.1   25.7   17.9   12.6            23.7
Ret. Humidity X  55.4   49.2   37.2   31.2   23.0   15.7   15.0   16.4   16.2   25.0   36.4   49.3            30.7
wind Speed KnVd 242.0  225.0  2S9.0  242.0  276.0  285.0  251.0  2S9.0  216.0  216.0  216.0  207.0    241.2
Sunshrine hrs     6.7    7.7    7.9    8.4   10.4   11.6   11.3   10.7   10.1    9.1    7.2    7.2            9.0
Evaporaticn mm
ETO              73.2   85.1  145.1  186.3  263.5  303.6  303.5  291.1  224.4  175.2  108.3   74.4   2233.7
Woghan:
Ra'nfall Qm      22.8   32.8   31.5   32.9   39.4   26.9    5.5    5.8   14.0   30.8   35.7   21.0    299.1
Tmperature C     3.2    4.1    7.5   12.4   19.0   23.4   26.6   25.8   22.3   15.5    9.9    5.3             14.6
Rot. unmdity X  83.1   81.4   79.7   74.1   73.2   72.6   66.7   70.3   71.8   75.8   80.4   79.2             75.7
Wind Speed Km/d  117.0  113.0  118.0  105.0   83.0   86.0  110.0  121.0  116.0   86.0   78.0   86.0    101.6
Sunshine hrs     3.0    3.8    3.9    5.6    6.5    7.7    8.6    7.6    6.6    S.7    3.5    2.1             54.0
Evaporation m    18.6   25.5   47.1   75.3  107.0  128.7  151.6  129.3   91.5   53.0   25.2   18.9    871.7
ITO
yajan2
Rainfalt mm      55.2   76.6   83.3   52.7   51.7   45.7   38.0   41.3   49.6   60.5   54.0   59.6    668.2
leuperatwr C      S.1    S.S    8.1   13.0   17.4   20.8   22.9   22.9   20.4   15.9   11.5    7.6            14.3
Rol. nRmidity %  74.0   76.0   76.0   74.0   73.0   74.0   76.0   76.0   78.0   76.0   74.0   74.0            75.1
Wind Speed KVad  66.0   83.0   97.0   93.0   93.0   96.0   89.0   83.0   76.0   66.0   62.0   59.0            80.3
Sunshine bre      4.3    4.3    4.2    5.2    7.3    8.3    7.8    6.6    5.6    5.4    4.7    4.3             5.7
Ivaporation Qm
ETO              25.1   30.0   49.6   73.8  107.0  122.7  127.4  110.7   80.4   55.2   32.1   22.3    836.3
Zarrineh Roud:
.............
Rainfall Mi      55.5   S1.9   AU.0   96.9   87.5   24.1    2.1    2.6    1.6   17.8   48.7   57.1    523.8
teqerature C    -2.0   -0.6    5.4   10.4   15.2   20.4   25.5   24.2   19.9   13.6    7.6    1.8             11.8
get. Huridity X  74.0   74.0   60.0   63.0   58.0   44.0   39.0   38.0   40.0   50.0   64.0   72.0            56.3
Wind Speed Kb/d  104.0  181.0  242.0  233.0  225.0  207.0  181.0  199.0  207.0  190.0  130.0  130.0    18S.8
Sunshfne hrs     3.8    5.1    5.2    6.5    8.6   11.3   11.2   12.1   10.4    8.4    5.9    4.3             7.8
Evaporatfan m    21.0   28.0   64.0   85.0  127.0  173.0  200.0  193.0  144.0   88.0   38.0   23.0   1184.0
ETO
Notes:
1. Climatic data are tong-teom Qnane from climtologieal stations.
2. ETo coaputed from FAO-modiffed PensanoMontelth Nethod.



- 54 -
Annex II
Page 9 of 10
Tab1e 2
XWAMIC ARURLC OF IRAN
IRRICATMo  LMROEXsNS PROJCT
Farm Size Distribution
Bebbaha        Xoghan      Sarrineh-Roud      Tajan
Range arm         I to 20       1 to 16        1-to 12         1 to 10
sizos (ha)
Farm 1se          73%            67%            88             91%
than 10 ha                                                   less than 6
Typical Fam         5.2           7.0            3.7            2.7
*.se   (ha)_     _   _    _  _    _   __     _   _    __       _   _  _
Current Land Use (Net gal
Sarrineh
Condition      Debbahan  Moghan   Roud       Tajan       Total    %
Fully irrigatedg   7,600    20,650     10,500             38,750     43
no constraints
Irrigatedg with    3,300    14,750      9,500       _     27,550     30
constraints
Rainfed lands                                    7,500     7,500      8
Fallow/saline                           16,000             16,000     18
waste lands
Orchards; no         600       200                            800     1
con straints__ _ _ _                                      _ _ _ _ _
Total Not        S1,500    35,600    36,000       7,500    90,600    100
nE_                               -



Table 3
inaumm~ma
ISAmIC KLIC Of IRAI
IRRJIOAC  I VEIT  POJECT
Memn Nonthly Avallabl  tive Water wid Dand
JAN     FS       MAR      APR It   PAY      amI               AU      SEP      NCT    oN        DEC   total
..........................................................................................................................................
total SIR (10)             0.6    12.8    22.6    24.4    20.2         5.7      5.9      7.5      6.6     5.3    10.2       0.0   121.8
Oa ARW (10)              130.7   215.1   248.3   247.5   177.2    91.8    54.1    37.5    29.0    25.2    34.0    95.4  1388.9
SOX Prob. AR  (N1M) I/    47.7   144.2   169.5   188.4   120.8    58.6    30.8    22.8    14.8    20.4    29.0    17.9   864.9
sO_a
Total SIR (160t)           0.0      0.0      7.4    42.0    41.1    54.S    87.5    62.6    26.2          7.0      0.0      0.0   328.3
AN -  Share (NM) 2/       30.9    27.4    30.1    62.5    88.5    94.0    79.8    83.1    61.5    31.1    23.6    26.8   639.3
Zarrinteh Reud
Total SIR (1C10)           0.0      0.0      0.0    12.9    13.2    68.8   100.2    94.5    54.9    12.1           0.0      0.0   356.6
ARI (NCN)                 89.1   113.7   271.2   754.6   649.3   158.9    27.1    14.2    10.8    14.7    39.5    79.2  2222.3
taJan
Total SIR (N10)3/          0.0      0.0      2.1    21.2    61.4    56.3    74.4    64.6    21.5          1.5      0.0      0.0   303.0
ARVD (M)                  39.0    40.6    62.9    73.7    60.2    43.6    34.9    31.0    34.7    36.1    34.1    38.1   528.9
........................... ........................... ........................... ........................... ......-.,_.................
SIR  a Scheme Irrfgation Requiremt
N60  a Nillion Cubic Meter
AR a Avaftlable River Water
1/ 80% probability available river ftlos.
2/  Iran share of 640 10 according to agreement with ex-USSR.
3/  For a service area of 23.900 ha; using 38 percent overall Irrigation efficiency
for tradftional ferriation area of 16,400 ha and 50 percent for remafning 7,500 ha currently rafnfed.
m:\Iran\frrgtab3.wkl
Ii|
D0



- 56 -
Annex LI
Page 1 of 36
Preieft Descrint ion and Cost tatimates
A. Detailed Featuxes
1.         Irrigation and Drainace Imnrovement will include construction or
lining of main, secondary and tertiary canals and drains, and irrigation lift
and drainage pumping stations. The component would continue a program already
begun. The programs by Sub-project are shown in Box 1. In the case of Moghan
and Zarrineh Roud the works comprise lining of main canal. and construction of
drainage systems. In the case of Behbehan, works are largely to complete the
tertiary canals and drainage system. Only at Tajan will new construction of
canals be undertaken.
0  .  E g g S g.         '"   ...
| | 1.        3     -   3~::~  ' **
2.          The main canals are followed by about 700 km of secondary canals
and about 2,300 km of tertiaries in the same three subprojects. All of the
ezi ting secondary canals would be improved with concrete lining 8 to 10 cm



- 57 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 36
thick and now secondaries will be built as lined channels. An adequate number
of gated control structures with gated side overflow spillways exlets on the
main canals, and these would be renovated under the project. Secondary
systems have been planned with adequate control and cross drainage structures.
An extensive network of surface drainage is planned with main, secondary, and
tertiary drains in the three subproject areas.
3.         Tertiary canals with turnouts generally from secondary canals and
in some cases from main canals would be built to serve tertiary units of 40-80
ha. Tertiaries would be split into quaternary blocks of 10-1S ha. In
Bebbahan and Noghan subprojects, the tertiary system employs canalettes which
are constructed in existing factories at the schemes.  This system will
continue for the remaining area of tertiary development at Koghan (27,000 ha).
At Zarrineh Roud concrete lining (in-situ or precast slabs) will be used for
tertiary development over an area of about 26,000 ba. At Tajan concrete lined
tertiary laterals will serve 6,000 ha of non-paddy area, and unlined laterals
will serve 1,500 ha of paddy area.
4.         On-Farm Deloment will comprise subsurface drainage and land
levelling, and pilot on-farm water management demLnstration schemes in
selected tertiary units of each subproject to monitor and improve water
management. subsurface drainage is proposed in seriously waterlogged areas,
to achieve a water table 1.5 a below the ground surface.  Land levelling would
be required at Bebbahan, Moghan and zarrineh Roud in areas with undulating
topography and slope of more than 5 percent.
5.         Pilot On-farm Water Manacement Prooram. The objectives of the
pilot program are tot (a) improve the efficiency of on-farm water application
through proper water management and precise land levelling; (b) organize
farmers to irrigate and cultivate the tertiary block units under a pre-
arranged rotation schedule; (c) assure timely and frequent maintenance of
tertiary canals, drains and on-farm ditches; (d) introduction of other
irrigation methods for various crops such as furrow and pressure irrigation;
and (e) determine constraints to a timly and adequate supply of water.
Representative tertiary blocks serving about 50-80 ha would be selected at
upper and lower ends of the system with a different mix of crops in each of
the four subprojects. The tertiary laterals of these blocks would be provided
with water measuring devices and simple control structures for diversion of
water to the quaternary laterals and the farm ditch. The procedure and
program related to surveys, field easurements and monitoring would be
established bt a specialized consultant who would also train field technical
staff of NOA during the first three months of the program. The consultant
would visit for a month twice a year for four years to evaluate the program
and train NOA staff to extend this program to other parts of each subproject
through demonstration.
6.         Protect Facilities Includina Oneerstin and Kaintenanze.
Construction of offices and staff housing in all four subprojectu; and
a:%rs,%1nV\w3



- 58 -
Page 3 of 36
provision of additional staff, vehicles and equipment for operation and
maintenance (O&M) of I&D system of all four subproject areas. In order to
improve the maintenance of systems, which in currently very pmor, the Project
would provide a limited fleet of maintenanc equipment and vehicles for the
RWA and PAD field operational units (See Table 1).
7.         Research and XLWgsJW. The component will comprise institutional
strengthening of Agricultural Service Centers (ASCs) and research services in
all four subproject areas; and laboratories; and the provision of specialized
farm machinery and implements for sale to farmers of Sarrinoh Roud and Tajan
subprojects. Research and extension facilities in the subproject aree- exist
but require equipment and staff in order to make their programe more effective
and to link them more closely to problem in each area. Research and
extension staff will be increased. The research centers would be streugthened
with an additional 15 scientists and 1S technicians, and the A8Cs, would be
reinforced by 19 subject matter specialists and 66 technicians. There would
also be provision of additional office and operational facilities, houses,
vehicles and special equipment for extension and research purposes, including
farm machinery, mobile film units for extensaon, and equipment for research.
For details see Table 2. Special emphasis would be given to training research
staff in research methodologies directly relating to agricultural production
problems in the sub-project area. To facilitate the introduction of new
production technologies and crops, some equipment (e.g. seed drills and maize
combine attachments) would be provided to be tested and introduced under
Research and Extension Programs to be carrled out jointly by local research
and extension staff. For each subproject, a pilot program to test ways of
developing a won's extension unit would be set up, building on the existing
women's departments at provincial level and taking account of national and
local customs and constraints.
S.         The Behbahan research statlon would be upgraded from a I 'evincLal
field substation to a regional station. Research would focus on greater crop
diversity to increase the cropping intensity and on the introductioa. of hybrLd
maize and new oil crop including safflower (Carthamus CLaJg&Lu). At Moghan,
a soil testing laboratory, to serve farmers directly on a commercial basis
would be added to Oltan's research facllities. Better and safer post control
quipment and new Integrated Pest Management (1PM) techniques would also be
introduced by research. At Tajan, the facilities of both research centers are
presently being expanded. These will be supplemented through provision of
rice planting and harvesting equlpment.
9.          It is the small farmers who are least served by the existing
agricultural machinery system, and there is inadequate take-u of available
new technology in smell farm equipoment. Under the Project, there would be a
component that would provide financing up to a total of US$15 million for the
import and sale of selected small farm machLnery at Zarrineh Roud and Tajan.
Squipment would be tested and demonstrated in the Joint Reearch and Uxtension
Program; if farmers showed lnterest, tenders would be ought from local
szltran%lrrvW6



- 59 -
ann" III
Page 4 of 36
private importing firm with qualifications in the agricultural equipment
busi ness and the lowest evaluated bidder for each item would have access to
foreign exchange from the loan to cover the offshore costs of importing the
item during a two year *development" period. Subsequent imports would be
through usual channels. Foreign exchange would be sold at free market rates,
farmers would pay the full cost net in the tender, and the Iranian Rlals
equivalent would be paid to the Ministry of Finance. The MOA LO would be
responsible for coordinating the process and for supervising end evaluating
the outcome.
10.        RnaiUnMtal Aatgu s. The environmental component would
comp-ises
(a) Strengthening of environmental management capacity of QA, mmO,
DON, PAD'a, RN'sa and consultants through specialized training
programs, seminars and provision of equipmenti
(b)   Development of model surface/groundwater monitoring programs and
agricultural chemical management programs for each subproject
including training and equipmentt
(c)   Implementation of erosion contro_ program  for canal banks
(Moghan) and river channel (Tajan), and preparation of an
archaeological sites survey (Behbahan), and
(d)   Special environmental management studies concerning the Shadegan
Marshes Protected Area, Lake oruyimsh Natlonal Park, Abandans on
the Tajan plain and fishery resources in the Maroon and Tajan
Rivers.
11.        The field offices of the DON responsible for each subproject area
would be strengthened through the provision of additional staff, construction
of offices, staff housing and guard quartert. Provision would be made for the
procurement of vehicles and specialized equipment for field surveys and
investigation, monitoring of water quality and control of use of agro-
chemicals. These requirements are listed in Table 3.
12.        8nainoerina ServLces Technical Assistance and TraLnLW: The
engineering and consultancy services would includes
(a)  Nngiring services for investigations, detailed design,
preparation of tender documents, and construction supervision;
(b)   Consulting services related to land consolidation, water quality
monitoring program, monltoring of groundwater table, organization
of water users groups and land tenure issuesl
e2{znr



- 60 -
Annex SII
Page S of 36
(c) Irrigation subsector revlew, feaslblilty studles and environmental
assessments for future lrrlgatlon development;
(d)  Investigatlons and preparation of plans for actlvitles common to
each subproject related to 0 & M, water charges and cost recovery,
monitorlag and evaluatlon (M & 3), alternative institutional
structures, development of programs for women and detailed
training program to be financed under the Project;
(e)  Services of an independent panel of experts on dam safety
(construction of dams is not part of the Project, but the dams are
upstream of the subproject areas and are part of the same
schemes); and
(f)  A study of rural financial markets;
(g)  Assiptance on hydrological monitoring;
(h)  overseas and on-the-job training for managerial and technical
staff of IOh and MOE, the four RLUs, the four PADs, the Department
of Environment (DOE), the AB and private sector consultants; and
long-term graduate fellowships for specialized Project-related
subject.
13.        Engineering services would be required for detailed designs,
tender document preparation and procassing, construction suporvision and
various specialized studies relevant to each subproject such as land
consolidation, water quality monitoring, organization of water users groups,
land tenure Lssues, and studies on envLronmental and socLal aspects. Provision
would be made for a total of about 1,810 staff months of local professlonal
input and 87 staff months of expatriate consultants for these services (Table
4).
14.        Consultants would be requlred for the irrlgation subsector revLew
and to prepare foasibility studles and as well as envLronmental assessments
for future projects in the sector. In order to establish investment
prioritles, studies will be undertaken in two phases. The first phase would
consist of a comprehenslve revLew of the irrlgation subsector dealing wlth
global water resources and planning and with sector pollcy, institutlons and
investment programiLng. At the end of thls phase, policy, lnstitutional and
lnvestment optLons would be reviewed and priority investment projects
identified. In the second phase four or five schemes would be studied for
detailed technical feasibLilty and economLc justifLcation. Provision will be
made for a total input of 60 staff months of expatrLate and 162 staff months
of local experts.
15.        At the beginning of the Project, consultants would be used to
pI spare for implementation of some speclalzed components: this would include
w:\lranXlrruan3



- 61 -
Anne  I
Page 6 of 36
detailing the methodology for monitoring and evaluation and assisting with the
baseline studyi assisting with the detailed design of the pilot women'
development component; and helping with the finalization of the training needs
assesments and design of the detailed training program. During the course of
the Project a number of studies would be conducted including a study on water
charges and cost recovery, and on the possibility of decentralizing management
of O&M to autonomous, possibly farmer-owned companies. in addition there
would be consultant assistance to various units in the Planning Departments of
140, MM0, Rwae, and PADs to strengthen their planning capacity. A total of
about 139 months of expatriate and about 305 months of local experts time
would be provided for these specialized services. Details are given in Table
4.
16.        Panel of Uxmerts. Currently the Government is financing the
construction of two large dams in the Project area. The water supply of
BAhbaban and Tajan subprojects as proposed under the Project is based on run-
of-the-river water availability without any consideration of storage behind
these dams. strictly from the financing and water supply points of view, the
project hae no concern with these dams. However, both of these dams will
serve the future expansion of irrigation in the river basin and their future
safety is of concern to the government. To ensure their safety, the
Government would engage an independent panel of experts, under terms of
reference and contract conditions agreed with the Bank, to review technical
design, construction procedures, future reservoir filling and operation,
instrumentation for future monitoring and all safety aspects of these dams.
The panel would continue the review during the conestruction period and a
minimum of two years after the completion of construction through periodic
visits. The project would provide for 16 months of services, adequate to
allow six visits by panel members.
17.        INinla. Training of staff in NOA, 401, the RWAs, the PADs and
in the DOE, and training of the water users associations would be carried out.
The main areas in which training will be conducted are on project, financial
and contract management; planning programming and budgeting; and updating and
refresher training in irrigation, agriculture, economics, environment and
sociology. in addition, on-the-job training would be conducted by various
consultants engaged for design, specialized studies, construction supervision,
and agricultural and environmental aspects. Field training for O&N staff
would cover formulation and application of 0&K procedures, work programming
and supervision of activities, including water managament aspects in pilot
units. The project would also provide for ovnrseas training through short
term visits and through participation in workshops and seminars on management
and technical aspects relevant to the project. Scholarships for graduate
level studies abroad would also be provided. A tentative provision for
training is listed in Table S. The program would be elaborated in detail by
the central consultants and submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1994 for its
review and comments.
w:Irmn\Irrg\n



- 62 -
Annex III
Page 7 of 36
s. Ptoiect  rdZ"inatLon and InatitutLonal StrenathenA.
18.        There would be provisn for staff, offices, furniture, equipment
and vehicles for the LOu whoas structure and functiors are described
elsewhere. Support would also be provided to strengthen the capacity of KOA
and NOR for sector plannLng and programmLng the form of traLniLg, short-term
technLcal assLstance and the provision of equLpment for various services ln
the Projects and Planning Department (Agricultural statLstics Service, Remote
Sensing Service, Rural 3conoames Research Center, Planning and Budget
DLvisLon, and Bvaluation and Control DLvisLon). In NMM, the Project would
provide Lnstitutional strengthenLng for the Technical RevLew Department, the
Water Resources Planning Department and the Water Resources InvestLgation
Bureau, in the form of computers and automatLoan of field to headquarters relay
system; staff trainingS and the provision of equLpment for the Water Resources
Investigation Bureau for a semi-automatic transmisslon system for two or three
selected river basins.
m%fran%frrgm%3



- 63 -
Page 8 of 36
Table  :s  Plr           qa   Rblated to  System Operaion & Maintenance
_ _Urdt   -S                  oject                  Total
-                   bwrineh   Tozn   Project
A. Prolect Faeftities
1. Offices                         I                                    300       SOO      800
2. Staff hboue  - 3 Bedro Is                               1000        1,800      .       2,800
3. Staff houes - 2 Bodroom                      .          1.00        1,200      _      3,000
4. Workep/Stores                               160          .          1,000              1,160
5. Gate amtor  urters              M P                                 1,410       60    1,460
11. mmZ Eau!   t
1. Drgltiss 3/4 cup.d.cap.         No           1             4           2         1        8
2. Nyd. acko Crawler Typ           no           2             4           5         1        12
3. Np. Backe  - &oLed              no            1            3           3         1        8
4. ButlDozer D-6 Sze Cruwler Type   No           1            3           2         1        7
S. Front ad todr-Wteled            No            1            3           2         1        6
6. Motor Grader 120-125.lp         No            1            3           1         1        6
7. Indatr1at Tractor 5.hslo.d    so              1            1           4         1        7
S. Dwip Tnu  6-s8 cu.vd.           ll           2             6           3         1        12
9. Flat ed ruen                    so            1            2           1         1        S
10. Vter Ta   Truc&s               so           1             2           1         1        4
11. Ship Fee Roter 10 Ton          No           1             2           1         1        4
12. Gnerator  20 VA                so           1             2           ,         .        3
13. Afr C15ssor  2Scfl No                       1             1           1                 3
14. Sshtsurf Drain. Flushris Eqdp.  No          2             3           2         1        7
15. Concrete ofxer "is cu.yd.      so           1             2           2         1        6
16. Piez. for ¢.saer Invest.       so          100          130          90        20      340
17. Vorkhoop Equfpuont             L.SA=      L/S           L/S         LiS      L/S       L/S
18. Water Nwoumsnt Equfp           L. Su     LUS            LtS         LIS      L/S       L/S
19. Netorologicel St. Equlp        No           I             I          -         2         4
20. Gaging Stations WFlotem.twrs    so          2            30          .         3        35
21. Drodger S sis                  no                         I                    .         1
22. Spare pert.                    L.Su        LIS          L/S        LUS       L/S       L/S
C. iiAJAlmS
1. Sedn Cars                       No          2            4           .          .        6
2. Jeopltetion aVn 4x4             No          4           14            11        2       31
3. Pick-up x4                      No           6           14            10       2       32
4. otorcycles 125oc                No          24          100           50       20       194
S. Ninf bu  van                    no                        1           2                 3
0. U1s. Eoufoen
1. Personal Coputers w/softuar     No           4            4            9        2       19
2. Electric Typewriters            No           4            2            4        1        11
3. Rado Traneiver 100k             No            .           6            1                  7
4. Eadio Trantceiver 50-60         No                        2            8         1       11
5. bdfo Trancmever 20-25 b         No            5                        18       2       25
6. Copingf echines                 No            2           3            2         1       a
7. Fex/Tolex achines               no           2            3            2                 7
1. Inereental Staff
1. Professional Eed1ner8S UT                    14          25           39         9      87
2. ubprofessionaL Technnicams      S/T          63          30           31        21      145
3. AdministlFinence Staff         SUT                        6 6         28        10      44
4. Suppttat Sff                    ST            5                       42        14       61
5. peratorsfivwers                SVT           39           -           122       33      194
6. Ditdh  fdea                    SUT           92            .         322        47      41
7. Skilled Laborerm                SJT          63           .           125       4       234
...-                                       -           -_          -        -.        -..



- 64 -
Page 9 of 36
Table 2/1: Re1 Iremnts Related to Aneulture Asuects
WMit                                    Zaringh Raw                    Total
_ibahu         Nogh_                          Tajan        Project
A. Proect t FiUtim
1.  -lte                                                                         _      _                      _
(a) Off ices                   _                  1.200          1,200          ,              12000       4.0
Cb) Staff VIami4                                  2,             3.20                                      5,00
Cc) Worksbps/Stores                                400            400             600 1S00                 2,600
2. _J_
(a) Offiees              .                         g0             900             400                      2.400
Cb) Staff Naiming                      0          2.000          2,000           2,000                     6000
tc) Laboratores                       le           800           1,200            S                        2,600
Cd) Shed*Stores                        BPt 00                     4w              4                        1,200
B. Em=                                                              _     _,             _ _          _
1.   i                                                ____
Ca) Auto Vfsuat                       set           4              4               4             S          1?
Cb) Somcnstr. Tools                   Set           4              4               4             5          1t
_ c) Nobie Ffti Uhf Ht No                           I              1               2             2           6
Cd) Offce Technotogy                  set           4              4               4             5          17
2.    _       =                                                                                           I _  .
Ca) Tractoe  with                                                                                            8
iPl. t75 H.P.)                    so           2              2               2             2
(b) Farm uhcifnery                    $et           2              2               2             2           8
Ce) Audio Visuat                      Set           I              1               1             2           5
Cd) Off.Te Tno.Equfp.                 8t            4              4               4             8          20
(e) Laboratory Equfp.                 Set           2              8               4             a          22
Cf) Pusps 4-6 Sit*
with fnoter                     $et          2              4               4             8           18
Ce) Netorotogical                                                                                            S
Statcen                         No           1              1               1             2
th) Nisc. Natertal                    Set           4              4               4             8          20
C.    StI                                                                                       ..
*. gEXten                                -
(a) Pick-t 4x4                        no           14             18              18           40          90
tb) Jeops/statfor
ag.en 4x4                       no           S              10              20            13          48
Cc) Nini-bus Van                      No           1              1               2             2           6
(d) Ftat bedTruks                     no           1              1               4             2           a
2.   _e_                                                 _      _       _       __
(a) Jeepslstation
Vagon4M4N                                            5      S                             10          25___
Cb) Flat ed Truek                     Io           1              1               1             2           5
(ca) Nnf-bus VWan                     no           I                                            2           5



- 65 -
AonuJZl
Page 10 of 36
tatt~~~~~  Totahlee
mitt                                 Zaninmh                   Project
-          .dihahan    _ s9ian         _ ____ ___  TeJan         -
S. -twfattxw                                                                                                                I
(a) far tachnatw                          Sat          2              2             2            2           8
(b) Nortfculture Pam
oeth.                              Sat           1             2             2            2           7
C() Cotton Nachinery                     St                           2                                      2
(d) Sprinktar __pI  t                    Set    _2 '_6 2    _                                    2           6
te) Drip lrrio. kplp.                    S t           .                            2            2           4
_ _ f _ _ _ _c.  Eq_ _ _p_ __Sot                       2              2             t                        4
(5) Pus     th Neotors                   Set        .2                                           2           4
____(h             _ __d_n I ___pt_     _         S*t           .             2                                      2
(i        _ _Nir-jet _qup.               Set                          *2                         2           4
(J) SOW FrtSltzerI
Drfil tt                           S t          10             ...10
(k) Maize Pick                           S t           S              ._.___5
F.                                                       _    _     __Ead__                                     _
1. 1    .11 Tractwrs 30-50 hp                 No_1_0                                                to2_  _
2. Pmr Ttllers                                lio_  _      '__                         1___2W-   ____ 350_
3.   isc. pr. Iqtent                          _t ..200 2__                                                      4S0
4. Sarticutture Fer Nath.                    Set           .                           210          50          260
S. PUps ith Ntoas                            Set           .              .            70           SO          120
6. Orchard Fsru Nachiner                     got           .              .            100           .          100
F.  f J z  t                                               __ _  _ __     _ __  _ _    _ _ _  _ _ __               _ _ _ _
1. forExtn. m. Plots                          so           90            120           140          40          390
2. For Vaerau Roarc
Prorana                                   no           18            18           18             8           62
IL 6   Inw_tat MUff_  
1.  Ellq                                                   _ 
(a) Professional                         S/Y           24            28            24           10          86
(b) Subprofesinal-
Tacnfeiclan                         6/Y          20            64            51            99         241
Cc) Sqport Staff                         S"            8             28            14            _          94
(d) Driver                               S/Y           17            26            14           10          67
2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(a) Professat                            WY            20            19             9            .          58
Sb) Subprofessioalt-
Tednicifan                          S/V          20             19            19                       s o
-_(_) 9u_t_Stafft                        S/            12            22             14 
(d) Drivws                                Sly          ¶7            18            11                       4 4
I   _  .         .                 r . .-_m_-



- 66 -
Page 11 of 36
T Abe 3s Vafiftiesetd      R      edon
Suited to Ramuirin~ts fm  b,wii~ntt Al met
A. Project ft ltdtiet       Iit   __m                  i      Zarlnaft        Teij         Taw
1. OffIes 2f0                                                 .             .           200
2. Stff N1usng            I          200          .           100          210           00
3. umrdPosts              of         100                     2                          300
4. Post  rd                           00          .           100          100          700
I usiW                                                                                       I
5. Eqd_uut £
1. Vsato Ouslity
lnet.                S ets        2           2           2             2            8
w1pplont, 
2. Specfatftad           so           2.          2           2             2            8
E PDnt                       ___                    _
3. Arial Photea          Sets         2           .           2             2            6
4.CanoeBoat               No          3                                                  3
S. Motortzed Bots         no          I                        1           .            2
6. Spot t_bery           Sots         2                       2             .            4
7T. PeruCt Cwpater
",th loftmem           s o f                                             2            3
C. Id e
1. Jeep/station           o           1                                     1           *
vo_ wse 4x4
ueg2. Pfek- 4x4                  ___ NI            _ I
3. Notorcylsl No                      4           .           2             .            6
5_  Iitgtu 
1. Water bWlitY         Points       IS0         440           0          440          1.500
NIbntor1n_
2. Agr-Chmdcat          Pofnts       160         _00         40            400         1.50
N af toring__                                 _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
3. Nigratory Fide/
Blrd NItorfng        YOe           10          6           6            12           34
4. Unforosm             Teers         2 2         2                         2            a
Investfgatio       _ _        __                ____       _
S. Nuagoement            No9                      9                  9                  2?
6. Misc. Edatfatn        NO          16           *16                      16           46
?.RilverBank            VW*s-                                               5           10
Uttcta             _______
E. IamnUal staff 
1. Professm              ST           5           5     -          S                    20
Environ._                             _
__-                                               -    -
2.   _prsM
Teshlelam               T                     20           4             4           26
3. .Br*Drlvas            on          20           5           12           12           49
-                                                                  m   ,  _



-67-              A      36 II
Page 12 ef 36
} I   1 1 11 1*19 1111 1 t i It
_ b_    . .l .  * * _ S      . 84 * l 4
In~~~
t.                I - u -  m -  m    m  m
8- -- -   - - -        -- --  - --
4- r T       -   



--- - - - - -- - - - - L2  .*@dM9
*0
-~~~~ ~ -1   -        1     0                      bStt *UWJs3ulS.-j  .1t e ite
-       -     -      -     -      -       -    -     -      - _        -                                                IPUSTa u
t~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I __   _o- _%p we .             _
_~~~~~~~~~~~6   _A                         _            e       s e9la  tz 03 o;;    1.
OR    01                          42m.ee.aep (a
- -  -  -_ -- - a -l __ -)
_                                                        _" _   ee    es _                _   "t 4g8WI* ewa~~~~~~~It    a
-    -o   -                                                                             ez                                   -
_   .        _                 _            _     _      _~~~~~~~~~~~S  St                 J 4   19
3Isfoa  OUI~j  *.D Is
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                        a      St =p3 of In =*6 =It U n_  
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                          P4t                             /_  _I _It
-  -                        -                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n in o           G
.t    U      09 rttWi4m la                     a
-r z   _   r-_s e    _    _          __   _               - 9   _        *   ,,,         ,  ..s ...14*tW*ppm   ") 
.~~ ~ ~~~                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .nw _ff d_=
-  -  - -  --n *
m   -     -        -        -                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33mAMM
1IWq Uwmvp pus ..         50 A-m lalf vwjL



-69 -                                         ANNEX III
Page 14 of 36
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRMN
JJIOAT ION IMpnWMM  t PROJECT
Tale 5sJ: Estimated Training Requirements
Unit      Cetral                    Subproject                    Totat
-Sbbehan   Noghn       Zarrinesh   |Ten
N Modeltina AS 8  L0                                                                      ____=_=
1. Management (Abroad)                      S/N         30                                                     30
=__  2. Ptening/Stat. (Abroad)                    SIN         48         -         -                                 48
3. N & E  (Abroad)                          S/N         18                                                     I8
=__  4. Agr. Credit (Abroad)                      S/N         24                                                     24
5. SpecIalIzed Short Courses (Abrtod)       S/N         50                                                     50
6. Graduate rlloushfps (Abroad)             S/N         24                                                     24
T. Locat Trafning                           S/N         120                                                    120
8. In-Country iorksheps/Aminar              No          60                                                     60
N M_   E INCLUDING LO
1. Manament (Abroad)                        SIN         24                                                     24
2. Planning (Abroad)                        SIN         30                                                     30
3. N & E (Abroad)                           S/N         12    _                                                12
4. Specialized Short Courses (Abroad)       SIN         30                                                     30
5. Graduate  etlltoehip (Abroad)            S/V         12                                                     12
6. Lo  Training                            SIN         80                                                     so
7. In-Country vorkeaps/Seamirer             No          15                                                     IS
tL   Envfroeument lDOE & Cons.)
1.  _angmt (Abroad)                         SfI         6                                                       6
2. Specialized (Abroad)                     SIN         12                                                     12
3. GradUato Fellowships (Abroad)            S/T          8         -
4. Local Training                           Sf          30                                                     30
5. workJhoqpsfSemtars                       No          10   I                                                 10



- 70 -
ANNEX III
ISLUIIC REPU8LI OF IR                              Page 15 of 36
IRREGIOTICN INPEONET PROJECT
Tale s1: Estimated Trainhng Requirammnts
Unit     central                Saiproject                   Total
Lewi
_ lebahan  Noga      Zarrinb      TUjan
_____________                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Road
L AIWtCLTUU  (PARA. Ext.  RS
1. PADs Nuigmnt (Abroad)                 S/H                  3         6           6          6       21
2. PAs OesfwVOaN (Abroad)                S/                   6         12          12         12      42
S. Consult DesigW,cntr. (Abroad)         S/l                  2         10          10          9      31
4. Sra"ta  Fettowhips (Abroad)           _/?                  2         44                      4      14
5. Ext/ASC  (Abroad)                     SN                   8         10          16         16      50
6. Re_reh (Abroad)                       SN                   6         8           12         10      36
T. R/ASCs Grsd6to Pellotships            sly                  2         4           5           4      15
(Aroad)_                                    __
6. seR^ch araate f.tloushbps             UV                   4         4           10          8      26
(Aroad)_                                    __
9. PAD - Local tralnine                  SIN                  16        50          50         50      166
10.Ext/ASC  - Local Training             s/N                  30        40          40         40      15O
ll.Resesroh - Local Training             S/N                  24        40          40         40      144
12.PAO/Ext/les. V_mkrp/uNats                                  20        32          32         32      116
REG. VAT. AU. t, S &    JCTS                                                = -                             =
1. ROs Nhnmg_mt (Abroad)                 S/N                  3         6           6           3     18
2. REi Ds   0 &N N (Abroad)              SIN                  10        14          20          8      52
3. Consult Das1iVConstr. (Abroad)        S/N                  4         8           8           3      23
4. Grathte fellowshfps (Abroad)          S/Y                   2        6           6           2       16
S. RWs Local Training                    SIN                  34        70          70         35      209
6._ WAS  -hwk ps/Sssnam                  go                   10        20          20          10     60
1. Eiron. Spocfalied (Abrod)             S/N                  6         10          14         14      44
2. Oradte  FellowshP (Abroad) f/S                             8         2           4           4       18
3. Coat lawr (Abroad)                    S/N                   2        2           3           2       9
4. Socfal - Locl Trainine                S/*                   8        8           12          a      36
5. Environ- Local Training               S/N                  16        8           24         16      64
6. Environ V Wlaork Senrs                No                   10        10          12          10     42
N:%1rsn%irrg table.5



-  71 -                                         Anlnex  II
Page 16 of 36
Table 6/1: Total Project; Project Costs Surry
lstamic Iepshlic of Iran
Irrigation lpqovement Project
Project Cost ammary
RaLts                               US1                            X Total
-    --..---    ----------...-.............   X Foreign         Cae
Local   Fotelgn      Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
A . Irrig.JDrnbedqP1OVaent           97793.4   774043  175197.9           67.4      53.4    120.8          44.2       46.4
8 . Agriculturtl DevelOFnt           25348.6   33000.1   58348.7          17.5      22.8     40.2          56.6       15.4
C . Irr.jDrainhsp a6r-am DV          16671.2   21532.1   38203.3          11.S      14.8     26.3          56.4       10.1
0 . Project Frc.lncluding 0M         131m5.8    6438.6   40224.4           9.5      18.2     27.7          65.7       10.6
. Inastitutiral Support
1. ProJect Coordination           4001.5     723.0    4724.5           2.8      0.5       3.3          15.3        1.2
2. TA end Trafning                8637.9   10531.1   19169.0           6.0       7.3     13.2          54.9        5.1
3. Strengthening SOS/lE           1553.0    5443.3    6996.2           1.1      3.8       4.8          77.8        1.9
4. Inst.aport Si*projets    14937.3   14967.5   29904.8               10.3      10.3     20.6          S0.1        7.9
..............................    ............................................... ......... .................... ............ ..................
SubTottI                             29129.7   31664.8   6M04.5           20.1      21.8     41.9          52.1       16.1
f. Envirowmnt   I/                    400.6       869.2    4899.9          2.8       0.6      3.4          17.7        1.3
G. ReettIe mt                          316.5        0.0     316.5          0.2       0.0      0.2           0.0        0.1
............. ........................................ ....    .... ..........................   ....................................... .........
Total UASELIUE COSTS                 18707S.6  19090.3  377965.1          129.0    131.7    260.7           50.5      100.0
Physical Contingencies             13078.5   1386S.1   2M43.6            9.0       9.6     18.6          S1.S        7.1
Price Contingenfes                14282.5  1359.7  27878.2              16.7      15.8     32.5          48.6       12.5
............... ..........................................    ...........................   ................................ I...................  
Total PROJ S COTS                    34296.7  340710.2  683706.9          154.7    1S7.0    311.7           S0.4      119.6
Vatus Saled bV 10000.0 - 1/V193  14:05
1 Institutional support and training cost included under E (2) and E (4).
Table 62:Swumry Accxts Cost Summry
11als                               USt                            X Total
..............................    ...........................  X Foreign           lan
Local   Foreign      total        Locat  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
. ...................................... .....................    ..................................... _............................_
1.  ISEmiT COSTS
A. Technfeal Assistance              8M.6    9674.1  Im71.7              5.5       6.7     12.2          54.6        4.7
S. Training                          4865.3    90t0.6   1308S.0           3.4       6.2      9.6          65.0        3.'
C.  Wilpment                        12389.5   S0042.'   62431.9           8.5      34.5     43.1          60.2       16.5
9. vduIcles                          3366.7    4956.3    6323.0           2.3       3.4      5.7          S9.5        2.2
E. Civil Ierle                     119021.0  101151.8  220172.8          82.1      69.8    1S1.8          4S.9       58.2
F. Cqwaen ation                       271.6        0.0     21.6           0.2       0.0      0.2           0.0        0.1
S. Engineerino  Se vices            8 X'.1    6803.8   15146.0           5.8       4.7     10.4          44.9        4.0
............ .........................._ .............................. ........................ ................................ .......... .
Total INVESTNUUT COSTS             156293.9  1816$9.1  337943.0         107.8    125.3    233.1           53.8       89.4
....... __........................... ............................................   ......................_._
it.  _ nUEU T CwasT
...................
A. tnre mettl Staf                  22285.6    1736.4   24022.0          15.4       1.2     16.6           7.2        6.4
B. oj mpaipmnt, Vehiclse             6513.2    7280.8   13794.0           4.5       5.0      9.S          52.8        3.6
C. Contrct   0go                         0.0       0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0      0.0           0.0        0.0
0. opetfaion                         19.1        243.1    2226.1          1.4       0.2       1.5         10.9        0.6
_._._._~~~~~~~~ ........................................ ........................ .. ........
Tot  mEURxEIT COSTS                 30781.9    9260.2   40042.1          21.2       6.4     27.6          23.1       10.6
. __ ........................................    --- ------- ---------------......_ .... ...... ..................
Total MIELINI COSTS                187A75.8  190909.3  3"7795.1         129.0    131.7    260.7           50.5      100.0
hs1ical Contingencies           13013.5   13865.1   26943.6           9.0       9.6     18.6          S1.5        7.1
Prfce Continecies               142842.5  135935.7  270778.2          16.7      15.8     32.5          48.6       12.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e................ *....... ........ ................ _... .... ............. ............................ ................ ........................
Totl  reCT   bCOSTS                36.7  30710.2 656.9                  1.        157.0    311.           50.4      119.6
VeIw  Peledb  1000000.0.-  1/27/1995  14:05



Page 17 of 26
sladic Republic of Iran
Irrigeation lWpOwmt Project
hale
Table 6A3:Siery Accowts by Year
one Costs                                            Foreign Exchne
1994     1995     1996     1997     1996     1999     2000     2001    Totat             munt
1. IESTNT COSTS
ZO. Techniclt AssStanoe         ''49.0   5494.8   4620.4   1814.7   1303.5    91S.?    653.2    460.4  1M1.7           54.6   9674.1
80. Training                     754.0   3206.7   2968.9   2320.7   2046.7   1305.7    626.5    4S6.7  13885.9        65.0   9020.6
CO. Equipmmnt                     354.5   9696.9  24S17.3  1SS06.3   6449.6   5765.2     78.3    63.8  62431.9        80.2  50042.5
DO. Vehicles                      7.7   3033.4   3055.1   1187.5    105.8    207.3        0.0      0.0   8323.0       59.5   4956.3
E0. Civil Works                  206.0  17529.8  35251.1  53109.3  53415.9  35001.5  19654.7   4174.4 220172.8        4S.9 101151.8
FO. Caqnation                    271.6      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    m.6          0.0      0.0
60. Entnerin" Servie             1092.6   33S7.6   412.9   305.1   1272.4    805.5    713.4    520.5  15146.0         44.9   6803.8
Total INESTMt COSTS              7691.5  42519.1  74S41.7  76993.7  64593.9  44001.0  21926.2   5675.9 337943.0       53.8 181649.1
11. INREOMT 00tST
NO. Incrmntal Staff              1080.2   1851.6   2764.9   3313.3   SM29.S   3774.4   3720.8   3767.2  24022.0        7.2   1736.4
10. OIN Eguipmsnt, Vehicles      178.1    601.9   1257.9   2183.4   2370.7   2400.6   2400.6   2400.6  1379.0         52.8   7280.8
JO. Contracted ON                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0
KO. Operation                     241.4    279.6    279.8    279.8    279.8    249.8    365.8    249.8   2226.1        10.9    243.1
Total EECLT COSTS                1499.8   273.4   4322.7   5776.6   630.1   6424.8   6487.2   6417.6  40042.1         23.1   9260.2
.. ................. .......................... I............... -w^................... ....................
Total SASELINE COStS             9191.3  45252.5  78864.5  82770.2  70974.0  SO4.8  28413.3  12093.4 377965.1        SO.S 190909.3
Ptysical Contingencies         318.4   2477.1   468.1   6201.6   S974.1   4150.6   2209.6    744.2  26943.6         S1.5  13865.1
Price Contingencies            860.3  12641.9  36200.0  53052.9  60709.8  5S883.2  39331.2  200.7 278778.2          48.8  135933.?
Total PROJECT COSTS             10370.2  6037.6 119932.6 142024.7 13S'.9  1104S9.S  69974.1  32916.3 606.9            49.8 340710.2
Taxes                          353.0   3002.9   6370.0   7826.6   8197.0   61M7.5   3609.2    973.1  36A39.4         0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange g493.3  31712.3  68918.3  73658.S  66041.5  S33M2.1  29904.4  11989.6 340710.2                    100.0 340710.2
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 1a2711993 14s05
m: \1 ranXl rrgsar.
o I



A&Mmc III
Page 18 of 36
Tcbte 7: Total ProJect: SIrY Account BY Project Cqnmnt
Isltuic Republfe of Iran
Irrigatfon I_provment Project
Swasry Aoccmt by Project Courpont
Rialt
Inst.SJp           Agrfeult Irr./Drs  Project
Project           Strwth    port   Irrol./D   ural         lnage  Fac.Incl
Coordina   TA dW    ening  OWproje rnp.Ilop Develop   On-Farn   uding  Enviwrm  Resettle
tfon    Training   NOOE       eta   rovant    ant         Dev       aSH      ent       ent
1. Il"ETNET COSTS
....................
A * Technical Assistance              0.0  11314.3        0.0   6352.4       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      44.9
B . Training                          0.0   5479.5        0.0   8406.4       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
C . Equpmnt                         400.2       0.0   6996.2       0.0    213.1  29M75.7        0.0  24431.8    614.8        0.0
D . Vehicles                        649.6       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   5305.5       0.0   2166.3    201.5        0.0
E . Civil Uor                         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0  17498.7   42.?  38203.3   2329.6    370.S            0.0
F . Coqumeaten                        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    271.6
a . Engineering ServIces              0.0       0.0       0.0  1S146.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total INVEST  coS                   1049.8  16793.9   69g6.2  29904.8 175197.9  39366.0  38203.3  2892?.6   1186.8    316.5
It. RErIREN OI STS
A   Inrental  taff                  1448.5   2375.1       0.0      0.0       0.0  11050.7       0.0    543.6   3713.0        0.0
5 . 0  Eupoent, Vehicles              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   7931.9       0.0   5862.1       0.0       0.0
C . Contracted OU                     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
O . Operation                       2226.1      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
...............i;.........................................i:w........ ...............................
Total REWIRNT COST                 3674.7   2375.1        0.0      0.0       0.0  18982.6       0.0  11296.7   3713.0        0.0
Total SASEL1E COSTS                4724.5  19169.0   6996.2  29904.8  175197.9  5838.7  38203.3  40224.4   4899.9    316.5
Phvsical ontinf enies             222.6    287.4    699.6    922.8  141l7.9   3996.8   4405.3   1983.7    295.2            2.2
Price Contingenies               3138.5  10028.8   4114.3  17318.8 139257.9  41452.2  33550.6  25911.3   3963.9           41.8
......................................~~~~~~~~,,,,, ......................................
Total PROECT CS                    8085.5  2685.2  11810.2  48146.5 328583.8  103797.7  76159.2  68119.4   9158.9    360.6
Taxes                              61.9    822.2    590.5   1881.9  22m4.4   3267.3   4690.7   2249.6           87.6       3.2
Forein Exchang                   1023.0  15929.6   9190.0  23804.3  145597.9  57685.8  43019.1  43147.0   1313.6           0.0
.................................... .................................................................................................................................................._ 
Valws Scaled by 1000000.0 1/2711993 14:06
1/   Institutional support for environmental surveys,  specialized studies and training for a base
cost of US$4.0 million and total cost of US$4.5 million included under institutional support
for subprojects.                                                                                                                            CO~
OuH
m:%fransirr  n3                                                                                                                                   w



Page 19 of 36
Table 8: Total Project: Sutprojecta By Project Cpaonent
Isic lepubLic of tran
Irrisatfon trwe ent Project
S&Wprojects by ProJect Cocpnmnt
ons llas Costs
Inst.Sp              Agricult  Irr.JDra   Project
Project             Strength    port    Irrfg./D    ural          inage   Fw e.ncl _
Coordin   TA and       oning  SUproje  rnge.lQ  Developm   On-FarM    uding   Enifrom  Resettle
tfon    Training  NRJ/OE         ets    rovement       ant       Dew        00S        ont      sent         TOTAL
A . Bed*dhan                               0.0        0.0        0.0       3.5        0.0        S.4        S.8       4.5        0.7        0.2        20.1
* . "Wmbsn                                 0.0        0.0        0.0        7.3      50.2        6.8       13.7       12.5       0.9        0.0       106.0
C . Zarrfnah Roud                          0.0        0.0        0.0       6.S       S8.5       16.6        6.8       8.6        0.6        0.0       108.7
D . TEJan                                  0.0        0.0        0.0       3.3       12.2       11.4        0.0        2.2       1.0        0.0        34.6
e . Centrol Levet                          3.2       13.2        4.8       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        22.8
................. .................................................. I....................................................................................................... ._
Total AOLIUE tOTS                          3.2       13.2        4.8      20.6      120.8       40.2       26.3      27.7        3.4        0.2       260.6
....................................................................................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  i2/10/1992
1/  Institutional support to environmental surveys, specialized studies and training fcr a base cost of
US$4.0 million and total cost of US$4.5 million included under institutional suppjlt for subproject.
10



- 75 -
Annexu
Page 20 of 36
Table 9:  hbehan; Projcat Cost Sumry
Istlamic Rp ic of Iran
Irrigatfon tprovmnt Project
3Wdon Sftproject
Project Cost Sary
Rfte                             USS                          X Totl
_              ----....... ..... -    - ....................-   X Foreign      s.
Local  Foreign     total         Local Forefgn    Total    Exchro       Coot
A. Irrig./Dmge.1ro        t           0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0       0.0
I . Agricultural Deveio nt         4534.7   3348.6   78.2             3.1      2.3      5.4         42.5      27.0
C . Irr./orafnge On Frm Dvp        403.5   442.6   8476.1             2.8      3.1      5.8         52.4      29.0
D . Inst.Sqport Smproject          260.S   2389.6   5050.3            1.8      1.6      3.5         47.3      17.3
E . ProJect Fac.ncludir, OUN       2700.6   3M.3   6494.0             1.9      2.6      4.5         58.4      22.2
F . EWiranenttl I/                  747.1    243.7    990.8           0.5      0.2      0.7         24.6      3.4
G . Resettltemen                    316.5       0.0    316.5          0.2      0.0      0.2          0.0       1.1
..............................   ............................................... ......._................................ _
Total BASELINE COStS              14993.2  14217.8  29210.9          10.3      9.8    20.1          48.7    100.0
Phftical Contingencies           S17.8     71.2   1599.1           0.6      0.5      1.1         48.9       5.5
Prlce Contigencies            10933.7   8779.0  19712.8           1.3      1.0      2.2         43.9      11.1
............... ...............................................   ...........................   ....................
Total PRWJECTS COSTS              26744.7  2377.0  5052.8            12.2    11.3    23.5           48.2    116.6
...... .... .. .. ...... ... .. .. .. .. .____.... ___.....
Values Sealed by 1000000.0 - 1/27/993 10t37
I/ Institutional support, specialized studies and training included under D.
SamrY Accontes Cost SAnrY
Rot1s                            U92                          X Total
*---------------------------  ........................        Foreign    Dase
Local   Forefgn    Total       Local Forefgn   Total    Exchange    Costs
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
...................
A. Equfpment                      1041.6   4190.0   S231.6           0.7      2.9      3.6         80.1      17.9
S. Vehicles                        45.5    669.5   1115.0            0.3      0.5      0.8         60.0       3.8
C. Technical Assistance            853.8    554.2   1407.9           0.6      0.4      1.0         39.4       4.8
D. Tra1ning                        610.5   1030.9   1641.4           0.4      0.7      1.1         62.8       5.6
E. Clifworwks                     5011.9   5072.5  10084.4           3.S      3.5      7.0         50.3      34.5
F. Coipnsatin                      271.6       0.0    271.6          0.2      0.0      0.2          0.0       0.9
G. Engineerng Services            1241.5    804.5   2045.9           0.9      0.6      1.4         39.3       7.0
Total INVEStUET  OST              9476.4  121.6  2179.0              6.5      8.5     15.0         56.5      74.6
1i. REtRRElt COSm
...................
A. InCr_lntal staff               4126.0    371.9   4497.9           2.8      0.3      3.1          8.3      15.4
S. 013 Eqiuipmnt ad Vehicle       1390.8   1524.2   2915.1           1.0      1.1      2.0         52.3      10.0
C. Contracted OI                    0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0       0.0
Total RECURIENT COSTS             5516.8   1896.2   7413.0           3.8      1.3      5.1         25.6      25.4
Total MA LIE COSTS               14993.2  1417.8  210.9             10.3      9.8    20.1           0.0    100.0
Physical Cotfigences            817.8    7M1.2   1599.1           0.6      0.5      1.1         48.9       5.5
Priee Contfngenig es          1093.    8779.0  19712.8            1.3      10       2.2         43.9      11.1
....... ..............        ... X   ..................... ...........................  ....................
Total PROJEMCTSCs                26744.7  12778.0  5022.8           12.2    11.3    23.5           48.2    11.6
............................................. ....................................
Valu  Scaled by 1000000.0 -  1/7/1993  10:37
m:%fran%rrgban3



- 76 -                                           AanRi_lII
Page 21 of 36
Table 10: Meshes: Project Cost Suwary
slad e Rtepblif of Iran
Irrigation Improvement Project
Noghan SuProj6ct
Project Cost stasary
Riats                                USS                             X Total
.....................-.            .    .     . .       . .-    X Foreign          Bgse
Local   Foreign      Total         Local  Foreign    Total       Exchange       Costs
... ..................... _ ..  .......... ............... . .  .....    .................. . ......
A . Irrig./Drnge.Improvement          3990.7   32966.7   72759.4            27.4      22.7      50.2          45.3        54.9
B . Agricultural Development           5527.7    4387.4    9915.1            3.8       3.0       6.8          44.2         7.5
C . Irr./Drainege On-Farm Dvp          8753.9   11135.0   19688.9            6.0       7.7      13.7           56.0       15.0
D . ProJect Fac.nctuding aSN           4360.8   13774.7   18135.6            3.0       9.5      12.5           76.0       13.7
E . Envirormental 1/                   1134.4      214.6    1348.9           0.8       0.1       0.9           15.9        1.0
F . Inst.sapport SZbproject            5133.6    5438.4   10571.9            3.5       3.8       7.3          51.4        8.0
Total BASELIVE COSTS                  64701.1   67918.8  132619.9           44.6      46.8      91.5           51.2     100.0
Physceal Contingencies              5449.1    5947.5   11396.5            3.8       4.1       7.9          52.2        8.6
Price ContIngencfes                51625.3   50860.7  102486.0            6.1       5.9      12.0          49.4       13.1
_   .. .....................................    .......... ..................._ ............... ........................ ........._.....
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 12177.5  124727.0  246502.4            54.4      56.9    111.3           51.1      121.7
= ......... ........................  ..   _................... ............... .... ......... . .......... ........ ....... ............ .........
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 1/271993 10:28
1/ Institutional support, specia.ized studies and training including under F.
Swumry Ac,- wts Cost Sumary
Riels                                1US Total
....    .........................    U Foreign            Bse
Local   Foreign      Total         Local  Foreign    Total       Exchange       Costs
.............. ...............    ........... .... .. ._.._. .._....   ....................
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. Cfvflworks                        50057.5   44947.8   95005.3           34.5      31.0      65.5          47.3        71.6
S. Equipment                          2328.0   13225.6   1S550.5             1.6      9.1      10.7           85.0       11.7
C. Vehicles                            955.4    1331.2    2286.6            0.7       0.9       1.6           58.2        1.7
D. Technieal Assistance                904.8      622.0    1526.8           0.6       0.4       1.1          40.7         1.2
E. Training                            788.8    13?4.6    2163.4            0.5       0.9       1.S          63.5         1.6
F. Engineering Services               3440.0    3441.7    6081.7            2.4       2.4       4.7          50.0        5.2
,- .;; ......................    ............................... ....................... ............................  .........
Total INMESTNENT COSTS               58471.5   64943.0  123414.5           40.3      44.8      85.1          52.6       93.1
..............................    ............................................... .. .......................... ___...........:...... ....
11. RECORREUT COSTS
...................
A. Incremental staff                  4098.1      361.8    4459.9            2.8       0.2      3.1            8.1        3.4
B. 0/N Equipment and Vehicle          2131.5    2614.1    4745.6             1.5       1.8      3.3           55.1        3.6
Total aECURRENT COSTS                 6229.6    2975.8    92G.3             4.3       2.1       6.3          32.3         6.9
..........................    ............................................... ..................................
total BASELINE COSTS                 64701.1   67918.8  132619.9           44.6        6.8     91.5           51.2      100.0
Physiecal Contingencies            5449.1    5947.5   11396.5            3.8       4.1       7.9          52.2        8.6
Price Contingencies               51625.3   50860.7  102486.0            6.1       5.9      12.0          49.4       13.1
.................. ........................................ ........................   ....................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                121 75.5  124 72.0  24502.4            54.4      56.9    111.3            51.1      121.7
....................    .................................................................,,,,,,,,,,..........................._._... 
Values Scaled by 1000000.0-   1/2- 11993  10:28
m:%franirrgWan3



- 77 -
AnnexlII
Page 22 of 36
Tabte 11: Zarrfneb RoaW; Project Costs Stmry
lstmfc Re,Xltc of Iran
Irrigation I o_ment Project
Zarineb r1 A Stproject
Project 4vst S*mry
R1als                               uS$                            X Total
.............................    ...........................  X Forelgn             Base
Local   Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
A. Irrig.jDrne. ISro_nt              48795.6  35961.1   8476.?            33.7      24.8      58.5         42.4       59.8
S . Agrecultural DeeloMent            842.9   1S619.4   24082.3            s.8      10.8      16.6         64.9       17.0
C. Irr./Drainap On-Fam Dvp            3883.8    Sf94.4    988.2            2.7       4.1      6.0          60.5        6.9
D .t Ist Spwort for SiproJ.           4754.3    4686.7    9440.9           3.3       3.2       6.5         49.6        6.7
E . ProJect Fac.Inctuing OBI          5477.1    6931.0   12408.1           3.8       4.8      8.6          S5.9        8.8
F . EnviroatL  1/                      947.8      220.6    1168.4          0.7       0.2      0.8          18.9        0.8
..............................    ............................................... .............................................. ..........
Total MELINE CTS                     72321.5   69373.2  141694.7          49.9      47.8     97.7          49.0      100.0
Physfeat Contingencies             4867.4    4851.8    9719.2           3.4       3.3      6.7          49.9        6.9
Price Contingencies               55463.3   51884.6  107347.9           6.5       6.1     12.6          48.3       12.9
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ... ...................  ...........................    ................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                132652.2  126109.6  258761.8          59.8      57.3    117.0          48.9      119.8
V'alues Scaled by 1000000.0 - 1/27I1993 10:51
1/ Insitutional support, specialized studies and training included under E.
Saimmry Accomts Cost Sumury
Rf1t1                               USS                            X Total
...........................         ...........................  X Foreign          8as
Local   Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchanse      Costs
3, INESTMENT COSTS
A. Civilueorks                      54512.8   42SS4.3   97067.2          37.6      29.3     66.9          43.8       68.5
8. Equipmnt                          47m7.8   18717.8   23493.6           3.3      12.9      16.2         79.7       16.6
C. Vehicles                           908.9    1387.9    2296.8           0.6       1.0       1.6         60.4        1.6
D. Tehnical Assistance               1051.S      89S.8    1947.3          0.7       0.6       1.3         46.0        1.4
E. Training                           8.9.9    1758.0    2628.8           0.6       1.2      1.8          66.9        1.9
F. Engineering Services              2831.9    2032.9    4864.7           2.0       1.4      3.4          41.8        3.4
= ,;  ....................... ...................... ...........................  --------------------.................. .....................
Total INSNESnTET COSTS              64951.8   67346.8  132296.S          44.8      46.4     91.2          50.9       93.4
, ................................................    ...........................   ........................................ ..........
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. Incremental Staff                 5865.S      391.5    62M5.0          4.0       0.3      4.3            6.3       4.4
B. 0/N Equipment and Vehicle         1506.2    1634.9    3141.1            1.0      1.1      2.2          52.0        2.2
,...............             ..         ................................. i....    ................. ......................................     
Total RECORRENT COSTS                7369.7    2026.4    9396.1           S.1       1.4      6.5          21.6        6.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                721.5   69373.2  141694.7            49.9      47.8     97.7          49.0      100.0
Physical Contingenfes             4867.4    481.8    9719.2            3.4       3.3      6.7          49.9        6.9
Price Contingenels               55453.3   S1884.6  107347.9           6.S       6.1     12.6          48.3       12.9
Total PIOJECTS COSTS               132652.2  126109.6  258761.8          59.8      57.3    117.0          48.9      119.8
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -   1/271993  10:51
w.:1ren%1rr9WG



- .78 -
Ann,ex III
Page 23 of 36
Table 12: TroJn; Project Costs SAry
Illmc Reqphlic of Iran
Irrigation Iprovement Project
TaJan Sub-Project
ProJect Cost Sumary
Hofts                                USS                             2 Total
..................- ...............*--   X Foreign      Bse
Local   foreign      Total         Loatl  Foreign    Total       Exchange       Costs
A . Irri.jDrnge.Iwurovaeant           9     I07.1    8474.7   17¢81.8        6.3      5.8      12.2           47.9       40.6
8 . Agricultural Development           6823.3    9644.7   16468.0             4.7      6.7      11.4           58.6       37.8
C . Irr./Drafnag  On-Farm Ovp             0.0        0.0        0.0          0.0       0.0       0.0            0.0        0.0
D . ProJect Fec.Including CM           1247.2    1939.5    3186.7             0.9       1.3      2.2           60.9        7.3
E . Inst.Support sybroJect             2388.7    2452.8    4841.5             1.6       1.7      3.3           50.7       11.1
F .fErrowin erttl                      1201.3      190.4    1391.7           0.8       0.1       1.0           13.7        3.2
Total BAELINE COSTS                   207.7   2272.1   456.8                 14.4       ;.7     30.0          52.1       100.0
Phsical Contingencies               1354.1    1497.3    2851.4            0.9       1.0       2.0          52.5        6.5
Prfie Contingencies                16215.9   1547.2   31863.1             1.9       1.8       3.7          48.8        12.3
. .................................... ........................    .........................................    ........................ .........
Total PROECTS OTS                     3837.7   3986.7   7884.4               17.2      18.5     35.7           51.8      118.8
.. .__._.... ....... ..............._._._._._..................... __.. ..__._ ................. _  _.......
VaIusSctudbvOOCOOQO.0 - 27/1/1993 11:04
_  Instituttional support, specitlized studies and training included under E.
suimiry Acohits Cost soury
Usfa                                 U                               X Total
..............................    ...........................   X Foreign             Base
Loat   Foreign       Total         Local  Foreign    Total       Excange        Costs
........ ................ _  _. __......  _._._.........................  ...................... ;..... ........._X.. 
I. l*nWTUxT OSTS
A. Civlvorks                          9438.7    877.2   18015.9              6.5      5.9      12.4          47.6        41.3
B. Equipment                          2423.9    8535.9   10759.7             1.7      5.7       7.4          77.5        24.?
C. Vehicles                            757.3    1217.6    1974.9            0.5       0.8       1.4          61.7         4.5
D. Tecnfeal Assistance                 774.9      70.4    1515.2             0.5      0.5       1.0           48.9        3.5
E. Training                            785.0    1187.7    .12.7             0.5       0.8       1.4          60.2         4.5
F. E ngering SMces                     828.8      S24.8    1353.6           0.6       0.4       0.9          38.8        3.1
~~~~~~~._ .................... ___....................   .. .. _..................................... ........
Totalt IVESTENT CST                  15008.6   203.4   35592.1             10.4      14.2      24.5       .  57.8       81.7
._ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   ~   . . . . . . .. . . . . .     .      ..................               . .. .. .. .. .. ..
II.* REcURRENT COSTS
A. Incrementa tstaff                  4374.4      611.2    4985.5           3.0       0.4       3.4           12.3       11.4
B. WM Equipent and Vehicle            1484.7    1SO.S    2992.2             1.0       1.0      2.1           50.4        6.9
.--...--. ............................................ ....... :............. -. ..-... ........ ..............
Total RECIRRENT COMSS                 5     I59.1    2118.7    7977.8       4.0        1.5      5.5          26.6        18.3
..~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                           ..___.. __.  ..........__.._.........    ................. ...
Total BMSLINE COSTS                  20I67.7  22702.1    569.8              14.4     13.7      30.0          52.1       100.0
Physical Continencies              1354.1    1497.3    2851.4            0.9       1.0       2.e          52.5        6.5
Prfee Contingencies               16215.9   15647.2   31863.1            1.9       1.8       3.7          48.8       12.3
Total PROJECTS   SS                  3847.7   3 6.7   78284.4               17.2     18.5      35.7          51.8       118.8
...................... ......................_._._......... _______._._._.......................... .....................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -   27/1/A9     11:04
rn-iranirreanS



- 79 -                                                Anne  III
Page 24 of 36
TOl  13: Central Loel; Project Cost Ssiry
latidc RpubLic of Iran
Irriation Ilo m  t    Project
Central Levnt
Project Cost lS     ry
Rlnts                                  Us$                              X Total
.                                      ...................- .......   U Foreign           Se"s
Lastl  Foreign         Total        Local  Forefgn    Total          Exdh           Oosts
I ~~~~~~~~~~................. ..................._ ................... ................   ........................................
A . institutional S_rt
1. Project Coordilwtion             4001.5       7M3.0    4724.5             2.8       0.5       3.3           15.3        15.3
2. TA      Trainore                 6637.9   10531.1   1910.0                6.0       7.3      13.2           54.9        42.1
3. Strengthenng NOMU                 15.0    5443.3    6996.2                1.1       3.8       4.8           77.8        22.6
4. InBt.Sqort Sa*roJbct                 0.0        0.0         0.0           0.0       0.0        0.0            0.0        0.0
..............................    .... ........................ ....... ... .... .... ........._
Su-Toat                                 14192.3   169.4         89.7             9.8       11.5      21.3           54.1      100.0
............... Z ... .................................... ...........................   .................................. ........
Total  US     CUTS                      14192.3   1S497.4   30889.7              9.8       11.5      21.3      -     0.0      100.0
Physical Contipneuies                  494.8      714.9    1209.6             0.3       0.5       0.8           59.1         3.9
Price Continanciee                   M51.2    8730.3   17281.6                1.0       1.0        1.9          50.1         9.0
........................... ...    .........................................._ ....................................................... ......_
Tout  PROJECTS COST8                    2 8.3   26142.6   49380.9               11.1       13.0      24.1           53.9      113.0
Vatlues fSced by 1000000.0 *M1n190   132
Sbumry Accounts Cost Susoa y
ial.                                   1USS                             X Total
......................---------....-...................... -                   Foreign    Sas
Local   Foeign        Total         Local  Foreign    Total          Exchange       Costs
~~~~~~~~...............                                           .................... --------------
1.  NVENMCOS n
A. Technical Assistance                 4462.7      6861.7   11314.3            3.1        4.7       7.8           60.6       36.6
S. Training                             1810.2    3i9.4    5479.5               1.2        2.5       3.8           67.0        17.7
C.  Wqpmnt                              1623.2    5573.2        396.4           1.3       3.8        5.1           75.3       23.9
I.   hicles                             299.6       350.0   649.6               0.2       0.2       0.4           53.9         2.1
i . CiviL   orks                                 0.0         0.0        0.0           0.0       0.0        0.0            0.0         0.0
P. Coisntton                               0.0         0.0        0.0           0.0       0.0        0.0            0.0        0.0
0. Enginorfng Servieo                       0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0       0.0            0.0         0.0
~~~~~------                      ........ ....................... ................ _  ...............  ...  
Totol IlEM_ T COSTS T5.6    1445.3   24839.9                                    5.8       11.3      17.1           6.2        80.4
.......................... ....    ...........................   .......................... ___.._._... 
it. RIONENT  coST
7................. -
A. Incrementat Staff                   3SOZ.6          0.0    3023.6            2.6        0.0       2.6            0.0        12.4
B. 0/  dquimaent, Vdfeclos                0.0         0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0       0.0            0.0         0.0
C. Contracted 0C                           0.0         0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0       0.0            0.0         0.0
D. Operation                            1963.1       243.1    2226.1            1.4        0.2       1.5           10.9         7.2
..................... iW..... ;  ..       ........................................ _........... ..................... -.
Toutl ECURET COSTS                      58I6.7       24.1      6049.8           4.0        0.2       4.2            4.0        19.6
Total lDALIE COSTS                     1192.3   16697.4   30889.7               9.8       11.5      21.3           54.1      100.0
Physicfl Contingencies                494.8      714.9    1209.6             0.3       0.5        0.8          59.1         3.9
Price Contingencies                  551.2    8730.3   17281.6               1.0       1.0        1.9          50.1         9.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................ ................................................................... ......................... .... ..  .........
total PROJEtSe  COSTS                  23238.3   26142.6   49360.9             11.1       13.0      24.1           53.9      113.0
Valums Scaled by 1000000.0 - 1/2711993 13:28
m\irui irrg~s



Annex zs
o0 -                                  Pag 25 of 36
1~~~~ r-                                                                 -  |-   m -1
TAN*   ~ 142          sSro$-}rom.m
Ie       ACo     Is      DC    Others    Touta
A.  civil Ibb
1.  I a   syates                                             12.3    17.3                                144.7
(59.5)1   (8.0)                            (67.5)
2.  ow.  Selop.                                              9.0       4.4                               13.5
(4.5)    (2.05)                            (7.0)
3.  Project Facilitlu  e  PK Factories                       r          .8                               8.9
_  (3.0)                           (3.0)
ubtahtal                                                 136.4    30.4                              16.1
(84.0)    (13.5)                           (17.5)
S.   wpm*~ aid btat.t
1.  PvC Pipe Proiwtin Mdilnfh                                10.1                                        10.1
(8.5)                                      (8.5)
2.  Pvc Pas_ and Addftim                                     5.0                                         5.0
(4.5)                                      (4.5)
3.  o 4 N ad   drtoLgiSqt uip                                 15.7     4.0      2.5    0.5               22.7
(14.0)     .n)   (2.3)  (0.5)              (23.5)
4.  Agrfcutturet Ndii miy 5r.r                                         3.0      f',    2.0               29.2
(18.5)   (C.4)   (0.4)  (1.7               (28.0)
5.  vahlRtes                                                 6.1              .-5    O.S                 ?.1
_.o               (0.3)  (0.3),            (4.0)
6.  Msel &pipmeat - Coterss. flud Ivt.st., Lebgtor                              1.0    0.5               1.5
_mUtr., Offfee furtiure wd .ipm*. Aed_      t Photos &                     (0.7)  (O.3)             (1.0)
Windet  -ww
otal                                                     60.6      r0      4.5    3.5               75.6
(48.9)    (6.1)   (3.7)  (2.8)             (61.5)
C.  coatti_                                                                            25.2
1.    uifnswiug SevIce                                                                          12.5     12.5
(8.0)    (6.0)
2.  centrat Cmmuttu,ts                                                                          5.0      5.0
(2.6)    (2.6)
3.  Eawrue.tMt  _ pt                                                                            5.6      5
(1.0)    (1.6)
4. Sp_efaIi_S _.p__ _ =
(a) Paul of aprnts                                                                         0.8      0.8
(0.6)    (0.6)
CM  Hydrolu0icat A twl Credit Ilisit. Stldies                                              1.6      1.6
(0.?)    (0.7)
_Sitott --.5                                                                                        25.5
O.  triliw                                                                            I         14.1     14.1
(6.3)    (6.3)
IL   mscttomma                                                                                     _
1.  RIw rAIt Cost*-Salaris aid Atleims etc.                                                     12.9    12.9
(-)      (-)
2.  Cwtain Outies id Tauss                                                                      14.5     16.5
(.1       .
- I-t- t                                                                                   29.4     29.4
_-)      (-)     I
Tett                                                     197.0    5tc      4.5    3.5      69.0    311.t
(112.9)   (9.6)  0.7)   (2.8)   (18.0)    l5?.0)
/ FPigum f ParefnIs tixeut _s,t  to be finawed wIdu teto s* Loan.
I/            ODiet Purch. or LIt for  qApumt, Sptre perted itonats



ANIIE% III
F    ~- 81 -          Page 26 of 36
-  - _- - --I   - - 1''1-'
{~~         I                   __ __
. ~ ~   _   _    _   _ .__      .
F~~ s  .                           _
't3 -'  4. E §                 _  §  o
,~~     - -  -  -2{ ___ ==-  - -
'gig~t W-g5
xw m         l   e   E    o1



Tabte 15/2:  ISLANIC REPU8IC OF  IRAN--IRRItATION  INPROvEENBT PROJECT -- PROPOSED  TENDERS PROCESSImG  SCUEDULE
sub;roi -         Tender Preparation  Tender/prop.Processing      CIVIL MoRDS  Equlpment/Materials
a                              DEsMuPTtoN                            SwurNey Sank  Pregu- Bid   Evalu- Sank  Advain Start Cowul. Ma       Equp. DeIti-
Tend.UO.                                                                Doc.  levieu a1     open. at    Review Pym.A Date             & Sh- Testi- cry
Prep. Adver  luo            Recoi Am"ard Hbit-         Date  ppng  ng    Date
Doe. i__
BEIENAM      Land Levelttin  North BebbSehm area  (4000 ha)                 .    6/93   7/93  10/93  12/93   1/94  2/94   3/94  3/98             .
IC-lI                                                                                 II                           
BC-1/2      Land Leveltig South 5gdehhan area (4000 he)                   3/94  s594   7/94  10/94  12/94   1/95   2/95   3/95  3/96    .
BC-I/3     Sualurface Drainafe  For the Subproject  (3300 ha)         .         6/93  7J93 10/93  1293   1/94   24 3/    3/9 .
SCKI/4      Project Facilitles For Agriculture and 01I                   12/93    -    2/94  54    6/94   7/94   8/94   9s94   9s97    -        - .
EC-1/5      Equipment and Vehicles For OSN  (RIm)                         4/94   6/94   7/94  10/94   12/94  1/93  2/95                 3/9   12/95   6/96
(under Ccutin Tender With Other Sukprojects)                                            I            I
EC-1/6      Equipment end Vehicles For Agriculture (PDA)                 10/94  12/94   1/t  3/95    5/9   6/9    7/95                  8/9   6/96   12/9k
(uwier Ccamon Tender With Other Subprojects)                                           I
E-L/-9    EWipment and  ifsc Materials using LCB or LIB etc              693   7/93    s3  10/9  tl/"3  1V93  1/94                .                              c 2/94  o11
6/96   796    8/96  10/96  11/96  12/96  1/97                  2/97         11/97
NOGMAN      Sebak to Bltessvar area Covering , WC Lining (1UK),N/D             6/93   7/93   10/93  12/3  1/4   2/94  3n94    3/9    -
NC-I/1     Itprav(25ft)  S/C tining   (Z4U) and Related Str. Nodif
NC-I/2      Parqpbed area Covering Sf/C  Lining (45m                       7/94 9/94   11/94  /9   3/     4/95   S/95   6/95   6/00    -
/0 Desileting (44"m) and Related Str.MAodif
NC-1/3      Ultan amea Coverfng S/C Linirg (42K)                      *   394  S/94   7/94   10/94  12/94  1/"5   2/95   3/9    6/0       .
3/0 Mew and IWtpwv (1616) and Related ftractures
3C-1/4      Side Sloqs Stabilization 8 Lining Of Main Cewt ard COtl A  9_94  11/94  1/95  4_9   6/95   7/95   8            9/45   9/99    -
NC-i/S      S     bahon  area Constrution Of Tertiay System FOr about            6/93   7193   10/93  123  1/94   29    3/94  3/99    -
.7200 he
IIC- 16     Nam _hamt  are  Construction Of Tertiry Sstm For  ou   7/94 9/94   11/94 2_    395 1              95   5/9S  5   6/9   6/00
1000 ha.
* SE
*~~~~Irrn~~~~~~~~1nu~~~~~~u~~~~3  
P4



Table 1S/: ISLAMIC RULtC OF IRM--IRRIGATION  INWIOVNT  PROECT -- PRPOUD  T_RS  PROCESIIN  SCH0EULE
Tendor Prepration  Tender/prop.Prcessirn    CIVIL IWVS  EIpmentNlaterats
I                            DEStPIPTIOII                        Survy  ank  Pr_gu- Bfd   Evawu-           aStrt Co_w. Nvei-
Tand.lNO.                                                           Doc.  Revlew at      Pen. at    RevieO Pav.& Date          & SA- Testi- ery
Prep. Adver twoe.        R     Aard N               ate      ngl no    oate
NC-Il?     Parsabd Am, Cotractin Of Tertiary Ste  for abot            9194  11/94  _    4/_   6/    7/9S    9    9/95  9/00
,7600 ha____    
NC-1/8     Ultan-Astando  Area Canstractfon Of Tertiary  system f     7/94  9/94  1t/94  1/95   3/95  4n5   5/9S  695   6/00   -  .
about am0 ha
NC-t/9     Land ing cming about 450 ha Mmea                            09S         2/96  4I/9   6/9  'r96   /9    99    9/00    -  .
IC-I/10    IAbsvn Are - Seurfac drainag for ab    300 ha Are  4                     /    101    n/94  /9m  2/95  3s   3/9   - 
NC-/1    Shasaan L r Area -fsrtace drairage For about 3SO0ha  7/9   9/94   1/4  1/95  3s   4/9   5/9   6/5   6/9                  -
Are
NC- 1/12    Fetazbd Area -Sabeurface drainag  _For about 4000 ha Area   10/94 12/9   295  4_9   6r9   sn    6/    9/95  9/99 
NC-L/i2    Constrnction Of OaI Duitdinp For RIA                       9/93   -    11/93  2/94  3/94  44  54  6/9   3/             _      _  
NC-L/13         ttion Of Buidrig for Agrfoulture PAD-Rm eareh         TM     -    9/3   1I/9  12/93 1/9   Vn4  3/    129     
. EtusOf etc
NE-t/14     eqlspet and Vahictc for ON (RiM) tnder Cn  Tende          4/    6/            109   1/   195   2         .           3ns  129  6/96
_       ~~With Other AkdproJeoa_t_s
IZE-I/t5             NWth Vhles for Agricutture 4PADS)-nder Ce_se    10/94 12/94 1/95  3/9f  5/95  6/95  7n          .       9U5   46/6  12/96
oom $*"Jwts                                                                                  I   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I- -- - -    -
11-1/16    Establidaut Of PVC Pipe Prodhction Factory ;n or Near      7/9    8      9/3   11/93  1/94  2                         4/94  6/   1V"2/
pa                                                                                                 /9 11.       .1U......29        19
:~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7- _  ...  ....      V. .W_.
*E-L/5-20 iEqndpnt ard Nisc. Naterial Using LCB Or LIB Procedures     6/93  7/95 |/93 | O93  11/93 1293 1t              - 1294   -   11/94
6/96  T/         W% l 86 |to61 ti^1  t2n6{ I/   1          2/ vs       lnr        {
\t ~ ~ ~     ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~-                      - §      on1
0t
on



labte IS/4: ISLIC  EULIC Of IR IUISATION IWtU1  PllTECT " PROPOe   1115  MCESSING  SC 
Tender Prepration Tmnder/r"P.P1roOeSIng       CIVIL WRS  EPAent/aterlls
sthpro.j.-                                                                                    -      --- 
&                                                                                         iGscRIPTIU  su  Pre    id    Evalw- 8ank    _   Stat Calt   f   - Deity-
Ted.lO.                                                                aoc.    vew al    Open. at    Review Pam.& Date              * Shi- Tastiv- my
Prep. Adver  I_awe           c   AR ard Nobi I-       Date  Wle  re    Date
ZARRIfElI   ZN io 2 (6300 ha Area) N/C Lininl  (12 Km) LPC lining
amO        (11 Km) New Lined S/C (65 KM) 5/0 (61 Ku TIC (103 11) and W         9/93  10/9S  1/94  3/94  4/94  5/    6/9    4   9/"9    -      .
ZRCn-tU    T/  (124 0) fnclt,At Related Structures
ZRC-IJ2    mo  g0 4 (9400 ha Area) Lining RPC (12 Ku) Lining RI/C
(Cl Km)   ew St/c & Laterals (119 Km) WSD (72 Kk)#T/C(153 KA)   -    2f94  3/94   6/94  9/94  10/94  11/94  12/94  9/00   .
T/D (185 Km) Inclt,Al Reloted Structumes
ZRC-1/3    Zone No 5 (7900 ha Area) Lining LPC (6 KMnMem LPC (17 Ku)
Lining LS/C (10 KWA).EN s/c (82 Km), S/3(92 Km),T/C (129 Km) 3/94  S/94  6/94   9/94*  12/ 19   2/95  lU95   3/t0 0               .
T/D (156 Km) fntl,Atl related Structures
ZRC-1/4    Zones  o 1,3 &8 (12400 ha Area) Lining RPC (30 KN),S/C ZB
(22 t),*S/ Z8 (13 Ka),T/C (203 Ku)#T/D (248 Ko) incl,Atl    10/94  11/94  12/94 3/J5   6/95  7/5   O/95  9/95  9/00    -         .
Reloted Structures
ZRc-I/     Zones 3 & 8 Lend Levelling (4500 ha)                          2/95   4/95   6/95   9/95   12/95  1/96  2/96  396   3/00    -       .
ZRC-l/6    Zo     3 & 4 S6iAurface Drainage (3400 ha)                    s/95   7/95  9/95   1/   396  4/96  Sf96  6/6   6/00    -            .      .
ZRCU-/7    Zones 2 1 5 6tbsurface Drainaoe (3400 ha)                     9/95   11/95  1/96   4/96   6/96  7196  am95  9/96   9/00
ZRt-lI/     ConstructiGn Of Bultdings For o5-RiA                         12/93   -    2/94   4/94  S/94  6/94   7/94  8/94   1        _        .
ZRC-I/9    cinstruction Of Buildings For Agriculture-PAD                 2/94    .    4/94   6/94   7/94 s/s   9/94   10/94 9/98    - B
.n-/lO    Civil Works for PVC Pipe Produrtion Factory In Niandmb 9/9   10/93  11/9  12/93  2/94   3/94   4/94   5/94   3/98    -
ZRE-1/11    Equipment For Establishing PVC Factory in Niandoab           9/93   10o4  11/94  1      3/95  4/95. 5/95    -             6/95  86   19?
6_96
231-1/12    Equnpment and Vehil¢es For o06  (MMA) Under cmmon Tender     4/94  6/94   7/94          12/94  1/95   2/9 .   .           3/ff  12/95  6/96
lIth Other ShproJects
me%lrsn%Irrg\a3
0 '



Table 15/5: ISLAMIC REPU8LIC OF IRAM--IRRIGATION tNPROfEMINT PROJECT -- PROPOSED TEODERS PROCESSING SCHEDULE
subproJ.                                                                Tender Preparation Tender/prop.Processino      CIVIL Man   Equpmmnt/Mterfals
a                             DESCRIPTI                             Survey - nk   Progu- Bid   Evalu- Bank  Adnn Start Coopl. Nhwf Equp. Dliv-
Tend.UO.                                                               Doc.  Review el a     pmn. at    Review Psys.& Date           A SW- Testi- ry
Prep. Adwer Issue          Recom Award Mobt-           Date  pping ng    Date
_  _   _    |  Docc_._   Ize
a ~~                                                                     ~~~ -  -   - _           - _-        -_       _ 
ZRE-I/13   Equipment and Vehicles For Agriculture (PAD) Under Common    10/94  12/94  1/95   3/95  Sr/4   6/9   7/95 TM8/95  6/96  12/96
Tender With Other StJprJects
ZRE-L/14-16 Cquipmmnt and Misc. Materials Us1ng LBC Or LIS Procedre      6/93   7/93   8/3   10/93  11/93  12/93  1/94           -    2/94           11/94
6/96   7/96  8/96   10/96  11/96  12/96  1/9?                2/97          1tl97
ZR-1/1T     Fare Machinery For Dametratian and Sale to Farers            3/95  5r95   7/95  9/95   11/95  12/V  1/96    -              3/96  3/9?   9/97
TAJM       Zone o 4 (75X0 he Rafnfed  rea) uPC ( 35 0) and lO
TC-I/1      C 22 Km) Incltrn All Related Structures                       .    6/93  7/93   10/93  12/93  1/4   2/94   3/94  3/99    -
TC-I/2     Zo   No 4 (7N00 he ) Lined S/C (80 Km) Sf/0 (12010), Lined
T/C (100.),Untined t/C (30 Km) * T/A (160) Includfag                694   7/94   10/94  12/94  1/95   2/1   3/95   12/99   .
Att Relsted Structurs
TC-L/3     Construction Of Mldinfs For O6  and Agriculture (MR  end   2/94            4/94   6/94  7/94  8/94  9/9    10/94  9/    .
PAD)
E-1/4       EqIpent and Vehcltes For Agriculture (PAD) Under Common    10/94  12/94  1/9s  3/95  s595   6/95   7/95    -               8/95   6/96   1296 "%
Tender With Other Up4rojects
TE-I/S     EqUipment and Vehlets For 0N  (RW) Utnder Common Tender       4/94  6/94   7/94   10/94  1294  1/95  2/95    -        .    3/95   12/95  6/96
with Other Subprojects
TE-L/6-8   Equfpment and Misc. Materials Using LCB Or LIS Procedures    6/93   7/93   8/93   10/93  11/93  12/93  1       -      -    2/94    -    t1/94
6/96  7r96   8/96   10/96  11/96  12/96  1m97                2f97          11 
TE-/9      Faer Machinery For Duanontration and Sale to Farere           6/95   8/95   10J95  12/95  2/96   3/96  496    _       _    6/96  6/9   12/9?
1IH
,0



v-9&-Iqz%ueJl%:w
NSO
H -
--------- -------- --------- --------------          W  IAJOK    SPIA@Jd
3usp _u oddy t uOlamleS
2o GAUSd 3USPUdpul *S
------------------------9*AJS   GPIADJ4
*0~~~~ ~pJU   t UI3UNISAU
*lesod.jd
Oulioaluom oija8opA #I
pJl     38f l 3JOqS
*66~~~~;#  ~ ~    ~      ~      1AVJ96 GPIMJd
slesodcAd
3iKpVs I 3s11 30o19
3O IJS  iSIOUSUI 1S.N  *£
p48a ola i 8pJdiv
---        -----------        --------                                                   1AJOS  OP4AOJd
-                       pi9Kv I uol3Uon)A3
0                            *~slasodojd
OD                                                                                                            00f@JqIWW  PA1 411u  J JW  Z
94uzfwo  lwfe 
- -----                                                                                                z=foA        UB460W
0@AJO 8PIAOJd
0- p-J8     I UO4) I S"
sleswdod ap3
aaJ qor jo*
s"IAM BUIJOSU(603 'I
&OW000z   o0o0M666          6619661                                                               Wall 6   91-  W6  ?611661 -sG6                AMA 1RW
*,tv"38s uopuwwU.tU  jo AaUUmUs :T0  oUTt z
MM      i 0 ;DIFIXldUIIUI VDIX
mm  AOI7c     X"



Tb* was PAWN 0  wututAt: 988Wu 
U"frl& R&M333333
llTT f TTto  Tenb W > 1wm "  At  p t TT|*It|ij3| |1|2|3
ttt  LB aLis12I                                                                         I 
Lcc.w                         1        3                                              
_                 , . , IEE EI :: E:E :::I11                               I      
Fwa Nwh                       miii             ini       P2
m      r    nt                      * t                 _I,I                                   II
iniPmw Wucift a?SS=IA_tL_                                                 T    TI                   I  
I~        Saud. Spf.ua                     1- 1 -I          I1                
VlCPIpoNbuafuttwhwSAImt    2   331313  33|            ;I
tlMlbditAlEE *                          lEEl11_ n   I l1 1       .   I           IME  IEII
cor*rm implownwiCOlifOt nw
_ Irwhirow c IaLetIo                                                                                                       'H
O N-.



- 88 -Annex1.z
Page 33 of 36
IUIC BUNLIC ai I11m
Table 17/1: DursILnmt Amw* by Catini
Cateory                           Ampint (Us S .1 ttion)     Percentage EVpenditure to be
Finwnced
A.   Clvit Vw|s 100 percent of foreign
_     _   _   _    _   _   _     _   _   _   __               xUpe iture
1.   Executed by xElms
(a) Iebahan Subproject                     0.2
(b) oghan SubproJect                      23.8
(c) Zarrfneh loud Subproject              24.0
(d) TaJan SubproJect                       6.0
Subtotet                              54.0
2.   Emecuted NIM/PAD
(a) Sehbehdn Subproject                    3.3
(b) Noshan SubproJect                      8.0
(e) Zarrineh Roud Subproject               4.5
(d) TaJan Subproject                       0.2
Subtotal                              16.0
S.     upmet *d Mbtereist                                         100 percent of forefgn
aw niture
1.   Procued JV  E/s
(a) Babbahan Subproject                    3.S
(b) Noshan SUbprjesct                      9.0
Cc) Zarrfneh Roud Subproject               5.0
(d) T.jan Subprolect                       11.5
|     MoE Lif son Office                   5.S
Subtotal                              24.5
2.   Procured by iW s
(a) 8 hbahan SubproJect                    3.2
(b) Pbshn So bproJ.ct                      7.0
(c) Zerrineh loud SuhproJect               12.8
(d) Tejan Subproject                       7.0
(e) NA Liaison Office                      1.5
Subtotal                              31.5
m3\1renUrr9Vsn3



- 89 -
,Ann x III
Page 34 of 36
Table 17/2i Dtdwn.    t          bya igrto
Category                           AM t (S S m tltion)                  ENPeWIt%Q to be
-                                   _   __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _   F1nenctd-
C.   Enwinri,w Sulen                                              100 percent of foreign
I expdture
1.   Prowidod for NEJRs_
Ca)  bahbeahn Subproj.ct                   0.1
(b) Noghan Subproject                      1.4
= c) Zarrineh Roud Subproject              0.8
= d) Tajan Subproject                      0.3
Ce) POE Liaison Office                     0.4
Subtotat                              3.0
2.   Provided for NM/PAls
(a) Sehbehan Subproject                    0.4
(b) sagnn SubproJect                       0.7
Cc) Zarrfneh Roud SuAprlect                03O
Sd) TaJsn Subproject                       0.1
(e) NM Liaison Office                      0.3
Subtotal                              2.0
D.   TocdniMl Assistance ad                                        100 Percent of foreign
Tredni_w                                                     expenditure
I1.  Prmvded fw Nal/EM
(a) Sd,behan S&prolect                     0.3
(b) Noghan Subproject                      0.6
Cc) Zwrrineh Roud Subprojoct               1.1
(d) Tajan Subproject                       0.6
(e) NOE Liaison Office                     4.9
Subotal,                              7.5
2.   ProvIded for NMPjsr
(a) Sehbeal n Sulbroject                   0.7
(b) Noghan SUbproject                      0.6
= c) Zarrfneb Roud Subproject              0.6
=d) TaJan SUbproject                       0.7
(e) N0A Liaison Office                     1.4
Subtotal                               4.0
.   UamaUocmted                                  14.5
T0TAL                                     157.0
m:%iran%irrg%an3



- 90 -                                 annex I
Pe  35 of 36
Table 16. Est.d Id.idule of Dhebuamnts
I   Fiscat 'fear           ter        Ctlettwo       Project        NMA Itbn       k-*-1de
and Smter Endfm        MJNtius IJiIim    X                          Ar-l S ui a    kctflnAX
Docedor 31, 19         0.0            0.0
Jtw 30, 1994           5.0            5.0             3.2            3              3
Dece¢er 31, 1994       5.0            10.0            6.4            6              6
Jue 30. 19ff           6.0            16.0           10.2           10             10
Doeeder 31, 1995       8.0            24.0           15.3           14              14
Jue 30, 1996           10.0           34.0           21.7           22             22
1997
Daeeair 31, 1996       12.0           46.0           29.3           30             30
Ju  30, 1997          14.0            60.0           36.2           42             36
Decaabr 31, 1997       15.0           75.0           47.6           50             46
Jun 30, 1996          17.0            92.0           56.6           5S             54
Deceabr 31, 1998       16.0           106.0          66.8           66             66
Jut 30. 1999           14.0           122.0          T7.7           74             14
Decea*  31, 1999       12.0           134.0          85.4           O2
June 30, 2000         10.0            144.0          91.7           90             86
Deo er 31, 2000 at     7.0            151.0          96.2           94             94
Jo" 30, 2001W          6.0            157.0          100.0          96             96
I Closins Date June 30, 2001.
s\a\r



- 91 -
A e  II
Page 36 of 36
ISAIC L EM I LIC Of 1RM
IRIATION Im      t  POJECT
Table 19: ShdWale for Criteal ctAins To Be C2=let
urinn Initfat Period of ltle.mtletfn
Action                                        lim Ifb        3               at
,A  lJf    Ibte
(a)    Finalze Shot List to Reqst Pro-
Proposls for Vencu Studies
and Conulty Services at
the Central Level                     NOE wr NM      3.10           Febrary 1993
(b)    Engw an Indpendent Panel of
Exports for Dan Sfety                 MOE            3.11 and        eOcwr 31. 1993
Appraisat
Aids NIiro
(c)    Enginering Services Conswtants        SsproJect      3.15 - Anex   July 15, 199
to Ctsplete dsig and tender           Consultants    111, Tale 16
do-u-nts for initial eivil            of NOE *nd NM
works contracts to be award
by Jwery I994
Cd)    Cosplett standard biddino             Cmtultants     3.20 and        Juty 30, 1
doewants for civil woks,              of MOE         3.23 Appraisat
goo  and matrials                                    Afds Mmoir.
(e)    Ceoplete resettlement of 49                          3.35            Septeher 30, 199
dsplaced famfltes including
caqenatian as stated in NM
letter of Nember 2, 199
%f ran%frrgWn



- 92 -
AhlX IV
Page 1 of 20
ENVIRONMENTAL NANAGNNW=? AND flNUNT?LBNDT PLAN
I. * NWIROU3IEISL  PLAN
A. ODis=cIVBS
1.          The objectives of the Environmental Managemert Plan are to:
(a)   strengthen institutions and personnel responsible for
addressing long-term environmental issues related to
irrigated agriculture;
(b)   establish model surface and groundwater water guality
monitoring program systems in subproject areas;
(c)   establish agricultural chemicals management programs in
subproject areas;
(d)   improve water use efficiency and protect soil resources from
water logging and salinization through reduction of seepage
losses by lining canals, rehabilitation of control
structures, construction and rehabilitation of drains and
improved on-farm water management;
(e)   implement specific mitigation measures for subprojects; and
(f)   prepare special studies to address long-term environmental
management issues related to development of irrigated
agriculture.
2.          The Environmental Management Plan includes a program of special
studies whicb are focused on addressing long-term environmental management
issues related to the development of irrigated agriculture. The studies
includes
(a)   Shadegan Marshes Protected Area Management Plan (Behbahan
subproject);
(b)   Maroon River Migratory Fish Management Plan (Behbahan subproject);
(a)   Management Plan for the  man-made "Abandan3 Ecosystems (Tajan
subproject);
(d)   Tajan River Migratory Fish Management Plan (Tajan subproject); and
m:'lreanUrrgoan4



- 93 -
Page 2 of 20
(e)   orumiyeh National Park Management Plan, including Sarrineh Roud
delta (Zarriunh Roud subproject).
B. * NVxRONMBNTAL ISSUNS CONMON TO ALL 8UBPROJECTS.
Rpvloaaetal HaR0212Me   C^apagkU
3. *         itaation - nattutional Strenatheni.  ango Euman Resources
Uaxdhr.ent. The Project will support a variety of institutional
strengthening and human resources development activities concerned with
environmental management at the national and subprojeot level. These will
include:
(a)  institutional Strengthening at National Level. At the national
level efforts will focus on training of personnel throught
international training (long-term degree and short-term); in-
country training; and conduct of "train the trainer" programs.
Special traininq programs in the use of environmental assessment
in the project planning and implementation process. These
training programs would be open for the participation of
cooperating Government organizations and experts from consulting
organizations (public, private and university based) recognizing
their key role in the planning, design and implementation of
projects in this sector.
I
(b)   institutional Strengthening of Local DON Offices.  The Project
will support strengthening of DOB offices in BehbO-n, Pars Abad,
Sari and Miyandoab. This will include training *   Arsonnel in
environmental management, preparation of environmental
assessments, environmental monitoring and in the development of
work plans. The Project will provide office equipment, computers,
reference materials, and in some cases vehicles. It will also
provide support for the construction of field facilities where
required. Assistance will also be provided under the Behbahan
subproject to strengthen the management capacity of the Shadegan
office of the Department of Environment and under the TCajan
subproject to assist the Flisheries Research Center of Mazandaran.
Physical and Biological Imnacts.
4.          Water *anageMe. The subprojects all require improvements in the
management of water from both a quantitative and qualitative perspective:
(a)   Water Use. Present water use is inefficient (30%) and
results in the wastage of water, water logging and
salinization. The main objective of the Project is to
address these issues through policy changes to increase uaer
fees for water to promote conservation and efficient use,
*s:franm1rr9Xa"



- 94 -
AN -X IV
Page 3 of 20
investmnts in rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage
systems to provide water in a more timely manner, reduce
seepage from canals, and strengthening the capacity of
farmers to manage the water more efficiently through on-farm
water management programs. Overall the Project should have
a positive impact on water use and increase the offLeLoncy
with whlch it is used in irrlgation.
(b)   Water oualntk.  Present water quality in the subproject
areas is seasonally varLable with better quallty achieved
during the main irrigation season and poorer quality
occurring during the post irrigation period. Channels
during the low flow season suffer from limited assimLlative
capacity due to both the restricted natural flow, storage of
water in reservoLrs and wastewater flows from agricultural
drains, municipal souzoes and sugar beet factorles ln Moghan
and sarrineh Roud. Surface water quality appears to be
effected by the dLscharge of fertllizers whlch when combined
wLth inadequate channel maLntenAnce practices and low flows
gives rLea to growth of algae and reeds in the systems.
Groundwater quality is influenced by the seepage of water
from the canals, draLnage processes following irrigation,
and the transport of fertilizers and pestLcides lnto the
groundwater table. Within the subproject areas the routine
monitoring of surface and groundwater water quality :s
restricted tos (i) informatlon c incerning parameters related
to water quallty requirement for irrigated agricultu-a
(cations, anions, etc.) which are systematically monitored
by the regional water authorlties, and (ii) information on
bacterLological and chemical aspects of water quality
related to the safety of drinking water supplies collected
by the Ministry of Health. The Department of Environment
also periodically collects data on water quality. Presently
their are no program for the comprcehensive collection,
analysis and use of watet quality monltoring data for the
management of irrigation operatlons in any of the subproject
areas. The Project should have a positive impact on water
quality if an effective monitoring system is established and
its data used on a systematic basis to manage water quality.
There wlll be periods during the low flow season ln the
rivers whlch supply the subprojects with water when careful
monitoring and management of water will be required to
maintain adequate water quality for fish and other aquatic
resources.
S.          KitiaatLon - Model surfaoelGroundwater Mobitorina Ptograas.  The
Project will support, surface and groundwater monitoring programs in each
subproject area. These programs will emphasiz. the collection, analysis and
interpretation of data for the direct support of the operation of the
M"irnkfIrrg"



- 95 -
ANEX IV
Page 4 of 20
lrrigation system, protection of domestic water supplies, and the conservation
of natural habitats, fish and wildlife populations. The design of the
programs will follow standardized guidelines prepared by the central
consultants and be adopted for local use by the subproject consultants. The
design of these programs will be specifically coordinated with the on-going
watez uality data collection programs of the Water Resources Investigation
Bureau of the Ninistry of Energy, Ministry of Health and Department of
Environment.
6.         The water quality program will focus on the regular monitoring of
a limited number of parameters significant to water management at a
representative number of location within the subproject areas. Sampling
locations would include 'Lver channels above the main canal intake and below
the discharge point of the canals and drains, key points within the irrigation
and drainage network, major domestic water supply intakes, municipal and
industrial wastewater discharge points and a representative set of groundwater
locations. Emphasis will be given to the creation of effective coordination
and data sharing arrangements for water quality information at the subproject
level. Support will be provided in each subproject for the provision of
required monitoring equipment, laboratwcy and data analysis equipment, and
training of personnel in the interpretation and practical application of
results.
7.         Agricultral nAma. All four subproject areas require
proveents in the management of agricultural chmicals. Presently
agricultural inputs, including fertilizer and pesticides, are provided to
prlvate farmers and state agricultural enterprises either free or at a nominal
charge. This has resulted in the fertilizers and pesticides being poorly
applied with regard to timing and amount. in addition, due to their limited
cost, farmers and enterprises have consistently procured from the grey market
(at 2-3 times the government cost structure) additional fertili:ers and
pesticides which aggravates the problem. Despite the extension activities of
the Agricultural Service Centers it is reported that both private farmers and
state farms frequently use up to twice the recoomended amounts of pesticides
and fertilizers. Due to the limited monitoring of fertilizers and pesticides
the impacts from these practices are presently poorly documented. Iranian
experts feel that the excessive use of these inputs is having a negative
impact on surface water, groundwater and soil quality, No data exists on
their potential impact to human health or wildlife.
8.          In the Tajan Subproject area efforts are presently underway by the
crop protection office to test, demonstrate and promote the use of cultural
methods (collection and burning of cotton stalks) and insect predator methods
(bees to destroy larvae of the stem borer). These types of methods and other
approaches to integrated pest management should be extended to other
subproject areas.
9.         Mitication -             Iricultual Chemical Naaemeat ProaraMs * The
Project will support design and implementation of agricultural chemical
MWnMXrrgW



- 96 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 20
management programs designed to the needs of each subproject area. These
programs will focus on the improved management and reduced use of fertilJzers
and pesticides (fungicides, herbicides, insecticides, rodenticide, fumigants,
etc.). They will support the evaluation and demonstration of alternative
means for crop fertilization and crop protection appropriate for each
subproject area. The application of integrated pest management (IPM)
approaches for crop protection will be reviewed for each subproject. The
design of the programs will follow standardized guidelines prepared by the
Central Consultants and be adov-ftd for local use by the subproject
consultants. These programs .. I be conducted in direct cooperation with the
provincial and local representstives of the Agricultural Service centers,
Agricultural Research Centers, Department of Environment, and Health
Authorities. The Project will support training activities for private farmers
and state farm personnel In cooperaiion with the extension service and crop
protection offices.
10.         Imnacts to Natural Habitat and Wildlife.  As the Project will
support the rehabilitation and improvement of existing irrigation and drainage
systems which already have established water allocations it is not anticipated
to have a significant adverse impact on either natural habitats or wildlife.
The Water Quality Management Programs and Agricultural Chemical Management
Programs should result in reduced impacts to natural habitats e. wildlife
from these sources. They will also provide monitoring data to evaluate
potential risks and support formulation of management actions.
11.        However, analyses conducted for the preparation of the Project
indicates that unless steps are taken by the Government of Iran to integrate
environmental analysis and review into the planning and decision making
process used for proposed programs/projects significant adverse impacts may
occur to natural habitat and wildlife in areas adjacent to the subprojects.
This situation is most serious in the cases ofs (a) the Shadegan Marsh
Protected Region in Khuzestan which will be erfected by the implementation of
the Maroon River Basin Development Program, and (b) Lake Oruyimeh National
Park in West and East Azerbaijan which will be effected by the a large series
of proposed water development programs and has been impacted to an
undetermined extent by the construction of the Road of Shahid Ralantary across
the central portion of this salt/brackish lake. Both these sites are
protected areas under Iranian Law and have been listed by the Government of
Iran as sites of international significance for migratory waterfowl under the
Ramear Convention.
12.        Mitiaation - Special Studies and Special Actions.  The Project
will support a series of special studies and special actions in all
subprojects to address the integration of conservation concerns into the long-
term planning process for the development of the regions where the subprojects
are located. These will also include studies to support the potential
remediation of adverse impacts to migratory fish due to the construction of
$ivil works on the Maroon and Tajan Rivers which have adversely affected this
resource. It is anticipated that these activities will provide models for
m\iran%IrrWAn



- 97 -
Page 6 of 20
similar studies and actions which can be taken in other parts of Iran. A
summary of these special studies and special actions is provided below.
(a) gachaeolo"ical and Eistorical 81tLs. Implementation of the
construction phase of the subprojects may result in the accidental
disturbance of unrecorded and/or buried archaeological and
historical sites. In the Behbiban subproject measures will be
taken to avoid disturbance of the protected archaeological site of
Arjan and its vicinity. In addition, an archaeological survey
will be prepared of the 8ehbahan subproject area to avoid direct
or indirect impacts to archaeological sites during construction
and land leveling. The other three subproject areas do not appear
to contain any known sites of archaeological or historlcal
significance. The cultural Heritage organization will conduct
reviews and provide formal clearance before construction and/or
land leveling operations are conducted in the four subproject
areas. A contingency budget will be provided to support the
emergency archaeological investigation and/or salvage in the case
of the unanticipated discovery of archaeological materials during
the course of Project Implementation, especially with regard to
excavation activities associated with canal and drainage
improvements. Notification and operational procedures will be
developed between the Liaison Offices and the Cultural Heritage
Organization to be used in case of *chance finds".   All
construction contracts will include specific cl^uses concerning
procedures to be followed in the case of finding archeological
materials during construction.
(b) Health Imoacts. Meetings with health authorities indicate that in
none of the subproject areas is there presently an incidence of
either malaria or schistosomiasis. The only subproject area with
a risk of schistosomiasis is Dehbahan in which the a regular
monitoring program is conducted. All areas suffer from poor
quality domestic water in the towns and villages which results in
a high incidence of gastro-intestinal problems. In addition, the
use of pesticides presents a health risk directly to those
involved in agriculture and to those who come in contact with
pesticides or their used containers. Within all subproject areas
extension staff have worked to make farmers aware of the risks of
pesticide management and storage. In many instances the
pesticides are applied by local application specialists who report
that they regularly wear safety equipment. In the case of state
farms pesticide application is done by staff who have received
basic training in pesticide safety or commrcial contractors.
Although no human deaths were reported due to pesticide use in the
subproject areas, experts and farmers reported that occasionally
people got headaches or had stomach problems due to pesticide
exposure.
m: iran%fnr\an4



98 -
Page 7 of 20
(c)   kitioation - health impacts.  It is anticipated that
implementation of the proposed project wlli Improve domestic water
quality in all subproject areas by allowing for the easier
operation and maintenance of canala by lining them and improving
their hydraulics which wills (i) reduce both the occurrence of
suspended sediment from the erosion of canal wallsl (Li) reduce
the amount of sediment and vegetation in the canals which reduce
water velocity, create pools of stagnxant water, and allow for the
accumulation of town/village household refuse in the canals; and
(iii) reduce the potential nabitat for water breed vectors. Issues
related to reducing human health effects from pesticide use will
be addressed under the Agricultural chemical Management Program
described above.
(d)   Socio-Nconomic Imnacts. Due to the fact that the agricultural
areas are presently fully settled it is not anticipated that the
Project will have any significant negative soial impacts. The
Project will suvport the preparation of detailed socio-economic
surveys of each subprcject area to assist project implementation.
It should be noted that the Project includes an element to support
the resettlement of the v. i gers of Dej-e-Mahtabi (49 families)
who have been relocated to _ w Rehbahan as the result of
construction of the Maroon River Storage Dam by the Government of
Iran. Although not an imDact from the Proiect, an Involuntary
Resettlement Plan to support the planned relocation of these has
been developed and will be imp'.r nted with Project funding and
supervision.
C. sPZCIJIC ISSUES OF EACH SUBPROJECT
13.         Behbehan Subproiect.  There are no major industrial or agro-
industrial sources of water pollution in the project area or upstream of the
diversion dam. Completion of the Maroon River Storage Dar, 17 kilometers
upstream, in 1996 will result in major regulation of the water supply for the
subproject area. There are no major sources of erosion and sedimentation
which are anticipated to effect operation of the irrigation system following
th- completion of the storage dam. Subsurface drainage and land levelling
components are anticipated to have impacts on the environment. Anticipated
positive impacts from implementation of the subproject includes (i) improved
water use efficiency; (ii) improved drainage with a reduction in water logging
and salinization risks; and (illi) reduced seepage in the Immediate vicinity of
the Arjan archaeological site due to canal lining. Anticipated negative
impacts from implementation of the subproject includes (i) potential
increases in the use of fertilizers and pesticides with adverse impacts to
water quality, soils, human health and wildlife; (ii) potential disturbance or
destruction of unprotected archaeological and/or historical sites located on
the Behbahan plain within the irrigated perimeter; and (iii) potential
impacts to unrecorded and/or buried archaeological sites.
m:\iraI\1rrg9\w



- 99 -
Page 8 of 20
14.        Mitigation actions proposed aces (aJ strengthening of the Dehbahan
DOE Office; (b) Water Quality Monltoring Programs (c) Agricultural Chemicals
Management Program; (d) Conduct an archaeologLcal and hLitorical ito srvey
under the supervision of the subproject consultant by personnel and/or
specialists acceptable to the Cultural Heritage Organixation coneidstot with
the procedures of the Government of Iran and World Bank. The survey willi
identify the location of each site, define the potential period(s) of
occupation on the basis of pottery and other evidence, describs any structures
which can be evaluated from surface evidence, determine the potential
sensitivity of the site, determLne the present ownership of the site, and
provide an implementable management plan. The survey will be completed and its
findings incorporated into the subproject designs prior to undertaking
construction and land leveling activities; and (e) a subproject archaeological
clearance will be obtained prior to construction or land leveling activities
sad an archaeological emergencr procedures will be developed with the Cultural
Heritage Organization.
15.        Ko9baS*bpro4set   The project area presently suffers severe
water logging and salinization problems due to an inadequate drainage syatem
and over application of water. The canal system has sedimentation problems
associated with excessive erosion of canal bank slopes within the project area
due to lack of protection and excessive grazing by livestock. Within the
subproject area the discharge of untreated wastewaters from the town of Pars
Abad to both surface drainage and groundwater presents some water quality
management problems. Wastewater and solid wastes are also generated at the
sugar beet factory and large industrial dairy located within the subproject
area.
16.        Anticipated positive impacts from implementation of the subproject
include: (i) improved water use efficiency; and (ii) improved drainage with a
reduction in water logging and salinization risk in an extensive portion of
the subproject area. Anticipated negative impacts from implementation of the
subproject include: (i) potential increases in the use of fertilizers and
pesticides with adverse impacts to water quality, soils, humas  health and
wildlife; (ii) continued high rates of canal bank erosoln and the resulting
impacts of sedimentation on the irrigation systemt and potentia'l impacts to
unrecorded and/or buried archaeological sites.
17.        Mitigation actions proposed ares  (i) stregthening of the Pars
Abad DOE Office; (ii) Water Quality Monitoring Program; (iiiL) Agricultural
Chemicals Management Program; (iv) Design and implementation of a canal bank
erosion control program which will test and then extend various techniques In
the project area. This activity is especially important fcr reduction of
sedimentation of tLS main canal in the areas where it has very high bank cuts
(up to 15-20 meters) and major curves in the alignment. The program would
promote the planting of the banks with protected trees and shrubs. This would
be complemented by activities to restrict livestock access in these areas,
patrol of the areas by canal guards and public education programs for
populations in the vicinity of these sections of the main canal. The program
*-f ran%f rrg%



- 100 -
AqNNE I
Page 9 of 20
would be implemented ats an integral element of the subproject; and (v) a
subproject archaeological clearance prior to construction or land levaling
activities and arcbasologlcal emergency procedures will be developed with the
assistance of the Cultural Heritage Organization.
18.          aiaJn 8pbnoieotg. Tho city of Sari, which does not have a
municipal wastewater collection or treatment system, is immediately upstream
-f the diversion dam. In addition over 20 villages of the Shahid Beheashti
district also discharge their untreated wastewaters to the Tajan R'ver. A
limited amount of agro-industrial wastewater is also discharged above the dam
from a milk plant and a paper plant is under construction. Poorly regulated
sand and gravel extraction operations also occur upstream of the diversion
dam. Cultivation of the floodplain to the edge of the river also contributes
to erosion.
19.         The upper reaches of the Tajan will be regulated by the Shahid
Rajaee Storage Dam which is under construction with Government of Iran funding
and expected to be completed in 1996. The Ministry of Jihad is pre: antly
having cons-ltants prepare a watershed management plan for the area above the
storage dam and the FAO is implementing the VNDP funded "Parim Choob Forest
Management Plan" in the southwestern portion of the upper catchment. The
Masandaran Regional Water Authority has commissioned the Sari Office of the
Department of Environment to prepare an environmental evaluation of the
impacts of the qtorage dam.
20.         Anticipated positive impacts from implementation of the subproject
includes (i) demonstration of improved techniques for the management of
irrigated agriculture in a region with extensive irrigated agiiculture; (ii)
improved water use efficiency; and (iii) improved drainage with a reduction in
water logging and salinization risk in an extensive portion of the subproject
area. Anticipated negative impacts from implementation of the subproject
include: (') conversion of 7,500 hectares of rainfed agricultural land to an
irrigated production system; (ii) potential increases in the use of
fertilizers and pesticides with adverse impacts to water quality, soils, human
health and wildlife; (iii) risk of periodic contamination of the irrigation
water supply from upstream discharges of wastewater; (iv) risk of excessive
sedimentation behind the diversion dam and in the canal system unless measures
are taken to control sediment generation in the mid-Tajan River Basin; and
(v) potentlal impacts to unrecorded and/or buried archaeological sitae.
21.         Mitigation actions proposed are: (i) strengthening of the Sari DOE
Office; (ii) Water Quality Xonitoring Program with special emphasis will be
given to the monitoring of upstream wastewater discharges given their
potential impact on the quality of irrigation water and aquatic life and on
discharges from the drains to the marine environment; (iii) Agricultural
Chemicals Manasement Program: (iv) Management Program for the Middle Tajan
River Basin to establish a river zoning system to support land use decisions,
development of a riverside "set-back" system to reduce bank erosion, pilot
riverside pilot afforestation program, and an evaluation of actions which can
m:%1ran%frrg9ar



- ;01 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 20
be taken to reduce excessive sediment generation and stream bank damage from
the extensive sand and gravel excavation and washing operations, and (v) a
subproject archeological clearance prior to construction or land leveling
activities; and (vi) archaeological emergency procedures will be developed
with the assistance of the Cultural Heritage Organiza'ion.
22.         Zarringh RSod Subnroieot. The project area presently suffers
severe water logging and salinization problems due to an inadequate drainage
system and over application of water. Untreated municipal wastewater from the
town of Miyandoab and the sugar beet factory present local water quality
management problems. Extensive upstream development on the Zarrineh Roud
results in minimal sediment management problems in the irrigation system.
23.         Anticipated positive impacts from implementAtion of the subproject
include: (i) demonstration of improved techniques for the management of
irrigated agriculture in a region with extensive irrigated agriculturel (ii)
improved water ase efficiency; and (iii) improved drainage with a reduction in
water logging and salinization risk in an extenutve portion of the subproject
area. Anticipated negative impacts from implementation of the subproject
include: (i) potential increases in the use of fertilizers and pesticides
with adverse impacts to water quality, soils, human health and wildlife; (ii)
potential adverse impacts to wetland habitats and wildlife if the
implementation proceeds with the proposed Zone 9 expansion of the project area
included in the Second Phase (not proposed for Bank funding under the present
project) of the Zarrinch Roud Project Feasibility Study without site specific
environmental analysis and review by the Department of Environment and (iii)
potential impacts to unrecorded and/or bur"ed archaeological sites.
24.         Kitigation actions proposeds (i)  strengthening of the Miyandoad
DOE Office;  (ii) Water Quality Monitoring Program; (iii)  Agricultural
Chemicals Management Program; (iv) The preparation of an analysis of the
potential environmental issues associated with the proposed extension of
irrigation into Zone 9 as proposed for che Second Phase of the Sarrineh Roud
Project Feasibility Study. The environmental analysis would be coordinated by
the subproject consultant with the participation of the West Azerbaijan
Regional Water Authority and the local offices of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Department of Environment; (v) A subproject archeological clearance prior
to construction or land leveling activities; and lvi) archaeological emergency
procedures will be developed with the assistance of the Cultural Heritage
organization.
D SPecXAL STUDI88 AMD ACTIONS
25.         Bebahan SubDnroict
(a)   Maroon LB r Xicratorv Fish Manaoement Plan.  The subproject will
support the preparation of a migratory fish management plan for
the yaroon Riveo The development of the plan is required due to
the disruption of fishery :esources by the completion of the
w:\ ran%frrg9anA



- 102 -
ANXIV
Page 12 of 20
Debahan Diversion Dam and the ongoing construction of the Maroon
River Storage Dam and Jazeyan Diversion Dam which have
collectively blocked migration of fish in the upper Maroon River
and may result in downstream changes in water availability fin the
future. The study would inr -4 an analysis of the types and
r-iinomi-c importance of sede. .ey and migratory fish; their
%..>4-on periods; identify the spawning grounds for the major
e . *~s; and assess the impacts from completed, ongoing and
,..uAnod water resources developments on fish productivity. This
ra."ysis would be ixmplemented by the design and implementation of
a program to alleviate the impacts of these developments on
fishery resources. This study would be coordinated with the
Khuzestan Water and Power Authority Project and the local offices
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mi'iistry of Jihad and Department
of Environment.
(b)  Manaqement Plan for Shadeaan Marshes Protected AEM. T-e
subproject will support preparation of an interdisciplinary study
to establish a framework for the long-term management and
protectxon of the Shadegan Marshes Protected Area. The
development of the Plan will include: preparation of a
biological/ecological inventory and mapping of the resources of
the marsh system both prior and after the recent war; assessment
of water flows and quality into, within and out of the marsh;
evaluation of the dynamic relationships between these features and
changes in fresh water inflow rates, position of areas of fresh,
brackish and saline waters and their transition xones within the
marsh; analyse the reccemended levels and timing of fresh water
inflows which are required for the maintenance of the criti¢r-l
ecosystems/habitats; analysis of the impacts and management
issues/opportunities resulting from the construction of roads and
other features in recent years; assess human use of the marshes
and its role in ecosystem anagement; assess the impact of
previous, ongoing and proposed water rer-urces developments in the
areas draining to the marshes; and provide an analysis of actions
which could be adopted to assure proper long-tem management of
the Protected Region. The preparation of the Plan would be
coordinated with the Khuzestan Water and Power Authority, Ministry
of Agriculture, Ministry of Jihad and Department of Environment
(e)   Institutional 2a woort for Shadaoan Marshes Protected Area. TSis
action would complement the Management Plan described above and
include support for the strengthening the capacity of the local
management office in Shadegan to monitor and protect the marshes.
This activity would be coordinated with the national and local
offices of the Department of Bnvironment.
26.         Moahan gab    iect.
m\tran\Irgan



- 103 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 20
(a) Umnroved Miaratory Bird census Mfethod. Support would be provided
for improvement of migratory bird census methods and reporting.
Data collected from this upgraded process would be used to provide
support for the management of natural and man-made wetland areas
in the region and for the protection of migratory and sedentary
birds. This activity would be coordinated with the national and
local offices ot the Department of Environment.
(b)  Egtablishment of New Protected Recion for Gazelle.  Support would
be provide to establish, under the management of the Department of
Environment, a new protected region for gazelle to be located in
the vicinity of the 'frontier drain" for the Moghan subproject.
This facility would include a 10 hectare protected area enclosed
by a heavy fence with a guard house and storage facilities for
supplemental food for the gazelle. It would be used as a center
for the breeding of gazelle for their later reintroduction into
the wild. This activity would be coordinated with the national
and local offices of the Department of Environment.
27.         Taian Subnroiect.
(a)  Ifnaaement Plan for Man-made "Abandan" Ecosvgtemg.  The
traditional system of spate irrigation in the Tajan subprojOct
area and in adjacent irrigated areas on the Caspian coast of Iran
has resulted in the creation of large irrigation water storage
ponds locally known as wabandans". These have evolved into
complex man-made and man-maintained ecosystems with a high
economic value to local residents (irrigation water control,
production of fish from fingerlings, hunting of birds, rental to
the Department of Environment for bird protection, harvesting of
reeds, and recreational use) and to local and migratory wildlife,
especially waterfowl. These systems are collectively owned and
managed by groups of families, with sometimes over 250 families
involved. The wabandans" are dynamic features subject to
modification over time as they are dredged and cleaned, then
become over time filled with vegetation of varying levels of
density and maturity. The dynamic nature of these ecosystems maks
them complex to manage and their extent make them important
ecosystems to manage.
The objective of the special study would be to develop a practical
approach for the management of the "abandansa by their collective
owners with the support of the Department of Eavironment. The
development of the plan would includes development of an inventory
of the "abandans" with information on their size, physical status,
irrigation command areas and ownersdip preparation of a detailed
inventory of the birds wintering on the wabandans"  development of
a simple topology (ecological roles and conditions, type of bird
feeding grounds, socio-economic uses by farmers) and mapping; and
WNIMW4



- 104 -
\                 ~~~~~ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 20
evaluation of costs for management options. Development of the
plan would be followed by an implementation phase in which the
Department of Environnwnt would reach agreements with owners for
their rental and monitoring both their use by birds and
modifications to the "abandans" as part of their management. The
preparation of this study would be coordinated with the Masandran
Regional Water Authority and the local offices of the Ministry of
Agriculture, and Department of Environment.
(b)   Taian River Miaratorv Fish Nanacement Plan.  The objective of the
plan would be to revitalize the fishery resources benefits of the
Tajan River following completion of the Sari Diversion Dam which
includes a fish ladder and will establish a backwater pond of a
sufficient elevation to allow migratory fish to once again go
upstream of the massive foundation of the Tajan River bridge in
Sari. The plan would include the development of information
concerning anadromous and catadromous fishes traditionally found
in the river including caviar sturgeon and trout; preparation of
an ecological analysis of the Tajan River, and monitoring of the
fish ladder particularly during periods of low flow and migration.
The subproject would provide support for strengthening the
monitoring program of the Fisheries Research Center of Mazandaran
through staff training, consultancy support, and procurement of
specialized equipment. The preparation of this study would be
coordinated with the Mazandran Regional Water Authority, Fisheries
Research Center of Mazandaran, Iran Fisheries Company, and the
local offices of the Ministry of Jihad and Department of
Environment.
28.         Zarrineh Roud Suboroiect.
(a)   Lake Oruvimeh National Park Manaaement Study. The subproject will
support preparation of an interdisciplinary study to establish a
framework for the long-term management and protection of Lake
Oruyimeh National Park. The study will include: preparation of a
biological/ecological inventory and mapping of the resources of
the lake and adjacent ecosystems; evaluation of the dynamic
relationships between these features and changes in water inflow
rates, water levels and lake salinity; analyze the recommended
water levels and salinity levels which are required for the
maintenance of the critical ecosystems/habitats; analysis of the
critical water flows to maintain the ecological systems of the
lake's various river deltas; assess the impact of previous,
ongoing and proposed water resources developments in the Lake
Oruyimeh drainage basin; and provide an analysis of actions which
could be adopted to assure proper long-term management of these
resources. The preparation of this study would be coordinated
with the East Azerbaijan Regional Water Authority, West
Azerbaijan Regional Water Authority, Ministry of Agriculture,
m:%1ranVfrr9%an4



- 105 -
Page 14 of 20
Ministry of Jihad and Department of Environment. Preparation of
this study should make use of the extensive information and data
base developed concerning Lake Oruyimeh by Ab-Niru Consulting
Engineers (Tehran).
(b)   Sarrineh Roud Delta and Wetlands MaN"eMent_ Plan. The subproject
will support preparation of a management plan for the ecologically
sensitive Zarrineh Roud Delta and adjacent wetlands thorough the
evaluation and mapping of the ecological features of the area,
assessment of current and potential causes of environmental
degradation in the area, determination of the minimum seasonal
water flows for maintenance of the ecology of the delta,
development of a system of management zones to include both a
protected and buffer area, identification and demarcation of the
boundaries of Lake Oruyimeh National Park in the area. The
preraration of this study would be coordinated with the West
Azerbaijan Regional Water Authority and the local offices of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Jihad and Department of
Environment.
B. IHPLEMNTATION
29.         Imylementation of the Environmental Manaaement Plan.  The
Environmental Management Plan will be implemented with the support of Project
Liaison Offices and the Subproject Implementation Units which each will
include a full-time environmental specialist. At the sub-project level
activities included in the Plan will be the responsibility of the Sub-Project
Implementation Team in cooperation of the local office of the Department of
Environment.  The consultants retained fce each sub-project will be expected
to provide personnel to address selected environmental issues as appropriate
for the activities included within their contracts. All contract documents
for construction activities will contain clauses which address environmental
concerns related to construction such as the unanticipated discovery of
antiquities, proper disposal of wastes, etc.
30.         Estimated Cost. The costs for implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan have been fully integrated into the budget for the proposed
project and are summarized in the cost tables (Annex III, Tables 6 to 13).
The Implementat ion Schedule for the Environmental Management Plan is detailed
in the working paper available from the project files.
31.         MQoniorng. Monitoring of the implementation of the Plan will be
an element of both the work plan for the Project Liaison Offices and the
Subproject Coordinators. A section of the regular implementation reports of
the Project Liaison Offices and subproject Coordinators will address
environmental issues as will the progress reports submitted by the consultants
retained to support implementation of the sub-projects. This structure should
provide the Borrower with an appropriate means to carefully monitor
m:\Iran\frrg\4



- 106 -
Page 1S of 20
environmental issues associated with the project and provide opportunity to
make design modifications as may be reuired.
it-              PZI
A. Proposed Resettle-aet Plan for
Vialage of Del-e-4ahtabi, Shusestan
32.         Backgrnd. As a major elemen't of the long-term economic and
social development of the Province of Rhuzestan, the Government of Iran,
acting through the Khuzestan Water and Power Authority (RWPA), has prepared a
comprehensive development plan for the Maroon River Basin. This plan
includess (a) the construction of the Maroon River Storage Dam; and (b) the
development of four irrigated areas at Behbahan, Jayezan, Xhalafabad and
Shadegan. Implementation of this plan has included the construction of the
Behbahan Diversion Dam (completed 1989) and the ongoing construction of the
Jayezan Diversion Dam and the Xaroon River Storage Dam. These construction
projects are being fully funded by the Government of Iran and do not involve
the participation of the World Bank.
33*         Dei-e-Mahtabi Villaoe.  In order to construct the Maroon River
Storage Dam, it was necessary to involuntarily resettle the rsidents of Dej-
e-Mahtabi (also known as Giveh-Charmi) because their village and its lands,
located immediately upstream of the dam, would be flooded by the reservoir.
The population of the village in 1991 was 49 families (342 persons), whose
major source of income was from agriculture. Since the evacuation of the
village in the winter of 1991, all the buildings have been destroyed and the
site of the former village is at the edge of the present construction zone.
34.         Compensation Paid to Date.   In 1992, RWPA provided the villagers
with initial resettlement assistance (20,000,000 IR) and L3mpensation for the
loss of their homes, agricultural buildings and land associated with these
structures (114,250,380 IR). However, compensation for the loss of
agricultural lands and loss of agrlcultural inacome has not Lien paid to
date. There was no plan used by KRPA for the involuntary resettlement of the
villagers.
35.         Informal Resettlement Process.   In 1991, following the receipt of
initial compensation from KWPA, the villagers relocated themselves to the
Bshbahan area, largely in the vicinity of the established village of
Mansourieh. The informal process of resettlement has not worked well and has
generated social conflict in Mansourieh village due tos (a) the different
ethnic backgrounds of the traditional residents vs. the resettlers; (b) the
different lifestyles and level of sophistication between the two groups; (c)
the resentment by the residents of Mansourieh about the high demands on
already limited lnfrastructure and social services available; and (d) conflict
m:%rut%Irrq%aWA



- 107 -
Page 16 of 20
over the desire of the resettlers to keep large numbers of cattle in the
village. The result has been that the resettlers from Dej-e-Mahtabi have been
seeking a resolution of the problem and wish to be collectively relocated in
another area in the Behbahan plain.
36.         alternative Apnroaches for Formal Resettlment.  The Ministry of
Agriculture and the Bank, with the support of local consultants, includlng an
iranian sociologLst experienced in rural development issues, evaluated and
discussed with local authorities and representatives of the village three
resettlement alternatlves:
(a) continue to acccmmodate the villagers of Dej-e-Mahtabi in
Mansourieh and provide them agricultural lands along the eastern
part of the Dehbahan plainz
(b)   provide housing for all members of the village of Dej-e-Mahtabi in
the existing housing complex of the War Refugee Foundation ln
Vahdat Township, and agricultural land in the nearby area; and
(e) resettle the villagers of Dej-e-Mahtabi in a new area at the
eastern edge of the debbahan plain.
Following the review of these options, lt was collectively decided that the
voluntary relocation of the villagers to the War Refugee Foundation housing
site and the provision of agrLiultural land near thli site was the preferred
alternative. This option was preferred by the villagers as it provided access
to existing housing with services in place (electricity, piped water,
drainage, streets, school, mosque, bakery), allowed easy access to their main
sources of non-agricultural employment in Behbahan and at. the cement plant,
and provided immediate access by a paved road to the proposed agricultural
lands.
37.         ActLons to Be Taken. In conjunction with the Project, the
Ministry of Agriculture would implement an Involuntary Resettlement Plan whlch
would include tho. following actions:
(a) Anointment of a Resettlement Coordinator. The Ministry has
formally appointed Mr. DelLdy, an agricultural engineer who is a
specialist in legal and economLc aspects of land evaluation and
compensation, to coordinate all action. required to resolve this
issue.
(b)   Acreement with Village Renresentatives. Mr. Belady will meet with
Mr. Godarze-Mohamady and Mr. Mohamad Poor, who are serving as the
representatives of the vlllage of Dej-e-MahtabL, to obtain an
agreement in principle with the actions listed below within the
next 30 days.
mt:%rmn\%frr\W>4



- 108 -
ANNX IV
Page 17 of 20
(c)   ComDensation for Togas of &Lioltural Lands.    Mr. Belady, in
cooperation with the responsible parties in RWPA, will undertake
an evaluation of the agricultural lands belonging to the village
of Dej-e-Mahtabi. This evaluation will provide the basis for the
compensation which the villagers will receive for the loss of
their agricultural lands. It is anticipated that this would be
completed within the next 30-60 days. Following the completion of
this evaluation, the villagers would be compensated within 90
days, consistent with Iranian law.
(d)   Compensation for Loss of Aaricultural Income.  Mr. Belady will
prepare an evaluation to determine the amount of compensation
which would be due to the villagers of Dej-e-Mahtabi for the loss
of income from agricultural production for the last two years due
to involuntary resettlement. It is anticipated that this would be
completed within the next 30-60 days. Following the completion of
this evaluation the villagers would be compensated within 90 days
consistent with Iranian law.
(e)   Transfer of Agricultural Lands. The Ministry of Agriculture will
initiate discussions with the Department of Natural Resources,
ministry of Jihad to transfer title of approximately 130 hectares
of land suitable for rainfed agricultural in the Vahdat Township
to the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr. Belady will follow this
action on the local level. It is anticipated that this would be
completed within the next 30-60 days.
(f)   Distribution of Lands to Villa ser.  Mr. Belady, on behalf of the
Ministry of Agriculture, will coordinate with the Committee for
Transferring Land (Hyate-Raf-Nafare) to accomplish the transfer of
these lands to villagers in accordance with their share of the
lands in Dej-e-Mahtabi prior to appropriation by the Government.
It is anticipated that this would be completed within 30-60 days
of agreament with the Ministry of Jihad.
(g) Transfer of Housina Units. Mr. Belady, on behalf of the Ministry
of Agriculture, will initiate discussions with the War Refugee
Foundation (Bonyade Omore Mahjerin-e-Gangi) to obtain rights for
the villagers of Dej-e-Mahtabi to use approximately SO of the
existing housing units in the Vahdat Township. If compensation is
requirci for these housing units by the War Refugee Foundation it.
is anticipated that it would be paid by KWPA. It is projected
that this process would take approximately 180 days.
(h) Distribution of Nousina Units to Villagers. Mr. Belady, with the
support of other experts as necessary, following an agreement with
the War Refugee Foundation, will develop a plan which would allow
for the villagers to make extended payments for the purchase of
these housing units. It is anticipated that this process would
u:tran%frrg%fnv



- 109 -
Page 18 of 20
take approximately 60-90 days after the use agreement is reached.
it is anticipated that villagers would first rehabilitate the
existing housing units then move into them on a family-by-family
basis over a period of a year or more.
(i) Access to Grasino Lands. The Ministry of Agriculture will
initiate discussions with the Department of Natural Resources,
Ministry of Jihad to determine if it is possible to allocate
grazing lands to the villagers of Dej-e-Mahtabi in the greater
Bebbahan region. If this proves to be possible, Mr. Belady would
work on the details at the local level. If not, the Ministry of
Agriculture will examine ways of supporting more intensified
production of livestock by the villagers in the Vahdat Township.
it is anticipated that it would take 30-60 days to initiate this
process and take approximately 180 days following initiation to
reach resolution. Implementation could take an additional 180
days.
38.         Imolementation Schedule. The projected implementation schedule is
provided as Table 1.
39.         Estimated Cost.  All costs for impl emntation of the Plan will be
paid by the Government of Iran. A preliminary cost estimate is provided as
Table 2. The total cost for implementation of the Plan is estimated to be
ZR 406,930,380 or US$280,638 of which IR 134,250,380 or US$92,585 has already
been paid by KWPA.
40.         ReSortina and Monitring. The Ministry of Agriculture will keep
the World Bank advised on implementation of the Plan as an element of the
routine reporting for the Project. Monitoring of the implementation of the
Plan will be included as an element of the work plan for the Behbahan
subproject.
41.         Suiervision. Regular review of progress achieved in
implementation of the Plan will be included as an element of Bank supervision.
Given the complexity of social issues, it is anticipated that the Bank would
retain the services of a local social scientist to participate in the
supervision missions for review of resettlement issues.
42.         Ex Post Evaluation.  The project completion report submitted to
the Operations Evaluation Department will include an evaluation of
resettlement and its impact on the standard of living of the resettlers and
the host population.
im.fran\ftrg\m



Table 1: ISLAMIC REPUBIC OF IRAN . IRRIGATION IIMOVEMENT PROJECT
INVOLUNTARY RESEIlLMENT PLAN - PROJECTED APLEMENrATIO  SCHEDULE
ACOn                                               Mordh
1  2  3   4  5  68   7  8  9  10  11 1 t2  13  14  165 16 1171 18  iSe
Appon Resettlement   X
Awormt wih ViRg          X
Cotimpenealm -for Losof  X   X  X   X  X
AorAua Lands
Copestinorloof           X   X  X   X  X
Agriculural hcorme 
Transfr of Agiulura      X  X
Lands
DImbution of Lands to    X  X
Tmnfer of HousirnigUnf   X  X   X  X   X  X
Dbtrlbu of Housn                                XX X  X X X  X X X  X X X
Uniks to Villger
Access to Grazing Lands  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X   X
Monoin               X XX X XX X XX X XX X XX X XX X X K 
Supervision   .    X XX  X X X  X X  X X X  X X X  X X X  X X  X                                               o
ms \iran\irrg\an4



- 11A -
Page 20 of 20
Tabe 2: ILAMC REPUBUC Or N  * -RRATION _APROVEBE   PROJECT
INVOLUWNARY RESEn  I IMEF PLAN - PROJECTED COST ESTIMATE
Ele_e_t                                IR          Equivent In USS
A.     Preo Expendu
1.   Resuenet Asnce Payment                           20,000,000              13,793
(paid by KIWPA)
2.   Compensaion for Houses, Arkctural Buiding       114,250,380              78,792
and their  nd In Wae (paid by KWPA) 
Subtal                                                       134.250,380             92585
S.     Projnte E)penditre
1.   Compensaton for Los of Agiuur Lans (to          125,000,000              86206
be paid by KWPA)                                (estimated)
2.   Compensation for Loss of Agsiulural Produraon     2000                    1,724
(to be paid by KWPA)                            (estimated)
3.   Transfr of Agrutural Lan&                          No Cost             No Cost
4.   Transfe of Housin Unb*s (to be paid by          125,000,000              86,206
kWPA)
-- _=Accs to Grazing Lands*                             No Cost             No Co.
Subotal                                                      252,50000              174,136
C.     Compenso  to Misty of Educaion for Cost of            20,180,000              13,197
Sdcool (to be paid by KWPA) 
TOTAL                                                       406,930,380             280,638
*      These lands are owned by the Govem_ent of Iran owned and are under the adminitatve control of the
Deame  of Natr Resources Minisy of JUiha  Their tranfr would be without cost to the Del-e-
MaI*abl viiL
**     Trans*r of ftes housig unb to te viage of Dej.Mahtabi
may be done without charge to the Misry of Agrulture by the War
Refuge Foundion In ta ewe the onr cost would be the paymert to
the Governnt of Iran by the vlager on an isallment basis for
te housng units
mVrenxfrtrgs



- 112 -
ANXV
Page 1 of 5
V. 8UPBIOP
1.          Proiect Monitorina and Coordination would be the responsibility of
each subproject coordinator who would submit progress reports to the LOs by
mid-March and mid-September of each year. Theso. would be consolidated and
distributed within the Government and dispatched to the Bank by the LOs at the
end of March and the end of September of each year. These reports would
covers (a) progress with surveys, design and preparation of tender documents
for civil works in each subproject area; (b) the bidding process (by contract)
for civil works and for pro¢urement of equipment; (c) the physical achievement
(by contract) of civil works and the delivery of equipment; (d) the status of
staff training, technical assistance and specialized studies; (e) results (in
tabular form) of monitoring of water quality and other environmental aspectst
(f) agricultural performance (inputs and outputs in summarized tabular form In
the September report only); (g) results of the social monitoring and
evaluation program (including household income and expenditure, land tenure
and exploitation, and social welfare indicators); (h) the annual work program
and budgetary requirements for the Bank loan and for local funds for both
investment and O&M (March report only); (i) the status of counterpart funds in
relation to the approved budget and annual work program; (j) the status of
Bank disbursements, including pending withdrawal applications and projected
disbursements for the following six months; (k) the status of miscellaneous
issues, such as legal covenants and, accounts and audits; and (1) a summary of
the issues raised by the previous supervision mission and their resolutions.
2.          Review Missions would normally be held in May and November of each
year. They would require the participation of each subproject manager and
coordinator. Because of the scattered nature and different climates of each
subproject, the review mlsosons would visit subprojects during May and
normally confine the November mission to updating of information in Tehran
with selective visits to subproject areas where special issues need to be
addressed. The May mission will generally be of four weeks in-country
duration and will be composed of an engineer, an agriculturist, an
environmental specialist and one or two other specialists (e.g. economists or
social scientists) as needed. The November mission will generally be of three
weeks duration and will be composed of an engineer and one or two specialists
as needed.
3.          on arrival, mission briefing meetings would be chaired by the LOs
coordinator and attended by representatives of tre steering Committee, by the
subproject coordinators, and by other relevant staff from the L0o, MOA, MEW
and each subproject. Missions would normally be accompanied on field visits
by the LOs. At the conclusion of each subproject visit, short wrap-up
meetings will be held at provincial level, chaired either by the RWA managing
director or by the PAD director. A wrap-up meeting at the conclusion of each
MiURANWANS6



- 113 -
Amex V
Page 2 of 5
mission would be held in Tehran. A tentative supervision plan Is shown in
Table 1 providing for 17 supervision missions over the life of the project,
including a mid-term review requiring 226 staff weeks. Because of the size
of the Project, a minimum surarvision coefficient of 30-34 staff weeks will be
required in the first three years of the Project. Tentative list of
indicators to monitor physical progress, agricultural yields and farmers
lncome is shown in Table 2.
4.           id-tem Bevie  and Ocmnletion Re2o2tg A mid-term review of all
project activities would be conducted jointly by MOA, 3EW, DOE, RWA., PADs,
and the Bank. To facilitate the review, the LOs with assistance from
consultants both at the central and subproject level would prepare a detailed
report for submission to the Bank by June 30, 1997, for a joint review by
September 1997. Section II of the Project Completion Report would be prepared
by the LOs and submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan
closing date.
MURANSMA"



Table 1: SUPERVISION PIM
Supervision Mission                  Office Review and Procurenent
(Inctuding Report P       ioratn   Spia(SW)
Special
Input &   Task       Procur.   Review         Total
FY     Type of Mission          I Mission Timing    Civil Eng.   Agriculturist   Environ.   Misc.   I fanaer   Matters   Studies              (SW)
93     To expedite initial              4/93              3              -             2.5        2.5         1          2           -           11
Procurment efforts
94     Initial Mbbilization             10/93             4              3              3          -          2          2           1          15
SPN - 4 projects                05/94              5             2.5            -          2.5         1         2           2           is
Subtotal for FY94                                 9             5.5            3          2.5        3          4           3           30
95     Selective Supervision            11/94             4              -              _          3          2          2           2           13
SPN - 4 subprojects             05/95              5              3             3           2         2          1            1          17
Subtotal for FY95                                 9              3             3           5         4          3           3           30
96     Selective Supervision            11/95             3              2              -          2          2          1           1           11
Mid-Tenn Review                 06/96              5              4             4           4          3         1            2          23
Subtotal for FY96       ___                       8              6             4           6         5          2           3           34
97     Selective Supervision            11/96             4              -              .          2          2          .           1           9
SPN - 4 subprojects             05/97              5              3             3           2         2          1            1          17
Subtotal for FY97                                 9              3             3           4         4          1            2          26
98     Mid-Term Review                  10/97             4             2.5            2.5         2          1          .           1           13
Selective Supervision           05/98              4              -              -          2         2          _            1           9
Subtotal for FYS8                                 8             2.5           2.5          4         3          _            2          22
99     Selective Supervision            11/98             4              -                         2          2                      1           9
SPN - 4 subprojewts             05/99              4              3             2           2          2         1           1           15
Subtotal for FY99                                 8              3             2           4         4          1            2          24
2000    Selective Supervision            11/99             4              -                         2          2          -           1           9
SPI - 4 suprojects             05/2000             4              3             2           2          2         1            1          15 is
Subtotal for FY2000                               8              a             2           4         4          1           2           -o
2001    Final Supervision               10/2000            4              3              3          2          2          -           2           16
PCR Review                     04/2001             4              2             1           1          1         _            -           9
Subtotal for FY2001      _                                       5             4           3         3    _                 2           25 ,Ib
-                                                           -                                        -      aja



I-   _     Z _   
3r ffi 5. 
j | l~~~~~~~
I I 111   1 11   El [T  I111  1     1f-  S
s o i n 1 



soMh                                   llb hi     5    s     X    r < k a"  llo zn5lro * R        u       5aoject  _ , srtl ct
W91§5  B. __         0910amB4S    _ISM                  U2900       9dS       -_  W      0           94   _t _9 _    an=99
l t   Act  EWt    t k t Adt   Eat  Alt  E t              W k EtI  Eat   Act  Eat  Act  Eat I   t Et   Act  Ot  Act    t  Act
=    (b  ariou Studio. (S/IN I
Id) Smlualld studio. (SIFNb)                      _     -          _    _    _ -     -               __
-_    1) Eewtra. Studits (S/M-1o)
5.   fiwunctslal/bdt                                    -           _    _    _    _ -     -               _-  _                       _    _    _        
( (a) Imestaot Budget (IsR mllin__
I lb) Btort bh2et (IN million)                                                                                                                   I
(al)   0  N Eastimatd am sIR million)
_     (d) 0 a   Cost eo    (IR (it   )                  _    __
A.   AWUaLU3  10W
(selactlv major crams)
.   cotton
5.  sgu.wSot_                                           ____= = =_____ =___=_ =_ __= =
S.   Woostabio
L..Alfalfa                                            -    -     -     -    -     -     -     -    -     -    -     - 
8. Oil Se0da
1  1-3 to Fatm
..3-S haFe.-                                               -     -     -    -     -     -     -    --
3. -Si a                                                   _                             __  _I _ __ 
_-                                                                       __ _-              ,         _-  m,. -., -.                          _               _           --   --,_,    __
5__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 117 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 17
VI.  AgRLTizUIL PROPUCTION
A. IGAeralu
1.         The improvements proposed under the project would result in
increased agricultural production arising froms (a) increased cropping
intensLties; (b) expansion in areas irrigated through bringing under
cultivation lands which are currently either fallow or waterlogged; and (c)
increased crop yields resulting from intensification, better and more timely
availability of water and improved cultural practices. Within the total
project area of 90,600 ha, about 11,400 ha would contribute benefits from a
second crop; also there will be horizontal expansion of about 16,300 ha.
S. Present an Future Crommina Patterns
2.         fhtUhan. The main production constraints for Behbahan area are
shortage of irrigation water and the relatively poor quality of the water,
particularly in the summer. The cropping pattern currently in use indicates
that cereals are the most important crops. Wheat and barley are grown during
winter while rice is the main crop in summer. Other winter crops are broad
beans, mixed vegetables and flax. Total area under cultivation during winter
amounts to about 8,630 ha. Due to the low river flow in summer, irrigation
is limited to traditional rice (var. Tarom), small areas of mixed vegetables
and sesame with a total area of about 370 ha. There are some 220 ha of
alfalfa grown all year round to feed local and nomadic livestock herds.
Around the town of Bebbahan and the villages, some 600 ha of orchards have
been established, mainly citrus and date palm. Current cropping intensity for
a net irrigable area of 11,500 ha would be about 88 percent which excludes the
tree crops.
3.          Behbahan enjoys a comparative advantage for early season vegetable
crops and there is increasing demand for vegetable oils. Hence, an expanded
area for vegetables, broad beans and flax have been proposed for winter and
spring crop production. No increase of area is proposed for lands under
alfalfa and orchard. Practically, all of the net irrigable area of 11,500 ha
would be under cultivation during winter and spring period. In the summer,
water will remain the overriding constraint. In order to intensify
production, farmers will have to reduce the rice area, limiting it to heavy
soil areas and adopting a High Yielding Variety (HYV) developed by the Dez
research station. Water saved through the reduction of the rice area and
improvement of overall water efficiency will allow cultivation of additional
areas of sesame, mixed vegetables and maize. Because of crop rotation
requirements a small area of about 500 ha in winter and spring will not be
cultivated. With a proposed cultivation of 11,000 ha in winter (including 220
ha of alfalfa and 600 ha of orchax4s) and about 1,620 ha in summer, the
proposed average overall cropping intensity respectively of 104% and 125% will
be about 112 percent. Table 1, shows the present and projected cropped areas
and cropping intensity, which is summarized in Table 5.
MVRAN \ANUS



- 118 -
AMNN VI
Page 2 of 17
4.          Mochan. Due to their volcanic origin and vertisolic nature, the
Moghan soils are the most fertile. They are capable of producing very high
yields. Wheat is the most important and best cultivated winter crop. The
varieties used need, however, a relatively long growing period, which makes it
difficult to double crop these wheat lands with sumcer crops. Barley has a
shorter growth duration and is mainly used for animal feed. Cotton followed by
sugar beet and soybeans are the main summer crops.  Due to problems of
wasteful use of available water supply and poor drainage, the current cropping
intensity is low. The scheme has two areas, each with different
characteristics. One area of about 20,850 ha is without any constraint and
requires no subsurface drainage and only minimum land levelling. The second
area, of about 14,750 ha, has constraints. A major part requires subsurface
drainage and land levelling.
5.          It is expected that besides soybeans, other oil crops like
rape/colsa and sunflower will become part of the new cropping patterns. The
sugar content of beet is usually low around 13 percent instead of 18 percent
or higher obtained under optimal conditions. This is due to varieties used,
which are not adapted to the lack of variation in the uniformly warm day and
night summer temperatures in the area, and to the over use of nitrogen. These
constraints are being studied at the Oltan Research Station. The present and
proposed overall cropping intensity respectively of 104 percent and 125
percent for areas with and without constraints is summarized in Table 5 and
shown in detail in Table 2.
6.          Sarrineh Roud. Wheat and barley are the most important winter and
spring cropp st Zarrin-h Roud. Sugar beets, mixed vegetables, maize,
sunflower a. sorghum are the main summer crops. Lack of drainage, low
overall irrigation efficiency and poor water management are the constraints
which limit the availability of water; forcing some of the farmers to depend
on rainfed agriculture and leaving about 20 percent of the area waterlogged
with insignificant production good and there is an active campaign of
promotion and support by the Oil Seed Development Corporations It is expected
that the area planted with mixed fruit orchards. will not expand, but the
production system will be modernized by introducing new dwarf varieties and
the hedge row production system with drip and micro-jet irrigation. It is
further assumed that the traditional vineyards will expand, in particular in
the former rainfed lands. Similar to the Moghan area, wheat and barley are
the most cultivated winter crops with the commonly used wheat variety having a
relatively long growing period, thus significantly reducing the chances of
double cropping. Generally, the area cultivated in winter with barley will be
cultivated during summer with sugar beet, spring wheat or barley, mixed
vegetables, maize, sunflower and sorghum. The cropping intensity for each of
three categories is summarized in Table 5 and detailed in Table 3. The
overall proposed cropping intensity is about 125 percent against a current
intensity of 70 percent.
7.          Taian. Currently about 54 percent (16,100 ha) of the proposed
area of 23,600 ha is served by a traditional irrigation system of spate
KMVANVWGASM5



- 119 -
amX VI
Page 3 of 17
irrigation type, makLag use of shallow water storage ponds called ab-bandans
and reuso of drainage water intercepted throughout the system. The
predominant crop during the summer months is rice uslng the traditional Tarom
varieties and in a part of the area HYVe from the Amol rice research station.
Because of consuer preference and a shorter growing period (2-3 week lose),
more than 70 percent of the area under rice is covered by Tarom rice variety.
Due to drainage problems, double cropping wlth berseem clover (Trifolium
Alexandrinum) and winter wheat is currently practlced on only a small part of
the rice lands. Cltrus (2,270 ha) and mixed vegetables are the other
important crops in thls traditional irrigated area. Rainfed agriculture is
practiced in the remaining 7,500 ha with wheat, barley, clover, soybeans
during the wlnter season followed by cotton, soybeans, mlxed vegetables and
sm-e oil seed crops during the summer season. Because of good quality
groundwater from both shallow and deep aquifers, there is a large number
(about 3500) of privately owned tubewells in both traditional irrigated and
rainfed areas. Groundwater is used as a supplemental source for crops other
than rice. Curzent cropping pattern and LntensLties are detaLled Table 4 and
summarized in Table 5 whlch shows an increase in overall cropping intenslty
from 98 to about 125 percent.
S.          Because yields are already fairly high ln the tradltional
lrrigated areas, irrlgatLon development under the Project has been limited to
7,500 ha of the currently rainfed area. These 7,500 ha will serve as a pilot
project to test the gains that can be reallzed both from lrrigatLag the
balance of the currently raLnfed area, and from modernizing the irrigation
system on the current traditLonal lrrigated area.
9.          It is expected that after the completlon of the dlversion weLr
(December 1992) there wlll be some improvem nt in the oveirall irrigation
efficiency brought about by a controlled irrigation and drainage system.
However, the water supply will remain constrained untll the completion of
Shahid Rijal Dam in the late 1990s, so during this transition period only
about 3000 ha will be under rlce crop and the remaining area of about 1,500 ha
will be cultlvated wlth mlxed vegetables, clover, cotuon, soybeans, sunflower
during the summer season followed by wheat, barley, mixed vegetables and
clover during the winter season. In the traditional lrrlgated area of 16,100
ha there will be a minimum shift in rice variety or area cultLvated during
summer season. However, larger areas would be cultivated wlth mixed
vegetables clover and wheat during the winter season.
C. Yields and Production
10.         current and proposed yields are given in Tables 1 to 4 and the
incremental productLon for major crops is summarLzed in Table 6. Factors
affecting current or future ylelds and production for each subproject area are
explained briefly in the following paragraphs.
11.         At Behbahan, yields of most summer crop are depressed by the
relatively high salt content of water of the Maroon River during low flow
WVRNWIAMS



- 120 -
Page 4 of 17
periods. At Moahan, due to differences in soil structure and the long-term
negative impact of using heavy machines under poorly drained, wet soil
conditions, sub-soil compaction has become a problem and this has been taken
into account in the reduced yields which can be expected in these areas.
12.        At Zarrineh Rd the areas without constraints are generally Class
I and II land and achievement of expected yields will be faster than those
areas with constraints. Areas with constraints are generally Class II and III
lands, so even after the provision of subsurface drainage and land levelling,
the projected yields, although 1.5 to 2 times higher than current yields, are
assumed to be lower than those for areas without constraints. Areas currently
waterlogged and with soil salinity are problematic soils areas. subsurface
drainage is being provided for these areas and it is expected that these areas
will become productive. Conservative assumptions of development in this area
of 7,500 ha with low projected yields have been made.
13.        At 5aian due to good soil conditions (Class I) favorable weather
in spring and summer, and low pest and disease pressure, rice yields are
relatively high. The projected crop yields in the area to be irrigated under
the project would be same as the traditional irrigation area.
so aSKlMlUral servlces
14.        Research and extensioa activities in the four sub-project areas
are coordinated by the  AO PADS which are assisted by the Provincial Directors
of Research and by the SAO chiefs. Bach Director of Research is responsible
for the relevancy of the research program in the province. There are five
stations supporting the four sub-project areas. Scientific back-up is provided
by senior researchers from the five central research institutes. The SAO
chiefs are responsible for planning extension activities, for administering
the allocation of inputs and for (public) farm machinery operations in their
areas. Extension work is done by the A8Ce.
15.         In the four sub-project areas there are 17 A8Cs. Extension
methodology follows a modified T and V system, through lead or contact farmers
and through farmers, groups. An overview of the present and required staff
for the four subprojects shows the greatest need for staff for extension
activities, including a greater emphasis on better on-farm water management
practices, on farmers' organization in water users groups and on themes
directly related to agricultural production problems for each subproject area.
Extension and Research staff requirement is given in Table 7 and pesticides
used in four subprojects is listed in Table 8.
16.        The Project will generate a demand fo: extra investment and
working capital ginang. It is likely that most financing needs will be
satisfied without recourse to institutional credit, although the needs for
equipment finance and for working capital finance for smaller farmers trying
to move to a higher level of productivity may have to be satisfied from a
formal institution, probably the AS which is the main financial institution in
M:VUUN\IRR^G\5



- 121 -
Page 5 of 17
the field of agricultural credit. There are two risks to AB's operations in
general that may have an impact on the subproject areas. First, the
Government has begun a program of financial sector liberalisation and it is
not clear what the role and resources of AB as a specialised agricultural
credit institution will be under a regime of increasing competition. Second,
with the phasing out of input subsidLes and the progress towards a unified
exchange rate, there will be some rapid rises in the price of inputs and
equipment, which would need to be matched by a corresponding increase in AB I s
resources. However, to deal with these two general issues is quite outside
the scope of the present Project. What is needed is a review of ABDs role in
the market. Therefor a study of rural financial markets will be carried out,
leading to the development of an appropriate policy and business plan for AD.
Under the Project, a small training program for AB has been included; this
will benefit staff at headquarters and in the subproject area branches, and
will ensure that AB is included as a partner in Project programming at both
central and subproject levels. This technical assistance and training for AB
will permit the Bank, Government and AB to maintain a low key relationship in
an area where, if financial sector reforms were to continue, the Bank could
have an increased role in arresting the development of AS's activities.
1:7.       Given the current direction of policy change discussed in Chapters
I and II and the improvements in supply pattern and product availability that
are starting to emerge, it is likely that Jn ut musoly will not be a
constraint under the Project and therefore no provision for incremental input
supply has been made. However, as input availability depends on
implementation of a policy that will achieve full benefits only after several
years, there is a risk that an adequate supply of inputs to the Project area
will not be maintained throughout the life of the Project. Legal covenants on
input supply components under the Project are inappropriate ways of dealing
with the transitional problems associated with liberalization. Project
management, Government and the Bank will have to monitor the situation closely
and work out remedies if and when real problems arise.
MVRA\IM\NG



- 122 -
Page 6 of 17
ISLaMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRARm IUWRO_VT PEWECT
Table 1: PREST MN  PROJCTUD CROPM     A ND.' MmUI
Debbaha. dub-Projocts Irrigable Area (11,500 ha)
Present    Present    Projected   Projected Difference
Crops                Cropped    Yields    Cropped        Yields     in %
Area (ha)  Tons/ha   Area (ha)   Tons/ha
by PYS      by PYS
Winter Crops
Rainfed wheat           660        0.4           -          -            -
Irrigated wheat       4,630        2.2         4,770        3.5          59
Barley                2,560        2.0         2,120        3.0          50
Alfalfa                 220        3.5           220        5.0          43
Flax                    330        0.6           740        1.0          67
Broad beans*            250        5.5         1,060        8.5          55
Nixed vegetables        200       15.0           530       20.0          33
Fallow                2.05Q                      Soo                  (-)29
Sub-total         10,900                   10,900                      0
Summer Crops/2nd Crops
Alfalfa                 220        3.0           220        5.0          67
Rice**                  420        1.7           320        3.5         106
Sesame                  110        0.6           330        1.0          67
Mixed vegetables         40        10.0          120       14.0          40
Maize/hybrid              -        -             850        4.0           -
Fallow               10.110        -           9.060        -         (-)10
Sub-total         10,900                   10,900                      0
Orchards                600        10.0          600       12.0          20
Total cultivated     11,500                   11,500                      0
Cro"ping Intensity %***  88                      112                     27
* Fresh beans in pods
T* Traditional Tarom variety
*z* Excluding Orchards
&t\VmAAV4RR\M



- 123 -
Aam VI
Page 7 of 17
ISLARMC REPUBLIC OF nRAN
IRRIGASTOM XNPR0VIMSNI PROJECT
Table 2/1s PRESENT AND PROJEOCTD CROPPED AREAB AND YTIELS
Moghan Bub-Projects Irrigated Ng Contraints are (20,850 ha)
Present    Present    Projected   Projected Difference
Crops                Cropped    Yields      Cropped      Yiel4s     in %
Area (ha)  Tons/ha   Area (ha)   Tons/ha
by PYG      by Pro
Rio=r Crong 8
Wheat                 8,970         4.0        9,090        5.0          25
Barley                2,300        3.0         2,270        4.0          33
Alfalfa               2,490         4.0        2,480        6.0          50
Rape/Colza                -                      620        2.5
Fallow                6.890                     (1 t-)10
Sub-Total         20,650                   20,650                      0
Sunmeri2nd Crops
Alfalfa               2,490         4.0        2,480        6.0          50
Green maize/forage      400       40.0           410       60.0          50
Cotton                5,000        2.5         3,720        3.5          40
Mixed vegetables        200        15.0          410       22.0          47
Sugar beet            1,380       40.0         2,060       50.0*         25
Sesame                  770        0.6         1,240        1.0          67
Soybeans              1,300         1.5        1,860        2.5          67
Maize/grain             100         3.5          620         5.0         43
Sunflower/oil             -                      620        2.5           -
Fallow                9.010                    7.230                  (-)20
Sub-total         20,650                   20,650                      0
Fruits                  200       10.0           200       12.0          20
Cropping Intensity %** 123                       135                     10
Total             20,850
* Yields can be higher but at the expense of the sugar content of the
beet with a reduction of 3% (from 16% to 13%).
** Excluding fruits.
MkN\IRqGA"W



- 124 -
ARM VI
Page 8 of 17
Table 2/2t Meghan Sub-Projects Xrrigated Area wit Constraints (14,750 ha)
Present    Present    Projected   Projected Difference
Crops                Cropped    Yields    Cropped        Yields     in %
Area (ha)  Tons/ha   Area (ha)   Tons/ha
by PYS      by PYS
Winter CrODS
Wheat                 4,280         2.0        5,460        4.0         100
Barley                1,030        1.5         1,620        3.0         100
Alfalfa               1,470         3.0        1,330        5.0          67
Rape/Colza                -                      440        2.0           -
Wallow                7.970                    5.900                  (-)25
Sub-total         14,750                   14,750                      0
Summert2nd Q=oos
Alfalfa               1,470         3.0        1,330        5.0          67
Green maize/proge         -         -            740*      45.0           -
Cotton                2,660         1.5        2,660        2.5          67
Mixed vegetables          -         -            290       15.0           -
Sugar beet              590       20.0         1,030       40.0         100
sesame                    -        -              60        1.0           -
Soybeans                  -        -             440        2.0           -
Maize/grain               -         -            440         4.0          -
sunflower/oal             -         -            440        2.0           -
Fallow/grazing       10L0I0 7.320                                     (-)28
Sub-Total         14,750                   14,750                      0
Fruits                    -         -              -        -
Cropping Intensity %     78                      110                     29
* Big increase to compensate for reduced area of ummer grazing.
K\WAN\WM\AW



- 125 -
ANNIX VI
Page 9 of 17
ISLAMIC gm1U IKC OF IRAN
fable 3/is P3353K! AND PAOJUCTBD CROPPBD ARJaS AD YUlS
trlxineh RoKa Sub-Projeoct Irrigated h Coustraiats Area (10,500 ha)
Present     Present    Projected   Projected Difference
Crops                Cropped    Yields       Cropped      Yields      in %
Area (ha)  Tons/ha    Area (ha)   Tons/ha
by PYS       by PY8
Wheat                 2,460         2.5        3,420          4.0          60
Barley                1,940         2.0        1,100          3.5          75
Alfalfa               1,300         3.5        1,250          5.0          43
Rape/colsa                 -        -            520          2.5           -
Fallow                2.300                    1.460                    (-)37
Sub-total          8,000                    7,750                    (-) 3
Wheat (spring)           210        2.0          210          3.0          50
Barley (spring)         210         1.5          210          2.5          67
Alfalfa               1,300         3.5        1,250          5.0          43
Sugar beet              800        30.0        1,240         45.0          50
Mixed vegetables        240        15.0          610         20.0          33
Maize/forage               -        -            240         50.0           -
Maize/grain              110        3.0          530          4.5          S0
Sunflower               110         1.5          230          2.5          67
Potatoes/onions          110        8.0          410         10.0          25
sorghum                 110         1.5          210          2.5          67
Fallow                4(800                    2 610                    (-)46
Sub-total          8,000                    7,750                    (-) 3
Tres Cr&os
Mixed Orchards           800       12.0          750         18.0          50
Grapes                   800        7.0        1,100          9.0          29
Poplar timber*          900        10.0          900         10.0           _
Sub-total          2,500                    2,750                       10
Total             10,500                   10,S00                        0
cropping Intensity**    111                      147                       32
*  10,000 trees/ha planted and thinned over 10 years.
** Excluding tree crops.
\M\AN\9RRQ\AN5S



- 126 -
ANNX VI
Page 10 of 17
Table 3/2: Zarrineb Road Eubprojets Irrigated Area Ia Custraints(9,500 ba)
Present    Present    Projeated   Projected  Difference
Crops                Cropped    Ytelds    cropped        Yields     in %
Area (ha)  Tons/ha   Ara (ha)   Tons/ha
by PY8      by PY8
L?nter Croon
Mheat                 2,190         1.3        2,180          3.S       169
Barley                1,770         1.0        1,900          3.0       200
Alfalfa               1,060         2.0          950          4.0       100
Rape/colza                -                      480          2.0         -
Fallow                2.3a2                    1:740                  (-)27
Sub-total          7,400                    7,250                  (-) 2
smer  CroX
Wheat (spring)            -                      190          3.0         -
arley (spring)            -                      190          2.5         -
Alfalfa               1,060        2.0           950          4.0       100
Sugar beet              600       20.0           760         35.0       175
Mixed vegetables        200        8.0           190         18.0       125
Maize/forage              -                      760         45.0         -
Maize/grain                                      470          4.0
Sunflower                                        570          2.0         -
Potatoes/onions          S0        5.0           190         12.0       140
Sorghumg                                         190          2.0         -
Pallow                                                                (-490  2,790  (-)49
Sub-total          7,400                    7,250                  (-) 2
Tre crops
Mixed orchards          700         6.0          650         15.0       150
Grapes                  700         5.0          900          8.0        60
Poplar timber*          700        8.0           700         10.0        25
Sub-total          2,100                    2,250
Total              9,500                    9,500                      0
Cropping Intenaity**%    94                      138                     47
* Planted at 10,000 trees/ha and thinned/harvested over a 10 year cycle.
** Excluding tree crops.
OLANVRRSWUSA



_ 127 -
AME VI
,*age 11 of 17
Table 3/3o aari.ueb Road Sub-Projects 8aline and Waste Lands (16,000 ha)11
Present    Present    Projected   Projected Projected
Cropse               Cropped    Yields      Cropped      Cropped   Yields
Area (ha)  Tons/ha   Area (ha)   Area (ha)  from PY6
by PY6      by PY 8
W&%    crons
Wbeat                 2,800         1.3        2,700      3,500         2.5
Barley                1,400        1.0         4,000      5,5S0         2.0
Alfalfa                                        2,000      2,000          3.5
Grazing Lands*        3,S00         1.0            -          -
Pallow                8k30Q                    7.000      4,600
Sub-total         16,000                   15,750     15,650
S6umme Cro>
Alfalfa                   -                    2,000      2,000         3.5
Sugar beet                -                      900      2,000        30.0
Mixed vegetables          -                      400        500        15.0
lasise (grain)            -                      450        500         4.5
Potatoes/onions           -                      450        500        15.0
Crops (    )                                 500        500         2.5
Grazing Lands         3,500         1.0                       -
Fallow               1S       Q    1.0        1.O0Qo 9Ie    650         2.0
Sub-total         16,000                   15,750     15,650
Grapesz                   -                      250        350         7.0
Total             16,000                   16,000     16,000
Cropping Intensity %**   34                      109        108
*    Low quality intensive grazing and hay production (assume 35% of alfalfa
value).
**   Excluding grazing areas and vineyards.
3/   of the total areas of 16,000 ha, 7,500 ha of land affected by slight to
moderate salinity will receive sub-surface drains.
2J   It would be safe to assume that other fruit crops (mixed orchards) will
also be estabished once ID infrastructure is in place (by year 5).
This, therefore, is likely to further increase the economic returns to
investmets made under the project.
N       OArmR\u



- 128 -
ANM= VT
Page 12 of 17
Table 4a Tajau Subprojeots S0e 4 Rainfed Area (7,500 ha)
Present  Present      Projected  Projected
Cropped   Y.ields       Cropped     Yields
Crops             Area (ha)  Tons/ha       Area (ha)    Tons/ha
by PYS    by PYS
Winter CLOD
Wheat                 3,000        2.8         3,000          3.5
Barley (forage)         100       20.0           500         30.0
Fallow                4JO0                     4.000
Subtotal            7,S00                    7,500
summer Croos
cotton
- rainfed            3,500        1.5             -          -
- irrigated              -                    3,000          2.0
Soybeans
- rainfed              500        1.6             -          -
- irrigated              -                    1,200          2.3
Mixed Vegetables
- rainfed                -                        -          -
- irrigated              -                      150         22.0
Rice
- Tarum                                       1,200          4.4
- Amol                   -                      300          5.5
- Fallow             3500                     1,C50
Subtotal              7,500                    7,500
Cropping Intensity (%)  95                       125
&t\M~RANR.\ANm



- 129 -
ANNIEX V
Page 13 of 17
Tabte 5
uwrent and Pronosad Cranaiw. lnteqities
|__________                        CroPped Area (ha) CurruntAPr(bsed
SuproJeect        net         Winter       Sumer        Ord          Alfaltfa       Total      Croppfng
Tirigabte                                 etc.                                 Inten ty
Area (ha)                                                                       Cur/r)
____________     ___________                             ____________   ~~ ~~curr/Prop  
11,500       8,630/        570/         600/          220/        10,020/        So/
10,180       1,620          600          220         12,620         112
(a)
No Constr.      20,850       11.270/       9,150/        200/         2,490/       23,110/       123/
11.980       10.940         200         2,490        25,610         135
(b)
U/Constr.        14,750       5,310/       3,250/          .          1,470/       10,030/        78/
7,520        5,400                      1,330        14,250        110
Subtotal        35,600       16,580/       12,400/       200/         3,960/       33,140/       104/
19,500       16.340         200         3,820        39,860         125
Zarrins
No Constr.      10,500        4,400/       1,900/       2,500/        1,300/       10,100/       111/
5.040        3,890        2,750         1,250        12,930        147
(b)
V/Cautr.         9,500        3,960/        650t        2,100/        1,060/        7,970         94/
4,560        3,510        2,250          950         11,270        138
(C)
Saline 1        16,000        4,200/         */            _            _          4,200/         34/
Wastelands                    9,450         4,000         350         2,000        15,400         109
Subtotal        36,000       12,560/       2,750/       4,600/        2,360/       22,270/        70/
_   10.650      11.400        5.350        4,200        39,600         125
Zone 41
(Rainfed         7,500        3,100/       4,000/         -I-          -/-         7,100/         95/
Area)                         3,500         5,850                                   9,350         125
1/ Cropping intensities excluding tree crops and grazing land.
st\WM\ABAN



- 130 -
MR  Vl
Page 14 of 17
Tabl. 6
Inoromental Produatioa of Mg4or Ctos
(In Thousand Tons)
Subproject                            ,    l
Total
Main Crop    Behbahan       Hoghan     Sarrinsh Roud    Tajan       Proj  t  l
Wheat        8.18         27.72          17.50          2.10       55.50
Barley        2.12          6.19          11.82          -         20.13
Rice         0.41           -   -                      7.92        8.33
Cotton         -            3.18                        3.75        6.93
Sugar beet       -           77.20          73.40          _         150.60
Oil seeds      0.81          5.06           2.51           _         12.89
maize        3.40          4.51           5.96           -         13.87
Vegetables      8.60         10.37          16.42         3.30       13.87
Broad        7.64           _       -                    -         7.64
Beans
Alfalfa/       0.77         13.87          20.76         13.00      35.40/
Cloverbles                                                           13.00
M:\t.             .   .         .  .         .           . 



ISLANIC REPISLIC Of IRAN
IRRIGATICON INPIOHENEIT PROJECT
Table 7: Research and Extenslon Staff Requirements
UrAber      Reauired              ActuaL                IncrementaL                   Indicative Number to
Sub-project        of    Speiea-   Techni-   Specia-    Techni-   Specla-   Thchnl-                     be Deployed (SpLt/Tech)
Ares Technicians Centers lists      clans       Lists     clans      ltsts       clans                 FY94 F   /97    °8/2000
Bhehhehn
Research         1       10         10                    5          S          5                      1/1    2/2      2/2
Extension        4       8          12         2          7          6          5                      1/1    3/2      2/2
Research         1       10         10         S          5          5          5                      1/1    2/2      2/2
Extension       4        8          21         1          3          7           18                   2/4    3/8       2/6
ZarrlnehRu
Research         1       10         10         5          5          5          5                      1/1    2/2      2/2
Extenslon        4       8          30         2           14        4           16                    1/4   2U8       1/4
11130
Research         2       20         20         20         20         0          0                     0       0        0
Extension        s       13         40         11          13        2          27                    1/5    1/5       0/7
Total         17      87         153        51         72         34         81                    8/17   15/39   11/25
'-4
ht\HW4VRG\NS6



- 132 -
Page 16 of 17
Inlmc nUIC OF IIMw
IUIOaTIUN IWIUT InJEC
Tabie z1: Pestcides Uibed fn th Four 9b-proJect Areas
Trade Name         Active Ingredient         | Toxicity       Use RestrIcted      Control of/in
_. ltics                                     I c___
D1mecrcn           gphosphamidon                   I          Yes
aphfds; lepidoptera;
Nuvacron            Manocrotophos                  I          yes                 coleoptera; thrips.
Ekamet              etrimfos                     III
Basudin or    _      Ophorothfoste               III                              stem borers; leaf eaters; leaf
Diazinon                                         III                              hqopprs;
sucking insects;
Nalathifn           malathion                    III                              general pests.
Propenolt Propol   allyl alcohot                  It          Productfon
discontfnued
Ninacide            pronecarb                     II
Outte_ prop_rite                                                                  mites and aphids.
Citrazan           benzoxiste                      v IV
Ekatin              thiometon                     II
Lindan.             lindne                        II                              soil borne pests; cut worms; wire
uursban             chiorpyrifos                  I I_   _                                                     ___
it. fnetefdes used fnCoto
&ndosulfan         endosulfan                      I          yes
Larvin              thiodicarb                    i                               acaricide; whitefly; ovicide;
Za.ane              phos_tf_w                                                     aphids; boliworm; whitefly; mftes
Netasytox           metasystox                    i
Outte               propargite                    II
Ill.  lWEIides
Dodine              dodin                          I          Yes
Caltxin             trfdemorph                    I I                             fungat diseases, mildew in
Di ocp              dinocap                                                       partcuar.
| Benlate           benomyl            _v                     _______________     ________________IV
M:VIRANVRRPA5



- 133 -
ANNEX VI
Page 17 of 17
Table E12: Pesticidmo Used In the Ftur Sub-project ears
Trade Name         Active Ingredient         Toxicity      Use Restricted      Control of/in
Htass 
I~~~ 1fl                                              1.
Avenge             DNS                          I           ______    wild oats ad greasses fn
wheat/bartgy broad leafed weeds,
2,40 +  CPA        2.40 +_ CPA                  11                             post emergent for annual grasses
Iltxan             diclofeb-methyl             Itt
Rout               oxyfluorfen. oryzalin        IV                             selective pre-emergent for all
weeds In suarbeetI
Pyra"in            chlorldazon                 111
Betanal A          desmediphan                 llt                             post-emergent for broad leafed
_______________                             .__________   ________________    weeds   in   Bm LAr
Carlon 4           triclopyr                                                   sytem1c, broad leafed, post
emergent for potton:
Cobex              dinitremine                 111                             selective pre-emergent in cotton
Treflan            trifturalin                 111
-Gesapria           atrazine                    111_________
;ssaprfm           at-  zfrw                                                   pre-emergent grasses, broadleafed
Lasso              alachlot                    III                            eweds; selective herbicides for
m-aze and sorchwi
Eradicane          EPTC                        II________
Stomp              pendimethalin            _       '"
Somlfan            ethol ftuvalin               IV                             selective post emergent; sbanM |
-usagran           bentazon                     IV                             selective post emersent;
________ _ ___________   ___________________________   ______________   _________________m eta es
Dacthal            DCPA                         IV                             selective pro-emergent;
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~el nonslnotatees
Class I: restricted use by highly trafned, skilled people under strict
supervision. Chemicals coded by OMUElOU
MAWNRN:     A5



- 134 -
ANNEX VSI
Page I of 11
VIZ. NARITMET PRTCBB AND 1NCON3B
A. Marketiam and Procesuine
Marketin0
1.          Marketing systems are on the whole adequate to absorb incremental
production. Markets for several important crops are organized and dominated
by Government. For wheat, Government administers a large scale purchasing
program. Purchases are organized through wheat purchase ceniters which are
operated by the rural cooperatives as agents for the State Zareals
Organization (8CO). The well organized buying system and relatively
attractive guaranteed prices have been strong incentives to sell through this
system, which has 85 percent of the market. There is no large scale
government procurement for the other cereals, but crops find ready markets.
The Forage Supply Corporation in the MOJ does purchase barlev at a guaranteed
price, but the private sector dominates the market.
2.          Industrial crops are purchaed by parastatal or supervised private
companies that work within the framework of Government support programs.
oilseeds are purchased by the quasi-governmental Oilseed Company. The company
supports the production of these crops through the supply of inputs and
credit, and it also opens purchasing offices in production areas during the
harvesting season. Some traditional oilseeds such as sesame find ready
private markets at attractive prices. SuEar beat is purchased by sugar
factories, most of which belong to the Government, under programs that provide
extension, inputs, and credit to farmers.         isgn is purchased by the largely
private ginneries, which work within a Government-managed program of support -
including inputs and credit.
3.          Although fruit and vegetable production has considerable potential
for development, markets are seasonal. The constraint is illustrated by the
high price fluctuations of most horticultural commodities which can vary by as
much as a factor of five between high and low seasons. Fruit and vegetable
production is also particularly hampered by the shortage of cold storage
capacity and poor packing and handling facilities. Notwithstanding these
constraints, and due to the fact that production and most marketing is done by
thb private sector, farmers show continued interest in the production of these
crops on limited areas of their farm holdings, which confirms that fruit and
vegetable production is an attractive component of their overall cropping
pattern.
Proce"ssla
4.          Processing capacity for the industrial crops is in general
adequate. National wheat flour milling capacity is adequate. At Mochan and
Tjaan, there is substantial surplus capacity for oatton ginning and oilseed
milling. At Moahan, there is surplus capacity for suaar beat processing.



-135 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 11
Only at Zarrlneh Roud is there a capacity constraint for sugar beet. The
existing factory, which is over twenty years old, bas a rated capacity of
180.000 t a year but is currently processing 300,000 t a year by extending its
willing season, with a consequent drop in sugar out-turn. The Ministry of
industry has prepared a feasibility study for a second plant in the area.
Unless thiL investment takes place, sugar beet production wlll not be able to
expand. In this case, other crops such as oilseeds could be grown wlthout
jeopardixing the sub-project's economlc viability or farmers' financial
revenues.
B. Pricegh
Table 1 - Finacial and Econmic Prices of Nbjor Crepe
Financial- Econmic Price-   Converion
Unit      Price   993   1995   2000   2005  Factor
Uhuat 3/       kg         1S8    306    314    337    307    1.9
Bariy I/       kg         140    245    251    270    246    1.7
Sorauh 31      kg         121    219    21;   224    224    1.8
hizu. grain 3/   kg       137    230    226    230    228    1.7
Pdad. Aol 31    kg        300   367    371    360    342    1.2
PaiMy. Tarn 3/   kg       396    441    445   432    410    1.1
Green Clover 4/   kg       20    30    30    30    30    1.5
Alfalfa 4/     kg         100    150   150    150    150    1.5
Sugwrbeet 31   kg          37    47    55    64    64    1.3
Sunflowar I3   kg         355   423    418    400    375    1.2
Soybean/3      kg         289    318   317    311    303    1.1
Seaso          kg        1050   1170   1170   1170   1170    1.1
Cotton /3      kg         441    657   995   1032   1004    1.9
Fruit. Apples /4  kg      170    265    265    265    265    1.6
Potatoes /4    kg         125    195    195   I15    195    1.6
Vegetables /4    kg       125    195   195    195    195    1.6
Broadbeam /4    kg        187   292    292    292    292    1.6
1/ Economic price: 8Q0 of utmat price.
3/ Econamic prices: import parity prices calculated from Vwod Bud: Camodity
Pric Forecasts. Jime 1992; fro Amne VIII. Table 8.
41 Ecoomic prices fron financial prices using CF 1.55.
5.           Guaranteed minimum prices are established by the Government for
virtually all major crops includlng basic staples (wheat, rice, potatoes),
meat, and sugar beet, cotton and oilseed. Prices are defined by the High
Councll of Economic Affairs in accordance with a number of indicators whlch
lnclude inflatLon, production costs and input prices. During the 1980.,
prLces were generally slgnificantly higher than world market prices at the
official exchange rate and there were, in additlon to cash prices, Incentives
such as entitlement to purchas. consumer and producer goods at low official
prLces. Since 1990, Government has been phasing out the non-cash incentive
structure. The general movement towards a much higher floating exchange rate
sUfransnirrW9



- 136 -
ANNX VI I
Page 3 of 11
has reversed the relationship between domestic and international prices. At
present, producer prices are generally below world market levels if the
floating foreign exchange rate of Rls 1,450 - US$1 is used (Table 1).
6.         Local prices for inputs are highly subsidized, and import parity
prices for fertilizers are more than ten times domestlc price levels. The
Government has announced a progresslve elimination of subsidles on
agricultural inputs over a flve year perlod beglnning in 1992. Thls has
already resulted ln a doubling of fertilLser prices for the 1992/93 season.
C. ZUgms
7.         Present levels of farm income vary conslderably with farm size,
agrlcultural potentlal and levels of husbandry. At Bshbahan, water
constraints and poor husbandry depress farm incomes, which presently average
Rls 1.5 to 2.0 millIlon a year. At Moahan, where soils and husbandry are good
and water is no constraint, average family income from agriculture is Rls 2.7
million, and from agrliulture and llvestock together is Rls 3.9 million. At
Zarrineh Roud, family lncome was estimated in 1992 at R1s 4.8 million, of
which 40% from agriculture, 18% from livestock and the balance from services
and handicrafts. Income from agriculture li thus a modest Rls 1.9 milllon,
reflecting the small size of plots. P; Taian, where plots are small but
agriculture Ls profltable and product ye, Lncomes are around Rls 2.5 million
annually. However, the areas at Tajan selected for the Project have generally
lower productivity and farm income than the regional average.
8.         On the basls of the crop models, lndicative farm models were
prepared for the different regions in each of the four subprojects in order to
allow an assessment of the likely benefits at farm level expected to be
generated by the project. The seven indicative farm models are shown in Table
7. since price liberalization is progressing rapidly, farm models are based
on crop models in which prices are equal to the assumed economic prices. As a
result, calculated farm income levels for Project year one are sigaLficantly
different from the current tarm income levels that were discussed above. This
approach allows to isolate the impact of this project on farm income from the
general impacts of economic reform. On the basis of the farm maodels shown in
Table 7, farm level incomes are expected to imp?ove signiflcantly. Projected
increass in net farm ineomes is shown in Table 2.



_ 137 -
ANNEX- XMI
Page 4 of 11
Table 2s  Poected Increase $a  at& ran IcMes
Typical     Project     Project       %
Sub-Project,         Farm Size      Year 1       Year 8  increase
Area
ha       Million Rial
Behbahan                   5.4          2.2         5.4        153%
Moghan
Unconotrained             7.0          6.8        11.6         68%
Constrained               7.0          2.0         7.5        274%
Average                                                        153%
Zarrineh Roud
Unconstrained             3.7          1.9         5.4        186%
Constrained               3.7          0.6         3.5        459%
Saline/Wastelands         3.7         0.3          1.2       384%
Average                                                        346%
Tajan                      2.7          1.8   ,     4.9        165%
D. cost  *<~rw
9-.         Cost Recovery and Finance for operation and Maintenance.  The law
provides for recovery of scheme O& costs from farmers of up to 3 percent of
average gross inome per heatare for each crop. RMas have latitude to set
recovery rates at varying levels for different crops, provided that on
aggregate recovery respects the legal levels. This system generates revenue
that covers part of the present OSN costs ln the subprojects as shown in the
following table (Table 3)s
=Xf ranNirroWS



- 138 -
ANNEX VMI
Page 5 of 11
Table 3: OS Cost ReaovN r    tLa On  borect.s
Recovery in
Subproject           o&M Costs         Latest Period
(Rl. millions)     (RIB millions)
Behbahan             250 (1371 budget            80               32
request)
|Moghan            1,400 (1370 actual)        1,400              100
Zarrineh Roud        650 (1370 budget           440               68
I _____________ _         oestimate)
Tajan                N.A.                        330            (100)
(1370 actual)      (estimate)
SOUrcet Regional Water Authorities.
10.        The system presently applied raies the following issuess
(a) There are same shortfalls in recovery of O&M costs which
make 0&M dependent on Government subsidy. Under these
conditions, adequate levels of O&K will become increasingly
doubtful as system maintenance requirements go up;
(b)  the water charge is a flat fee that creates no incentive to
economize on water use for any given crop;
(c)   different prices applied to water for different crops bear
no relation to the cost of providing water and therefore
discourage economically optimal water use. For example, at
Bebbahan, 1,000 m5 of water costs between Rls 633 and
Rls 8,000 depending on the crop; and scarce and valuable
summer water actually costs the same or less than abundant
winter water.
11.         Progressive movement towards full recovery of 01& costs is
Government policy. Attaining thLs objective would contribute to the
sustainability of Project investments. The present system of setting water
charges as a percentage of gross income would yield higher contributions as
output increases. Since output is expected to increase significantly under
the Project, this would also lead to a proportional increase in water charges.
Future schame 013 costs will, however, be considerably higher than present
costs (four to five times higher in some cases) as schemes age and as a more
adequate O&N program is introduced. The percentage increase  required to move
to full cost recovery will be, in same cases, quite high. Projected costs and



- 139 -
hX 3!
Page 6 of 11
the percentage increase in water charges neceseary to cover them aro
summarised in Table 4.
Table 4:   Proected Increases in Water Char=es
Projected O03   Current Os    Required Increase in Water
costs at Full  Recovery        Charges
Development                                  _      _
Rials Killion  Rials Million  Riale Million  (a)
Behbahan         928               80             848         1,060
Moghan          2640            1,400           1,240            89
Zarrineh Roud   25!5              440           2,1SS           490
Tajan           22S0              330           1,920           580
12.         At appraisal, Government stated its commitment to the following
principles: (i) full budgetary provision for the rising O&H costs; (ii) full
recovery of 06H costs from farmers within three years of the completion of
Project investments; and  (iii) Government subsidy of the shortfall in the
meantime.
13.         Canital Co0t Recovery.  The law requires that farmers contribute
40 percent to the capital cost of on-farm development works. Costs of these
works average US$525 per ha for land levelling and US$650 per ha for tile
drainage. At appraisal, Gcovernmnt stated that it will recover 40 percent of
the cost of on-farm developments in equal installments wlthout interest over
ten years.
14.         Farmers' Canacltv to Pay. Water charges set at 3 percent of gross
income represent at present 5 to 9 percent of farmers' production costs.
Under the Project, farmers, not incomes would increase considerably. O&M
costs are projected to increase more than other costs. As a result, if full
recovery of o03 costs is applied by the end of the Project, the proportion of
farmers' costs goLng to 031 would inacrease to 9 to 17 percent. The increases
would however not represent a very large part of farmers' incremental net
income, as shown in Table 5.
m:\rani\frran7



- 140 -
AlX VII
Page 7 of 11
Table 5    M&N cost Recovery aod Incremental  aqomex
Scheme        Water Charges as a Percentage of|  Increase in
Production Costs          | charges as a
percentage of
increased net
In PYI on      In PY8 on Full        income
Present Scale    Recovery Basis
Behbahan                  7%               15%                10%
Mooghan
Unconstrained           8a                 8%                 5%
Constrained              6%               11%                 6%
Zarrinsh Roud
Unconstrained            7%               11                 7%
Constrained              58              .14%                 9%
Saline/Waste-            7%               17%                19%
land1
Tajan                     9%               11%                 4%
16.         For recovery of capital cost, if 40 percent of the cost of land
levelling is recovered in equal installments without interest over ten years,
it would be affordable for farmers at between 7 and 12 percent of incremental
revenue as shown in the Table 6.
11    Full cost water charges in previous wastelands of Zarrineh Roud with
still low productivity would lead to equity concerns that should be
addressed through special provisions.



- 141 -
ADNIX Vl
Page 8 of 11
Table 6s GAnital Cost           E overw and immatal logoS
Incremental       40% of          Annual         Annual
Revenue/ha    Capital Cost    Installment    recovery as
percentage
of increased
not income
Bobbahan            609,000       304,500          30,4S0            5%
Moghan
Unconstrd.         669,000       304,500          30,450           5S
Constrained        789,000       304,500          30,450            4%
Sarrineh Roud
Unconstrd.         947,000       304,500          30,4S0            3%
Constrained        780,000       304,500          30,450            4%
Saline/Waste      260,000        304,500          30,450           14%
land2
Taian             1,130,000       304,500          30,450            3%
31    Pull cost water charges in previous wastelands of Zarrineh Roud with
still low productivity would lead to equity concerns that should be
addressed through special provisions.
a:%iranNirrogan?



|  0      gig3i;                     Wl             g     i ti~~~~ii0  '
I~~~~~~                              ~~~ E0t    I           -0il   jlII      1  
liiik              lEo! i ie i '         'ZtHujIl  1          -1        
t ]        | oooI§eII,              t                                   £  |§g  
~I,.     I                      a°|t1gIIIIg       |§  
Pi I   _                              0                   p   oo             pi|!||    
I    rll§4<                             1 00101      i  ull 1
ii   | =      I 3_   i  Xi     iuS |    
I   _____                                 _____o___: :    bb    :
3I o I~i e   11                          t1    11515 - 
~-jL    Mi  I           I  2 LL-4- 



ANNEX VII
Page 10 of 11
- 143 -
Tabs 7/2: Fam Income Mmdel" MioOh
mowAN uWAsomsssd 75u k Mm Mms
_s Nv                  Nt s               s           O    NoRF  GRo  e   s                                    Rs           Oao   Ow
RS            pwb    pwbs porWA  hO                                                    who   patha   pwbh  ha
--30       46          go8-lin0  8    4660D0    164          Al7660   100            m600   1071200   .0    560o   ao1w6               a
slo           NM0_       4_O        4_*    08        10600        7m       o640    11840         51   6      7000    00    10600    460             '4j_
ANA            000    18O6           4180   14    1`14000              M10              MM0000    2WI12       SO2W7     2    1600W00    5U25         107
om'           2160        Sim2      0    1"sun A1      _°O    110178l         7020   864 0000       60       g 70   1.6    560000    116            4420125
aht           "100        8 60       S7M    0.        6601 0     441622    466875   60000    6 0    2200  0A                  MO0O        774190    1785
Sqse_M         4700    6        0     1400   0A        SN        168800          00    7167    47800           O0807  0.7      54"417  8410         210A, ai
Teld                                          87   11186u0    ow11    71865   1740717 n26015   12082002
bat me  _SO am1 aOw                                                         8701                                                                   11LIM701
.,6 ,,,t                                                                                                                                            545100
_ lhM Cst C h ar                                                                                                                         11633902
Inasmsisuumhmb%iwgs)                                                  66.8%
h_aa b~ Fom hum    %.hWptsfll 00.0                                            61.4%
W.o _maRwsamsqIm  for FuU 086 Ca0  (PYh                                     0.1
COM          as  osatap of Paod Casts, PY1                                     7.8%
'0"C lwPwstg  @1_ Pro Cats*, PY tuh M eest dtwgt
kw*"* bi Ctwon mw_"p                       No d  t h wims                      4.6%
PU. namstFISAMO
MOIIAN. oaetrn. 7 ho. km  n, Id
F--   Yt                          -y -                                                                                                               1
Fe No    Cams    mat                    Ros        ca         t n Nov   Gare  RN    coa       NetR             osRev        CoGts      et Rev
as            pWm        pwho       pbh        t                                      phwho      pWho        ptha    ha
a  71200    70100o        0           1484        75805    668O    1426000    4"200    04060  20    4141200    1366786               23s442,V
Be"            442eo0    604600       462O  0.8       212801D     171iO      24100    886OO   4UUO          423600  0.9       709s2t     417S06      3812401
Ahafs          4600c      18480    26080  IA          600B0      268660    071070    7f0000    29712S    45267S  1A           1050000    415976       034025 i
cotto         14800       446M0       807O0  1.0    16D06        64 0   1047410   2605000    546             2050  1.4    347000    7676             2837310!
Swr t           _00       81608$     1260  0.1        2o         2U415       3715    256so0        880400    1679600  0.6    16s0o0       62240       007760 I
maIlktw              0          0          0    0          0           0          0   13S0000    476260    873750  0.4        S40000      190600      349$00 
Towel                                         SS    447O        210235   214_85                                       7.8   11713400   3707148        00625S
Ohtwg  % of tGrosI Fe                                                       127437                                                                    361402
fto   mim  % 08 aChs                                                         18120                                                                   76663
M08os                                                                                                                                                 4638s6
Wm OS  Cost Chug                                                                                                                                     7642400
mamas 5' FoIl. bOA... 0%  laugel                                            m270.3%
Storaws In FoM booms 0%  oh   isfogo0s                                       27.%
P_odp at hGrs   wos fthiod fwO P4 86 oas%                                      4.0%
OAEC osF wPovtIFOodCoss,PYI                                                     6.7%
O h       o os PscrW_ osadPodCos,Pb     wt folo hht.p                         11.,%
Ior_ass ht Chegss Ps oswwqiborsass t_ , het Inbcon.                            Ll%
Pf norFAUG



- 144-                                             ANNEX VII
rage 11 of 11
Table 713: Farm Income Models, Zarrineh Roud
ZAtSUD. un      anstrand   . ha. kfm m-del
NWsPsV   csw           NM PMssNW                  Oa ed ftN            ass aW Cs             tNM PW        GRow    Costs    No alRw
Ns             Wmpe      p          Wmt pera    ha                                  perha      peh        psh        a
__u         !10    1.2   1010                       " 4                    - 15 !e         o      6  w       2g700    16aw         160W0
ea             amooo    es_    mm8mm   I      SUM 20                        a          6o6    4012            8 .0  m1o   24s  Pmws
A_fft            _60   lo06    _OM 66  o18 *60   M6    470    MOO   SU6   8020 1oA  t"SOMI  sO                                                     7
Sug_det       141tOO        7W0    t70  0A           GUM0        MM       atnrto     MGM        471       1066100  0.7  o061860        4710   t110
Vegem_        ad m         *8860o 011s5o 0io  0.1    ODOM       IN885    1*1S   08              SUM 06 0   014607  0.4   1t8          W6W       1268
"tabg          71000    6o0    0400  0.1              7100      as"        86    1*o 0    600860    80410  0.              01066      1t6        loo
TeW -raw -                                   4.1    =NO   125106         185051                                    GA    61707   lW4'80   D12757
aaW         Jh   -a                .ss -                                                                                                           - 
InOms with 0% OW Charge                                                 1560170                                                               R4o4om4
increaeIn Pan Ino honw ($% cthuglb f.a3one                                 186.2
Perorsnisa Of rSS NetOnus Nqufred %forPuf  Oasi MmwO                         4.0%
I& 00chogs an Perosateg of ProdCoasis, PYS                                   7.2%
0W1 Chag as 'eonta  of Prod Coats. PtS it %U OM   ag1%
IIkUSI In Charg  as Psrostage of Iwncremin Net bmam                          0.8%
.15   Uts:t 500580
ZANFONUH R04U). constrained. 8.7 ha fa nx mde
Gloss      CasIs     Nstwo a"                   coa        MtNW    G        lO NW  Cot     t4 PNW          Orhsl    Cast         Nst Rev
ft          perha      peiha      perha     ha                                    prta    pW he         parha      ha
4W5r0      151801   57082V   1.1  100560    211068          1801       46         07         4450    1T    17410
Ballt          296000    2260=        74675  0.9    28060    10806         P478    8$8O6        348425    8667   12   10886O6         418110    647400
Alfl           800060   t166O    142860  1.1    S0O6O           17t416    16666      N006         60       620  1.2    7660M         876000    422400
Supb e          40000    77880       180860  0.      28        2823196     460    240000    62760   14120  0.5   1120060    41876                70l26o
Veg le        180660        40     o1046     0.1    18060        88488    10400        8780 61700   282a7 0 0.1    1am                 70170    282705
MalaIF1.            0          0          0   0           0         0          0   16006        4700    07160   0.5    078000    230    45760
TOMll      I                                   6   1540         5706      5181U                                    4.6   88775   1819745   a1goo
gtw 4e 3_  -C                                         -                    4t1ig                                                                 17063
a=nooswit 8%04   hrg                                                       27834n3
'518          -        -s_                                                                                                                      304732
Inomwt0os . charg                                                                                                                              3614298
knmae In FaN  Inorm e (8% aar  to toll e0a                                 488.0%
Parea  of   Rasniu  Pequred f1r Fus OW Costs (O                              54%
04 Chow arg   Perostgp of Prd Cot. PYI                    e.9U
01M Chb  as Peretg of Ptod C bts, PYwh fb Wotm 9ag                          140%
loarsas in Charges as Peraessg oftIncreass VI nos Income 9r.0%
Z          OEH ROM salne ad  wala. 8. ha        model
rosRw  Cost    NeRt                   brssW Cost   Net   wGN   Casts   Net Re                               Gr NW  Cost   Not Rev
lb          pwha       parha      pethe      ha                                   pwtha      per ha     perha      ha
"Eiij. --4820             101575    27Z625  0.7    mll0    134813    14W              12         0         M6M    0.s    OM32         27M1N      8o1
B"ey          2?0         220026      7405  04        88a0      a          2*6       602        348425    24857      I      10        348425    243675
Alfalf              0          0               0          0          0         0    62060    178850    860    1             2606      17660    3480
$      e            0          0               a          0          0         0   ltoSt#       7125 71207425 0.2           84000     142515    241485
SUnloWer            0          0          v   0           0          0         0   108760       4120       661108  0.1    108781       41820      0S111
easlo           8566           0      8m6    1.0     s6o0           0      86010      0660           0      A0s86    0          0          0          0
Tom        I                                 2.     465400    20 a    2140                                           2   R41061       928      142863
aa^w  Iam"-N                                                                1454 
bme wih   0O1  ChAge                                                      24086                                                                 1386814
OM.O                                                                                                                                   1986W
hIocrs inFtarmCIcfme0%harge o il o0t)88.1
P sta aof esm fnwi_ RequIrd bor PuAl OM COesf                                82
o0m awr es Peoni   of Prod Costs. PYI t.%
OW ChgasPsange   Prod Cass PYO th fuatl charg                               16%
in_rease is Charges as         db_esntsgs o neaIn Nett tasS. 188%
Flo n- PMZR



- 145 -
ANIX VYiI
Page 1 of 19
ISLAMIC REPLIC OF IRAN
IRRIGATioX UU2MRpyME   PIQ=CT
ECONO;C ANpLY8I8
1.          A separate economic analysis was carried out for each of the four
subproject6. The four economic analyses were subsequently aggregated to
obtain the result of the economic analysis for the entire project (Tables 2
and 3). The specific approach used in each of the analyses is described in
this annex as well as the general assumptions. The analysis has been carried
out over a 25-year period.
Cost Streams
2.          The cost streams are based on the economic project costs as
calculated by COSTAB. This implies exclusion of taxes and price
contingencies. Civil works have been costed at likely contract prices.
Imported equipment has been costed at CIF prices. Agricultural machinery
services and incremental staff costs have been priced at cost. Project cost
eastimAtes were based on prices anticipated after price and foreign exchange
liberalization. Therefore, no conversion factor has been applied.
The analysis is based on a foreign exchange rate of Rls 1450 - US$1. As
detailed below, certain project costs were excluded from the economic analysis
such as some research and extension costs that benefit farmers outside the
subproject areas; the cost of equipment for sale, which is taken into account
in crop production costs; the cost of environmental measures, where the
benefits are difficult to quantify; and those costs of institution building
(training and technical assistance) and studies that are not directly related
to project benefits, including the costs at the central level.
3.          In two of the subprojects, certain improvements are already
underway. That part of the contract costs not committed prior to the expected
date of project effectiveness (June 30, 1993) has been included in the cost
streams for the purpose of economic analysis. In the case of the reservoir
dams under construction at Behbahan and Tajan, both costs and anticipated
benefits have been excluded from the economic analysis.
4.          Annual recurrent costs include:  incremental operation and
maintenance costs of the subprojects as detailed in the Table 1; and
incremental operating costs of agricultural support services (research and
extension). Replacement of vehicles and equipment for agricultural support
services has been provided by annual charges adequate to provide for
replacement every six years.
ms\iran\irrg\an8



- 146 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 19
Benefit Streams
5.          The benefit streams of the economic analysis are based on the
aggregation at subproject level of per hectare crop models. The project
benefits are calculated by subtracting the without-project returns (with
current cropping patterns and yields, adjusted for forecast price changes)
from with-project returns (Tables 4 to 7). In three subprojects particularly
affected by waterlogging problems (Behbahan, Moghan and Sarrineh Roud), a
conservative assumption based on past experience has been made that without
the Project yields in affected areas of the scheme would decline by 20-30
percent over the implementation period of the Project, and a value
corresponding to these averted losses has been included as a benefit of the
Project.
6.          Prices.  The analysis has been carried out in constant 1992
prices. Calculation of economic prices is detailed Table 8 and summarized in
Annex VII, Table l. The following are the basic principles on which the
prices used in the analysis are based:
(i) Traded outout crops have been priced on the basis of import
parity, brought to the point of first sale, i.e. at the farm gate.
Transportation costs have been included from the field to the
farm, but not from the farm to the depot or factory. Projected
world market prices in constant 1992 terms have been calculated
from the World Bank Commodity Price Projections. In the case of
rice, domestic production has a higher quality than imported rice
and trades at prices well above the price of imported rice (Thai S
percent brokens, as projected by the World Bank Commodity Price
Projections). The traditional Tarom variety is of a quality
comwparable to Basmati rice which trades on world markets at a
premium of around 50 percent. Therefore, the economic price of
Tarom rice has been estimated as 150 percent of the import parity
price. Similarly, the economic price of Amol rice contains a 25
percent quality premium. Marked consumer preference for local
varieties is also apparent from retail price differentials that
exceed the assumed quality premia. Thus where the notional value
of imported rice at the retail level was Rls 400/kg in mid-1992,
local improved varieties such as Amol were selling at Rls 600 and
the local traditional variety, Tarom, was selling at Rls 1000.
(ii) Other outiut crops, which are either not internationally traded or
for which no world market reference price was obtainable (green
clover, alfalfa, vegetables, broad beans, fruits), have been
priced based on local financial prices. Market distortions are
similar for traded and other crops. Also, there is considerable
substitutability between both groups of crops. Hence, the
conversion factor for other crops should equal the average
conversion factor for traded crops. The individual conversion
factors resulting from the cal tlation of individual economic
m:\iran\irrg\an8



- 147 -
AnLn VTI;
Page 3 of 19
prices for the traded crops range from 1.1 to 2.0. As a midpoiV
estimate, a conversion factor of 1.5 has been applied to the
financial prices of other outputs.
(ii) 4"ia ation water charges have been excluded from the economic
analysis as the scheme investment and OaB costs have already been
included in Project costs. (Water charges have been included,
however, in the farm budget analysis.) Since water savings in
each of the subprojects are used to increase cropped areas or
cropping intensity, total irrigation water usage in the project
areas does not change wlth lmplementation of the project. Hence,
it was not necessary to determine the opportunity cost of water.
(iv)        W Wage rates vary from Rls 2,000 to Rio 4,000 a day
depending on area, season and sex, and age of the worker. There
is seasonal labor surplus in all areas and chronic labor surplus
in some. on the other hand, current financial prices of many
agricultural outputs are below economic prices leadlng to a
downward bias in flnancLal wages as indicators of the opportunlty
cost of labor. To reflect both aspects, an adjusted wage rate of
Rls 3,300 a day has been applled.
(v) FertLilzers have been priced at import-parity (for diamonium
phosphate) and export-parity (for urea), as there is a likelLhood
of urea exports based on domestie feedstock in the medium term.
In the crop budgets, dlfferent fertilisers have been grouped
together and evaluated at an average economlc prlce based on local
usage.
(vi) The financial prices of other tradable aariLultural Lnnuts in the
crop budgets (tractors, seeds, pestLeLdes) exhiblt currently
prevaLilng subsldization and other distortions in domestic and
foreign exchange markets. To correct for these distortions, a
conversion factor of 1.5 was applied to these items.
Uwaluation of the Four Subprojects
7.
B-hbkahn. The following costs were excluded from the economic analysis: 50
percent of the costs of technical assistance and training that are not
directly related to project benefits (Rls 2,465 million or 8 percent of
subproject costs); environmental protection costs (Rls 1OOS million or 3
percent of total); and resettlement costs (Rls 312 million or 1 percent of
total). Losses averted (production declines that would have occurred without
the Project) were derived from corresponding crop budgets and assume a decline
of yields in affected areas of 30 percent over five years. They are counted as
project benefits (after year five Els 807 million annually or 11 percent of
annual project benefits).
.:lfrantfrrgran8



- 148 -
ANNEX Vi
Page 4 of 19
8.          The rate of return of 22.6 percent is one of the highest of the
subprojects, as the investment costs required to complete the schemes is low
compared to the other subprojects. Yields are expected to improve sharply and
the area under cropping in the Awmmer is expected to more than double.
9.          Vghg9.  In addition to project costs, the economic analysis
includes am costs the expenditures on two ongoing contracts after July 1,
1993. This has added Rls 13,687 million to subproject cost (10 percent of the
total). As the main canal system also serves other users, 40 percent of the
civil works costs of lining and half of the costs of maintenance equipment and
operation and maintenance staff have been excluded from subproject costs,
reducing costs during implementation by Rla 20,842 million (15 percent of
total cost). 30 percent of costs of technical assistance and training, not
directly related to project benefits (Rls 3,169 or 2 percent of total cost),
and environmental protection costs of Rls 1,414 million (1 percent of total
cost) have also been excluded. Losses averted were derived from corresponding
crop budgets and assume a decline of yields of 30 percent over five years.
They are counted as project benefits (after year five Rls 1824 million
annually or 8 percent of annual project benefits).
10.         The rate of return of 15.6 percent reflects the relatively heavy
investments needed to bring production up and, on the benefit side, the fairly
high level of existing yields.
11.         Zarrineh Roud.  In addition to project costs, the economic
analysis includes as costs the expenditures on ongoing contracts after July 1,
1993 totalling Rls 608 million (0.5 percent of subproject cost). As the main
canal lining will also benefit other areas, Rls 4,001 million (3 percent of
the total) have been apportioned to those users (on the basis of proportional
area irrigated) and deducted from subproject cost.  As extension and r-search
will serve a broad area around Miandoab, half the costs of research and
extension have been excluded (Rls 4,5354 million during implementation, equal
to 4 percent of total subproject cost, Rls 549 million annually thereafter).
45 percent of technical assistance and training are not directly benefit
related and have consequently been excluded (totalling Rls 4,199 million or, 3
percent of total). Environmental protection costs excluded total Rls 1,214
million (1 percent of total cost). The project costs include Rls 14,244
million (10 percent of total) for import of small farm machinery that will be
sold. These costs are excluded from the economic analysis. Losses averted of
Rls 557 million annually at full production, equal to 2 percent of total
annual benefits, were included as project beenfits based on crop budgets
reflecting a decline of yields of 20 percent over five years.
12.         The rate of return of 20.0 percent reflects the sharp increase in
cropping intensity which is only partially offset by the limited yield
potential in previous wastelands.
13.         Taian.  The ASCs to be supported under the Project serve a broad
area around Sari outside the Project itself; therefore, 75 percent of the
m:\iran\irrg\an8



- 149 -
AmX vI
Page 5 of 19
costs of the extension and research have been excluded. This has reduced
economic coats by R1s 9,119 million during implementation (21 percent of total
costs), and by Rls 965 million annually thereafter. Project costs include Rls
5,432 (or 12 percent of total) for equipment for sale that are excluded from
the economic analysis. 61 percent of technical assistance and training that
are not directly related to benefits were excluded (totalling Rls 2,846
million or 6 percent of total). Environmental protection costs excluded total
Rls 1,470 million or 3 percent of total.
14.         The rate of return is 24.5 percent despite the high per hectare
development costs. Presently rainfed land will come under irrigation for the
first time. Incremental output from this area results from increased cropped
area and increased cropping intensity, including higher production of the very
profitable Tarom rice variety.
Sonsitivitv Analysis
15.         One factor that will influence the ex-post rate of return is the
evolution of world prices for agricultural produce. Prices for commodities to
be produced under the Project are at or near their historical lows in real
terms and in some cases are less than half thelr levels of ten years ago
(sugar, rice, maize, edible oils, cotton). An increase in these prices would
boost the ERR. The outlook for agricultural commodities is extremely
uncertain. Assumptions about future commodity prices are based on the World
Bank commodity price forecasts; together with a substantial premium for local
high quality rice. Variations from these assumptions could result in wide
variations in bonefits.
16.  The robustness of the economic returns to the project and its
subprojects has been tested by sensitivity and switching value analysis for an
economic rate of return of 10 percent, which is considered to be the lower
bound on the range of the opportunity cost of capital in Iran. The economic
rates of return for the subprojOcts under varying assumptions and switching
values are summarized in Table 2. Returns to the project and the individual
subprojects have been found to be quite robust to wide ranging deviations from
the base case assumptions. Switching value analysis indicates that it would
take a 36.5 percent decrease in benefits or a 57.0 percent increase in costs
to lower the economlc rate of return of the Project to 10 percent. A 25
percent decrease in benefits would reduce the overall rate of return to 13.0
percent. A 25 percent increase in costs would decrease the rate of return to
14.2 percent.   A two year delay in bonefits would lower the rate of return to
13.2 percent. However the analysis has been conservative in assuming that the
first (modest) benefits would come on stream only in year 3 and the risk of
such a lag is correspondingly limited.
17. For the individual subprojects, the economic rates of return would fall
between 19.3 percent (Tajan) and 11.4 percent (Moghan) for a 25 percent
increase in costs and between 19.0 percent (Tajan) and 10.3 percent (Moghan)
for a 25 percent decrease in benefits. With benefits lagged two years, the
m:\iran\Lrrg\an8



- 150 -
ANNE!X VI
Page 6 of 19
rate of return to
subprojects would be           IRAN: Irri gation Imnprovement ProJect
in the range of 17.1                       mmttiv1ty w    t  ste
percent (Tajan) to
11.1 percent (moghan).
With cost overruns of
36 percent or a
decrease in benefits
of 26.5 percent, the
economic return to all
subprojects,              I   o.n .
separately, would             0.1" .
still be at or above
10 percent.                   0.18
18.   Due to the
uncertainties involved
in determining the            o.-  ie   m t      eo it   ;        se en
appropriate foreigA                             t  Mawa"
exchange rate, the
sensitivity of the      Figure I
project's return to
the assumed shadow
exchange rate has also been tested. For this analysis, lt is assumed that
project benefits are proportional to the Rs/U8S$ exchange rate. The foreign
exchange component (50.9 percent) of the project costs is also assumed to
change proportionally with the exchange rate while the domestic value added
share of project costs would be unaffected.  An exchange rate of 920 Rls/US$,
the economic rate of return would be 13.6 percenti at 1,250 Rls/US$ 17.1
percent. The dependency of economic rates of return on the exchange rate is
shown in Figure 1. Above an assumed exchange rate of 1R. 830/US$, all
subprojects would achieve an economic rate of return above 10 percent.
m:\fr.nXlrruXan8



ISLMi REP UBLC OF IR0~
MDR&=N lilPROVBT PRET
TaMe 1: EstImtd Fiate h O&  Cost
Unit     Behbahan    Moghan    Zarvineh    Talon    Total
_    _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   ___                      _ _  _    _   _Rou  
ReAcufent Cost (USS'000l
Eisting Staff                                              20          310        240      130      700
r rmental Staff                                            160         230        310      420      1120
Travel Aflowances, Tranti, etc.                             10         40         40        30       120
Overhead Managerial Staff
10         30         30        20       90
Equipment & Vehides Operation
-          200         800        550       400     1,750
Operaton & Main. of Tertiary System                        20          50         70        90      230
Subtotal - Recurrent                                    420        1,260      1,240     1,090    4,010
Replacement of Eaukiment & Vehicles
Equipment                                                 160         370        370      300      1,200
Vehicles                                                   30         100        90        80       300
Subtotal - Replacement                                  190         470        460       380     1,500
Base Cost - Recurrent Plus Replacement                      810        1,730       700     1,470    5,510
Physical Contingencies (5%1                                 30          90         90        80      290
Total Cost (US$'000)                                      840        1,820      1,790    1,550    5,800
Net Irrigable Area                               Ha        11,500     35,700     36,000    29,80   113,000
Proposed Cropped Area                            Ha        11.900     44,400     37,600    34,90   128,800
< _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                       ._                                  .  -0 
O&M Cost Per Hectare (Net Area Basisl            US$        55.6       51.00      49.70    52.00    51.32
O&M Cost Per Hectare (Cropped Area Basis)        US$        53.8       41.00      47.60     44.0    45.03
m: \iran\irrg\an8



ANNEX VIII
Page 8 of 19
- 152 -
Table 2: Econmc Rate of Retum and Sensiivity Analysis
Ttal PrJoe ERR
ProjstYew                   t       2      a       4       8      6       7       8   0-32    ERR-,
Eo  Code Sohbin           877   40-        06    4063   8414   8308   1631   1344   166;
B NO   bm                   0       0   1013   9246   3463   4739   6081   7423   7423
Net B_etsBehbelwn       -877  -4023  4167  -1817         48   1703   4100   8179   6764 2M             18187.
Econ Codes Moghan        6026  1863   34050   3M4  34450   8868   6578   88   360
fenoteuoghm                 0       0   4008   7586  11105  1498   10361  284823482
Not Benefts Moghan       6023  -161232  0047-1 8 -12852   -93    9773  20009  16877    I                1885.
lEcnCon s Zanin  Roud   384   848   16065  39217  36874  16687   6458   2747   81444
Bsns teZmnth Roud           0       0   8466   O643  10563  16574  2009  3668  28368
Not Bsnefts Zdnh RoAud -2584  -6466 -1600 -22675 -14812  -1413  11057  231355 29.
EoonCoostsTajn            MO9  2330   554   5544   4660   8791   2377    3J8    71t
BenlflteTsjan               0       0    58    1802   2420   4182   SM    7438   7480
Not benEfts Tan          -339  -2380  -5010  -8683  -2640    241   8483   7061   6726    24.4-.     14511
PropsNet enEfits        -636 -80644 -49t32 -44402 -30568    248  23413  57270  S500           189> 88573
Toal Cst
TOW -RCostel             am2  30844  692t   82698  68t98  99t82  293338   7752   9tt9
TotalBefits                 O       0   9o87  18186  27642  89430  61751  65O22  65o22
Totd Not Dbnfts         -      -30644 -49812 -44402 -3055       248  28413  67270  5S603
Code Wresd I -'   Y  35% 
'Totald Cos             9165   88304  7274  782S6  7248  48678  29173   660O  11860
Total Bnefts                0       0   9087  18186  27642  3940   1751  6506t       0so2M
ta Not Bebnfits        -11658 -3804 -63687 -00050 -45106  -6648  22578  56382  63829
ae.6Ci Doomesoa by 36-
Total Costs              0M36 80    5821_0288  58168  88182 2_883    77               011_
Tota Benefits               0       0   6815  13640  20732  29573  88813  48767  48767
Total Not Bswots        4-36 -8064441404 -48946 -37407  -8o  15475  41014  88648
BonnB Logged two YOreM      _________________
Toal Costs               0836  08044  S81O  e626t8  58108  88182  23s38   7753   silo
TotW Beneft                 0       0       0      0   6087  18186  27642  s848o  51751
Totl Net Bonefts        -66 -30644 48218 -6258  -49111 -30666   4304  81678  42632
TOW lC*ib                7s06 __2407  47472  51086  47456  31650  16030   68n    7485
Tota Bnefit                 0       o0  5s    1153   17588  25018  328385  41236  41266
Tot_ _ Not  n___     _  -705 -24687 -41707 -467 -29917  -662  18805  84634  88830
-mmy
so     Cols De.6  Bee_  FX Rao  _I 
Can    p-    Mbm     lo9   (I4  Coa   Bm_dt FX Rate
ERR                                           3 2"     was 920 pI    mianis  W&
BubFbhan                         17.    15J7       12 56  16   72.   42.        525
MoXh.n                   15.P   11.4f   101K   11.1q   1tl.   afs.    2.f    a30
Zaulnd Routd              0      1      14.s 14         14     68      40.      6
Talon                    34      1      18      17.1i 19    105A    51          485
i :,#.a14   ;-.    1                                18   :579    .3g    .7



ANNEX VIII
Page 9 of 19
- 153 -
Table 311: Economic Rate of Retum, Betbahan and Moghan
8EHBAHAN
Project Year                1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8    9-25
Total Project Costs       855   4961    8848   4501    3833    3378   2161    1393
Incremental O&M Costs                                                                     928
Incremental I_S&Ext Costs                                                                 731
Less Environment          -52   -252   -144   -102   -144    -109    -93   -109
Loss Resettlement        -292      -8      -3      -3      -3      -1      -1      -1
Less 50% Tralning&TA     -134    -678   -641    -333   -272   -232   -136    -39
Economic Costs            377   4023   8060   4063    3414    3036    1931    1244    1659
Benefits                    0       0     955   1971    3049    4189   S358              6616
Avwted Losses               0       0     138    275    413       550    673      807     807
Total Benefits              0       0    1093   2248    3462   4739   6031    7423   7423
Net Benefits             -377  -4023  -696    -1817        48    1703    4100    6179    5764
File name: ERBE
MOGHAN
Project Yeaw                1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8    9-25
Total Project Costs      1417   13671   28543   29465   27970   17901   11468   4771
incremental O&M Costs                                                                    2640
Incremental Res&t Costs                                                                   965
Unsunk Costs             4940   5035    3712
Less Environment          -61    -275   -207   -134   -206   -183   -165   -183
Less 30% TrainIng&TA     -185   -759   -790   -617   -328   -199   -178   -140
Less 50% Main Canal, Eqp    -85   -1046  -4799  -2558   -666    -410   -364   -372
Less 40% Main Can. Civ.W    0    -704  -1509  -2392  -2322  -1741   -1184   -693
Economic Costs           6026   192   249S0   23764   24450   15368    9678    3383   3605
Beneft                      0       0   3478   6744   10138   13658   17789   21658   21658
L  ossAverted               0       0    525    792    1060    1327    1562    1824    1824
Total Benefits              0       0   4003   7536   11198   14985   19351   23482   23482
Net Benefi              -6026  -15922  -20947  -16228  -13252   -383    9773  20099   19877
File :nam- -E:::R-R'M O                                             .X;..V.    -   . .:.i.
File name: ERRMO



ANNMX VIII
Page 10 of L9
- 154 -
Table 312: Economic Rate of Retum, Zarrineh Roud and TaJan
Zarrineh Roud
PrJect Year                 1       2      3       4       5       6       7       8    9-261
Total Project Costs      2317  12541   26299  35521   30649  21970  10244   3449
Incrementl O&M Costs                                                                    2596
Incremental Res&EKt Costs                                                               1097
Unwnk Costs               608
Less Environment          -6    -203   _1'Z    -133   -16$    -156    -I56    -156
Less 45% Tralning&TA     -230   -966    1       -868S  459   -390  -216   -127
Less Main Canal for Other   0    -919  -1541  -1541
Less EquIpmet for Sale      0    -917  -2288  -2864  -4076  -4099
Less 50% ResearchMI:    -44  -1068  -1630   -898   -457   -419   -420    -420    -549
EconomIc Costs           2584   8469  19656  29217  25374  16907   9452    2747    3144
Benefits                    0       0   3257   6269   10215  15153   20024  26121   26121
Loss Averted                0       0    199    273    347    421    486    557    557
Total nefts                 0       0   3456   6542  10662  15574  20509   26678  26678
Net Benefits            -2584  -86   -162   -227   -1481?  -1413   115    231   25
£R R                    _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ R  _  f  _  _  __
File namr: EPRZR
Tajan
ProjectYear                 1       2      3       4       5       6       7       8    9-26
ToW ProJect Costs         622   5355  10391    9436   760        389   3622   1620
nventmal 08M costs                                                                     390
Incremental Res&Ext Costs                                                               1286
n i e _ronme              -67   -254   -175    -169   -226   -199   -181   -199
Less 61% TralningaTA     -150   -754   -769   -492   -339   -164    -99    -78
Loss Equipment for Sale     0    -500  -1341  -1833  -1273    486
Less 75% of Research&Ed    -66  -1617   -2552  -1398   -807   -70    -965   -965   -965
Economic Costs            339   2230   S554   544   4960   3791    2377    378    712
Benefts, Crops              0       0    535   1989   3126   633SW              7439   7439
Net Benefts              -339  -2230  -5019  -3555  -1834   2541    4502   7061    6728
E..      .  .                   .                                                           -......
File namew ERRTA



* 0%
V4
'-4'" ~    O        ge      00    W g                ISM          2       o       noit           oo    o        t         -        m "t        O"    s&ot             oo
s-#0 ~ ~ i    o stootV                     t91*4n     g              o    ctm         m    9Z M4o              gt         t    W Ot   0    otm             m     o                            "
'.4~~~ m o                t4        a-       e      c      s   u o-oaa&                    vewsoito                 v    w       4     o    w onwtst                                           e
0   m   o        IO 9   sll           om____e_____t   0I0 te  9                                            00I  I  I              000 cum  itsa:         00c c   ______3
tm   Ants        OM:        SOL         Not lii   we           AM       t ssO   t                 69Gtt tat    s    set  sc         a s   t Itoo           amoa
.c   c  n    i u    emSo   so   N s 0meg   $0                 0        gou0rns           t    o    o s  mc           socset  Am   0550            so          cu eoa
us   s  in se       anss as   mu           ustoes: ton   au   cus  s seem    auses:s tu                m       uosts  te aec           cust  au  tso          cusst:A
SOL  clu          SUPO SOL 0   sas       cus         aae Lie    OUSt" 505 cu          SCP utct  8    U    cusn  sac  Ot  A           OUSIt  uss out         cus: 0O5AM
m    "W m   go m    s    on    s   s    "W   n   g    "  m Oa   a    09 SW    m to    e   00 m    a    at                        6 o
am g S                     mO                D  t    9            O         1,O         O !O         e           m     o     wOMO"G                            oo
em                     Om                     Ast                   gm                      not                    ant                    Om
au        toA,Om m              s      m 9&           m w     W a : :   uLie  aso"a  OP    m sc   i             oef aO SooS  AMt   cuA               ssm a     Om                  A"
tue  so"   m O s      use   useU su             auss   gm   Oms   ae         LU01   sets ago  w  a    SEt    0 It    i"a    too       gm L  at    am   on 00 CU"
'5   Ue    aS LU   OS   OS   55   59   LO    Pi   85           05   Pt   a5   u    cuePt se   OS   L    si Go                 see  oc   it    u   us   se                   we  u"M
~    w    me mu  as etus   s    us   tc   usse us   seusse  c   oat   ac    cc use  se   se   s            us   e
"aUWL                -        u'd             fWm-d-               wfd*  i,                                      "wm'da-[-*    ,   04
SW S             V"Dm     W                                                                    ___m_______M_M"   "  d"I    V   W" Ad  m   w   pd   g   O"   4tow   M
cuss-   uss  cus  ser stt sm   usr est cic          cae' 55t  559           050'sac   tat           55ostat AmcacIS  sfass:                     ivs wo
sOS  5656  ssc:                   met                    sect                   so:                     -~~~~~Pw om*d"-Oa          W



&4OWWOROPPINBPATTOGOIhsiMIND NET MAA4N
NiWIM.VUMA0LEAFIA  Ft"2 prodl vahe va4   PV6   prmdAf V*A  waIu   PY4   WOO  VA wl   VWiN   WS PC podl v                           iinevau   P(    pwmd  VaIa  valu  PY    p.odi VW"~ v*a   PYSo pu& vwin   vbie
ImocOOsTRAINT                ha.   BO         4 wpg   POn ha.  ~fi   p4. vieP  has.  (I  v             w/o Poe ha.  [4.1  wp4. WIe   km    [640   wp4. vie gm. M&           61         %du o vi    km.L  [4,1  wp.j  v
VwA"                          OM7    SW?  7611  7611  86M    600   627   7766  9010   966   OM2  776   600    604  8080  776   00M   1082  BO?  776   607   106   98U7  7540   OM6  1071  078   760
8inley                        280    400  10M   107   006    000  1161  1070   OM   68  1263  1IM   006   660  1204                 M 107    00 0617  1400  16M   0076   6M   1448  1044  007    01   INS   t104
Affifa                       2OM    416  1083  1088  2466   448  1111  106   a46    476  1166  1086  2466   606  1266  1068  2408   640  1842  1086  2462   62  1418  1088  246    m     UN6  188
R400,omwes                            68N   0   0 106864   Be  0267600180   08$10 806274   0 4186008 72   06$17010G470   00206l1677   0 -4
&*osaeu                       ism8          OM0   OMN 18677           1002    me0 186m           11280  000  14110          11648  g 000100           law   O60014868            1270   OM2  1440           118   gm S
Fa0ew                        0am                        0am                         am5                        064                       6423                       am0                        61se                       0
TOTAL                         mm8m0 G SON                             lOO    g60                 1126g4  0m600              I1648   me000             1248   0660      m         1270   GOM                 1188   gm
cordon                        8600  IM6  047   0077  4787  2040   MO8  0477  4678  2O0O 10074  0477  4880  2888 I007   047   4147  2510 1040   047  008   278  106    OV40  8720  2007 1l66   g0m
8.8.1w                         77    O0   400   400   64    800   427   400   OV7   0             60N   400  1006   710   728   400  1068   786   661   400  1162   862   SOO   400  1240   010  1130   400
Sag. WMe                     1IM   1I0M  1606  1806  1408  1867  207   1806  1807  1406  286   1606  172   1646  2017  1806  1083  1020  2080  1806  100   2488  4102  SW0   OM0   02M   4060  280
MAlfla                        246    416  1088  1088  248    440  1111  1088  246    478  1186  1088  248    SOO  126   1038  246    648  1842  1008  2462   672  1418  1038  2480   008  146   1086
Vegslb4s                       200  2400   401   401   286  2667   601   481   278  270    781   481   M0S  260    87    401   840  8616  1026   461   276  8106  1107   401   418  0017  1100   491  
main. lclQe                    480   86    866   366   402  1016   400   868   408  1667   480   806   406  1110   466   806   407  11I   476   866   408  100    460   S86   410  M27    ON    8US6 
Makegraft                      160   420    42    42   16N   46  080    42   VS8  404   186    42   28                 US6  160    42   44?   608   20         42   WS0  SIT   ON         40          688   406    4         
sualal0o                          0887      0 0106661   e 62                      2027005126    0 310 ON9 186   0 4166$18280    0617678200    062   176 86 a
8n~~a hems  ~~1300   100   181   181  186    140   28    161  1407   160   204   181   660   227   M6   181  1078   267   480   101  170    272   401   106  1800                               1    666   106o
OSablala                     fl840         1880  18600 1108?          14870 18600 12208          1608  18604 1260           1866  18604  W2V2         18014 1860  18128          0082  147m  1842          216 1473
FOAMl                         6010                       6718                       801?                      6120                       76M                        7627                      728
TOTAL                                      18800IN     180400         14070S 28080               1668  18604 2              16668N 18 04              18014 1860                 26826 14766g              awe6 14786 
pmtnn1uiOro
ord,mdo                        260             0                                     266200                                               260                        200                        260
1TOTAL                          260                       *260                        2me20                                                200                        200                       200
104



WOtAOWMOFW04mMFlUSEWjhWmAND NErT MMR
c4Wm.YOM AKEASW                P04  rn40 va6a  Vuiu  PYS   piodb v.6   Va6a  PV4   prodA VW6*  V.6'  PY    WrOO VOW   Val   PYS   PrOO "am, '48'  PVYP pvdD  VO    V                       POO pid  A *  "aaov.6
366.                          428    US0  1426  1426  4477   406  222   1490  4073   800  277   1400  4870   U 006W  1406  S0W    788  60    1498  60M    00  4808 400                     840G   060  81410  146
on"                  ~~~im     67    *      is  ti2m    11   136     8.  im         " tao    m   80  i        " ass        St  14s  t  311 on   **s    ISMI        1   Gs    os  I=    424   as    *1
A014k                         JA73   286   00    00   1447   206   429   2110  142    32    406   300  1400   360            S 6 3 00  IV7   ON0   60    090  136    486   On1    M   110    466   M0   10
PA$sinkxf                        0  0   0   0  73 460  34  01478O9  76    22 0605In   0 296003177   0 3671028                                                                          044#0707                   a
BuSby                         Om6         1I73  1873  7125           262   104U  7473           3867  1042  7618          4000  1942  0100          810   lo2   Ms0           60N   1674  am0            0761  1074
P6mw                          we7                       7P8                       726                       am3                        one                       am4                       Gm0
TOTAL                        1478          11178  ¶873 147S0         2021  1042 1478            SW3  1042 14760           4000  10421478            8160  1942 1476           SUR2  1674 1400881  1874M
colIm                        206   1018  2604  me$  268   W17   0116  200   2680  100   38W   2605  2600  1408  SW6   260  266   104   400   2604  2600 se 1                  MM 8002 41  260   gm6   GM7  2641
S"62'. MelU                          264   168   168   06    47   =30   100   737   US   408   100   810   802   680   100   US   074   66    146  0S7  177  1413   374  100   130  1760   273
AMd't                         1470   268   US   394  1447   206   429   3000  1428   326   400   US  1400   060   105   090  IV7   0S0   80    US  138    422   On1   US  130   466  0a2   00
VogslSls                         0 2404   0   0  48 2167124   007 2709202   01i482681 415   01066016602   03an0106768   0 2006317002t   0 
ma1*v.ee                         0   a   0   0 125  140  18   0247 201  72   0 3703437 12   0 408603 207   0061772 '440    0 748874  847   01
malmglob                         0     0      0     0    73   M6       87      0147   487    73          0   220   4001io0          OU2       460   141      03674801In                0  440   470   211 
swdbm                       ~~0   0   0  73280R  20   0147 257   44    @42032W   72   0203836 104   0307068141   0 440 370167   0 
8ojm*eat                         0     0      0     0    73    71       8      0147        08    13      32800100           20     0301in             so     0    071*0    47          0  440148          04      0 
0     0      a     0l  1082            a     01  20;  US         12     0    au   MD    10        0l  40   US    20               so0765    116       0I  a61e    40             0   Z
BLbtotw                       4720         3051   M81 61712         4066  3261 1 US            4042   MI261   0076       8      M0  I26   052      OM6    Ml6  09M            MS0  100   7400          Om0  0s0 l
V.kmW                       I00=                        9676                      012                       Om7                       622                       M7                         7320W
TOTAL                       11478          02l  061 114780           4060  3021 11470           4042   Ml8 114780         80    Ml6 1478            006   0261 114760         am8   80  14760           002  0Ms   S.&
JUSSATIDNO CONSTAINT   180  26427 2427  lS         26807 23714 4180          211274600                 26826 25714 41600         80470 2674 41US            3304  24377 4110          3473  5437 
UMAISAE. OONSTPAINT          6N 124  8124 26077  61630 W                                       0470  6103               10218    io 2100           12004  6100               14407w  000               1008   S3"
GRAWYMAL          7low   ~ 288I 81       S    000          2385 26906 71000         8606     WOMO             30044 20006 "N0           4260  2000   1000          47654 2976    as0         8M141436
V*WT004R PFAWET DECLNINS YELN__                                                                                                                   _                                                   _
MM6.1 iaaooflslwd             290    637  2604  2604  2090   732  2186  2600  2900   070  2030  2600  2900   02   1873  2690  200   674  1716  269   2900                 o 600  1 00 16  299    440  134   2618
V3044.0m.62aIwd              2140  333  712 7122140  313  US  747 2140 273806S747 2143244652174729140 200  4487472140 108061 7172140  130270717
USO*, WMafnotraehd             737   400   360   360   737   422   324   300   M6   8M    267   360   767   026   261   000   76    261   216   60    70    228   171   346   767   170   138   648v
TffAL                         5607         3570  3670  8007          3160  370   S89            2613   70 607             24    7      17258 76US21    80697700000 
sm    see?  2M  SW  2376   sm   siw       2010  am   up             lm        sm00  -
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _              ~~~       ~~~-0  _ _ _    _    _         _    _     _    _                   I08                        13 7_             _    _  _    _1



dmft bdoad- knpovem-
ZANOM RUD OKNWM PAMRNB thal AND NOT MAROM
CURFtENrLY UWACIA81.9 AFtEAS PW4 Podfo VAN wako PV3 PfOCgh Vgko vdbo PY4 PM" VA* VShO PVS Plaft wove ;i-W PY60 Waft VOW  *Mm* Pff P-Vdib vabe VOM P" o 00" wakii V"
imocomaRANTSI                has.  "WM  wp4. wl*M hn.  POWNI w.pr WoM ha.  IFWh w.P4  WiDo haL  Iftob W.K   wtopol ho.  oft&  w-94  Wo gwj haL  INA  v P4  ub PO baL    Pftb  W-V*  wosm
VANM coops
VW"                           2460'  676  MM   1422  26W    694  1819  1471  2700   752  2M    1471  2940   810  2NO  1471  2100   867  208  1471  OM                SM   200   140   340    964  3204  1426
98007                         1940   327   04   634  1800   408    M          W?  1600   467    M    OR   ISM    506    M      667  1300   NO    M4    SP   Im       SU    7M    an   MO   m          dw    638
AUaft                         IWC   309   400   480  1202   404   SU    490  1283   424   644   4eO  IM           443   666   400  129?   40    506   480  1256   482   W        400  I=      $02   00   400
R*&. carA&                             a      0     0    87   827    72       0   173   S53   148      0   200   $70   226       0 347   906   314        0   433   930   403.   0    M       m     4"       0
sublow                        sloo         2536 26M 6798             3148 2W8 SOW             MO 2NO SM                -3wl me GM                4362 20H  192                   2546 am             2W
Fabow                         2300                      2202                     2102                      2005                     1907                      is"                      1460
TOTAL                         Om           25M  25M  Mm              3149 26M  OM             no 2008 8000              Sul 29H SM               4M-2W& 77W                4MM   I'M                5006 25W
&Mm Grop
VWIM                           210   464    97    97   210   566   117   101   210   501   124   101   210   ON    131   101   210   080   139   103   210    Sn    142    98   210   709   149    90
ewbv                           210   213    45    46   210   276    60    47   210   300    63    47   210   324    08    47   210   347    73    4?   210   259    7S    45   210    3M             80    46
Sugo best                      SW    643   434   434   873   91`6  661   ON    947  IM    1032   US  IKO  1205  1229   OM   1093' 1320  1443 M    1167  I=    2US   84   1240  1066  202S   80
MM&                           1300   389   480   400  1292   404   622   480  1293   424   544   480  IM          443    GM    400  126?   463   ON    480  1268   492   SU    40   1260   60    48   400
V"Plabl"                       240  2291   SW    560   302  2806   M        SU    363  2087   978   $60   426  2M    11"    60    48?  2061  1387   50    648  2932  1000   NO   610  3014  1839 M
mwn I""                                       0     0    40   M       24      0    80   80      53     0   120   72?    ST       0 160   780   lge        0   200   G"    169
0                                                                                                                                          6   248   906   217       0W
MaLzo ondn                     110   340    37    37   180   416    76    38   M        438   109    30 M         466   MO    38   390   470   ISS   tO   460   613   236         V    SW    634   293    37I
ounqmw                         110   200    22    22   130   193    26    21   150   278    42    21   170   304    62    21   190   449    N            21   210   493   104    is   230   $75   in        Is
potacwt. ani"                  110   m       74    74   IOD   ?W    113    74   210   7V    164    74   960   758   197    74   310   7$4   03    74   300   btO   292   74   00   00    W3    74
soomm                          tio   120    13    13   127   100    13    13   143   llb    16    13   ISO   130    21    13   17?   146    28    13   193   178    04   114  210   193    40    14
Sublo&W                       3200         IM    1762  3M            2W    1947  3847         3113  1947  4170          3m    1947  "03          4204  1947  4817         sm    2m   6140           6130  2159
FADOW                         4ON                       4477                     4163                      3630                     3607                     2033                      2NO
TOTAL                         8000         1752  Ifff  OM            26"   194?  OM           3113  1947  Om            3683  1047  No           4204  1947  TM           5390  2166  ?M            mu  -irGe-V
PNWO"Cmp                                                                                                                                                                                                        43
orchafft                       SW   2067  2133  2133   80   2M    2257  2133    SW   3M    2428  2133   00  3244  206  2133   71  34M   2601  2133    M    3M    2M    2121  M    Un   2M    2133
Gram                           8W   1804  1443  1443   800  1909  1627  1"3   800  tOn   IWO  1443    M    2040  1632  1443  1 tOD  2100  2317  1443  1100  9172  =9  00   1100  2M    2461  W3
Tknb"                          goo            0     0   ON             0      0   Om             0     a   Soo            0     0 900               0     0   goo            a          goo           0      0
LIOTAL                         25W          3677  _36771 2M*          3M    36771 m            4008  36771 2SW          4227  36771 2750          49ft  3M    2m           6138  0; -ow-             GM    35"
CUMWWLV OTAQNX9 AREAS PYO-2 prodih v*uo val"  PY3   plaft  valoo vaho  PY4  PoNh VSWO- -VWU* WS--PfO-ft  VA*  V"                        PVSO PM"  value vabiA  PV?  poodib wOm  vabe PYS o proft  vWm  vMA           k-r-
IVATH CONSTPANTSI            hsc   IFOSM  *.ps). wig" ha.  (Rieffi  W*T wk ptl bas.  tMem wpf w/o"  ha.  IPA&  W.Pli. Wb Pei tm.  Pk% W-K   Wok bm   lftlb W-V*  Wo" bw                       V"   -P4  Wok
Vftwr cow
VA"                           2190   271   903   593  21SO   432   946   618  21S?   SW   1180   618  2M          047  1414   $18  203 M    1648   $10  2182   041  tM           on   2M      90  I=       W
SW"                           OM      75   133   133  IM       195   349   143  1813   267   4S3   143  IM        3M    62t   143  ISSY   41i    M      143  1873   40         "I   134  1900   W    ION    t34
Aloft                          UM    142   161   161  1042   179   186   161  1023   214   210   161  tOOS   248    NO   161   907   203    US   161   908   $17    307   164   00   362    =4   I&I
Pipp, coca                             0      0     0    so   610    49       0   180   M      102     0   240   M      180     0 390   ON    222         0   400   M        209   0   400   70    240       a
Subtaw                        GM            $77   877  5102          IS26   910  6183         S984   010  GM          -iws-910  W7               2h2   910 -gi           3814   862  6610         sm- 6112
Faftw                         2380                      229$                     2217                     2136                      2m                       lm                        040
VOTAL                         ?400          a"    877  7400          ISU    910  7400          19"    910  740C         2446   910  7400         21hg   910  MO           03ti   882  7M            Wu    SU
&MMW orqm
VW"                              0     0      0     0    32   322    10       0    63   416    20      0    96   U9    48        0 127   602    76        4   IU         6711  107 a   "D    m      me       0
so"                              0     a      0     0    32   -0      -2      0    63    W       4     0    96   ISO    18      0 127   312    40         0   Ise    =0    61      0   190   441    84       0
G#W  beet                      Goo   163    90    98   W       466   292   194   663   592   387   194 M          718   499   194   707   "S   W        104   M     484   BV     W     M    1413  104   =2
Ads%                          $000   142   161   151  IM       179   too   161  1023   214   210   161  1006   24    249   161   901   2BS   M          161   M      $11   30    t6l   ON         SU    334 M
vagetibms                      200  W41   208   208   190  IM        3SS   208   is?  1990   M       208   196  2206   430   208   193  2412   486   209   192  9SW    602   2O    "O  28V    W           m
U"   bra"                              0      0     0   127   m       so      0   m     ?a    %es      0   NO   764   201       0 Sol   800   405         0   as m         ae      0   M      02   482       0
maize wain                             0      0     0    78   224    to       0   16?   208    45      0   236   30      02     0 313   411   129         0   302   4P    19t      0   470   491   M        0
sunflow                          0     0      0     0    95   176    I?       0   190   236    46      0   965   296    94      0 380   an    lss         0   476   301   181      0   all  438   aw        0
FPotasm.  ',                   W    178      9     9    n    SW      39      0    97   on      as     9   120   6W    104       O 143  103?   149        0   is?  Ms   201        9   too  1376   201
Smob-                            0    99      0     0    32   III      4      0    63   114      7     0    96   118    I I     0 127   121    Is         0   158   130    22      6   190   142    27
ftbow                         1910    4W  466 2335   1006 S62 2M                              1378 662 MS    106 1e2 3610 2msw 4036   3518 ow -Uw sm  m
Fasm                          54W                       GM                       4640                     4216                      MO                       3216                     2m
TOTAL                         7400          466   466  7400          VW6   gF27 -TjR           1378   562  1400         1606   TOY  7400         2201                        ta   470  7m           304 - en
Pwom"crops                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pn"  o
00*kwds                        ?00  t 179   $26   82S   ?00  isso  i3le   026   7oo  ZISI  16ft      M      700  2423  t6ge   826    650  2694  1761   US    NO  2M    100    US   OSO  SM             204   on
(bapse                         700  1246   871   871   700  1443  1010   $II   700  I SS6  1008   871   700  166?  1167 M            900  1719  1401   $71   000  IM   1702   871 W    9W              iNS   PI
Twaba                          700            0     0   700            0      0   700            0     0   ?00            0      0 no               0     0   m              0     0   no             0      0
"VA-L7                        1 2100    le97 1697 U,IW Ii26                          - --Sw 1697 2100    2-863 ISW I 22SO    3362 _16911 2M                            3=  iffiTp,2250    so? To-97-



@47
9-40
WIII
oso,  uooi    0010st   Got  gut         0010  toot  llat          0o',  toot 010k           Oslo  toot Sect          0010i  1901  1oot          0910  0011  0091         05l9o                         WLO*
00  t8   00    owl1  go1   at    a0    apt  tit   so    St    0041  eli   0 a          8a    0091  sit   co    09    000   ciI   06    49    009   So1   "01   St    000
au1   30    06s   om0  au1   3        tot   0008  001    t0   013   00080199    0039oc    Om0  005   150   118   Om0  001   sot1  31    0080                     611   lI z    0008                         V W0
________ __    late_       1a"                                                                                                   __  ___a"__eta                          9013*        103 OI*3     4I ilMw~
060   010 081   0  WS 06  9      03 01    1    019   613   06          SW 91     90     003   0613     as9 039    1t3 06191      89    38    6 a169   £69   113   063ft*lsOw
0Om   1861         09 0909006 601 Om Om10 SS   2090                    0191   weI  11           00 0001Set  9g0           00691 6010  Cout           o00l 000  0O0             00691    SSM1,41101 OO 031w m I96
am   am~ 609         0310         06191sts     09391010919  1C          0oust 31c0  89011          01   0010  699001         00901 a010  9416          00901 gm0  0001           00001s" JM      tON 0W31WJb
tee         o  090       19           0030         9109         00 0         00t          0000         0ct          004  0       St0                0      00                                          .O
0   o   a a   06                     "SGo 10 6 0   1090t010030   000009100n30   031 06110O010   It  M60000   0   0                                                                                d*PJ*
WS 13     0    Se      06  C31   00            0100  181   040 a         001   at1  so3            0000    t l 031 00        0099 a 13                 OM I000    031 S 3        00M                    sow      639
Om  00 m0                         a                         no 0 134  1   0 030    0     119    a00m49 00611L    000110   0   a00331310   000                                                60*0 16q
069400480000   *0090040990   15  0601090    9100000   10  000010   6   0K1g a0   0  0   0                                                                                            lUIIOUWUl
0961000606   013109600to                   000"0090i90                      a90009    00  0030130   6  Ola U  0  0  0  0                                                                 UPO 6g"
.0   tat am  6 0   863100009 a0484090090   001all0an0   Sot 400ot  010SW 96000   0   0  0                                                                                                                   SS0
I       Anwea 1646300   of699030"9    3low0910090   L  £0110000a  00141Su10   0   1030m0  0  0  0                                                                                                          309A
Its0000an30   am0AS01030   *19on8on00   30  on1 0900   a9  to  001    3                                                                         00                  
am                       Om0                       Om0                      0Om                        0901                      0060                      000mI
o340   go  0   1340    a0  0   as                               10a   0   egg0 a 0eot6ta I   ORa  0010300   1e00831011s04011                                            S1t  am1                     *5W00q304
0 MD0000900   0000000900   so  eta0am30   eta8"916010   et9100010   91  0   0600   0   0   0                                                                                                              a Oki
W0s01           am0 000   0  Om60   SO8   01   64   ILu    94   0009   Il   a69   l01   0000  OIl   on5   let   0005  1"   104   "04   0091  101   S6t1   009                                            dg
6409005*006  0   S W    golm               im   woo0  VW0   wpmi                                     SW& VW6 050904   A    604609.301    _AIl 64945  Ilpoid  CM   49   0*~pd3A       V339S    1J~.
000V0411010  I*45wSLL3 96084005  move"6U*0w



Ot
0 $
'-4
sets  tics;   *OM MO  2-MIsam o t                      csco      coc   sic. co.           oai  ss  cu             oae  gm   cOos           o as  OM os0si                         iouWcu
AM   Ls           ome  ac                 cost s  cM              au  coo   gm            co    "s  coo           cost  iis   as          cos   Otte  Me           as     1         U   3U
gmta    u tcs  Ula eOM                    cos  Otts  eo           cot  Ott  OM            ost  oSS  Gm            ost  totow as  ocas  cotw                       costE          2 DWV3nM
no      SM       ic5   uet am             Os  OMs  au             ace   mi    m           cast  05  OM0          cO   i_   ic0W           0055  Otie  lute        out                    tiw
am                      aS                      OsU                     am                      cott                    a.                       oc 
am               OM lw9                   m n    OM              Cto  "OOam              0S  "O  am                "9 "et  gmO                  te  Use  t|6f                 e     ttt
3     0 a    soo"          n cosmt asnous    co co                  t    coe  eoos e    tt         o o9t  wO  W coo        coos  ca O        ac t soo   O       m ts  cs   O                   i -
'a   t0      05   UPll te   0              " s  Cott 0      "at   5 5 0000 O        Su   tet O   09 o       Ole    mt oo e                   t  0 o          0 ot o  oW1*o      
e      em   sam   cot           cont  amOutsm oesse     uew         s    s      sit  uSsust          a        OM tusoo       a         g m s      c             a costa
i  on       to    ost u       so    us   mt  at          mee   ano   st   osn   u         os   on   co   etc   us    ct   ol   so eJ  o           o    os  ot too   coo                 -e o
0     cs  cO    am e          eog   sc   aim   a      ota   an  c0s9 a        ct  co   cot  0    cm    SitO  uS   0           0   GOt  0        0     5     5     0                 lop.
co         at           an come  us       au cs    "a  o          coost to    ane         t    tow o S as         coot    o Sa    OU O          am t9  Oe om  os  cow  c  so"ot
Om  an"  an mg et                           Omz 9_eug Om            OmI age gm  we   AM NO                          OOu 4Me tM              soZ otue onea            o eose
coo                     cut                     amt                      co                     oost                    0.m                     0c
a   otao              Oscm   cm o    eO mcc           g Ot m          co   tow   case         oi   to    a            Cott       es tot  le tor  coose  ouow co       coo"
9t    iso         009   et   sw   ss      OO a  n    oe   tot  an    a    set   t    om   9           00cS   to   tie   Oat  sp    to   ta01 cI    o    to   cat
ams    m   me   coos ago   cs we   sm   we sU owi  ic                   sew  cO   too   Osua s w            au    Om tcm    e  en  st   000   coos           Sos   sm
edaet ida    *A      s 1 Jdwx  ida         mq  aspg   Asd           wq aogm   Ad a           q    Wm  ad  *ams dp    dsid A                 w4[,dWAg   *     eit       WV
"m  OF#" 14Od ha             i      id    AAM  $A  cqUA W ssad M   -PA  W" %jWd  SUd Oqs 0411  Wvow    tAd UOi  O.W  jPsad  SWd  -PA  -PA0 100*  5-01d
SNImW   J30 SH  Ii4Nq13UU31v  Uio01wv
00P               -4__v



- --                                                     ---                                              ---   | _Po-_}|__ng
-Foum FOSSil                                                                                          Mdx POSGW
finIt                       64    6      as    V b..5a mcmaZiu mt IoV1%  v                                                        de    P      I 
wt ltonSmsIm$                                      bt1a6.wtus                  104   10B   l10   155 3mIas1i,11B1_
MtNbds 155s        t        1so   1a    1      1WI MIbmd20    1to 16    63   16S                   M   tn    1652                 168   109   lot   103
O$WgImufmt R   as                  so    so  tow  am sOnesauU                         uso    so   yso Famwsadmomm                 so    soa   so   1so
waimrsa                           s     a       Flltdgtasd_           @       0     6:0 50           Watumita.q                 50    50  10    5*t_10
GUOadu-bbail                Itn   wa   itw    ww CFSw4w-AbbwO                   us    leg  twa   iso CPSumis-Abb4w2               In8  1"    158   1041
"INo_sa    US    ISO   waSO    w     u"ui                                     u4    Mss   w      pa  sm*                         us   te1    is    I"
L.sdTamtW                    42    42    42    42 LmdtlTIu_tu                   42    42    42    42 LIadTupastll                  42    42    42    42
an_a"                                                Su .        _     _                                                            [ an
_                 *     ^      ^     ^ ~~~~~-  4w.ss4D               s            t    -tl _e41 D                             4            44 
- -  -  -- - -                                                                                        - - - 
I_ dut  g          w       e 2        224 * 99 f_,    t "mv                        3t4   Su  _    2,   mbl            X e    m   o
Fumps Pdios t2                                     F_wbi Pdle 1552             US    15    16a    15 Fms_ _ Pd_, 
it buesM SWAa*  mts Fbbitw of wusmdIyM*%  m        It OsSw .baae 1W    UsuiQsdi SutSu wwlOommudIMtedszm. Jue  I=  t  8oumr. di   nwIufbvIwafO  ualIMob.^A   1 i
01Gb0  an usgs"u*d smahed w Smdffw.Abbas             G,a   flsmi-'woul*,mlsed nSd h w Um bb           0f G*maspmIs-sewvWvAWW~sb SmwAwMbm
SI Saud nh wuw,-9AhlS -AbbswIoelvmmsIa w%.smpan;    VB mdcobSull 9LUid,-4kMwloTsm tewmbssh-sIupmn     OtmahA SmitmTaiaababW
pMd_ dba Uaal_Td*bWL                               pd _        en ooTbL                               podaa mtsTdsmwt
4J mbuwaid stL                                     41 fb_daddGiL                                      41 Eslbntsda*. 
M~.S U.6A1                                                                     MIN6



im    1W   *60   US                                 US      6   26                                                5
--- -                                                -  - -- -
FOSS*Ab                                             POOe                         is?   166   107   1S7 1466 Pon
hU 4_ m95WA"                as           m      im    * 1_$                                              a f" On    '                 n S=
VuwdIUl6663V                 U     166   in       s MNWbd      exMtS              In    1     1n    166 UIbUUS66i6I                  la    Is    *a    us
kit "    M                  i      U     gm    36  63"oglomIs                    on    3      an       m  tamm lO                    6n    U      41*    US
Fulamd6ta                     so    as    as    so F* stt  _g                     40    40    40    40 Fd5tmd&W*                       66     6    65    a6
CFuw_-AbnM            _            so  _      _76
-,~.... .. - _           __ or  DWAb6                   6 W  2       61   641 CUU.dw-ASbSS                 on    S       eV    45
nabikm-                               ~~~  rn.rn                                     m              q 
UASI nuI 3                  464   486   425  4JO Cor .sdu-Meb C_  Onds-Abba 
6OedTeMpmt_                   42    42    42    42  mmtt1 Sal2                   66    410   466   46 ea6t6fS                         76?   7       0 M  7 i
- -_ _LIT_dM21                                   42    42    42    4*LaiTFptM                         42    42    42    4*
VdwodllwApdvomwaV            478   409   41t   442 Pl_ea                                                  N wt,00                                                .    1NW
OuwuuI.tep#AW4*66v   of                                                          -a    -U    -6    -0    O N                         -1eo   -M    -"'   -10.
VW" 6aekmhPODN               Us    so    on   2gm   -Mmd"ed41            _               as    a      6
OW_OM and                                                                      ---  - V%m n6                                          i , 
buss. 66                    -15   .16   -15   -14  6i-t eAmts*b)                 401   4       4    m                                - 
-_-  -                                                -_    -     -       _     66e b-ete "ad 4t           361   616   is    818
S.,             e4                        2M 6   875__(te  gbN*mf"w(t)                                   lAb3 t.fOt    1it                   It    1"   1s
md-qudI pr..W 511              ?   an    Us    M2 W, b-GW%N wb                           0 d oe                                             _ 
Tam-qmuI$pmaftmftS           441   446   446   410 TMsPetereIhsy                         -6     4     4  _MO-a6                       481    45    606     S
aumuw u.m    fuww            , I        m-                                 T,anqSpaitgtId.5I
PmetPuuPiv.Ad  US    US    U              60 US beodelmu                          4?    65     3       6iS4                                  -      4      4
19 AISM                                                                                Ans"-  -                   - 
66 GoOased eML                                       Va- sed63mw460                                                                 s-    mm 
V1 *uda.t OWAb  bt  moteThbrus stem I bmdpe ansS insWU   OF&W161                                                                      066 56L 6I60
wow          , V0Il Wdfavm 66n~1 g$.'I logo    i -e*U-0u0a* WuIte. ta,
ftd"udTmmmOetv                                     ofspadbauaulsIv 6 MbuIsebs fte6e                    4! cI.mteoesadat4Sl
__       _     _     _    __       _     _     _ _ ___              __       __      ____ _                            _ _ ____ _   _     _    _     _    _'
SklW*Nftqu   pmAa A"ffttse Wt eb uiq buhMtelpW     41 MuINM pMud*" 101164 1 601iW MAO  W Molf sM 6b     Il UinSuted 1460 iMmd PS tell         #Ase11id
UasistebapGOuted doe of Nm 460 Twa.af.  ftl 1w Nmo M0"0.56.3m    WasSPt*                                 *mbpiheduiS PU
UMJMR __      W_w_ltlwm                                                                                                 _ v1FS
1aT_                                                           _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



'uum9wamum~ww mus    AivAesftn*   VftoqupPeUmASFSpUUjmdpsWS#qa4mwM~ 4
VWqsAUS.MwFnIPOWA  j0                              'wsupqm 
WIqwM q    Pwq'SW Oamo'wq smU a   v-moe  A-more pnev"umagppominum a
Wq-Wq -#wn4qqsgpwnwpSwgmet w 
opggow  on   so   as   one                 aW .ouui on w    ow w                  ssIId.~u
We   met                                         s     MuSW o-ase p
- - -           s-                               So   ,-    so   a-   S-
____~~~~~,a   .   ___
p.                      -        1e    F    F    w                       _   F    F    F ULgqp. WIU
SW   a"s  m                     Sq PP m 1 e   usa  t#         ,uB
, # uset   soui   aez ntag    s        4..s5uwpai t                                            S 
a    a    St  4"                   p" _                                        PO Umr        n       0    so              Po Wmar
on   kwnO5                                    3    *    3                   powgenId4"..*L -olsu    t  -u    e             u
Xo ____ u ee wu s *                                                 qNW.                  z     :~
us _ ,_  W Ws  setbOom    cm S  SAW                                              K*  _
X \w    lw   OO                         * wn           _-M&"WWPA-.
- - -              *                                                   asg HO tos tV-                     -o*
aW_tslO:u     _     _        e                       at    -w    a       -w
Mt   Mt   tot  tat                      W                                              gow    w    w  w   gm   to  so   a"  GmW4p'lA
551  Ut   61   551  StI0SW5StN~~~WAflN  Oa  s asm                               se us Omaiams, I"ft4              siwe
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s   gm    w   AIn   ">                                        __0VBA
sG   Ott   WI *owmgt*4                           out  Mt  Os               sIwIuUU  tat  cot  got  ma uSIt St eeSIMNAM
edravMPV        U     u tn en   as     naetXW"IALM AS   10 A e> 5                     _ONw gm 01
PseX qgl 9mppoonm out  cot  Ot  me         SamgSettdSlqSo                                          "w4i n
(.aw-t "q aoso               nMMPsuWssA6
|| _~~~~~~~...... 611310_6
-- --                                   ----                        ---.
gm   Om   us  gm                           asn   00   s eet Ou  gsm    uS  us   Om
34)-uUus.9                              wOq-wqWSmq                           fedasD|qshs-*oW_*uf



- 164 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 9
ISLIIC  RPUBLIC o r
Brief Terms of ReferencC for Various Cosultacr Servies
ID&roduction
1-          Your types of consultancy services would be financed under the
Project covering: (a) subproject consultants for planning, designing and
supervising construction of the irrigation, drainage and land levelling works;
(b) Central consultants for Irrigation subsector review, feasibility studies
for priority schemes for future financing and special studies common to four
sub-projects; (c) specialized studies related to hydrometric monitoring and
rural financial markets; and (d) Panel of Experts (POE) for reviewing safety
of the Maroon and Shahid Rajai Dams being built with Government financing.
The requirements and general scope of the work of the consultants would be
according to the following sections.
mIdrtect cnultanats
2.          There would be two consulting contracts for each of the Behbahan,
Noghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan subprojects one associated with works to be
implemented by MOR/RWAs and second for works to be implemented by Moh/PADs.
Contracts for each subproject would cover the scope of work for engineering
designs and construction supervision as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report
(BAR). An estimate of the consultants input by subproject is shown in Annex
III, Table S. The implementing agencies have retained the services of Pandam,
Yekom/ACE and Mahab Ghodds Consulting Firms respectively for the Behbahan,
Moghan, and Zarrineh Roud/Tajan subprojects. All these consulting firms are
local except ACE, a foreign firm. The services of these firms will be
contracted for the project-financed works under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
3.          Services to be provided by each subproject consultants would
include (as applicable) but not be limited to assistance in:
(a) Collection and analysis of data;
(b) Preparation of work plans and detailed for all subproject
components;
(c) surveys, investigation, design, layout, preparation of
specifications, tender/construction drawings, and
N:%Iran%frrgXtar_=n.992
Deczbesr 20. 1m



- 165 -
ANNEX TX
Page 2 of 9
consultants' cost estimates, and supervision of construction
of the irrigation, surface/subsurface drainage, and land
levelling works;
(d)   Establishment of criteria and procedures for technical work
and construction specification;
(e)   Preparation of tender documents for civil works and required
equipment based on General Conditions of Contract as
standardized for the project and assistance in bid
evaluation in accordance with Bank's requirementul
(f)  Imparting to contractors understanding of the construction
specifications, inspection procedures, and progress
reporting requirements;
(g)  Quality control, including performing and/or arranging field
and laboratory tests;
(h) Setting up monitoring systems for selected physical
parameters and monitoring the subproject's physical and
financial progress, and providing all relevant information
periodically to the implementing agency and Los in an agreed
format;
(i)  Reviewing inspection reports and preparing monthly summaries
of works inspection highlighting problems and remedies;
(j)  Verification of contractors, pay certificates, and
certifying the completeness and acceptability of completed
works;
(k)  monitoring of groundwater and completed works for potential
problems and possiblo improvemnt in designs;
(1)  On-the-job training and guidance of the implementing
agency's assigned staff in materials inspection and
construction techniques, giving special emphasis to the
subsurface drainage systems; and
(m)  Assisting with the preparation of six monthly and
comprehensive mid-term review reports.
4.          The subproject consultants also would perform the following
studies:
Nx%t.winfrgtrihmn.992
Dacahr 20, 1992



- 166 -
AEX IX
Page 3 of 9
(a)   Water Osers Orouns tWUOs% teach subproiecti.  Traditional
WUGs exist in the Bebbahan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan
subproject areac, while at Moghan, there are no such groups.
Th main objective of the study for each subproject would be
to provide recmmendations on how best to organize WUGs
along a convenient tertiary block service area perimeter,
and to strengthen functional capability of existing WUGs.
The study also would provide guidelines for ASCs' extension
staff for training of WUGs av i farmers in water sharing and
O&) of on-farm facilities. It would take into account the
sociological aspects prevailing in each subarea and the
functional characteristics of existing WUGs.
(b)  Land Tenure (3ehbhanb    At  _ehbahan the pattern of land
tenure is that 72 percent is private, 23 percent is VaA
(religious endowment) and 5 percent is state land. Most of
the private land is held under a communal tenure system
called moshaa under which each individual has a right to a
fixed number of hectares; actual plots are allocated to
farmer groups called Kgot annually by lottery and lands are
then given to individuals within the Rote. This system does
not promote farmers devotion to land in maintaining or
improving its productive potential. The aim of the study,
drawing largely on the data and analysis of the other
studies, would be to mnake policy recomIMndations on changes
particularly in the moshaa tenurial system of the scheme,
including tenancy size and ownership/usufruct rights of
farmers. It should be completed by the end of project year
two.
(a)  Land Cosolidaticn ftud, ISarrine  Roud%. Fragmentation of
land holdings is increasingly becoming a problem in the
8arrineh Roud subproject area. The study would be directed
to prepare the required information base aboutt (i) land
ownership and succession rights; (ii) factors causing
fragmentation of land holdings and likely impact especially
in terms of land losag (iLi) areas requiring land
consolidation; (iv) situation regarding cadastral surveys;
and (v) preparation of essential ladastral maps. It should
also review the Co&a ongoing efforts towards land
consolidation in subproject areas and, based on the same,
provide a cost estimate for implementing priority
reco -endations.  The study should present the basic
lnformation, policy recosmendations and action plan which
would be discused and acted upon at mid-term review of the
project.
occembw 20, 1992



- 167 -
ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 9
5.          The subproject consultants should provide services of short-term
professional experts and sub-professional assistance for agricultural
development. The extension specialist will be Agriculture extension
specialist, WMI specialist and rural sociologist with prior experience in
extension programs in development situatlon. The major responsibilities of
extension specialists will includes (a) to design program and conduct training
of a cadre of extension personnel in skill of working with groups and
individuals, in working with farmers, and with WUGo in the management concept
at the farm level as well as of subproject officils and managers in group
skills and extension activities; (b) to set up seminars and workshops in
extension techniques; (c) to work with subproject and other provincial
officials to develop greater managerial ability and better understanding of
the extension works (d) to assist other specialists in training programs; and
(e) to assist in the introduction of new type of farm machinery as
demonstration for nw production technologies and crops. The research
specialist will train research staff (a) in research methodologies directly
related to agricultural production problems in each subproject areas; and (b)
through introduction of better and safer pest control eqtipment and new
Integrated Pest Management (XPM) techniques.
6.          For environmental related work, the subproject consultants would
provide services of short-term experts for surface/groundwater monitoring
programs and technical input to train farmers and field staff of ACsc in safe
application of pesticides and agro-chemicals. The specialists would be
responsible to (a) identify locations for water quality sampling; (b) train
field technician in water quality sampling (c) assist in analys-s and
interpretation of water quality reults (d) assist in the implementation of
agriculture chemical management program of reduced use of fertilizers and
pesticides, application of IPX approaches for crop protection and (e) train
private farmers and state farm personnel, plant protection staff of ASCs on
safety procedures.
7.          The Subproject consultants would also provide support for
following special studies for each subproject; (a) potential remediation of
adverse impacts to migratory fish due to the construction of civil works on
the Maroon and Tajan River.; (b) Archaeological and Historical site surveys of
Arjan area in Bebbaban subproject and/or similar locations in other
subprojects; (c) design and implementation of canal banks erosion control
program, improved migratory bird census methods and establishment of a new
protected area for Gazella ln the Moghan Subproject; (d) analysis of the
potential environmental Issues associated with the proposed extension of
irrigation into zone 9 during Phase IS development of Zarrineh Roud
Subproject; (e) managemeat plan for Shadegan Marshes protected area in
Behbahan Subproject (f) management plan for Man-made 'Abandan3 Ecosystem in
Tajan Subproject; and (g) Lake Oruymeh National Park and Sarrineh Roud Delta
and Wetlands Management Plan in Zarrineh Roud Subproject.
N%1man%1retsrehu.992
_oesr 20, 1992



- 168 -
AMX IX
Page 5 of 9
8.         Details for special environmental studies are briefly given in
Annex IV (paras 25-28).
cott^ em8ul"tat8
9.         LOs would require technical assistance principally for preparing
special studies. The consultants also would assist Los in coordinating
project activities. The consultants shall be an internationally selected firm
in associatLon wLth a uuitable local firm and/or expatrlate and local experts
that would be employed in accordance with World Bank GuidelLnes for the use of
administrating consultants. It is expected that the consultants would be
based in Tehran and supervised by the MOB LO. The estimated lnput by the
consultants Ls shown in Annex III, Table 5. The studies financed under this
component wculC aim at preparing the required information base and at
presenting plans and policy recommendat$ons for implementation.
10.        Review of Five-Year Plan and Foasibility Study. A desk review of
the Irrigation Sector of the 001 Five-Year Plan (1994-98) would be carried out
in Project Year Two with the purpose of selecting three or four priority
rehabilitatLon schemes. A detailed feasibilLty report would be prepared for
each selected scheme over the next two years based on lnvestlgation data and
other relevant information to be provided by concerned agencies of MOB and/or
MOA. The findings and results of the feasibillty studies would be summarized
in a project report for possible financing by the Bank. Terms of reference
for planning eachoscheme will depend upon the scope of work to be determlned
following inltial selection. The terms of reference will be prepared by the
lead agency of MOB or MOA wlth assistance from Central Consultants as lt may
deem necessary, and will be submitted to the NON,  OA and Bank for their
revlew and comments.
11.        Operation and Maintenanc  MM&rn. For each subproject, the
consultants shall examine: (a) the water conveyance and drainage systems; (b)
the organizational structure of the Amur-e-Ab and lts staffing; (c) the
ongoing Oh& system and activitiee; and (d) the planning and budgeting process
for recurring O&M requirements. The study would make an analysls of the
present O&h situatlon regarding all subproject facilitles and possible
constralnts. It would result in the development of a plan for each subproject
delineating recommended improvements in organization and staffing, system
operatLon including measurement and control of water and record keeping on
canals and drains, planning, programming and budgeting, equipment O&M, and
method of executLon of works. The consultants would detail subproject
services, agency and customer responsibLlities, scheme of operation,
facilLtLes, organlzatLon, manual and procedures in a manner to provide
framework for the staff and to constitute the basLs for guiding all O&N
actlvities on each subproject. The consultants would also provide a back-up
N:ffran\Urrg%tardow.992
oeter 20., IM



- 169 -
Page 6 of 9
to the subproject consultants who will carry out the recommendations in each
subproject.
12.         P4I-t water Manaasent 8*udy. Bach subproject would provide
demonstration plots on improved tertiary canals to show farmers effective use
of water supply resulting from project improvements. The plot should be of a
reasonable size, have good accessibility, end be on a typical farm
experiencing average crop yield The farmer should have the enthusiasm to
carry out required activities and to cooperate with other farmers.
Demonstration activities on each plot would include precision land levelling,
proper field layout and water distribution system, land preparation and
irrigation scheduling to better meet crop water requirements. The project
would provide services of water management specialist(s) whose main
responsibilities will includet (a) to assist subproject manager in selection
of demonstration plots, arranging equipment acquisition and providing
necessary training for the water management group; (b) to assist subproject
manager in planning, designing, implementing and monitoring and evaluating
demonstrational schemes for improved water management; and (c) in cooperation
with subproject manager to monitor water management group's performance. In
case, day to day activities of pilot water management at the subproject level
is entrusted to the subproject consultants, then the central consultants will
provide technical back-up support.
13.          ouqdwa.tor Modelia.  A phased assessment of groundwater behavior
will be made in each subproject area with the ultimate objective of preparing
a mathematical model to simulate results for priority areas and the whole
subproject perimeter. The consultants would develop and assist in
implementing a program for the improvement and standardization of data
acquisition and processing procedures In order to obtain improved information
about rainfall, surface water, groundwater and water use. This program would
be set up at the beginning of the project. In area where the groundwater
table has not yet been meAsured, a number of monitoring wells will be selected
out of the existing wells and in areas where there are not suitable wells,
piezometers would be installed. All data collected at the various stations,
gauging sites, observation wells and piezometers will be scrutinized for
errors and omissions. Microcomputers would be provided for storing field data
on computer diskets, data processing and for statistical and other
calculations. It is expected t.at the improved data will lead to a consistent
picture in project year four, and thus to the preparation of a mathematical
model and its calibration in project years five and six. The consultants also
would train the concerned staff of each RWA in data acquisition, data
processing, and operation and improvement of the mathematical mode.. The
subproject consultants would provide support for collection of field data as
defined by the central consultants.
14.         Monitoring and Evaluation (&EN   . The consultants would provide
short-term consultants to assist in designing, implementing and periodically
M:\iran\irrg\tarehman.992
Decaber 20, 1992



- 170 -
ANENLX IX
Page 7 of 9
reviewing the results of a M&U program which would focus on the following five
objectivess (a) defining various parameters on physical, social, Agro-economic
and agricultural aspects to be monitored; (b) surveys to establish a basic
data base for the defined parameters; (e) monitoring project performance in
achieving physical and financial targets set at appraisal or am they may be
modified during project implementation; (d) monitoring farm production; (e)
monitoring the effectiveness of the extension service In contacting farmers
and in passing on to them appropriate technologies; (f) evaluat t.g the impact
of extension and research services on project farmers; (g) evaluating results
of the on-farm water management in the demonstration areas and of improved
water delivery system; and (h) conducting follow-up ad hoc studies on specific
problems identified during project implementation.
15.         Water Oualitv Nonitorint   of especially river water and drainage
outflows is not adequate in each subproject perimeter. There is evidence of
pollution occurring from both municipal and industrial effluents. The
consultant will set up a surface and groundwater monitoring program for each
subproject further detailed in Annex IV, and also assist in its implementation
and periodic review of results. TAO program design for each subproject area
will take into account local conditions such as soils, surface and
groundwater, agricultural practi-.s., agrochemicals in use, hydrology, etc.
Among the main parameters to monitor are: drains discharges, TDS, TS8, EC, pH,
salt index, salt balance, alkalinity, hardness, chloride content, total
organic carbon, toxity index, nitrates and mitrites. Main critical points
especially along the drains and discharge outlets to river will be identified.
Qualified regional laboratories will be recommended, specifying strict
laboratory procedure and use of adequate sampling/analysis equipment.
Concerned staff of RWS will be trained in sampling techniques. The we-ter
quality standards should fit national or international standards. Wherever
there is evidence of adverse effects, additional biological observations will
be recommended.
16.         Aaro-Chemicals Management Procram:  The program will focus on (a)
the improved management and reduced use of fertilizers and pesticides; (b)
support the evaluation and demonstration of alternative means for crop
fertilization and crop protection appropriate for each subproject area; and
(c) the application of IPM approaches for crop protection.
Specialized Studies
17.         Because of the specialized nature of the hydrometric monitoring
work and rur-Al financial market survey, these studies will not be included in
the terms of reference of central consultants. Different consulting firms or
specialized individual experts would be engaged to undertake these studies
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank: MOR Liaison office in
Tehran would be responsible administratively for the hydrological monitoring
N:MrenMrrg\tarehman.9M
December 20, 1992



- 171 -
AM= IX
Page 8 of 9
work with technical responsibility entrusted to the water Resources
Investigation Bureau c. MOB. TIe rural financial market survey will be
coordinated by the Agriculture Bank under administrative direction of MOA
liaison office.
18.         Hydrometric Monitorina  A study would be carried out by a
specialized consulting firm to review the existing hydrological-cum-
meterological and hydrogeological monitoring systems including data
collection, transmission and processing, with the objective of modernizing the
existing networks and equipment.
19.         The consultants would prepare recommendations for a reorganization
of the observation networks; the installation of modern data collection
systems, e.g. data collection platforms and satellite or radio data
transmission; improved computer equipment and software for data processing; a
training program for staff responsible for hydrometric work; and proposals for
a Karst Research Institute and a water quality laboratory.
20.         In addition to the services of the specialized consulting firm
which would carry out the study, individual experts would be provided to
assist ins (i) finalization of the TOR for the study; (ii) selection of the
equipment needed to modernize the hydrometric system; (iii) the preparation
and implementation of the training program; and (iv) the development of
proposals for a Karst Research Institute and a water quality laboratory.
21.         Rural Financial Market Survey:  In view of the Government program
of financial sector liberalization, it is not clear that what will be the role
and resources of the Agriculture Bank (AB) as a specialized agricultural
credit institution under a regime of an increasing competition. The Proposed
survey would review AB's role in the market leading to the development of an
appropriate policy and business plan for AS.
Panel of Experts
22.         Currently two large dams are under constructions the 165 m high
rockfill dam on the Maroon River about 15 km upstream of the existing Behbahan
diversion weir; and the 128 high concrete arch dam on the Tajan River, some 40
km upstream of the sari diversion weir. Government is financing the
construction of both dams and local consultants supported by foreign
consultants are responsible for their design and construction supervision.
The panel will undertake periodic and comprehensive review of the -lans,
designs and construction of these dams and related structures, with the
objective of ascertaining and reporting on their general safety, including
consideration of geological, hydraulic and structural aspects.
N:%ren%1rr9kt&rd=hn.M
Dcoer 20, 1992



- 172 -
ANNEX IX
Page 9 of 9
The Panel will be expected, in addition to any other item which
they deem pertinent tos
(a)   Review all drilling and boring data and samples to indicate
arty additional investigation and/or improvements in
connection with foundation treatment, design parameters, and
potential reservoir leakage;
(b)   Review design parameters being used, and suggest
modifications; if any, required in the design parametere;
(c)   Examine construction plans, procedures and schedules;
(d)   Review the adequacy of treatment given or proposed for the
foundations and abutments;
(e)  Review the flood hydrology used in sizing and designing the
spillway, and make recommendations regarding required
spillway capacity;
(f)   Examine whether the spillway and gates as designed are
adequate to pass spillway design flood and what additions
or alternations (including energy dissipating arrangements)
will be needed to provide for such capacity;
(g) Advise on instruments to be installed and to ensure that a
program of monitoring is provided for:
(h)   Review quality control procedures being followed in the
construction of the dams;
(i)   Examine the proposed filling and operating criteria from the
standpoint of dams safety, and
(j) Advise on operation, maintenance and safety criteria and
procedures proposed to be followed after initial fillLig.
N:% ran%trro%tardun.992
Decobw 20, 1M



- 173 -
ANNEX X
ISlAMIC REPUBLIC Or IRAN
IRRIGATION IMPRVEFN PROJECS
Sele¢ted Do¢uw_nts and Data Available in the Project FPIe
A.   irrigation Rehabilitation Project Information Reports Prepared bys
1.   Bebbahan subproject - PANDAX Consulting Engineer.
2.   Moghan Subproject - YOKUM-ACE Joint Venture Consulting Engineers
3.   Zarrineh Roud Subproject Mahab Godds Consulting Engineers
4.   Tajan Subproject Nahab Godds Consulting Engineers
S.   Irrigation Improvement Project, Preparation Report, prepared by FAO/CP,
Main Text and Annex 1-7, May 1992.
g.   Pre-moalmsal
1.   Aide Memoire, Back-to-Office Report
2.   working paper on Sociological Aspects
3.   Working paper on Environmental Aspects
Ls ApAraLEal
1.   Aide Memoire and Back-to-Office Report
2.   Working paper: Environmental Aspects
3.   Working papers Financial and Economic Analysis
4.   Cost Tables for four fubprojects and central level liaison offices
S.   NO letter with Plan of Action on the Resettlement Issue dated
November 2, 1992
6.   MON leter of understanding on Cost Recovery Issue dated December,
1992
N:S%ranntrrutp.an1O



it I I  I it n
IUIIIa    I. FFIR         SEmITI SEMl=,           a33       aI AFAIS  Mim  $U  AmmiJ         I ifMM   UC                  *UISTIAL  IMMOWNEISM  iTI
MUlTI WElsh  FM  MMII? 33331W FM    IBM? 313533 FM          3       Fm113 I"u                                = FM       M    i 3       He1 F      mm I3t_ to tF      u   313|
uuamm          ~~AM. am fn          iuac      mwnus    U1S1SCSE a         -    rim   aFA'           UmIZf a hialli    imam,Uu                   FusIe3TmI            FM  TIO.1
AlloomW ."l l                          l a. gBUnUB               I  a an  m335      li. .3133        _AIa IB 3IE                   caS
[MMATI                OBUU                in"       --9U                                                  luffIzATIG          JamesI
MM MM A ofs.          uu.. um.                   N -             m m                 in"a.a.  FWTE        N.. "ma                                     FMEIAR?
51#ur In"                    .                  SUM            lUT   CO.             MA   IIU            T#ZAI PIlmS M"M P                              AIS      I
MiLt AM  |RIOm. a    c CLAMI.                     A Fm. U                                  Ploa  P.                            NElu I I I I I_=I                                           -
1        1#TIng== f1131  FICAF  SEIM    FIew EEM S                                   N. £ ai1m. CO.                                   0O.
IW l_TI  F   lS               iSV.   331111153 tSA    IUT nI ui. FiS l I * PTtES T                           O#lER        UAFT-TAFI UNAC AN|
1SW          t    CM     I tIW am    ItugISITA IM(CI                            arm. DIM   IInot
l3MMn S ECl hUll    I35511  3S            F U 1.                                     C lii l. I.                              IAMI iX 0.
Htawl a Or am v        UIUSTRII           mno . a MaCe                                  *muctLt?ES                                        I  EAE
IlSIllUhi        AFFI"M   DPM.                                                        VItSICI nCB  00VI  C.               13I5   C.
TElil- IJttIT IUSEEM  F                                                                                   MRIOIL*EI IR        4    35311  .
tt#tlR~~~un                                                                                        C ltlN 11RI# t;|    lcuo|I                   tl t- 
KM. A FAUE4L iliaD-     i  3        t Itt UTMTIO
tf I                      m w                                                                             W .. - . ,                                  iSI Pwnal ^ | | 
:       Lla                                              '          mcn ton |                    W.IE  t  .      B AA  S EA
M MuiRIRSW3U
t       a _  wll =1



ISLANIC REPUBLIC OF IRAI
IRRIGATION IROWIT  PROJECT
Ninistry of Energy Organization
|11nirty of flera 
Iran Electricity                              hnufactu ring
Organization                                Caqwnes (51
[ 9  E  -Azarbajan  -Azerbaijan    -Noshantr                lATN                -   PEYNAIR                         SATOP
East                                    (Electr1c
61Ilan           -Azerbai jan      CGhods Nirco            Po    Research)         BOW'HE
West             (Power Engineer                            - (Power
-Zanjan           -ZanJan            (Companies - 2)        TAHP                    Constractors -2)
-lVater Resources
Gharb           -6hrb           NIhab Ghodss              Research)              SABIR
-Bakhtar          -Khuzistan      -Reyab                                            PEYraB
(Vater Resorces
-Khuzistan        -Termn          -Tousab                                           Contractor)
-Tehran             Nazandaran     -Desab
(Water Resources                                                   TRINING
-Nzandaran        -Esfahm            Engineering
Com4anies - 5)
-Sanan           -Fars
-Esfahan          -awmezgan
-Fars             -Kermn
-Yazd             -Khrasan
-Honmzgan         -611an
-Keran            -Sistan
Baluchistan
Khorassan
-Sistan m
Baluchistan
Power 6eneration *              Regional Power    Regional Vater        Engineering         Research            Construction        Education        Trad1ng
Tranmission Co.                 Distribution       Authorities or      Companies            Coqmpnies           Coomaies            & Training       Coaqany
Authorities (16)  Ccpanies (14)
Project RWes 



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
MIaTIO                           PRW;T
Reuioial Water AuthoritLes - Iwocal Orgaization
a-d ,onlt Drecto
of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Ofieo
1Voter Resources'---
ICoordinatio ofl
DOfi e pfo   fit fo t         DqT   ior Ptomir e   Dcpa  Clor a o  Ct                       Deputy for Eo     ni              £in itorc nistrtion
Water Sd_                        and Des11gn                Notite    & Constmuctfen        and Water Resec i    ald    r   Firil
Com Eervation
Ctflc  ter unt for   tehia                        optrCeutns                         ineer no                                      Adhdnfstrstts        de   n|c
P anin                       co Brane  OtSeCne   o                          n               d             De  sl Ten l                 od Suppot        |Fneco
Budget  Oticea  .  _        Syste             Cntractors       SbpefsERef        Atf is |aGr qp               Staff Affairs    l fr
off Vok
m i rTmehncslc|   | Project  O| 
IA ffaols                 IfJxprAt8 e                                                      Terobn    IIProeue en
|Office forl   Office forl   Offce of Staff |                                    Am"eAl| 2r  
lsudW  etndl  IPtaming &   IPlamnn1n  and I                                      Field II  el           I
Agrem et       Evaluation|   Tr fning        |                                   Ottiees11Ofie
m:%Iran%irr9Nehwt-3



- 177 -
CHART 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVENEN PROJECT
Provincial Agricultural Denartments --Tvoical Oragnization
Director
|LegaL Of  e                               Office for Security
Affair
Internal
Accounts
Deputyr Director   |Deputy Director         |Deputy            |Deputyl
Technical          Executive                 Land Affairs     Planning,
= 1  _                               ~~~~~~~~~~Finance&
Administration
|Technical|
Shehrastan 
Agricultural
Offices
I   _
|\AgrLci \tul\rt
LService Centers  
m:\iran\Lrrg\chart-4



AZERBAIJAN                 o 7                               5;*                                 60-                                 65e
ozwsa=     s   t      MOGHAN    \        *   t             'ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Kh%O            Ahao                      c #s s  : M   . -IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Y  Mo  C a' 1 a nTURKMENISTAN                                        LOCATION OF SUBPROJECTS
: Tabriz                 Ardebl                        .                            *'                                               U              * Subproject Sites
boOsta"6                                                                                                                       Paved Roads
ZARRINEN                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Highways
ost                                                                           -i--i- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HkabdRailroads
me                          ~~~~~~~~CkOU    AoOhl*So tanbad                                   Mshhod             +        Airports
~--- Rivers
,vtonn    -Seasonal Lakes/Flooded
Kashmbr0 o    Totbote-JamO     V, Areas
*Ruan       s"                                                                  Torbat-e.eytiodn"I
35'        0                                                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cities
SakLta         L. b                               a r e a t  S aIt  Dese 5*r t              \Z                S       Province Capitals
,,; meialay"rO  ArokE,,/  ti  ~     ~'                                             />    iw  t_         9       National Capital
-t=-Ki~ ),hZ            International Boundaries
fF > *2btrCh~orrom AtHd  tj <
giriando                  ~~~~~~~MILES
0    50    100   150   200
Issi  5    5   bhhon<3----   \                                             \. f  0      100     200     300      400
gen < indimeshk Shohr e Kord                               tt t: 1 \ KILOMETERS
) I R                                      AQ   iG r e a t  S a ndc, D  e s e r t                                                  W *\  f" Mof,.  GreafSahn dDesfito
G.p.TeAhouole -Pe Jnd tS
Ae.'der; An e    . o et- P, W l en ;1
-  Its   ^>,  *   q3Yosuj                 Itermon                                     Of /
Khorams    bNeYdueKeson                                                                                                                       3
Kozerun0   ~~~~~     Slogan0         erma
~30e                Z-4 9s             wnQ                                                                      S       Zaohdo          '
/  ,)      9  ltateunO    +35hirot             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Srieino  Sc  Dorzin            Mi,rJ
45__________________________________B Bushehr                                                         Sabzeroron                oKhlst b 
A.  Jb@/A0. L                                                ) -                                  oD=tari
N >4                                                              Iranshabo Triltnnisnn  >s_   9  Xon  \L PA  K I S TA  N
< ^ ~~~~' t    -lf Sasida; ,_BoorabboLl 0Mincob,.
ARAS L       S-11                           .fARANt''
_*0)  blR    RA  I >  s REP. Qcooo 8,.5 
~~~~~~OFIM                                                ,0   .j,,M,, fi I _
0   SAUJOI                     N     '
.m  ARABIA            OMA                       $AHRAIN
"A                    'i    QATAR                            M5AN a'165
10                                                                           55,                                     -66,;~S.fl 



Caspian
~~~' ~~~~Sea
ARASIA        OF5A                                                                                         8           
11._                                                   .,                                            "I,.  *
ZONE                                 ~ZN
3t                                                            A
AWi-wd
Demepoont
Under PrOjedt)
CANAL                                       ZONE           D           NA 
cx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xe
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Conne /
C a  p i O n                                                                    ISLAMIC REPUBUC OF IRAN
--- e asg K             '. .                                    IRRIGATION  IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Anmo
/-  0   MOf                                      TAJAN SUBPROJECT
REKA                                  eOJrcrMABOwKDMIn                                    TOWn1AtOWA
%GArTK)vEYaoe erwr 7,S00HEOARES                        OADM
-7                   -    A(7QAGJa LnwDEVaOfNI -23,900HrARES              I   SrATE F4AM
vReAs
.   1:L,           \                   +   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROECr FKNCED                       A    OD
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~GVNM TFID
.'   |    '    ..                           ~~~~~~~~~MAINDPAM
.'   ,'      .                            v   * PR~~~~~$ OJSCTrflNr
{aGRAEM,,_A                                                        G4VED&IDIMN
0                         5                         70
,^.,      .                                      ~            ~            ~~                        ~~~~~~~~~~I  I  
.  AI TIE SCAEi
S -H IRAL41 MAONDAM _
F  .       -~~~~~~Wl* C-Odl                                               k 4            , lvb-  0--



IBRD 2417
DASfRONaM                                                                                                                                                         NOWROZLU t   n  > :
UWRVONOAMM  ~        ~        AMC  EPULI
40(                                                            ON CANAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O IRAN
T. Bokon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                                                   10,2toU  
(     3          ZON~~~E 3                                                           3650 HA                                         
/ ZONE 4                                                                                                                                 Ro\D SBREC
_ -   1                        *~~~~~~9400 HA           { 
.                                 x     e                 J      F            7900HA        2       \         /                                    _    PROJECTAREAEOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRJET RE BUNARE
0 . ' ' ' .   \ >'   |  \      t                         |   /           F    - f -                    |      /                                           IR^IGATION PUMPING STATIONS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~ZGATONPUPIN SATON
M  Xm;h .  - s 8 v / _ _ D VE SION CAMS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IERIO DM
:- Welland 1/ ; _> / ToMahe0 : MFUN,PRIMARYANOSECONDARYCANAIS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI, RIMRYANDSEONARYCAAL
'A'U,,    0  \  j  v_                                                                                                             _    ROADR
DECEMBER 1992



IBRD 24174
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MOGHAN SUBPROJECT
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES
SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE                                                                    ArI$
LAND IEVEtING:                                                                                             v      v    
MEDium                                                             e.       j z           P                       \ 
_<_- MAIN CANALS Fx<
.tA. AIN DRAINS v-    7
0    PUMPING TAlIONS/
1_01 DAM                                                            cj.s/-
VIUAGES                                                                                                                                                       CI<A A -   Ax
P RVER                                                                                                                    33 \9,50    H
-   - INTERNATIONAI BOUNDARY
ofAstigo                 AGO-NUSTRIAL STAE FARi                                                           
MOGHAN                    -                                                                                    
DIVERSION
DAM           JSDOUZBAD
To Me,h  k in-SAAr                                                                                                       To Ardabil
BELAS6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC          73,
OF IR4AN
0      D0      60      90      120
KILOMETERS
DECEMBER I M



-    -                               -                                                                                                                          IBRD 2417
~~~~ ~~TUARKMeIMEAN
ISI,AMIREP UEIC REPUUR4C
OF IRAN
_ /IID                                                                                            gSMaroonReoervoir
ARM ~  ~    ~ ~ A
0          20         'IO          60          80
I X I ' ' ' I I
KILOMETERS
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
To Alm=                                                                                                                                                                                              IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ToAh~~oz                                                                                                      >                                                                                                       x w 9 S j > XBEHBAHAN SUBPROJECT
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
SUBSURFACE DRAENAoE
LAND LEVEUNG
ZI v    ARCHEAVY
MEDIUM
MAIN AND PRIMARY CANALS
MAIN DRAINS
26mSi
EXISTING
ir'm                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDER CONSTRUCTION
2   ARCHIEOLOIGICAL SITE
CITy
DEMAMRa TM9



