Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23335-IRN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35700; SCPD-3570S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 157.00 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FOR AN
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
12/11/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2001)
Currency Unit = Rial
Rials 1,000 = USS 0.125
US$ 1.00 = Rials S,000
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 March 20
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AD                Agncuutrai Development
ASC                Agricultural Services Center
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CCs                Central Consultants
CoCoS              Contract Costing System
DOE               Departrnent of Envirotment
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization
GIS                Geographic InfoTrnation System
GOI                Government of Iran
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICR                Impplementation Completion Report
lip               Irrigation Improvement Project
IPM                Integrated Pest Management
-tc                Land Consolidation
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
LOS               Liaison Offices
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MEAF              Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MEIS              Monitoring and Evaluation Infornation System
MOE                Ministry of Energy
MOE/CC             Ministry of Energy/Central Consultants
MOE/LO             Ministry of Energy/Liaison Office
MOJA               Ministry of Jihad and Agriculture
MOJA/CC            Ministry of lihad and Agriculture/Central Consultants
MOJA/LO            Ministry of Jihad for Agriculture/Liaison Office
MOMC               Mazandaran Operation and Maintenance Company
MPO                Management and Planning Organization
MTR                Mid-Term Review
MWRA               Mazandaran Water Regional Authority
OMC                Operation and Maintenance Company
PADs               Provincial Agriculture Departments
PAO                Provincial Agricultural Organization
PRO               Planning and Budget Organization
PSC                Project Steering Committee
PVS                Pilot Village Studies
PWIT               Power and Water Institute
PWMS               Pilot Water Management Studies
QAG                Quality Assurance Group
R&EC               Research and Extension Comnsittee
RET                Research, Extension and Training
RRA                Rapid Rural Appraisal
RWAs               Regional Water Authorities
RWAs/OMCs          Regional Water Authorities/Operation and Maintenance Comnpanies
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SPCs               Sub-Projects Consultants
TOKTEN             In-house Training through Expatriate National Consultants
UNDP               United Nation Development Program
WID                Women in Development
WUCC               Water Users Co-operative Company
WUGs               Water User Groups
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   loseph P. Saba
Sector Manager/Director:    Salah Darghouth
Task Team LeaderJTask Manager:    Adel Bichara



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN,
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                12
6. Sustainability                                                                    13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   16
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                           17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                28
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005212                                        Project Name: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT
Team Leader: Adel F. Bichara                               TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: Decemnber 11, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT                          L/CYTFNumber: CPL-35700;
SCPD-3570S
Country/Department: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF                             Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: AA - Agriculture Adjustment; AE - Agricultural
Extension; Al - Irrigation & Drainage; AR -
Research
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/30/91                                 Effective: 04/29/93            04/29/93
Appraisal:  11/11/92                                   MTR: 09/30/97              03/18/98
Approval:  03/16/93                                 Closing:  06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOI/Ministry of Jihad & Agriculture/Ministry of Energy
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Joseph P. Saba                              Ram K. Chopra
Sector Manager:      M. Salah Darghouth                          Ngozi N. Okonjo-lweala
Team Leader at 1CR:   Adel F. Bichara                           Aizad Khan
ICR Primary Aithor:   Raffaele Suppa (FAO/CP);
Francois Dauphin (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Irmpact: SU
Bank Perfonnance: S
Borro,wer Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: U                       S
Project at Risk- at A4ny Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were to: (a) enhance water resources management through the
rehabilitation and improvement of existing irrigation systems that were incomplete or in a state of disrepair;
(b) upgrade research and extension in four sub-projects so as to raise crop output, farm incomes and
foreign exchange savings through increased agricultural production; and (c) strengthen planning and
implementation capacity of sector institutions including the Ministry of Agriculture (now Ministry of Jihad
and Agriculture - MOJA) and the Ministry of Energy (MOE). The project was designed to benefit about
46,000 farm families and incorporated appropriate technologies for drainage and irrigated agriculture to
meet the agricultural development needs of the four sub-project areas (see para 3.3).
These objectives were clear and focussed on addressing sector policy and investment, and
institutional issues. The project was consistent with the Bank's emphasis on environmental management.
The criteria used for sub-project selection were linked to the need of large rehabilitation requirement and
relatively quick returns in areas of economic or social priority. With regard to sector policy, the
Government of Iran (GOI) was, at the time of appraisal, pursuing a strategy of full cost recovery for O&M
costs and recovery of 40% of on-farm development costs. The IIP was designed to support and advance the
implementation of this new cost recovery policy for the sector serving, as well, as a vehicle for a
constructive dialogue on technical and institutional issues and on areas where Iran could use the Bank's
experience in supporting prevention programs of environmental degradation. From a technical/engineering
standpoint, the project was fairly straightforward and within the actual national technical capabilities of
Iranian engineering and contracting skills.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were maintained throughout the life of the project. The Mid-Term
Review (MTR) mission, conducted in March 1998, confirmed the validity of the original project objectives
although project restructuring was proposed for a number of reasons, including the: (a) combination of
delays in civil works execution and high inflation, which was at the basis of the unexpected increase in unit
costs; (b) Planning and Budget Organization's (PBO) lengthy procurement procedures, and (c) lack of
counterpart funds. Another reason for the proposed restructuring could be attributed to the changing
Bank-Country relationship, whereby prior to this project, the Bank stopped lending to Iran for about 10
years thus eroding the working relationship between the GOI and the Bank. As a result, real project
implementation started in 1995, two years after effectiveness, and by 1998 only about 20% of project funds
were spent as opposed to the scheduled 60%.
3.3 Original Components:
As designed, the Irrigation Improvement Project (TIP) comprised the improvement and upgrading
of four existing irrigation and drainage systems in Behbahan, Moghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan
sub-projects, covering a total net irrigable area of about 90,600 ha and the intensification of agricultural
services on these 90,600 ha and on an additional 16,400 ha in Tajan. In particular, the project included the
following components: (a) Irrigation and Drainage Improvement; (b) Agricultural Development; (c)
Irrigation/Drainage On-farm Development; (d) Support for O&M; (e) Support for Project Coordination,
Technical Assistance, Training, Strengthening MOJA and MOE and Monitoring; (f) Environment; and (g)
Resettlement.
The largest share of the project funds, 46.4% of total base cost, were to support the irrigation and
- 2 -



drainage improvement program including the construction and lining of main, secondary and tertiary canals
and drains. While the Agricultural Development component provided support for institutional strengthening
of research and extension facilities, the On-farm Development included subsurface drainage, land levelling
and pilot on-farm water management demonstration schemes. A range of studies was included in various
project components including environmental management studies, a study of rural financial markets, and an
irrigation subsector review. Special emphasis was to be given to strengthening the O&M of all facilities
from the main down to the tertiary system developing at the same time farmers' participation through water
users' groups and to addressing critical environmental issues. Funds were also to be allocated for
resettlement of population in one of the sub-project areas who were displaced by completion of a dam not
financed by the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were maintained as foreseen at appraisal and no major changes were required
during implementation. As indicated above, the MTR proposed to scale down the project scope of the
physical infrastructure for irrigation and keep the project within its effective implementing capacity as
experienced up to 1997. As a result, and in agreement with both the MOJA and MOE, the irrigation
conveyance system (main and secondary canals) and the distribution system (tertiary canal network) were
reduced so as to only cover about 58,000 ha as opposed to the 90,600 ha envisaged at appraisal.
3.5 Quality at Entty:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist at the time of the Project's approval. Peer
reviewers and Bank decision-makers endorsed the project's design and objectives and considered its quality
at entry as satisfactory. However, the state of readiness of the project at time of effectiveness was
insufficient. For example, the project's first year's construction program was not ready at time of entry.
After the MTR, the project supervision was subject to a QAG analysis in 1998. The QAG Panel,
while emphasizing its fundamental support for the project, rated the project as marginally satisfactory in
respect to both the quality at entry and the quality of supervision, for a number of reasons including rushed
project preparation, inadequate stakeholder analysis during preparation and lack of continuity in
management on the Bank side.
The above-mentioned rating was based on the period 1994-1998 during which project's
implementation was extremely slow. As described in the following chapters, implementation improved
considerably afterwards. In addition, it should be noted that: a) the project was the first Bank operation in
agriculture after been inactive in Iran for 10 years; and b) the project was geographically disperse with the
components covering four different regions involving at the central level two ministries and four Provincial
Agriculture Departments (PADs) and four Regional Water Authority (RWAs) at local level.
As foreseen at appraisal, the project faced economic, financial, institutional and technical risks.
The first related mainly to the wide disparity between economic and financial prices. During the course of
the project, the GOI was able to gradually bring domestic prices much closer to intemational prices as
indicated in the Annex 7. The concem about the financial contribution required from the GOI to support
project activities did not materialize at the beginning of the project and was one of the main causes for
project implementation delays up to 1996. However, at project completion the GOI's contribution was fully
disbursed in line with SAR estimates. The third risk regarding the institutional set-up was also relevant at
the beginning of the project. Nevertheless, the implementing agencies, both at central and provincial level,
were finally able to work closely and jointly. This was put in evidence by the satisfactory overall project
implementation. The technical risk regarding Operation and Maintenance (O&M) has been addressed under
-3 -



the project and the good results experienced in Tajan and Behbahan sub-projects with the successful
establishment of Water User Groups (WUGs) and Cooperatives, is to be considered as a positive element
of project sustainability.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievetnent of objective:
Partly as a consequence of changing Bank-Country relationship, but mainly due to initial lack of
counterpart funds, project implementation experienced substantial delays. The project implementation
actually started in 1995, two years after effectiveness. Up to 1998, only about 20% of project funds were
spent as opposed to the scheduled 60%. This was at the origin of the restructuring exercise carried out at
MTR in 1998, which reduced the size of the areas to be improved under the project. However, project
implementation gained momentum in 1997 gradually recovering the time previously lost. In late 1996,
changes took place in the management of the two Liaison Offices (LOs) in Tehran and the Bank appointed
a new Task Manager. Efforts by this new team combined with the signature of the sub-project consultant
contracts, made qualitative changes in project implementation. Supervision reports have since begun to put
in evidence the positive achievements of the project. As a result, the outcome of the project as a whole,
both in respect to its development objectives and its physical implementation, is rated satisfactory.
Achievement of each development objective is surnmarized below.
4.1.2 Objective 1: Enhancing Water Resources Management:
The existing irrigation and drainage networks in the four sub-project areas were successfully
rehabilitated and improved and related water resources management substantially enhanced. Overall, a net
area of some 84,600 ha has been improved. This represents about 97% and 150% of SAR and MTR
estimates respectively. Similarly, in line with SAR estimate, some 44,500 farmers have benefited directly
from the project. It is estimated that in the year following project completion, the total developed areas will
be fully irrigated using the newly improved facilities in three of the four sub-project areas, and partially in
Tajan where tertiaries canals remain to be constructed.
The water use efficiency in the project areas have/will increase as a result of the project and on the
basis of clear indications and data collected through surveys carried out by the MOJA. As indicated in
details in Annex 1 and in Annex 7, irrigation main canals and drains were rehabilitated, secondary and
tertiary canals were constructed, sub-surface drainage and land levelling works were carried out, and
overall, the implementation rate for the major civil works is assessed at about 95%.
The project was assigned Environmental Assessment Category B and was in fact design to focus
on the rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems. The project has had a positive impact on the
environment by improving water use efficiency and protecting soil resources from  water logging,
salinization and wintering wildfowl at the surroundings of Lake Oroumiyeh and Shadegan marshes.
Potential environmental management problems have been addressed in the special studies undertaken under
the project.
4.1.3 Objective 2: Upgrading Research and Extension and Raising Crop Production:
By the project closing date, some 33,500 farmers have been reached by extension and participated
in 4,620 programs. Cropping intensities have increased in all sub-projects (from 81% in Zarrineh Roud to
138% in Moghan) and are in line with SAR targets. Similarly, according to the data provided by MOJA
and based on field surveys, special village studies and Rapid Rural Appraisals (RRA), yields of major
- 4 -



crops are in line with both SAR and MTR assumptions in spite of the recent severe drought that hit
Zamrneh Roud sub-project area.
4.1.4 Objective 3: Institetional Strengthening
National and international consultancy services were provided to both MOJA and MOE to help
them in project's planning and coordination of project activities. In addition, highly qualified local staff
were recruited at both liaison offices to help in project's implementation and in coordination especially at
the regional level. Extensive local and overseas training programs were provided to the staff of these two
ministries in the fields of water resources management, planning, monitoring and evaluation, etc.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Irrigation and Drainage Improvement (including On-Farm Development) Component:
General. The irrigation and drainage improvement works actual implementation program is shown
in detail in Annex 1. It is estimated that some 54,500 ha under MOE contracts and about 32,900 ha under
MOJA contracts have been actually improved. Excluding overlap between the MOE and MOJA contracts,
the total net area developed under the project reached some 84,600 ha by the end of October 2001. The
on-farm development, executed by MOA include tertiary irrigation canals, sub-surface drainage and land
levelling contracts while the MOE contracts are mainly for main and secondary irrigation & open drainage
networks. A brief description of the current implementation performance regarding the civil works is given
below.
Moghan Sub-Project (MOE: 28,600 ha; MOJA: 19,900 ha). By the project closing date (June 30,
2001), the physical progress for the five MOE contracts stood respectively at 100%, 100%, 100%, 94%
and 68%. As far as the five MOJA contracts are concerned, the physical progress of the three tertiary
networks contracts and the two sub-surface drainage contracts stood respectively at 100%, 85%, 57%,
100% and 82%. By the loan closing date (October 31, 2001), all above contracts were completed, covering
a total net area of 41,500 ha.
Tajan Sub-Project (MOE: 14,400 ha). As of June 30, 2001, the physical progress of the main
contract TC-I/1&2 stood at 82%. Delays are to be attributed to difficulties related to land acquisition for
secondary and tertiary canals. The implementation of the remaining works is expected to be completed
under the supervision and with the technical and financial support of the Mazandaran Water Regional
Authority (MWRA) by the end of 2001. While the first additional contract (not included in the SAR) for a
supplemental area of 3,300 ha has been completed, the the second additional contract for the
Semeskandah-Aspevard diversion and regulation works, which started in June 2000, had a progress rate of
about 83%. Overall, by the end of the project, the main and secondary canals construction have been
completed, covering a total net area of 11,900 ha. While MWRA confirmed its intention to carry out the
construction of tertiary canals on about 2,500 ha with its own financial resources by the end of the current
year, the related works in the remaining part of the sub-project area are expected to be executed during
2002, with GOI's funds. To reduce costs, the possibility of using unlined tertiary canals would be
envisaged.
Behbahan Sub-Project (MOJA: 8,400 ha including 8,000 ha of land levelling and 2,760 ha of
sub-surface drainage). By June 30, 2001, the two Behbahan contracts were 100% complete. The contracts
for the project facilities (BC-I/4A and I/4B) regarding offices and laboratories for three agricultural
research centers were also completed. The Shadegan Marshes Research Center Laboratory contract was
- 5-



almost complete (90%) and the Agriculture City Management Center's Staff Housing stood at about 80%.
By the loan closing date, all remaining works were completed.
Zarrineh Roud Sub-Project (MOE: 28,450 ha; MOJA: 6,200 ha). By June 30, 2001, out of the
eight contracts (six for MOE and two for MOJA), seven were under execution and one (1,800 ha -
subsurface drainage) was completed. The progress rates for six MOE contracts were 77%, 74%, 58%,
73%, 58%, and 69% respectively. The remaining MOJA contract (sub-surface drainage) recorded an
implementation rate of 90%. All contracts experienced major delays despite the efforts of the MOJA and
MOE regional offices. The main reason for the implementation delays of the sub-surface drainage works is
to be attributed to the poor condition of the contractor's machinery. If the present pace of implementation is
maintained, all remaining works should be early 2002. Overall, a total net area of 22,800 ha is expected to
be finally developed.
Dams Safety. The Dam's Panel of Experts (POE) put in place in 1996, continued to have regular
meetings and in its December 1999 report made a series of recommendations for both the Shahid Rajaee
(Tajan) and the Marun (Behbahan) Dams. As far as the Shahid Rajaee dam is concerned, the design,
construction and supervision were found of high quality. Some safety concerns remained and included some
minor cracks in the downstream foundation blocks 23 and 25 and the need for continuos monitoring of the
right abutment displacements. The Marun Dam was constructed in accordance to proper design
specifications and its overall behavior is rated satisfactory. However, the POE raised some issues, which
included reservoir filling procedures, grouting and concrete lining at several locations, the checking of
upstream rip-rap protection behavior and reviewing the drainage holes design at the downstream blanket.
The above recommendations were transmitted to and implemented by the Dam's Consulting Engineers and
the Regional Water Authorities (RWAs).
Agricultural Development Component
Cropping intensities have increased in all sub-projects and are close to the SAR targets. Yields of
major crops are also in line with both SAR and MTR assumptions.
Farmers, through the Research and Extension Committee (R&EC), are currently involved in
research activities. They visit the research stations, discuss trials and indicate their preference and bring up
their problems. Training has involved MOJA officials at sub-projects, provincial and national levels to
ensure that local initiatives promoted by the project are properly understood and accepted by higher
hierarchical levels. The interest generated by the new approaches at all levels went well beyond expectation
and the GOI has expressed its willingness to support similar activities in other provinces outside the
project. The success of the Pilot Village Studies (PVS) and the continuous expansion of the Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) are very encouraging and, as indicated above, crop production has markedly increased
as a result of reinforced research and extension efforts provided by the project.
The construction of housing, office and workshops buildings (total of about 4,000 m2) for
Research and Extension have been completed. The procurement of vehicles audio/visual equipment,
laboratory and office equipment, and farm machinery have been completed according to the envisaged
program.
O&M Institutional Support Component
The implementation of O&M institution aspects is considered satisfactory based of the following
considerations:
-6 -



All O&M studies (Moghan, Tajan, Behbahan and Zarrineh Roud) were completed satisfactorily.
The MOJA and MOE OMC are supposed to endorse these studies in consultation with WUGs.
For Tajan sub-project, a draft (in Farsi) for service contracts within the pilot area (640 ha) has
been finalized by the Mazandaran Operation and Maintenance Company (MOMC). Recommendations are
being negotiated with farmers. The MOMC has given farmers an observer status in its Board. The
company agreed to have MOJA represented in the Board. The MRWA and the MOE/LO have sponsored
the formalization of the Board meetings with an appropriate invitation and agenda. Shareholders
representation and different board appointments has been decided and meetings are regularly held. An
O&M plan for each sub-project has been formulated with the assistance of the MOMC, CCs and the SPCs.
The draft O&M study for Tajan has been completed. The O&M costs have been reviewed but not yet
finalized by the SPCs. The adoption in Tajan of the accounting and information systems for efficient
management is being completed. In the other 3 sub-projects, adoption of the above measures is less
advanced. All the above institutional reform measures were not envisaged at appraisal and were initiated
and discussed in two national workshops and during the supervision missions.
The training program for Tajan and Behbahan sub-projects were designed and carried out
successfully by the MOJA/CC and MOJA/LO. MRWA and/or the MOMC, with the involvement of
MOJA, established a training unit for both its own staff and farmers' representatives. MOE central and the
regional offices are in agreement with the policy of sharing between the MOMC and the WUGs, a portion
of the fees paid by the users, for financing special maintenance (specially on-farm) and improvement
works. While no direct participation is immediately foreseen, negotiations on O&M operations/procedures
are under way. Integrating all the new works received by the MOMCs into the inventory is proceeding as
programnned. However, it will be important to monitor its progress and report it as one of the items of the
agenda of the MOMC Board meetings. Negotiations between MRWA/MOMC and farmers on the
construction of the tertiary systems, and related O&M are underway taking into account the experience
derived from the pilot operations in Tajan and in Behbahan.
Water Users Groups (WUGs): The creation of the WUGs covering the two pilot areas in Tajan
and in Behbahan have been carried out very satisfactorily. These groups are organized using participatory
approaches, according to the existing legal set-up as nonprofit associations. The election of the
representatives for each of these WUGs was also completed. More specifically, in Tajan, seven WUGs
have formed the Water Users Co-operative Company (WUCC) which has already assumed legal entity and
is currently operating. The whole Tajan pilot area of 640 ha has been equipped with tertiary canals. For
Behbahan the work regarding the establishment of the cooperative, grouping 9 WUGs, has been completed
and its registration is under preparation. Some 670 ha are included in the Behbahan pilot area.
MOJA support in the formation and formalization of WUGs was very effective and included: (i)
the establishment of the Provincial, Pilot and the Operational Task Forces; and in both pilot areas, (ii) the
selection of the pilot areas; (iii) the call for meetings and organization of field visits by the Task Forces;
(iv) the preparation of draft legal documents related to the creation of WUGs, Co-operatives and service
contracts; (v) the surveying of all physical assets for the project; (vi) the preparation of training programs
for all concemed including farmers. Like for O&M, these institutional aspects were not foreseen at
appraisal and were initiated during project's implementation.
Project Coordination, Technical Assistance and Training Component
Both MOE/LO and MOJA/LO performned well during the course of the project. They are expected
- 7 -



to remain in place until the end of 2001 to be able to follow the implementation of the remaining project
activities. They have prepared the Borrower's contribution to this ICR with the assistance of CCs. The
Project Steering Committee (PSC) met seven times, the last being in July 2001. The issues discussed during
the meetings and actions taken were essential for helping project implementation.
The MOJAILO and MOE/LO Central Consultants' (CCs) assignments were completed
satisfactorily. Their contracts were extended to June 30, 2001. The implementation  of the
surface/groundwater monitoring programs in the sub-projects of Tajan and Zarrineh Roud started in July
1999 and was completed on time. As the requirement regarding the third amendment of the MOJA CC
contract could not be concluded in 2000 as proposed due to problems related to taxes imposed on foreign
consultants, all the remaining activities including the Water Users' Groups (WlUGs) formation in the two
pilot areas, the preparation of the Pilot water Management Studies as well as the Monitoring and
Evaluation aspects (M&E), were finally successfully completed by the national consultants.
MOE Sub-Projects Consultants (SPCs): All final designs related to the civil works were
completed as and when required. Additional man-months and corresponding funds were allocated to the
three sub-projects consultants to undertake the O&M studies and to supervise the remaining civil works
construction contracts.
MOJA Sub-Projects Consultants (SPCs): All final designs related to civil works have been
completed. The majority of SPCs agricultural reporting assignments have also been completed. However,
the reports on Land Consolidation (LC) in Zarrineh Roud, on the Agricultural Development (AD), and on
the Stage II Women in Development Plans (WID) experienced long delays. Testing of the hydraulic
performance of sub-surface drainage has been carried out at Behbahan, Moghan and Zarrineh Roud and
the final reports were submitted on time.
All the field works related to the Pilot Water Management Studies (PWMS) in Behbahan and
Moghan have been concluded and the analysis of all the results is completed by early 2001. In the two
sub-projects and for four different crops over three planting seasons, it was shown that water use could be
reduced while obtaining similar or increased yields. The challenge for the PAOs is to disseminate these
results as widely as possible. The successful workshops on the results of the studies were conducted both in
Behbahan and in Moghan in February 2001 indicate that the involvement of local institutions in planning
and carrying out on-farm management trials as well as in disseminating results is of utmost importance.
The implementation of these results on a large scale would require, by the OMC, a coordinated irrigation
scheduling in all tertiary units and delivery of water accordingly.
Training: Implementation of the training component is rated very satisfactory and both FAO and
UNDP contributed substantially to the success of the program. Details on the current situation of the
implementation of the training component are given in Annex 7, Appendix B.
MOE Training Programs were well conducted. Under Category I (in-country training), for which a
contract was signed with the Power and Water Institute (PWIT), a total of 522 participants attended 55
courses and workshops, recording an implementation rate of about 90%. For the M. Sc. programs,
candidates have started for 7 candidates. For Category II (short courses in Iran) and Category III (overseas
study tours) training programs were combined under one contract signed with FAO on January 2001, and
involving about 230 participants attending 15 short courses and study tours.
As regards the MOJA Training Programs, the completed training activities are summarized as
follows: (i) Central Level Training. The local short-tern training courses progressed very well and
- 8 -



exceeded their expectation with 220 staff months actually utilized against the original target of 120. By
October 2001, the overseas short-courses and workshops have both reached an implementation rate of
85%. The study tours programs, included in the FAO contract, was completed by 31 October 2001.
Finally, in-house so-called "Transfer of Knowledge through Expatriate National Consultants" (TOKTEN)
training program, organized with UNDP, has been very successful with the participation, during the period
1996-2000, of 37 professors and specialists from overseas. A total of 21 seminars, 40 workshops and 3
consultancies were carried out with, all together, 1,317 participants; (ii) Sub-projects Level Training. The
local short-term training courses have been completed very satisfactorily (109% of SAR estimates). Other
training categories did not progress as well (overseas short-courses: 60%, and workshops: 51%) because
they were initiated late during the course of the project. The study tours program included in a contract
with FAO was completed by the end of October 2001; and (iii) Training for DOE personnel. Nine
candidates were sent to the Netherlands to follow-up a one year M.Sc. course on Environmental
Technology.
Overall, the quality of the training was quite good. This was shown by the impact on the ground
(i.e. increased agricultural production) and by the assessment made after each training session.
Procurement of Goods and Building Construction: Ninety nine vehicles (station wagons, 4WD
and minibuses) have been procured by MOJA/LO. Most of these vehicles have been distributed to MOJA
regional offices. This completes the overall procurement program for vehicles, as foreseen by the project.
The procurement of much needed tractors has experienced long delays. The delivery of the first lot
composed of 30 "35HP" tractors procured by MOJA/LO took place in December 2000. Fort two additional
tractors were procured in 2001. In addition, MOJA procured Farm Machinery and Implements for these
tractors.
The procurement of computers and audio-visual equipment for MOJA was completed. Due to high
demand by the regions, the numbers of these items exceeded the original estimates.
Procurement of all foreseen heavy operation and maintenance equipment for MOE RWAs was
completed in 1998.
Three separate contracts conceming the construction of MOJA housing, cffices and workshops at
the sites of Dodangeh Agricultural Services Center (ASC) and Behbahan Research Center were completed
by the loan closing date. In addition, the construction of a research station at Moghan and an extension
services office at Tajan were completed using counterpart funding.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The quality of the MOE/LO and MOJAILO progress
reports were satisfactory especially during the last 4 years of project implementation. The MOECC
developed a monitoring and evaluation system based on computerized project management techniques using
appropriate software. Training for this purpose was also provided. As requested, MOJA/LO reports
provided quantifiable performance indicators related to agricultural production. The reporting capacity at
the regional level, although improved, remained weak. MOJA/LO will put more emphasis on this issue and
will appoint local personnel to help improve the situation.
MOE/CC prepared GIS databases for Moghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan sub-project areas
comprising various geo-referenced maps indicating primary, secondary and tertiary canals, drains, and
related structures as well as other important facilities within the irrigation schemes. The attributes of all
these facilities have been attached and can be retrieved at query. Other infomnation related to O&M
-9-



requirements are also included in the database. User's manual has been prepared and translation into Farsi
is being prepared. For Tajan Pilot Project area, cadastral information have been added to the database
along with data on ground water aquifer characteristics.
A database for a Monitoring and Evaluation Information System (MEIS) was developed by
MOJA/CC and, guidelines for collecting, storing and dispatching data were made available. Similarly,
guidelines and forms for collecting and reporting R&E indicators were also produced. In addition, a
Contract Costing System (CoCoS) is in place and has been utilized by MOJA/LO for monitoring the
financial performance of MOJA's project components.
Environmental Component
The project was placed in environmental screening category "B" consistent with O.D. 4.01
"Environmental Assessment". The project has actually had a positive impact on the environment as a result
of improved water use efficiency and protecting soils resources from waterlogging and salinization. The
environmental management plan has supported: (i) institutional strengthening (including the construction of
a visitor center for Sahdegan marshes) and training; (ii) water quality monitoring programs; (iii)
agricultural chemical management programs; and (iv) special environmental studies.
With respect to the various studies associated with the project, the following table represents
results to date:
Responsibility                              MOE                     MOJA
Total Number of Studies                       8                        18
Completed                                     6                       14
Being Implemented                             21                      22
Studies Cancelled                             0                       2
I Include the Zarrineh Roud Delta & Wetlands Management Plan, which is about 85% complete.
2 Includes 3 studies conducted by FAQ - see below.
3  Includes Improved Migratory Bird Census Methods and Establishment of New Protected Region   for
Gazelles.
Most of the completed studies were of an acceptable quality.
Studies Conducted by FAO. The contract for the Shadegan Marshes Management Plan and Lake
Ouroumieh National Park Management Study was signed with FAO in April 2000 and studies should be
completed by the end of 2001. By October 31, 2001, the progress rate for the plan and for the study stood
at 70%. Good cooperation between all interested parties was experienced during the preparation of the
Terms of References and the implementation plans of these studies.
Due to lack of proper coordination and budgetary allocations, MOJA/LO and DOE did not manage
to finalize the list of goods to be procured by MOJA/LO for DOE and as a consequence the procurement of
these goods were not carried out by loan closing date.
The failure of the DOE to appoint adequate staff to help in implementing the envisaged programs
negatively affected the outcome of the environment components of the project.
- 10 -



Resettlement Component
Although the resettlement of Dej-e-Mahtabi village inhabitants was not associated with the
Behbahan sub-project, it was agreed at appraisal that the MOJA would have implemented the resettlement
plan for the 49 families affected by the construction of the Maroon Dam. The above was also included in
the Legal Covenants. As a consequence MOJA prepared a resettlement plan consistent with the Bank O.D.
4.30 and successfully implemented the resettlement program as early as 1993. Therefore, the related
covenant is considered complied with satisfactorily.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a whole of for each of the four
sub-projects of Behbahan, Moghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan. The analysis, which has been carried out
over a project period of 25 years, is described in details in Annex 7. The ERR for the project as a whole at
project completion is estimated at 16.6% as compared to the SAR rate of 18.8%. Separate economic
analysis has been carried out for each of the four different sub-projects area namely Behbahan, Moghan,
Zarrineh Roud and Tajan with rates of return of 9.3%, 22.4%, 6.9% and 23.5% respectively compared to
SAR rates of return of 22.6, 15.6, 20.0 and 24.5 % respectively.
The above ERR's estimates indicate that the project as a whole as well as the individual sub-projects
remains, at project completion, satisfactory. The Zarrineh Roud subproject which, with an ERR of about
7%, well below SAR estimate, may be considered slightly marginal. In reality, the ERR for the Zarrineh
Roud sub-project is to be considered underestimated on the assumption that the heavy rehabilitation
programme that has been undertaken has involved full lining of the primary and secondary canals, which
would result in a considerable saving in water for irrigation and therefore allowing an increased availability
of water downstream. Data on possible water savings as a result of the project were not available at the
time of the ICR and it would be difficult, at this stage, to quantify accurately the relative project benefits in
the downstream areas. Furthermore, the Zarrineh Roud subcomponent should be maintained because of the
high expectation of the farmers in the area. The sensitivity analysis indicates that the ERR to the project
and for the four subprojects has been found to be quite resistant to deviations from the base case
assumptions. With benefits lagged one year or reduced by 10%, the project as a whole would generate
ERRs of 14.2% and 14.9% respectively.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
As described in details in Annex 7 and summarized in Annex 3, the impact of the project on farm
income would be satisfactory confirming the financial viability of the project as estimated at appraisal. At
full development, increases in net farm income would range from 40% for farms in Tajan to 250% for
farms in Behbahan (as compared to SAR estimates of 153% for farms in Tajan, Behbahan and Moghan
and 346% for farms in Zarrineh Roud) making the project effectively attractive to the farmers.
Furthermore, considering that these farms' incomes are based on crop budgets per ha including water
charges and incremental O&M costs for irrigation infrastructure, the actual increases in the net farm
incomes to be foreseen under the with project situation, clearly indicate the farmers ability to pay for these
incremental costs. As regards the cost recovery and finance for operation and maintenance the
sustainability of the present system, which by law provides for recovery of scheme O&M costs from
farmers up to 3% of average gross income per hectare for each crop, would be better assured by the
increased level of fanner's income to be generated by the project.
- 11 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project is a major initiative for changing attitude and approaches of both the MOJA and MOE
towards the implementation of development programs with foreign financial assistance. The two principal
implementing agencies and their respective Provincial Agriculture Departments (PADs) and Regional
Water Authorities (RWAs) in each of the four sub-project areas were in fact exposed to new technologies
and good practices in various fields, including: (i) irrigation and drainage; (ii) participatory irrigation
management; (iii) environmental survey and monitoring; (iv) technical reviews; (v) water resources
planning and investigation; (vi) sector planning and programming; (vii) land acquisition; and (viii)
community mobilization. These good practices are gradually being main-streamed in the MOJA and MOE.
As indicated above, GIS Database and MEIS have been developed by MOE/CC and MOJA/CC and are
now fully operational.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Basically, most factors were within control of the Government or its agencies. Perhaps, the main
obstacle to project implementation was the unexpected macroeconomic difficulties combined with restricted
budget allocations during the first four years of project implementation, including greater than expected
rate of inflation experienced during the course of the project. This caused enormous delays, up to 1997, in
the Government approval of procurement and technical assistance contracts, and substantial increase in the
costs of civil works. The lack of management capability of some civil works contractors also negatively
affected the project implementation schedule. Civil works could have been executed more rapidly if proper
project management and scheduling techniques would have been followed by private contractors.
Nevertheless, implementation took place in a generally stable social environment.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The lack of counterpart funds, during the early years of the project, was one of the major stumbling
blocks to normal project execution. The matter was discussed during the World Bank supervision mission
of July 1994 and the situation improved considerably since then with the introduction of a system through
which the work program and budget, related to project activities, had to be prepared and sent to the Bank
for information six months before each fiscal year. Major improvement was noted since early 1995 when
the PBO finally agreed to include in its budget allocations, funds for the entire project life. However,
counterpart funds remained insufficient till 1997. Approval of contracts and budgets continued to
experience long delays mainly due to PBO' regulations and complicated administrative procedures. the
sub-project consultants and the central consultants were appointed with a delay of two and three years
respectively. In addition, the lack of cooperation between the MOJA and MOE, already experienced at
preparation stage, persisted as an important issue throughout the project, although considerably improved
after the creation and the proper staffing of the two LOs by mid 1996.
The continuous postponement of target dates for actions agreed with supervision missions was put
in evidence by the Bank, as early as 1994. As a result, the Bank, in April 1995, under the provisions of the
"General Conditions" seriously considered initiating procedures for suspension of loan disbursements. It
was also noted during supervision that up to 1996, there was still a considerable lack of understanding
between MOE/LO and RWA on their respective roles. The appointment of POE for dam safety also
remained a matter of great concern until early 1996, when the MOE finally agreed with the recruitment of
independent experts and complied with the related covenant of the Loan Agreement that should have been
complied with by December 31, 1993. The first POE meeting, comprising of four intemational experts and
- 12 -



a Bank dam safety specialist, took place in April 1996.
The Project Steering Committee (PSC) as foreseen by the SAR was established to promote,
together with the LOs, effective coordination between the various implementing agencies. The PSC
included the Deputy Minister of MEAF, the Deputy Minister for Projects and Planning of MOJA, the
Deputy Minister for Water Affairs of MOE, and representatives of MOJA/LO and MOE/LO, PBO and
DOF. The PSC did meet for the first time only in July 1995. Due to the complexity of the project and the
potential for major problems, it was suggested by the Bank that the PSC meets at least twice a year to
devote the necessary attention to key issues such as budget allocations and PBO decisions. Unfortunately,
this was not implemented.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Considerable procurement delays took place in the recruitment of consultants both by MOJA and
by MOE Liaison Offices (LOs) which remained under staffed until 1995. In addition, the use of part time
personnel and frequent turnovers was at the origin of obvious perturbations in the performance of the LOs,
which had difficult terms of reference considering the various organizations involved with project
implementation and the related long administrative procedures. The situation improved considerably by
mid-1996 when the Bank supervision mission noted that both LOs were finally staffed with well qualified
and experienced personnel and that project implementation has started to gain momentum.
Coordination at the central and local levels was not rated satisfactory during the first years of the
project, but improved markedly by the beginning of 1997 as project's activities began to materialize.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Actual project cost, including eligible expenditures to take place in 2001, is estimated at US$
311.8 million or about 100% of the estimate made at appraisal. The final overall project disbursement from
the WB loan is US$ 157.0 million, indicating a disbursement rate of 100% and the GOI's contribution to
the project is US$ 154.8 million. The project cost has been estimated converting expenditures in local
currency using an average exchange rate of US$ I = Rials 3,000.
Due to the scarce counterpart funds during the first years of project implementation, the Bank
agreed to increase its financing for the civil works so as to cover 60% of the local expenditures as opposed
to 40% stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as likely and this assessment is based on the following
considerations.
Gains in yields and land/water productivity resulting from better practices are expected to be
sustainable. This is because they result not from the simple application of new recommendations, which
may be no longer relevant e.g. when market prices change, but from an improved capacity by farmers and
their advisors to analyze problems and provide solutions. Cropping intensities increased to an average of
125% in the sub-projects areas compared to 95% at the onset of the project. Sustaining the quality of
research, extension and training (RET) services requires government to continue providing sufficient
resources to those services. Greater sustainability would probably require further reform to partially
- 13 -



privatize or commercialize the services. Farmers in the project areas have become less dependent on
government services and more assertive. The project initiated the move towards the creation of WUAs.
Such farmers' organizations will reinforce farmers' ability and resolve to tackle their problems.
The positive results regarding the establishment of WUGs in Tajan and in Behbahan and the bold
institutional reforms initiated with and implemented by the MRWA and OMC are important aspects of
project sustainability as far as the O&M of the irrigation infrastructure is concemed. The GOI intends to
apply the same successful approach utilized in the two sub-project areas of Tajan and Behbahan, not only
in the two other sub-project areas of Moghan and Zarrineh Roud, but also throughout the country. This
experience is in fact expected to become the base for the national policy in this regard. The current cost
recovery system for the irrigation infrastructure allows the collection of water charges based on the gross
value of production of irrigated crops and not on water consumption. However, the GOI has at present
plans to change the cost recovery approach to make it more equitable and more efficient.
The law currently provides for recovery of scheme's O&M costs form farmers up to 3% of the
average gross income per hectare for each crop. The money has to be paid at the beginning of the season
otherwise water is not delivered. The system generates revenues that not always cover 100% of the O&M
costs (e.g. Behbahan and Zarrineh Roud). However, once the volumetric approach is implemented and all
the institutional changes are completed at the OMCs level, the recovery of full O&M costs would be
achieved.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A post-completion O&M plan, based on the SPCs study carried out in the Mazandaran province
and covering the total Tajan plain is under preparation by the MOE. Data for the study was derived from
the Tajan plain where about 35,000 water users are operating. Similar studies for other sub-projects are
being reviewed and would be implemented in due course.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated
marginally satisfactory. The strained nature of the World Bank-Iran dialogue and lending led to
uncertainty in the nature of the Bank's long term likely presence in Iran, at the time the project was
designed. Project preparation and appraisal were rushed with negative effects on project implementation. In
particular, a proper stakeholder analysis was not carried out and those entities generally directly linked with
project implementation were not adequately identified. Some key institutional issues at the local level,
mainly the role of the farmner's organization and land tenure, were not incorportated in the project design.
These were added later by the Bank during the implementation process.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance during supervision is considered to have been satisfactory. In general,
the Supervision Forms 590 and the Project Status Reports were realistic and adequately reported
implementation progress. However, at the beginning of project implementation, there was a lack of
continuity in supervision due to frequent changes in management and staffing within the Bank. In line with
the supervision plan indicated at appraisal, a total of 17 supervision missions were carried out
including a Mid-Term Review in March 1998. Substantial improvement in the quality of supervision is
- 14 -



to be reported since the end of 1996. A closer and more adequate supervision gave an important positive
input to project execution and combined with the upgrading of the summary project implementation
progress rating from unsatisfactory to satisfactory in May 1997. Project rating remained satisfactory till
completion.
Supervision missions monitored and facilitated compliance with covenants, and were pro-active in
identifying and addressing project implementation issues. At the same time the Bank played a very
important active role in the preparation of detailed plans of actions especially those related to the
institutional aspects, which were agreed upon with local authorities, to closely monitor the project
implementation progress.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the Bank's lending and supervision performances analyzed above, the Bank's overall
performance can be considered satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory, but with some
reservations. Although the Iranian authorities were not heavily involved in project preparation, they
provided the FAO/CP team the necessary support to complete the project preparation work within a short
time. The preparation report proved to be quite weak in many important areas, notably in the absence of
quantity estimates for civil works and in the in-depth environmental analysis. In effect the preparation
report showed the inexperience of the Iranian Government in preparing projects. However, as this project
was the first Bank agriculture operation in Iran since 1975, only experiences from previous Government
operations in the sector were taken into account. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (MEAF)
was able to establish a special unit to assist the implementation agencies on matters of procurement and
disbursement and closely followed the establishment of the two liaison offices which finally participated in
the loan negotiations, held in Paris in January 1993.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during project implementation was mixed. The Government
failed to provide the needed counterpart funds on a timely fashion at the beginning of the project. The
preparation of bibbing documents for civil works remained for sometimes in the hands of the Foreign Trade
Department of SATKAB (MOE) causing unexpected delay. The GOI was also late in recruiting the
independent POE for dam safety as indicated in the Loan Agreement covenant. As a result, the Bank in
1995, seriously considered initiating procedures for suspension of loan disbursement. With the progressive
strengthening of the implementing agencies and the provision of sufficient counterpart funds, project
implementation gained momentum as of June 1996. The July 1996 Bank supervision mission's reading was
that the project development objectives were finally on the right track with the MEAF fully committed to
providing the anticipated funds for the project and budgeted in the related fiscal years. The Liaison Offices
put much emphasis on strengthening the Central coordination unit with the recruitment of experienced and
dedicated staff improving considerably the coordination at both central and sub-projects level.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
While performance of the two principal implementing agencies, MOJA and MOE, varied
during the various stages of the project, it was satisfactory on balance. Long delays in procurement of
- 15-



consultants and lack of coordination between MOJA and MOE were at the base of the lower than expected
implementation pace experienced during the first years of the project life. In addition, because of
centralized decision-making, contract management was weak and important decisions were often delayed.
The Provincial Agricultural organizations (PAOs), the Regional Water Authorities (RWAs)
and the Operation and Maintenance Companies (OMCs) performance was satisfactory and, in
particular, were able to successfully initiate in Tajan and Behbahan sub-projects, a new approach to O&M
including the establishment of WUGs. The system will be followed in the remaining sub-project sites and it
is the intention of the GOI to monitor the outcome of this exercise and draw the lessons to form the basis of
the O&M policy regarding irrigated agriculture in the country.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
In view of the above, the overall borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons from the project are:
-      At project design, the capacity of the implementing agencies was over optimistic. Widening the
project objectives, with so many components, and the vast geographical spread in four different sub-project
areas, were too ambitious especially in view of the fact that the Bank had suspended lending to the Islamic
Republic of Iran for a long period of time. The Bank should have been more conservative when designing a
new agricultural operation in Iran after an extended period of non-activity. The implementation capacity of
DOE was also over estimated. The failure of executing its obligations under the project was mainly due to
its inability to appoint adequate staff to implement the program as envisaged under the project. The lack of
personnel combined with continuous replacement of key staff at regional level, was also a determining
negative factor in the process.
-      Implementing Agencies Financial Independence: The other reason for DOE inability to
implement its activities under the project is the fact that the financial resources foreseen for the DOE
activities were all allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture budget rather than to the DOE budget. The lack
of counterpart flmds for few years and the unwillingness of the MOJA/LO director to procure equipment
on behalf of the DOE (despite the WB insistence) resulted in under allocation of budgets to DOE. In
addition, the lack of efficient project management at the DOE and of a clear work program were at the
origin of the continued unwillingness of the MOJA/LO to release funds or to carry out procurement
activities for the DOE.
-      Detailed Designs Readiness: Detailed engineering designs for the civil works should be as far as
possible ready before loan effectiveness so that tendering could start as soon as loan effectiveness is
declared.
-      Beneficiaries Participation. Beneficiary participation, based on a preliminary agreement with the
water users at the early stages of project's implementation, would have allowed faster implementation of the
irrigation works especially those related to the tertiary networks. Direct involvement of the beneficiaries in
planning and implementation of O&M systems, even at later stage, has created a sense of ownership among
farmers, which is considered instrumental for achieving sustainable water management.
-      Procurement. The WB prescribed ICB for major civil works and the pre-qualification exercise
- 16 -



produced national contractors only . It is therefore considered appropriate to be more flexible in case of
procurement of civil works which do not attract foreign contractors, and possibly leave these works be
procured through NCB. As the procurement of vehicles is concemed, the project appraisal team should
have insisted on getting govemment written acceptance for either ICB or NCB procedures prior to
negotiations rather than accept local sources procurement at the end. The same should also have been
applied to procurement activities related to short listing of both national and foreign consultants.
-      Involving all Concerned Agencies and Ministries throughout the Project Cycle. The
Management and Planning Organization (MPO, formerly PBO) was not fully involved during the
identification, preparation and evaluation phases of the project. As a result, the MPO was reluctant, during
1994-96, to endorse a number of activities foreseen under the project. Issues such as employment of foreign
consultants, funds allocation for various activities including overseas training, etc. could have been
adequately addressed at project design rather than late during project implementation. The implementation
delay experienced in the early years of the project could have been avoided through a more effective
cooperation between PBO and the implementing agencies in line ministries. In this regard, the early
involvement of all concemed with project implementation should be also considered at the preparation
stage.
-      Capacities of National Agricultural Consulting Firms: It became clear during project
implementation that the national consultants specialized in agricultural activities (research, extension, etc.)
were not up to standard and had difficulties in producing reports in English. All reports were written in
Farsi and later summarized and badly translated into English. The lesson learned is that it is far better to
associate national consultants with good local knowledge with experienced intemational consultants and to
request that all documents to be first produced in English and later translated into Farsi. This has worked
very well for the MOJA/LO and the joint venture between the foreign and Iranian consulting firms proved
to be satisfactory.
-      Operation and Maintenance Modalities. This aspect of the project should be well thought during
project preparation. Detailed, timed and agreed action plan (including triggers and responsibilities) covering
the institutional, financial, legal and social aspects related to operation and maintenance should be prepared
at the onset of the project. Implementation of this plan should start as soon as possible in order to ensure
the sustainability of the investments by the project closing date.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The final evaluation report prepared jointly by the MOJA and MOE for the Borrower is included
as Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  ActualULatest Estimate
Enhancement of Water Resources
Management
- Area Improved (ha)                   87,500                                 84,600
- Direct Beneficiaies (No.)            46,000                                 44,500
Upgrade Research and Extension and Raise
Crop Output
- Farmers Reached by Extension (nb)    N/A                                    33,500
- Cropping Intensity (%):              112                                    129
*Behbahan                           122                                    138
Moghan                             125                                    117
*Tajan
- Number of Demonstration Plots        N/A                                    956
- Number of Research Themes Undertaken  N/A                                   716
Training
- MOJA:                                N/A                                    4,620
Number of Programmes               N/A                                    33,500
. Number of Participants
-MOE:                                 81                                     55
Number of Programmes               18100                                  522
. Number of Participants             1
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Ministry of Energy
Number of contracts awarded:
Works                                14                                     14
Goods                                8                                      7
. Consultancy                         7                                       7
Civil works:                           1,132                                  1100
Length of rehabilitated and new canals (km)
. Length of rehabilitated and new drains (km) 854                             800
Areas improved (ha)
Studies:                               58,000 (at MTR)                        54,800
. Number of studies contracted
. Number of studies completed         7                                       11
7                                      6
II. By Sub-projectArea
Moghan1
Concrete lining of main canals (km)  17.5                                   32
Slope stabiization of main canals (km)    60
Concrete lining on secondary canals (ha)  21,000                            27,900
. Construction of tertiary canals and drains  27,400                          15,950
(ha)
. Sub-surface drainage (ha)            11,000                                 6,800
Zamneh Roud:
. Concrete lining of main canals (km)  97                                     99
Extension and lining of left main canal (km) 17                             19
Construction of the lined secondary canals
- 18 -



and sub-surface drains (ha)           24,800                                22,800
. Tertiary l&D System (ha)            36,000                                22,800
Sub-surface drainage (ha)            7,500                                 6,200
Tajan:
. Concrete lining of main canals (km)  35                                   35
The main drain (km)                 22                                     14
. Secondary canals (ha)               7,500                                 7,500
. Tertiary canals (ha)                7,500                                 640 (only pilot area)
. Drains (ha)                         7,500
. Main canal dto Dashte Naz (km)      -                                     7
. Regulation structure across river Tajan for                               3,600
benefiting Semeskandeh Aspevard area
Behbahan:
. Sub-surface drainage (ha)                                                 2,500
Land levelling (ha)                 8,000                                  8,400
. Soil amendment (ha)                 1,700
End of project
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
A. Irrigation/Drainage improvement                 120.80         169.60          140.4
B. Irrigation/Drainage on farm                     26.30           83.90           319
C. Agriculture Development                         40.20            5.30           13.2
D. Project facilities incl. O&M Equip.             27.70           19.40            70
E. Institutional support                           41.90           31.70           75.7
F. Environment                                       3.40           1.80           52.3
G. Resettlement                                     0.20            0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                                260.50         311.70
Physical Contingencies                             18.60
Price Contingencies                                32.50
Total Project Costs           311.60         311.70
Total Financing Required            311.60         311.70
Project Costs by Procuremet Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    136.40        30.70         0.00         0.00        167.10
(64.00)      (13.50)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (77.50)
2. Goods                    60.60         7.00          8.00         0.00        75.60
(48.90)      (6.10)        (6.50)       (0.00)      (61.50)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         25.50         0.00        25.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (11.70)       (0.00)      (11.70) _
5. Training                  0.00         0.00         14.10         0.00        14.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (6.30)       (0.00)       (6.30)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         29.40         0.00        29.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    197.00        37.70         77.00        0.00        311.70
(112.90)      (19.60)      (24.50)       (0.00)      (157.00)
Exchange Rate: IUS$ = Rials 3,000
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    238.50        8.70         0.00         0.00        247.20
(109.20)      (5.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (114.20)
2. Goods                     9.70         2.20         8.90         0.00         20.80
(7.00)       (1.60)       (5.50)       (0.00)      (14.10)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         36.80                    36.80
- 20 -



(0.00)         (0.00)         (23.00)        (0.00)        (23.00)
5. Training                       0.00           0.00           6.20                          6.20
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.70           0.00           0.70
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.70)         (0.00)         (0.70)
Total                        248.20           10.90          52.60          0.00          311.70
(116.20)        (6.60)         (34.20)         (0.00)       (157.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Civil Works               77.50     89.60                114.90     132.40              148.3  147.8
Equipment                 61.50     14.10                 14.10      6.70               22.9   47.5
Consultancy               11.70      13.80               23.00      13.80               196.6  100.0
Training                  6.30       7.80                 5.00       1.20               79.4   15.4
Others                              29.40                            0.70                       2.4
TOTAL                    157.00     154.70               157.00     154.80              100.0  100.1
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a whole of for each of the four
subprojects of Behbahan, Moghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan. The analysis, which has been carried out
over a project period of 25 years, is described in details in Annex 7.
On the basis of the assumptions outlined in Annex 7, the ERR for the project as a whole at
project completion is estimated at 16.6%. Separate economic analysis has been carried out for each of the
four different subprojects area namely Behbahan, Moghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan. The results of the
economic analysis are summarized in table below with a comparison with SAR estimates:
Results of the Economic Analysis
Economic Rate of             Hectares
Subproject       Return (%)
SAR   I  ICR         SAR             ICR
Behbahan          22.6      9.3       11,500          8,400
Moghan            15.6     22.4       35,600         41,500
Zarrineh Roud     20.0      6.9       36,000         22,800
Tajan             24.5     23.5        7,500         32,900 1/
Total Project     18.8      16.6      90,600        105,600 1/
1/ Including 21,000 ha of rainfed area
The above ERR's estimates indicate that the project as a whole as well as the individual
subprojects remains, at project completion, satisfactory. The Zarrineh Roud subproject which, with an
ERR of about 7%, well below SAR estimate, may be considered slightly marginal. In reality, the ERR for
the Zarrineh Roud subproject is to be considered underestimated on the assumption that the heavy
rehabilitation programme that has been undertaken has involved full lining of the primary and secondary
canals, which would result in a considerable saving in water for irrigation and therefore allowing an
increased availability of water downstream. Data on possible water savings as a result of the project were
not available at the time of the ICR and it would be difficult, at this stage, to quantify accurately the
relative project benefits in the downstream areas. Furthermore, the Zarrineh Roud subcomponent should be
maintained because of the high expectation of the farmers in the area.
The sensitivity analysis indicates that the ERR to the project and for the four subprojects has
been found to be quite resistant to deviations from the base case assumptions. With benefits lagged one
year or reduced by 10%, the project as a whole would generate ERRs of 14.2% and 14.9% respectively.
The sensitivity analysis results are summarized below:
- 22 -



Sensitivity Analysis Results
Basic                                ERR                   [            Decrease
Item                                 ERR                           Benefits Lagged                            Benefits
by 10%
................................... ....... ...............%...... ... %......................................
Total Project                                       16.6                                 14.2                                  14.9
Behbahan                                            9.3                                   7.9                                   7.9
Moghan                                             22.4                                  19.4                                  26.7
Zarrineh Roud                                       6.9                                   5.6                                   5.4
Tajan                                              23.5                                  19.9                                  21.4
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification:             2   E, A
October 1991 1/
Preparation:                6   A, JE, WRS, EX, E, ES
Jan./Feb. 1992
Appraisal/Negotiation
Pre-Appraisal:             10   IE, OP, ES, A, S, IL, A, IF,
June/July 1992                   EC, EX
Appraisal:                  5   IE, OP, ES, A, S
Oct/Nov. 1992
Supervision
June/August 1993             5   IE, IE, P. FN, E                   U             U
2/
December 1993                2   IE, A                              U             U
July 1994                    2   IE, A                              U             S
October 1994                 1  IE                                  U             S
April 1995                   2   IE, ES                             U             U
September 1995               1  DS                                  U             U
November 1995                2   IE, ES                             U             U
June 1996                    3   IE, A, ES                          U             S
December 1996                2   A, EX                              U             S
May 1997                     5   OP, IE, A, ES, M&E                 S             S
November 1997                2   IE, ES                             U             S
March 1998 (MTR)             5   IE, A, IE, A, E                    S             S
November 1998                6   IE, A, ES, IE, A, P                U             S
April 1999                   5   IE, DR, A, A, ES                   S             S
January 2000                 6   IE, IE, DR, ES, P, A               S             S
June 2000                    3   IE, A, E                           S             S
November 2000                3   IE, IE, DR                         S             S
ICR
June,2001                   2    E, A                               S             S
AE = Agricultural Economist; E = Economist; EC = Ecologist; ES = Environmental Specialist;
IL = Institutional Legal Expert; S = Sociologist; OP = Operations Officer; P = Procurement Specialist;
IE = Irrigation Engineer; A = Agronomnist; DS = Dams Specialist; EX = Extension Specialist;
M&E = Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist; DR = Drainage Specialist; WRS = Water Resources
Specialist
I/ A joint WB/FAO-CP mission, composed of an Economist and an Agronormist, took place in July 1991
to agree
with the GOI on the concept of an Irrigatiion Rehabilitation Project.
2/ Including project launch workshop.
- 24 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               USS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 88.8                         92.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                     322.4                       1,311.1
Supervision
ICR                                        10.0                          30.0
Total                                     421.2                       1,433.6
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negoigible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                          O H  OSU *M  O N  O NA
[ Physical                                  * H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
E Financial                                 O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                            O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction                 O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
El Gender                           OCH OSUOM ON * NA
El Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  ON   * NA
El Private sector development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
El Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSU*M  ON   0 NA
Water Users' Groups
-26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
El Lending                                           OHS O5  *  U  OHU
0 Supervision                                        OHS Os   O u  O HU
3 Overall                                            OHS OS   O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
3 Preparation                                        OHS OS   O U  O HU
3 Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  O U  O HU
3i Overall                                           OHS OS O u O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Appendix B: Details on Project Physical Implementation
Appendix C: Econornic and Financial Re-evaluation (Tables are only listed in ICR and can be found in
project file)
- 28 -



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
ANNEX 7
Appendix A: Aide-memoire (5-21 JUNE, 2001)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.     An FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme mission comprising Messrs. Raffaele Suppa
(Economist, Mission Leader), from 05 to 21 June 2001, and Francois Dauphin (Agronomist), from 12 to
21 June 2001, visited Iran to initiate the preparation of the implementation completion report (ICR) of the
above project.
2.    During the mission stay, several working sessions took place with representatives of the Ministry
of Economic Affairs and Finance (MOEAF), the Ministry of Energy (MOE), the Ministry of Jihad for
Agriculture (MOJA) and the consulting engineers as well as with the personnel of MOJA and MOE
Liaison Offices (MOALO and MOELO). On its field trip to the sub-project area of Tajan, the mission had
the opportunity to visit both WUG's and individual project beneficiaries. The FAO Representative in
Tehran was kept informed of mission activities.
3.    Preliminary impressions and findings of the mission were presented and discussed during a wrap-
up meeting chaired by the Assistant Deputy Minister of MOJA Mr. Bani Saeed on June 20, 2001. The
mission would like to take this opportunity to express its sincere appreciation and gratitude to the various
government officials met for their great assistance, and for the warm hospitality extended to the mission
during its stay in Iran. Special thanks and appreciation are also due to the FAO Representation for the
assistance and logistic support to the mission. The content of this Aide-Memoire is subject to modification
following detailed analysis.
B. BACKGROUND
4.    After final appraisal which took place in October/November 1992, the project was approved by
the Board of the Bank on 16 March 1993 and the IBRD Loan became effective on 29 April 1993. The
main objectives of the project were (i) to enhance water resources management through the rehabilitation
and improvement of the existing irrigation system that were incomplete or in a state of disrepair; (ii) to
upgrade research and extension in the four sub-projects so as to raise crop output, farm incomes and
foreign exchange savings through increased agricultural production; and (iii) to strengthen the planning
and implementation capacity of sector institutions including MOA (now MOJA) and MOE.
5.    Major project components included: (i) Irrigation and Drainage Improvement, (ii) Agricultural
Development, (iii) On-farm Development, (iv) Project Facilities, (v) Institutional Support, and (vi)
Environment. Total project cost was estimated at US$ 311.7 million. The financing plan included an
IBRD Loan of US$ 157.0 million and a GOI's Contribution of US$ 154.7 million.
2



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-mdmoire
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
General
6.    The outcome of the project as a whole, both in relation to its development objectives and its
physical implementation is rated as satisfactory. Designed as a seven and one-half years operation, from
July 1993 to December 2000, the project will be completed by October 2001
7.    Project implementation experienced some delays during its early years because of lack of co-
ordination between the Planning and Budget Organization (PBO) and the implementing agencies.
However, good implementation performance initiated since 1998 and continued satisfactorily throughout
the project as indicated in the WB supervision reports. While all civil works contracts in Moghan and
Behbahan sub-project area have been executed, some works remain to be completed in Tajan and Zarrineh
Roud. More specifically, works in Tajan, currently 82% complete, are expected to reach an
implementation performance of 90% by end of October 2001. Similarly, in Zarrineh Roud, project
implementation rates for MOJA and MOE works are set at 82% and 71% respectively. It also expected
that the remaining works will be completed by the GOI with own financial resources. Overall some 84,600
ha have already been improved representing about 97% of the SAR estimate.
8.    The work of MOJA and MOE central consultants (CCs) assignments have been completed
satisfactory. The Pilot Water Management Studies (PWMS) at Behbahan and Moghan sub-projects have
produced good results which should now be replicated as widely as possible. However, sustained efforts
are still required in order to complete the remaining civil works as foreseen in the two sub-project areas of
Tajan and Zarrineh Roud. Both the environmental "special" studies, and the procurement of the remaining
vehicles, tractors and laboratory equipment which were delayed are expected to be completed by the end
of the project provided that adequate efforts and attention to the matter be assured by the project
implementing agencies.
9.    Actions related to the reinforcement of the Operation and Maintenance Company (OMC)
activities at Tajan are progressing satisfactorily and will be completed by the end of June 2001. The
creation of two pilot areas in Tajan and Behbahan has been completed. The establishment of Water Users
Groups (WUGs) in these two sub-projects has been very satisfactory and members are meeting regularly
using the facilities built by the project.
10.   Implementation of the environmental component has gained momentum with the start of the
special studies contract with FAO. Out of the 28 environmental studies proposed under the project, 24 are
completed, two are under implementation and two have been cancelled.
1l.   Both MOE and MOJA local training programmes are progressing satisfactorily (paras 31 and 32).
The remaining international short-courses and study tours programmes, also to be implemented through a
second contract with FAO, are now progressing well. MOE categories II and III programmes, also
assigned to FAO, will be completed by the end of October 2001.
3



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-m6moire
Project Coordination
12.   Liaison Offices: The MOJA liaison officer Mr. Darab Malek Ghassemi retired in March 2001.
His deputy, Mr. Mirnezami, is currently acting. Both MOELO and MOALO, expected to remain in place
until the end of October 2001, will be able to follow the implementation of the remaining project
activities. They are presently engaged in the preparation of their respective ICR with the assistance of
CCs. The mission confirmed that a consolidated ICR for the project as a whole would be required.
13.   Steering Committee (SC): The SC met six times, the last being in April 2001. The issues
discussed during the last meeting and actions taken were essential for helping the project's
implementation. The next SC meeting is due to be held in July 2001.
Central Consultants (CCs)
14.   Both the MOALO and MOELO CCs' assignments are continuing to progress satisfactorily. Their
contracts have been extended till June 30, 2001. The implementation of the surface/groundwater
monitoring programmes in the sub-projects of Tajan and Zarrineh Roud started in July 1999 and was
completed. As the requirement regarding the third amendment of the MOJA CC contract could not be
concluded as proposed due to problems related to taxes imposed on foreign consultants. the
responsibilities to carry out all the remaining activities including the WUGs formation in the two pilot
areas, the preparation of the Pilot water Management Studies as well as the Monitoring and Evaluation
aspects (M&E), were finally successfully completed by the national consultants. The MOJA CC has
nearly completed its final report "Integrated Development in the Irrigation Improvement Project Areas"
covering the period between 1998-2001. The report is expected to submitted by the end of June 2001.
Sub-Projects Consultants (SPCs)
15.   MOE Sub-Projects Consultants: All final designs related to the civil works were completed as
and when required. Additional man-months and corresponding funds were allocated to the three sub-
projects consultants to undertake the O&M studies. These studies would be finalised by October 2001.
16.   MOJA Sub-Projects Consultants: All final designs related to the civil works have been
completed. The majority of SPCs agricultural reporting assignments have also been completed. However,
the reports on Land Consolidation (LC) in Zarrineh Roud, on the Agricultural Development (AD), and on
the Stage II Women in Development Plans (WID) are being completed. The AD report was finally
received by the MOJA in February 2001. The remaining part of the LC, originally delayed because of
difficulties in carrying out the cadastral survey, will be finalized by the local authority (PAO). The WII) is
being carried out by a team hired by MOALO. Both LC and WID reports are expected to be completed by
the end of October 2001. Testing of the hydraulic performance of sub-surface drainage has been carried
out at Behbahan, Moghan and Zarrineh Roud and the final reports are completed.
17.   All the field works related to the Pilot Water Management Studies in Behbahan and Moghan have
been concluded by April 2001 and the analysis of all the results is now completed. In the two sub-projects
and for four different crops over three planting seasons, it was shown that water use could be reduced
while obtaining similar or increased yields. The challenge for the PAOs is to disseminate these results as
widely as possible. The successful workshops on the results of the studies were conducted both in
Behbahan and in Moghan in February 2001 indicate that the involvement of local institutions in planning
and carrying out on-farn management trials as well as in disseminating results is of utmost importar-ce.
The implementation of these results on a large scale would require co-ordinated irrigation scheduling in all
tertiary units and delivery of water according to this schedule by the OMC.
4



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Civil Works:
18.   General: The civil works progress is shown in detail in Tables I and 2. It is estimated that, so far,
some 54,500 ha under MOE contracts and about 32,900 ha under MOA contracts have been actually
improved. Excluding overlap between the MOE and MOJA contracts, the total net area developed by the
project will reach some 84,600 ha. by the end of October 2001 A brief description of the current
implementation performance regarding the civil works is given below.
19.   Moyhan Sub-Proiect (MOE: 28,600 ha; MOJA: 19,900 ha): The physical progress for MOE
contracts MC-I/1, MC-1/2, MC-1/3, MC-1/4 and MC-I/4A (new) stand respectively at 100%, 100%, 100%,
94% and 68%. As far as the MOJA contracts are concerned, the physical progress of MC-I/5A, MC-1/5B,
MC-1/6, MC-I/10&1 I and MC-1/12 contracts stand respectively at 100%, 85%, 57%, 100% and 82%. By
the loan closing date, it is expected that all contracts would be completed, covering a total net area of
41,500 ha.
20.   Tajan Sub-Project (MOE: 14,400 ha including 3,300 ha under TC-1/14 and 3,600 ha for TC-
1/4A contracts): As of this date, physical progress of the on-going contract TC-I/1&2 stands at 82%.
Delays are to be attributed to difficulties related to land acquisition for secondary and tertiary canals. The
implementation of the remaining works is expected to be completed under the supervision and with the
technical and financial support of the Mazandaran Water Regional Authority (MWRA) in 2001. While the
TC-I/4 contract for an additional area of 3,300 ha has been completed, the TC-1/4A contract for the
Semeskandah-Aspevard diversion and regulation works, which started in June 2000, has a progress rate of
about 83%. Overall, by the end of the project, the main and secondary canals construction will be
completed, covering a total net area of 11,900 ha. While MWRA confirmed its intention to carry out the
construction of tertiary canals on about 2,500 ha with its own financial resources by the end of the year,
the related works in the remaining part of the sub-project area are expected to be executed during 2002,
with GOI's funds. To reduce costs, the possibility of using unlined tertiary canals should be investigated.
21.   The creation of the Water User's Groups (WUGs) in the pilot area of 640 ha has been carried out
very satisfactorily and the execution of the tertiary networks was completed in April. The seven WUGs
have now formed a Water Users Co-operative Company (WUCC) which was legally registered on 04/03
2001 and has commenced its activities.
22.   Behbahan Sub-Project (MOJA: 8,400 ha including 8,000 ha of land levelling and 2,760 ha of
sub-surface drainage): The two Behbahan contracts BC-I/Il& 2 and BC-1/3 are 100% complete with
minor remedial works still to be completed. The contracts for the project facilities BC-1/4A and 1/413,
regarding offices and laboratories for three agricultural research centres, were awarded in January 1999
and June 1999 and are completed. The Shadegan Marshes Research Centre Laboratory contract has started
and its progress stands at 90%. Finally, the implementation rate regarding the Agriculture City
Management Centre's Staff Housing stands at about 80%. By the loan closing date, it is expected that all
on-going contracts for the total net area of 8.400 ha, would be completed.
23.   Zarrineh Roud Sub-Project (MOE: 28,450 ha; MOJA: 6,200 ha;): Out of the eight contracts
(six for MOE and two for MOJA), seven are under execution and one (MOJA: ZRC-I/7for 1,800 ha) is
completed. To this date, the progress rates for MOE contracts ZRC-II1, ZRC-1/2, ZRC-I/3A, ZRC-I/3B,
ZRC-I/3C and ZRC-I/4B1I are 77%, 74%, 58%, 73%, 58%, and 69% respectively. The remaining MOJA
contract (ZRC-I/6) records an implementation rate of 90%. All contracts are still experiencing major
delays despite the efforts of the MOJA and MOE regional offices.
5



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
24.   If the present pace of implementation is maintained, it is expected that, by the loan closing date,
the completion rates for MOE contracts ZRC-I/1, ZRC-1/2, ZRC-I/3A, ZRC-1/3B, ZRC-1/3C and ZR'C-
1/4B 1 contracts would be 80%, 76%, 60%, 75%, 60% and 72% respectively and completion is expected to
be achieved by end October 2001. Designs for the MOJA remaining contract ZRC-1/6 for sub-surface
drainage on 3,300 ha (total of 4,600 ha minus 1,300 ha occupied by permanent crops), are ready and the
completion of the works is also expected to be achieved by end October 2001. No further delays are
envisaged as, since last December, three new additional trenchers were made available to complete the
work. The main reason for the implementation delays of the sub-surface drainage works is in fact to be
attributed to the poor condition of the contractor's machinery. Overall, a total net area of 22,800 ha is
expected to be finally developed
25.   O&M Studies: The progress of MOE contracts for Moghan, Tajan and Zarrineh Roud stand at
80% 75% and 50% respectively. The MOJA's O&M studies for Behbahan and Moghan have been
completed satisfactorily. No contract for Zarrineh Roud was necessary as all studies are conducted under
the MOE's contract. It is expected that by the project closing date, the remaining on going O&M studies
will be completed. The MOJA and MOE OMC should endorse these studies in consultation with WUGs.
O&M Institutional Aspects
26.   The present status of the activities is given below:
- Action 1: The Mazandaran OMC (MOMC) should formalise through equitable contracts the
commitment to an agreed quality of service in the project area.
Status: A draft in Farsi for service contracts within the pilot area has been finalised.
Recommendations are being negotiated with farmers.
- Action 2: The MOMC will give farmers an observer status in its Board. The company should
also make all possible efforts to have MOJA represented in the Board. At least one Board meeting
should take place before that date.
Status: This activity has been completed as programmed. The MRWA and the MOELO have
sponsored the formalisation of the Board meetings with an appropriate invitation and agenda.
Shareholders representation and different board appointments has been decided and meetings are
regularly held.
- Action 3: WUGs covering about 500 to 1,000 ha in Tajan and similar area in Behbahan should
be formalised. These groups should be organised using participatory approaches, according to the
existing legal set-up as non-profit associations. The election of the representatives for each of
these WUGs should be also completed.
Status: As indicated above, in Tajan, seven WUGs have formned the WJUCC which has alreadly
assumed legal entity and is currently operating. This covers the whole 640 ha of the pilot area
where tertiary canals have been constructed. For Behbahan the work regarding the establishment
of the co-operative, grouping 9 WUGs, has been completed and its registration is being prepared.
Some 670 ha are included in the pilot area.
- Action 4: An O&M plan for each sub-project including Tajan should be formulated with the
assistance of the MOMC, CCs and the SPCs. Real costs of O&M should be determined by SPCs.
6



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-mdmoire
Status: The draft O&M study for Tajan has been completed. The O&M costs have been reviewed
but not yet finalised by the SPCs. In this respect, close co-operation between the MOMC, the SPC
and the CC is urgently needed. The adoption in Tajan of the accounting and information systems
for efficient management is being completed. In the other 3 sub-projects, adoption is less
advanced and if the present pace is maintained it is unlikely that this activity will be completed on
time.
- Action 5: MRWA and/or the MOMC should establish a training unit for its own staff and
representatives of farmers, preferably with the involvement of MOJA.
Status: The training programme was designed and carried out successfully by the MOJA/CC and
MOALO in Behbahan and in Tajan.
Action 6: The MOMC should share with the WUGs a portion of the fees paid by the users, for
financing special maintenance (specially on-farm) and improvement works.
Status: The mission was informed that the central and the regional offices of the MOE are in
agreement with this policy. While no direct participation is foreseen, negotiations on O&M
operations are still under way This activity will be completed as scheduled if the O&M plans are
finalised (see action 4 above).
- Action 7: All new works should be formally received by the MOMC to integrate them into the
inventory. The company should verify the quality and the state of the works.
Status: The mission has been informed that this activity is proceeding as programmed. However,
it will be important to monitor its progress and report it as one of the items of the agenda of the
MOMC Board meetings.
- Action 8: Farmers and WUGs in Tajan will agree to participate in the construction and O&M of
the tertiary systems with the assistance of MOMC.
Status: Negotiations between MRWA/MOMC and farmers on the construction of the tertiary
systems, and related O&M are underway taking into account the experience derived from the pilot
operations in Tajan and in Behbahan.
WUGs Establishment
27.   As indicated above, the formation and formalisation of WlUGs, using a participatory approach, is
to be rated very satisfactory. MOJA support in this regard was very effective and included: (i) in Tajan,
the establishment of the Provincial, Pilot and the Operational Task Forces; and in both areas, (ii) the
selection of both pilot areas; (iii) the call for meetings and organisation of field visits by the Task Forces;
(iv) the preparation of draft legal documents related to the creation of WUGs, Co-operatives and service
contracts; (v) the surveying of all physical assets for the project; (vi) the preparation of training
programmes for all concemed including farmers. The first training course took place in October 2000 in
Tajan.
Environmental Aspects
28.    With respect to the various studies associated with the project, the following table represents
results to date:
7



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Responsibility                              MOE                      MOA
Total Number of Studies                       8                       18
Completed                                     6                       182
Being Implemented                             2'
Studies Cancelled                             0                         3
29.   FAO  Studies (Shadegan Marshes Management Plan, Lake Ouroumieh National Park
Management Study and GIS Support): The contract was signed in April 2000 and studies should he
completed by September 2001. The progress rate for the Shadegan Marshes Management Plan and Lahe
Ouroumieh Management study stands at 45%. Completion is expected to be achieved by the end of
October 2001. Good co-operation between all interested parties was experienced during the preparation of
the Terms of References and the implementation plans of these studies. However, due to the recent
retirement of the senior MOALO officer, is doubtful if such strong co-operation would be maintained.
30.    MOALO and DOE did not finalise the list of goods to be procured by MOALO for DOE and as a
consequence the procurement of these goods will not be carried out before the project closing date.
Overall, some Rials 10.0 billion were disbursed for the implementation of this programme.
Training
31.    MOE Training Programmes: Category I: in-country training; contract with the Power and Water
Institute (PWIT). A total of 522 participants attended 55 courses and workshops (Table 3A) which means
that about 83% of the short courses programme has been completed. For the M.Sc. programmes,
candidates have been selected and the programmes have started for 7 candidates. Categories 11 (short
courses in Iran) and III (overseas study tours) have been combined under one contract signed with FAO on
January 2001, and involving about 230 participants attending 15 short courses and study tours.
32.    MOA Training Programmes: Table 3B gives a summarised status of the completed and
expected training activities.
a)     Central Level Training. The local short-term training courses are progressing very well and
exceeded their expectation with 220 staff months actually utilised against the original target of 120 i.e.
more than 180% of SAR estimates. The overseas short-courses and workshops have both reached an
implementation rate of 76%. The study tours programmes included in the FAO contract will be completed
before 31 October 2001. There are at the moment plans to conduct some M.Sc. programmes (in Iran and
Overseas). The candidates will be chosen from the central level and the rest will come from the regions. If
these are to take place, substantial efforts by MOALO should be exerted. Finally, it should be mentioned
here that the TOKTEN programme, for in-house-training and organized with UNDP, has been very
successful with the participation during the period 1996-2000, of 37 professors and specialists frot
overseas. A total of 21 seminars, 40 workshops and 3 consultancies were carried out with, all together,
1,317 participants.
b)     Sub-projects Level Training Programmes. The local short-term training courses have been
completed very satisfactorily (109% of SAR estimates). Other training categories did not progress as well
Include the Zarrineh Roud Delta & Wetlands Management Plan, which is about 85% complete.
2 Includes 3FA 0 studies -see below
Includes Improved Migratory Bird Census Methods and Establishment of New Protected Region for Gazelles.
8



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
(overseas short-courses: 60%, and workshops: 5 1 %) because initiated late during the course of the project.
The study tours programme included in the FAO contract will be completed by the end of October 2001.
c)    Training for DOE personnel: Nine candidates have be chosen and sent to the Netherlands to
follow-up a one year M.Sc. course in Environmental Technology.
Procurement of Goods
33.   Laboratory Equipment (MOA- Research - US$ 1.7 million): The procurement exercise for the
first lot of equipment (US$ 0.4 million) is not yet completed due to lengthy administrative procedures.
However, actual delivery is expected to be completed by June 2001. Another bidding to meet DOE's
requirements has been cancelled because of budget limitation.
34.   Vehicles (MOA - Rials 12.0 billion): So far 57 vehicles, for a total cost of about Rials 4 billion,
have been procured by the project. MOALO has recently obtained a new license for purchasing 40 new
vehicles including station wagons, 4WD and minibuses for a total estimated cost of Rials 8 billion and
delivery is expected to take place before June 2001. With this, the overall procurement programme for
vehicles as foreseen under the project will be completed.
35.   Agricultural Tractors (MOA - Rials 7.0 billion): The procurement of much needed tractors has
experienced long delays. The delivery of the 30 "35HP" tractors (total costs Rials 0.8 billion), as procured
by MOALO in July 2000, has taken place in December 2000. Out of the additional 60 tractors to be
procured, only 42 would be actually delivered.
36.   Farm Machinery and Implements (MOA - Extension - Rials 2.0 billion): It is understood
that, overall, about Rials 0.3 billion have been spent on this project sub-component.
37.   Research Equipment (MOA- Rials 3.2 billion): The total allocation for the procurement of
research equipment will be utilised before the end of the project.
38.   Computers and Audio-visual Equipment (MOA - Rials 1.1 billion): About 1.6 billion Rials
have been already spent on these items, which exceeds the original estimate.
Other Items
39.   MOA Housing, Offices and Workshops: Three separate contracts concerning the construction at
the sites of Dodangeh ASC and Behbahan Research Centre have been signed for a total value of about
Rials 1.5 billion. The present progress rate stands at around 87%. and completion is now expected by June
2001. The construction of a research station at Moghan and an extension services office at Tajan are
complete using counterpart funding.
Monitoring and Evaluation
40.   Progress Reports: The quality of the MOELO and MOALO progress reports continues to be
satisfactory. The MOECC developed a monitoring and evaluation system based on computerised project
management techniques using appropriate software. Training for this purpose was also provided. As
requested, MOALO reports provide now quantifiable performance indicators related to agricultural
production. The reporting capacity at the regional level, although improved, remains weak. MOALO
should put more emphasis on this issue and appoint, if necessary, local personnel to help improving the
situation.
9



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
41.   GIS Database: MOECC prepared GIS databases for Moghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan sub-
project areas comprising various geo-referenced maps indicating primary, secondary and tertiary canals,
drains, and related structures as well as other important facilities within the irrigation schemes. The
attributes of all these facilities have been attached and can be retrieved at query. Other information related
to O&M requirements are also included in the database. User's manual has been prepared and translation
into Farsi is being prepared. For Tajan Pilot Project area, cadastral information have been added to the
database along with data on ground water aquifer characteristics. A training workshop, on the use of the
database, for five concerned staff members of each of the three RWAs/OMCs, is to be held at CC's office
from 25 to 27 June, 2001
42.   Monitoring and Evaluation Information System  (MEIS): A database was developed by
MOACC and, guidelines for collecting, storing and dispatching data were made available. Similarly,
guidelines and forms for collecting and reporting R&E indicators were also produced. The MEIS became
fully operational before the end of 2000 and will be used not only until the end of the project, but also for
future projects. However, suitable staff should be selected and trained for this purpose. In addition, a
Contract Costing System (CoCoS) is in place and has been utilised by MOALO for monitoring the
financial performance of MOJA's project components.
43.   Performance Indicators: The performance indicators are shown in Tables 4A and 4B. The total
net area so far improved has reached about 84.600 ha or about 97% and 150% of SAR and MTR
estimates. It is estimated that in the year following project completion, the total area developed will be
fully irrigated using the newly improved facilities in three of the four sub-project areas, and partially in
Tajan where tertiaries remain to be built. Details by sub- project area is summarised as follows:
Sub-Project   SAR          MTR           Contracts     Completed           Actual as %
of SAR
Moghan       35,600        18,000        41,500        41,500               116.6
Tajan         7,500         7,500        14,400        11,900               158.7
Behbahan      8,400         8,400         8,400        8,400                100.0
Zarrineh     36,000        22,800        28,400        22,800               63.3
Total        87,500        56,700        92,700        84,600               96.7
44.       Up to April 2001 some 33,500 farmers have been reached by extension and participated in
4,620 programmes. Cropping intensities have increased in all sub-projects and range from 81% in
Zarrineh Roud to 138% in Moghan, and are in line with SAR targets. Similarly, according to the data
provided by MOJA and based on field surveys, special village studies and Rapid Rural Appraisals (RRA),
yields of major crops are in line with both SAR and MTR assumptions in spite of the recent severe
drought that hit the Zarrineh Roud sub-project area
D. ACTUAL PROJECT COST AND DISBURSEMENT
45.   Actual project cost, including eligible expenditures to take place in 2001, is preliminary estimatied
at US$ 311.8 million or about 100% of the estimate made at appraisal. In view of the fact that the
remaining US$ 7.0 million from the IBRD Loan will also be disbursed, the final overall project
disbursement will include US$ 157.0 million from the Loan and US$ 154.8 million as GOI's contribution.
The project cost has been estimated converting expenditures in local currency using an average exchange
10



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
rate of US$ I = Rials 3,000. This will be revised by the mission in Rome on the basis of official statistics
regarding annual inflation rates.
E. PROJECT OUTCOME
46.    The final economic re-evaluation of the project will be carried out by the mission after its return to
Rome and incorporated into the final ICR. The following is a preliminary indication of project outcome.
Major irrigation improvement works are coming to completion in the last year of project implementation
and their impact on water availability, agricultural production and farm incomes cannot be verified yet on
the ground. It is expected that those effects will be felt increasingly during the two to five years to come.
New projections of future crop yields and cropping intensities will be reflected in the ICR. There is
however evidence that crop productivity and cropping patterns have started to change, and that some of
the changes can be attributed to improved agricultural RET services. Other factors that contributed to
those changes include the liberalisation of prices and a much greater farmer freedom in planting decisions.
47.   In all four sub-project areas, the traditional top-down delivery of RET services has been replaced
by a participatory approach to identifying and responding to the needs and problems of farmers. Farmers
are now influencing the work of researchers and extension workers, and an increasing part of adaptive
research is being conducted in farmers' fields, reducing the time to identify problems and to test and
disseminate solutions. Farmers have responded very positively to these changes which have been now
introduced to districts outside the project areas. Workshops and specialised training are being organised in
view of extending the participatory approaches piloted by the project to other provinces.
48.    The promises are particularly great in the fields of integrated pest management (IPM), where
farmers' understanding of crop and pest biology is crucial, and of water management, where group
experimentation of better water management has resulted in farmer awareness that greatly reduced
applications can positively affect crop yields.
49.   It must be noted that some of the constraints identified during project preparation, such as the lack
of adequate farm machinery, have still not been resolved satisfactorily. Insufficient machinery resources
has been shown to cause delayed plantings, lower yields and lower cropping intensities. Although much of
the equipment needed has been procured by the project, such a constraint needs a solution on a national
scale, ensuring that farmers have access to the equipment needed to make the best possible use of the
scarce water resources.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
50.    The sustainability of the project is rated as likely and this assessment is based on the following
considerations. There are good prospects for sustaining the achievement so far generated under the project.
The positive results regarding the establishment of WUGs in Tajan and in Behbahan are to be considered
important aspects of project sustainability as far as the O&M of the irrigation infrastructure is concerned.
The GOI is strongly intended to apply the same successful approach utilised in the two sub-project areas
of Tajan and Behbahan throughout the country. This experience is in fact expected to become the base for
the national policy in this regard. However, the current cost recovery system for the irrigation
infrastructure allows the collection of water charges based on the gross value of production of irrigated
crops.
11



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-mdmoire
51.    Gains in yields and land/water productivity resulting from better practices are also expected to be
sustained. This is because they result not from the simple application of new recommendations, which
may be no longer relevant e.g. when market prices change, but from an improved capacity by farmers and
their advisors to analyse problems and provide solutions. Sustaining the quality of RET services requires
government to continue providing sufficient resources to those services, which cost may be deemed
excessive. Greater sustainability would probably require further reform to partially privatise or
commercialise the services.
52.    On their side, farmers in the project areas have become less dependent on government services
and more assertive. The project only initiated the move towards the creation of WVUAs. Such farmers'
organisations will reinforce farmers' ability and resolve to tackle their problems.
G. FUTURE OUTLOOK
53.   As indicated above, the positive outcome deriving from the successful establishment of WUGs in
Tajan and Behbahan is considered by the GOI as the base of the national policy for assuring adequate and
effective O&M for irrigation schemes. Considering that the project has not yet reached its full
development targets, continuous project monitoring would be advisable to draw possible new lessons for
future similar activities. The GOI is presently considering the possibility of two new similar projects, one
in Mazandaran Province, and the other in Khouzestan Province. The implementation experience of the IIP
and its lessons are expected to be taken into account in the design of the new projects.
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
54.   The main lessons from the project are:
-At project design, the capacity of the implementing agencies was over optimistic. Widening
project objectives, with so many components, and the vast geographical spread in four different
sub-project areas, was too ambitious also in view of the fact that the Bank had suspended lending
to the Islamic Republic of Iran for a period of time. The Bank should have been more conservative
when designing a new agricultural operation in Iran after a long period of non-activity.
-Department of Environment (DOE) The implementation capacity of DOE was also over
estimated. The failure of executing its obligations under the project was mainly due to its inability
to appoint adequate staff to implement the programme as envisaged under the project. The lack cf
personnel combined with continuous replacement of key staff at regional level, was also a
determining negative factor in the process.
-Direct involvement of Primary Stakeholders in planning and implementation of O&M systems
has created a sense of ownership among farmers, which is considered instrumental for achieving
sustainable water management.
-The implementation delay experienced in the early years of the project could have been avoided
through a more effective co-operation between PBO and implementing agencies. In this regard, the
12



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-m6moire
early involvement of all concerned about project implementation should be also considered at
design stage.
-The M&E system needs to be put in place shortly before or right at the start of project
implementation in order to follow closely project implementation through a continuous process of
data collection and analysis necessary for the final evaluation of project outcome.
-Beneficiaries Participation. It was foreseen at project design that all tertiary canals in newly
developed areas would be financed without beneficiary participation. Only the pilot area of 640 ha
of Tajan has been equipped with tertiary canals. In this case, a beneficiary contribution, based on a
preliminary agreement with the water users, would have also allowed the construction of tertiary
canals outside the pilot area. However, in such a case, whereby project interventions may require
up-front capital cost contributions, effective linkages with credit facilities should have been
envisaged.
-Procurement. The WB prescribed ICB for major civil works. In effect, the pre-qualification
exercise produced only local contractors. It is therefore considered appropriate to be more flexible
in case of procurement of civil works which do not attract foreign contractors in Iran, and possibly
leave these works be procured through LCB. As the procurement of vehicles is concerned, the
project appraisal team should have insisted on getting government written acceptance prior to
negotiations. The same should also have been applied to procurement activities related to short
listing of both national and foreign consultants.
-Operational constraints regarding the approval of RWAs even for central level expenditures
were experienced by MOELO. Some degree of autonomy would have avoided unnecessary delays
in this regard.
-Implementing Agencies Financial Independence: Another reason for the failure of the DOE in
implementing its activities under the project is the fact that the financial resources foreseen for the
DOE activities were all allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture budget rather than to the DOE
budget. The lack of counterpart funds for few years and the unwillingness of the MOALO director
(despite the WB insistence) resulted in insufficient allocation of budgets to DOE. In addition, the
lack of efficient project management at the DOE and of a clear work program were at the origin of
the continued unwillingness of the MOALO to release funds or to carry out procurement work for
the DOE.
-Implicating all Concerned Agencies and Ministries throughout the Project Cycle. The
Management and Planning Organization (MPO, formerly PBO) was not fully involved during the
identification, preparation and evaluation phases of the project. As a result, the MPO had
difficulties, during 1994-1996, to endorse a number of activities foreseen under the project. Issues
such as employment of foreign consultants, funds allocation for various activities including
overseas training, etc. could have been adequately addressed at project design rather than late during
project implementation.
-Capacities of National Agricultural Consulting Firms: It became clear during project's
implementation that the national consultants specialized in agricultural activities (research,
extension, etc.) had difficulties in producing reports in English. All reports were written in Farsi and
later badly summarized and translated into English. The lesson learned is that it is far better to
associate national consultants with international consultants. This has worked very well for the
MOALOCC and the joint venture between the foreign and Iranian consulting firms proved to be
satisfactory. In spite of the earlier than expected completion of the foreign assignments under the
13



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
project (due to heavily and unexpected imposed taxes on foreign consultants earnings), the national
consultants could finally completed the work assignment satisfactorily using the knowledge and
experience gained during the first part of the contract.
-Detailed Designs Readiness: Detailed engineering designs for the civil works should be as far as
possible ready before loan effectiveness so that tendering could start as soon as loan effectiveness is
declared.
-Operation and Maintenance Modalities. This aspect of the project should be well thought of
before project implementation. Detailed, timed and agreed action plan (including triggers aTid
responsibilities) covering the institutional, financial, legal and social aspects related to operation and
maintenance should be prepared at the onset of the project. Implementation of this plan should start
as soon as possible in order to ensure the sustainability of the investments by the project closing
date.
1. FOLLOW-UP
55.    The mission will return to Rome on 21 June 2001 and during the following three weeks, will
prepare the draft ICR which will be transmitted to the project Task Manager Mr. A. Bichara by the end of
July 2001. The mission discussed with both the MOALO and MOELO the preparation of the ICR from the
Borrower's perspective. In line with WB guidelines, the Borrower's ICR may be incorporated in WB's
ICR if contained within a maximum of ten pages. In this case, it is suggested to send the final version of
the Borrower's ICR not later than mid-July 2001.
14



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Table 1: Status of Project Implementation
(June 2001)
Item             Description                                      SAR                 Current             Ratings/     Remarks
Status
Start   Complete   Start    Complete
Behbahan         Engineering and consultant Services(MOA/PANDAM)   06/93   12/99      01/95    06/01      C/El         Completion rate = 100%*
BES-lI
Moghan           Engineering and consultant services(MOA/YEKOM-   06193   06/00       02/96    06/01      Cl/El        Completion rate = 90%*
MES-1            ACE)
Moghan           Engineering services(MOE/YEKOM-ACE)              06/93   06/00       10/94    06/01      Cl/El        Completion rate = 94%*
MES-2                                                                                        I
Zarrineh-Roud    Engineering and consultant services(MOA/MAHAB    06/93   06/00       12/95    10/01      C/El         Completion rate = I 00%*
ZRES-1           GHODSS)
Zarrineh-Roud    Engineering services(MOE/MAHAB GHODSS)           06/93   06/00       12/94    06/01      Cl/El        Completion rate = 80%*
ZRES-2                                                               .
Tajan            Engineering and consultant services(MOA/MAHAB    06/93   02/99       12/95    06/01      Cl/El        Completion Rate = 90%*
TES-1            GHODSS)                                                                     I
Tajan            Engineering services(MOE/MAHIAB GHODSS)          06/93   02/99       11/94    05/01      Cl/El        Completion rate = 88%*
T E S-2          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _9__    _ _ _ __                       _ _   _ _ _  _ _                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Central Cons.    Consultancy for Irrig.Review and common studies to  09/93   03/98    07/98    06/01      C/El         Completion rate = 100%
CC-I             the 4 sub-projects (MOA)                                                               I
Central Cons.    Rural Financial Market study (MOA)               06/94   12/94        I        /          /           Cancelled
CC-2                                                    .                                                          ..
CCntral Cons.    Hydrometric Monitoring (MOE)                     04/94   06/97       10/97    10/00         i         Included in the CCs contract.
C C -3           I__   _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _             _  _ _  _ _  _ _                _ _  _ _
Central          Consultancy Services (MOE)                       09/93   03/98       04/97    06/01      Cl/El        Completion rate = 96%
Consultancy IvI_I
Central Cons.    Panel of Experts for Dam safety (MOE)            12/93   12/97       04/96    06/00      Cl/El        3rd meeting took place in Dec. 1999
CC-4                                                              1__93   _2/9_04_6_ _CI_E____meeing_ook_lacein_
* % age related to contract price.
15



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Item             Description                                         SAR                  Current                Ratings/   Remarks
___ ___ ___ Status
Start    Complete   Start       Complete
Behbahan         Land leveling North Behbahan                        03/94    03/98       06/96       12/00      C           Progress rate = 100%. 8,400 ha completed.
BC-1/1& 1/2      (8,000 ha)
Behbahan         Subsurface drainage                                 03/94    03/99       03/97       12/00      C           Progress rate = 100%. 3,300 ha completed.
BC-1/3           (3,300 ha)                                                                 ___
Behbahan         Project facilities for agriculture and 0&M (MOA)    09/94    09/97       01/99       06/01      Cl/El       5 contracts under execution: (i) Office
BC-1/4                                                                                                                       Building for the Agricultural Service Center
(ASC) in Behbahan: 87%; (ii) Research
Station in Behbahan: 100%; (iii) Staff'
houses for ASC: 80%; (iv) staff houses and
(v) for Environment Research Station in
Shadegan. Overall Implementation rate
85%.
Behbahan         Equipment and vehicles for O&M (RWA) - MOE                    06/96      01/97       12/97      C           100% delivered while the remaining is
EC-1/5                                                                                                                       committed. No vehicles envisaged.
Behbahan         Equipment and vehicles for Agriculture (PAD) - MOA  -         12/96      06/96      06/99       C2/E2       12 vehicles delivered. Tractors procurement
EC-1/6                                                                                                                      is delayed (SNo delivered). Rials 0.2 billion
allocated for equipment.
Behbahan         Miscellaneous Equipment and Materials - MOA          11/94    11/97      06/96      06/00       C2/E2       Rials 0.20 billion allocated for this year to
BE-L/7-9         .  . _                    ._                                                                                PAD.
16



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Item              Description                                          SAR                   Current                 Ratings/    Remarks
Status
Start    Complete   Start       Complete
Moghan            Bebak to Bilesavar area irrigation networks (MOE)     03/94    03/99       03/96      03/00        C           Progress rate - 100%
MC-1/1
Moghan            Parsabad area irrigation networks (MOE)              06/95    06/00        11/96      01/01        C           Progress rate   100%
MC-1/2                                                                                                             I
Moghan            Ultan area irrigation networks (MOE)                  03/95    06/00       08/97      03/00        C           Progress rate= 100%
MC-1/3    _                                                                                                                                      _
Moghan            Main canal A - 7 km (MOE)                             03/95    06/00       03/00      10/01        Cl/El       Progress rate = 94%
MC-1/4
Moghan            Main canal and canal A (MOE)                         09/95    09/99        05/99      10/01        Cl/El       Progress rate = 68%
MC-1/4A                                       I_ 
Moghan            Canalettes Factory - 260 Km (MOA)                    -           /         06/98      06/01        C2/EI       Progress rate = 76%
MC-1/5 A
Moghan            Hassan Khanloo Shahsavan area tertiary system (5,200  03/94    03/99       01/99      06/01        C/El        Progress rate = 100%
MC-I/5 B          ha) - MOA
Moghan            Shahsavan area tertiary system (8,200 ha) - MOA      06/95    06/00        0 1/99     10/01        C2/EI       Progress rate = 85%
MC-1/6
Moghan            Parsabad area tertiary system (5,000 ha ) - MOA      09/95    09/00        0 1/99     06/01        C2/E I      MC-1/7 B Canceled. Re-bidding for MC-
MC-1/7A&B                                                                                                                        1/7A because of lack of funds.
Moghan            Utan- Aslandus area tertiary system (6,800 ha) - MOA -    06/95    06/00   01/99      -06/01       n.a.        Cancelled because of lack of funds
MC-1/8            CANCELED
Moghan MC-1/9    Land leveling (4,000 ha) - MOA. CANCELED              09/96    09/00          /         /           n.a.        Cancelled because of lack of funds
Moghan            Shahsavan area subsurface drainage (4,200ha) - MOA   03/95    03/99        06/98      05/01        C           Progress Rate   I 00%
MC-1/10 & 1/11I
Moghan            Ferozabad area subsurface drainage (2,200) - MOA     09/95    09/99        01/99      05/01        C           Progress Rate = 95%
MC-1/12
Moghan            Construction of O&M buildings for RWA (MOE)          06/94    03/98                   -            n.a.-       Cancelled
MC-L/12 bis
Moghan            Construction of buildings for PAD (MOA)              03/94     12/97         /          /          n.a.-       Cancelled
Mc-L/13           Research/Extension
Moghan            Equipment and vehicles for O&M of RWA - MOE          -         12/96       01/97      12/97        C--         100% of equipment delivered, No vehiclcs
ME-L/14                                                                                                                          envisaged
Moghan            Equipment and vehicles for Agriculture (PAD) - MOA             12/96       01/97      06/99        C2/E2       13 vehicles delivered. 5 No T ractors deliv.
ME-I/I5                                                                                                                          Rest as for Behbahan.
Moghan            Equipment and miscellaneous material (MOA)                     09/99       06/96      06/00        C2/E2       Rials 0.2 billion allocated for PADs.
ME-L//15-20                                                            _
17



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Item             Description                                         SAR                  Current                Ratings/   Remarks
Status
Start    Complete   Start      Complete
Zarrineh Roud    Zone no. 2 Irrigation network -MOE                  06/94    09/99        06/96     10/01       C2/E2       Progress rate = 77%
ZRC-1/1          (6,300 ha reduced to 1,440 ha at MTR)                                                          I
Zarrineh Roud    Zone no. 4 Irrigation network - MOE                  12/94    09/99      06/97      10/01       C2/E2       Progress rate = 74%
ZRC-1/2          (9,400 ha reduced to 5,100 ha at MTR)
Zarrineh Roud    Zone no.5 Irrigation and drainage network (1,500 ha) -  03/95    09/00    09/99     12/01       C2/E2       Progress rate = 58%
ZRC-I/3A         MOE
Zarrineh Roud    Zone no.5 Irrigation and drainage network (3,000 ha) -  03/95    09/00    09/99     12/01       C2/E2       Progress rate = 73%
ZRC-1/3B         MOE
Zarrineh Roud    Zone no.5 Irrigation and drainage network (1,500 ha) -  03/95    09/00    09/99     12/01       C2/E2       Progress rate = 58%
ZRC-I/3C         MOE
Zarrineh Roud    Zone no. 1,3, and 8 Irrigation network - MOE        09/95    03/00        08/99     06/02       C2/E2       Progress rate = 69%
ZRC-1/4B I       (12,400 ha reduced to 4,950 ha at MTR)
Zarrineh Roud    Zones 2 and 5 drainage + Zone 2 land leveling - MOA  03/96    09/00      01/99      03/00        /          Cancelled
ZRC-1/5          (2,100 ha + 1,600 ha) now Zone 3 (430 ha L. leveling)
Zarrineh Roud    Zones 3 and 8 and leveling + Zone 3 drainage - MOA  06/96    06/00        06/99     06/02       C/El        Progress rate = 100%
ZRC-1/6          (3,100 ha + 3,000 ha). Now Zones 3 & 4 (3,800 ha sub-
surface drainage)
Zarrineh Roud    Zone 4 land leveling and drainage - MOA             09/96    09/00        05/99     12/01       C/El        P'rogress rate = 100%
ZRC-1/7          (3,000 ha). Now Zones 2 & 5 (1,340 sub-surface
drainage)
Zarrineh Roud    Construction of buildings for O&M RWA (MOE)         08/94    12/97       -          -           n.a.        Cancelled
ZRC-1/8
Zarrinch Roud    Construction of buildings for Agriculture (PAD) - MOA    10/94    09/98    /         /--        n.a.        Cancelled
ZRC-1/9
Zarrineh Roud    Equipment and vehicles for O&M (RWA) -MOE           -         06/96      01/97      12/97       C           100% of equipment delivered. No vehicles
ZRC-1/1 2                                                                                                             _      envisaged.
Zarrineh Roud    Equipment and vehicles for Agriculture (PAD) - MOA            12/96      01/97      06/99       C2/E2       12 vehicles delivered. Tractors procurement
ZRE-I/13                                                                                                                     delayed, 10 tractors delivered to PAO.
Zarrineh Roud    Equipment and miscellaneous materials - MOA                   06/96      01/98      06/00       C2/E2       Rials 0.2 billion allocated this year for
ZRE-L/14-16                                                                      .  _                                        PADs.
Zarrineh Roud    Farm machinery - MOA                                          09/97       12/97     09/99       C2/C2       Rials 0.2 billions of counterpart funds
ZR-I/17                       _                                                                                              allocated.
18



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-mmoire
Item              Description                                          SAR                   Current                 Ratings/    Remarks
Status
Start    Complete   Start       Complete
Tajan             Zone no. 4 rainfed area improvement - MOE            03/94    03/99        04/96      12/01        C21E2       Progress rate = 82%.
TC-I/1 & 1/2      (7,500 ha)                                                                                        __________ ______________________________________
Tajan             Construction of buildings for 0 & M (RWA) and         10/94    09/97       -          -            -           Cancelled
TC-l/3            Agriculture (PAD)                                                                    ___________
Tajan             Main Canal 7.4 km                                     03/95    12/99       07/99      04/01        C/El        Progress rate = 100%
TC-l/4                                                                 ______                                       ________
TC I/4A           Diversion/Regulating Structures                                            06/00      10/01        Cl/El       Progress rate = 83%
Tajan             Equipment and vehicles for Agriculture (PAD) - MOA   -         12/96       06/97      06/99        E2          12 vehicles delivered. Tractors procurement
TC-l/5           _________________________________________                                                          ________  delayed, 10 No tractors delivered to PAO.
Tajan             Equipment and vehicles for 0 &M (RWA)                 -        06/96       0 1/97     0 1/97       El          100% of equipment delivered. No vehicles
TC-l/6                                                                 _______                                                   envisaged
Tajan             Equipment and miscellaneous materials                 -        11/94       06/97      06/00        C2/E2       Rials 0.2 billion allocated this year to PAD
TC-l/7-9                                                                         11/97      _________
Tajan             Farm Machinery                                        -        12/97       12/96      0 1/99       C2/E2       Rilas 0.2 billion allocated.
TC-l/1 0                                                               _______  __________ _________ ___________ __________ ________________________________________
Ratings                                  Status:
C- Completed                             B- Bidding
Cl-Ongoing and generally satisfactory    E- Evaluation
C2- Ongoing with minor delays            C- Contracting
C3- Ongoing but major delays             El- Execution satisfactory
E2- Execution with minor delays
19



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-m6moirc
Table 2 - IIP ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENTS - STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION ( As of June 2001)
MEASURE                          RESPONSIBILITY  PROGRESS TO DATE                                                     PLANNED ACTION
I. INSTITUTIONAL                MOALO - Central &    Under the training programme, 8 persons were sent overseas for
STRENGTHENING.Local Level                              MSc and 2 other were also sent overseas for short-term courses.
STRENGTHENING                    Local Level           McA total of 10 Environment Specialist were invited under the
TOKTEN Programme. Several national and local workshops were
carried out..
Equipment and vehicles were procured and delivered to DOE.
MOE- Central and      MOECC designed Surface and Groundwater monitoring              Approximately 30 persons have been trained to date. Further training
Local                 programmes for Zarrineh Roud, Moghan and Tajan sub-projects.    on-going.
WARWA for Zarrineh Roud and MGRWA for Tajan
implemented the programmes and collected data for the 12
months period.
The CC made improvements in the monitoring programme after
review of difficulties experienced in the field. Implementation by
EARWA did not start in Moghan due to non installation of the
required number of piozometers.
PWIT Cat. I training program included one specialized
management course (social, env. Inputs for dev. Projects) and two
courses (evaluation and control of watercourses quality and env.
__Impact assessment of water resources projects).
(a)    Agricultural              MOALO                 MOACC designed guidelines for Agrochemical Monitoring
(a) eAgnculturals         MOALOProgrammes for the four Sub-projects The monitoring
Chemicals                                      implementation has been assigned to thc Department of
Management Program                             "Sustainable Agriculture Development" as a focal point, with
assistance of other related Dpt's of MOJA. The Agrochemical
Analysis Lab. of Sharif University would also assist. This activity
will be continued with national financial resourses..
MOALO Central Consultant has produced initial report.
20



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
2. BEHBAHAN SUB-               MOA Sub-project    PROGRESS TO DATE                                               PLANNED ACTION
PROJECT                        Responsibility
(b)  Strengthening of the      MOALO                Procurement of priority equipment completed. No DOE
Behbahan DOE Office                          specialists appointed.
Staff housing and Lab Building construction (a total of 2,380 sq
m) will be complcted by the end of the project
(c)Water Quality Monitoring    MOALO                Central Consultancy has investigated program required.
Program
(d)  Archaeological and        MOALO                MOALO has written at Ministerial level and attempted meetings
Historic Site Survey                         with CHO to finalize the report. At this time no response from
Historic Site SurveyCHO.
(e)  Archaeological Emerg.     MOALO/CHO            Procedures have been established with CHO.
(I) Special Studies
i.   Maroon River         MOALO                PANDAM submitted report (July 1998) in Farsi and in English.
Mieratorv Fish                             Revised report sent to the WB for approval
Management Plan
ii. Management Plan for   MOALO                Study included in revised contract with FAO. On-going,
the Shadegan                               45%implementation rate. To be completed by the end of October
Marshes P.A.                               2001,
iii. Institutional SuDuort for   MOALO         The design and master plan for offices, housing, and guard posts
Shadegan Marshes                           has been prepared in consultation with DOE. Negotiations
P rteced M Ares                            concluded vis a vis priority additions to new DOE facilities.
Protected Ar.ea                            Building construction for a total of 2,380 sq m is now under
construction and will be completed by the end of the project.
21



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-m6rnoire
3. MOGIIAN SUB-PROJECT          MOA Sub-project        PROGRESS rO DATE                                               PLANNED ACTION
responsibility
(a)DStrEngthening office hn  MOAI.O            Similar to 2 (a) above. 5 specialists appointcd                Refer 2 (a) above - but part of existing DOI- local officc must be
(  D)StEnghnn off MohacMAL                         Refer to I                                                     allocated as lab space.
(b) Water Quality Monitoring    MOELO/MOAI .O          Refer 2 (b) above.
Program
(c) Agricultural Chemicals      MOALO                  Refer to I (a) and 2 (c) above.
Management Program
(d) Design and Implemt. of a    MOALO                  Programme was carried out and reported by the TOKTEN
Canal Bank Erosion                             Specialist.
Control Program
(e) Sub-project Archaeological   MOALO and             Site Plans provided to CHO. Working arrangements defined,     No further action at this time.
Clearance               Implementation
Units in consultation
with CHO
(t) Archaeological Emergency    MOALO and              Refer 2 (e)                                                   No further action at this tine.
Procedures               Implementation
Units in consultation
with CHO
(g)  Special Studies and
Actions
iv. Improved Migratory     MOALO                 No response from [)OE on this issue since May 1999. 'I'his
Biv Cmrosus Metho        MO                    activity has been cancelled.
v. Establishment of New    MOALO                  Activity cancelled.                                           No further action is required
Protected Region for
Gazelle
22



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
4. TAJAN SUB-PROJECT           MOE Sub-project       PROGRESS TO DATE                                             PLANNED ACTION
responsibility
(a)  Strengthening of Sari     MOE/MOALO             As for I (a) above.                                          As for 2 (a) above.
DOE Office
(b)  Water Quality Mgt. Pgm    MOELO                 As for I (a) above.                                          As for 2 (b) above.
(emphasis on upstream
water discharges)
(c) Agricultural Chemicals     MOALO                 No appropriation to MOA for this component. Included in
Management Program                            Khazar-Ab consultants. As for 1(a) above.
(d)  Management Program        MOELO                 Khazar-Ab consulting submitted summary report. Studies       Final report, in English, received and summary available. Evaluation
for the Middle Tajan                          completed by Khazarab Consulting Engineers                  of the report required by MOE environmental specialist and DOE with
River Basin                                                                                               respect to TOR. Consultant findings review being undertaken with
Regional DOE  ffices.
(e)  Sub-project Arch.         MOELO                 Procedures established with CHO.                             No further action at this time.
Clearance
(f)  Arch. Emergency           MOELO                 Procedures established with CHO.                             No further action at this time.
Procedures
(g) Special Studies and
Actions
i. Management Plan for    MOELO                 Studies completed but yet to be reviewed by MOELO/DOE
the Man-made `Ab-
Bandan" Systems
ii. Taian River Migratory    MOELO              Studies completed but yet to be reviewed by MOELO/DOE
Fish Management Plan
23



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
S. ZARRINEH ROUD SUB-          MOE Sub-project        PROGRESS TO DATE                                            PLANNED ACTION
PROJECT                        responsibility
(a)  Strengthening of the      MOELO/MOALO            As for 2 (a) above Refer to l(a)                            As for 2 (a) above
Miandoab DOE
(b)  Water Quality             MOELO                  As for 2 (b) above                                          As for 2 (b) above
Management Program
(c)  Agricultural Chemicals    MOALO                  Refer to I (a)
Management Program
(d)  Analysis of Potential     MOELO                  Mahab-Godds consultancy (about 80 % complete). Contract     Preparation of final report and evaluation to be completed after the
Envtl Issues (proposed                        with laboratory for sample analysis signed.                 analysis results are available. MOALO and DOE to follow-up.
for Zone 9 extension)
(e) Sub-project                MOELO,                 Procedures established                                      No further action at this time.
Archaeological          Implementation Units
Clearance               and CHO
(f)  Arch. Emergency           MOE, Implementation   Procedures established                                       No further action at this time.
Procedures              Units and CHO
(g) Special Studies and
Actions
i. Lake Oruyimeh          MOALO                  On-going with 40% progress. Completion is expected by the end
National Park                                  of October 2001.
Management Studv
ii. Zarrineh Roud Delta &  MOELO                 Mahab-Godds consultancy undertaking work (as part of package   As for 5 (d). and review
Wetlands Mangmt Plan                          including 5 (d) above). A summary report prepared.
6. IMPLEMENTATION
(a) Appmt. of Full-time Envtl.   MOELO & MOALO        One part-time personnel appointed in MOELO. Environment     Work to be assigned to Deputy Director and increased liaison with
Specialists             Sub-Project Level     specialist dismissed in MOALO.                              DOE.
(b) Consultant Environmental    MOALO & MOELO      Contracts have been reviewed to determine expertise consistent    On-going.
Specialistswith TOR
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation   MOALO, MOEl.O     Consultants are reporting regularly according to the developed  On-going.
(c) MoioigadEauto                OL,MOELIO            format
and Implementing
Agencies
24



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Table 3A: MOE TRAINING PROGRAMS - As of Mid June 2001
Type of training                               Programs        Programs              Number of Participants
Proposed       Completed             Proposed        Attended
Category I
- Seminars & Workshops                          5               2                   200              90
- Management courses                           18              18                   200              118
- Engineering courses                          24              24                   250             218
- Technical courses                            12              11                   220               89
-M.Sc.                                          7               -                      7               7
sub-total                            66              55                   877             522
Categorv II & III combined
- International short courses in Iran           8                                    160               -
- Overseas study tours                          7                                     70
25



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Table 3B: MOA TRAINING PROGRAMS - As of Mid June 2001
Type of training          Unit            SAR estimates         MTR                        Actual
Central Level
Local short-courses       s/m              120                  150                        220
Overseas short-courses    s/m              170                  188                        129
Fellowships               s/y               24                   32                          7
Workshops                 no                60                   70                         46
Study Tours               no                 0                    6                          6
Sub-projects Level
Local short-courses        s/m            460                   460                        500
Overseas short-courses    s/m              180                  172                        108
Fellowships MOJA&MOE   s/y                  55                   71                          2
Workshops                 no               116                   96                         59
Study Tours               no                 0                    6                          6
26



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Table 4A. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - MOE (June 2001)
INDICATORS                                           TO DATE                                  TOTAL AT SAR
A. INPUT INDICATORS
Al. Disbursement (%)                                 100                                              100
A2. Counterpart Funds %)                             100                                              100
A3. Number of contracts awarded
A3.1 Works                                     14                                                14
A3.2 Goods                                     7                                                  8
A3.3 Consultancy                               7                                                  7
A4. Contracts Value (Rials billion)                  385                                             385
B. OUTPUT INDICATORS
BI. Civil Works
B 1. I Length of Rehabilitated                 601                                            1,132
and new Canals (km)
B 1.2 Length of Rehabilitated                  504                                              854
and new drains (km)
B2. Areas Improved (ha)                              54,500                                        58,000 (at MTR)
B2. Value of goods Purchased (US$ million)           11                                                 1
B3. Training Programs
B3.1 Number of Programs                        55                                                81
B3.2 Number of Participants                    522                                            1,100
B4. Studies
B4.1 Number of studies contracted              11                                                 7
B4.2 Number of studies Completed               6
27



Annex 7
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-memoire
Table 4B. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - MOA (June 2001)
INDICATORS                                                            SAR                                   TO DATE
A. INPUT INDICATORS
Al. Total number of contracts                                         12                                     12
A2. Total Disbursement (US$ million)                                  44                                     53
A3. Counterpart Funds (Rials billion/US$ million)                     na                                     120
B. OUPUT INDICATORS
B 1. Number of hectares improved                                      na                                    32,900
B2. Number of research themes undertaken                              na                                       716
B3. Number of demo plots                                              na                                       956
B4. Number of Farmers
Total farmers                                                  46,000                                 33.500
Farmers reached by Extension                                    na                                    33,500
B5. Training
B5.1 Number of Programs                                        na                                      4,620
B5.2 Number of Participants                                     na                                    92,400
B6. Cropping Intensity (%)
B6.1 Behbahan                                                   112                                      129
B6.2 Moghan                                                     122                                      138
B6.3 Tajan                                                      125                                      117
28



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX B: DETAILS ON PROJECT PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION



Annex 7
Appendix B: Details on Project Physical Implementation
Table 1. Performance Indicators (MOJA) - June 2001
INDICATORS                                               SAR                       ACTUAL 1/
A. INPUT INDICATORS
Al. Total number of contracts                             12                       12
A2. Total Disbursement (US$ million)                     44                        53
A3. Counterpart Funds (Rials billion/US$ million)        na                        120
B. OUPUT INDICATORS
Bl. Number of hectares improved                          na                        32,900
B2. Number of research themes undertaken                 na                           716
B3. Number of demo plots                                 na                           956
B4. Number of Farmers
Total farmers                                      46,000                    33.500
Farmers reached by Extension                       na                        33,500
B5. Training
B5.1 Number of Programs                            na                         4,620
B5.2 Number of Participants                        na                        92,400
B6. Cropping Intensity (%)
B6.1 Behbahan                                      112                          129
B6.2 Moghan                                        122                          138
B6.3 Tajan                                         125                          117
1/ As of June 2001



Annex 7
Appendix B: Details on Project Physical Implementation
Table 2. Performance Indicators ((MOE) - June 2001
INDICATORS                                    SAR                          ACTUAL 1/
A. INPUT INDICATORS
Al. Disbursement (%)                            100                           100
A2. Counterpart Funds %)                        100                           100
A3. Number of contracts awarded
A3.1 Works                                  14                          14
A3.2 Goods                                   8                           7
A3.3 Consultancy                             7                           7
A4. Contracts Value (Rials billion)             385                          385
B. OUTPUT INDICATORS
B 1. Civil Works
B 1.1 Length of Rehabilitated            1,132                          601
and new Canals (km)
B 1.2 Length of Rehabilitated             854                           504
and new drains (km)
B2. Areas Improved (ha)                    58,000 (at MTR)                  54,500
B2. Value of goods Purchased (US$ million)         I                            11
B3. Training Programs
B3.1 Number of Programs                     81                             55
B3.2 Number of Participants              1,100                          1,100
522
B4. Studies
B4.1 Number of studies contracted              7                          11
B4.2 Number of studies Completed                                          6
1/ As of June 2001



Annex 7
Appendix B: Details on Project Physical Implementation
Table 3. MOJA Training Programs - As of Mid-June 2001
Type of training           Unit             SAR estimates         MTR        Actual
Central Level
Local short-courses        s/m              120                   150        220
Overseas short-courses     s/m              170                   188        129
Fellowships                s/y               24                    32          7
Workshops                  no                60                    70         46
Study Tours                no                 0                     6          6
Sub-projects Level
Local short-courses        s/m              460                   460        500
Overseas short-courses     s/m              180                   172        108
Fellowships MOJA&MOE   s/y                   55                    71          2
Workshops                  no               116                    96         59
Study Tours                no                 0                     6          6



Annex 7
Appendix B: Details on Project Physical Implementation
Table 4. MOE TRAINING PROGRAMS - As of Mid June 2001
Type of training          Programs        Programs             Number of
Proposed       Completed             Participants
Proposed       Completed
Categorv I
- Seminars & Workshops     5               2                   200               90
- Management courses      18              18                   200              118
- Engineering courses     24              24                   250             218
- Technical courses       12              11                   220               89
-M.Sc.                     7               -                      7               7
sub-total       66              55                   877             522
Category II & III combined
- International short
courses in Iran          8             -                     160
- Overseas study tours                     7                                     70



Annex 7
Appendix B: Details on Project Physical Implementation
Table 5. MOJA: Training Activities at Central and Sub-project Level
Region              Activity                   Unit    SAR       MTR        Actual
Central             Local Short Courses        S/M        120       150       220
Overseas Short Courses     S/M        170       188       129
Fellowships                S/Y        24        32         7
Workshops                  No.        60        70        46
Study Tours               No.          0         6         6
Behbahan            Local Short Courses        S/M         70        70        99
Overseas Short Courses     S/M        25        29        26
Fellowships                S/Y         8        11         1
Workshops                  No.        32        30         18
Study Tours                No.         0         2         2
Moghan              Local Short Courses        S/M        130       130        116
Overseas Short Courses     S/M        46        46        20
Fellowships                S/Y        12        20         0
Workshops                  No.        32        30         18
Study Tours                No.         0         2         2
Tajan               Local Short Courses        S/M        130       130        156
Overseas Short Courses     S/M        53        44         33
Fellowships                S/Y        16        17         1
Workshops                  No.        32        20         13
Study Tours                No.         0         1         1
Zarrineh Roud       Local Short Courses        S/M        130       130        129
Overseas Short Courses     S/M        56        53         29
Fellowships                S/Y         19       23         0
Workshops                  No.        32        29         14
Study Tours                No.         0         1         1
TOTAL               Local Short Courses        S/M        460       460        720
Overseas Short Courses     S/M        180       172       237
Fellowships                S/Y        55        71         9
Workshops                  No.        116       96        105
Study Tours                No.         0         6         12



Annex 7
Appendix B: Details on Project Physical Implementation
Table 6. Training in Central Level - MOE
Activity                  Unit        SAR             Actual
Management (abroad)                       S/M          24                0
Planning (abroad)                         S/M          30                0
M&E (abroad)                              S/M          12                0
* Specialized short courses (abroad)      S/M          30               45
Graduate fellowship (abroad)              S/Y          12                0
Local Training                            S/M          80               20
In-country Workshops/Seminar              No.          15               15
Study Tour                                No.           0               52



Annex 7
Appendix B: Details on Project Physical Implementation
Training @ RWAs - MOE
Activity                 Unit    Sub-project       SAR       Actual
RWAs Management (abroad)                S/M     Behbahan            3
Moghan              6         0
Zarrineh Roud       6          0
Tajan               3            i
RWAs Design/O&M (abroad)                S/M     Behbahan            10         0
Moghan             14          0
Zarrineh Roud      20          0
Tajan               8          0
Consult Design/Const. (abroad)          S/M     Behbahan            4          0
Moghan              8          0
Zarrineh Roud       8          0
Tajan               3          0
* Graduate Fellowship (abroad)          S/Y     Behbahan            3          0
Moghan              6          1
Zarrineh Roud       6          I
Tajan               2          3
Local Training                          S/M     Behbahan            34         0
Moghan             70         70
Zarrineh Roud       6          1;
Tajan              35         65
Workshops/Seminars                      S/M     Behbahan            10         1 0
Moghan             20         20
Zarrineh Roud      20         20
Tajan              10         10
Specialized short courses               No.    Behbahan             0          4
Moghan              0         14
Zarrineh Roud       0         114
Tajan               0         14
Study Tour                              No.    Behbahan             0          3
Moghan              0         1 5
Zarrineh Roud       0         15
Tajan               0         13
* Participants have started their program in Power & Water Institute of Technology
(Iran).



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX C: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RE-EVALUATION



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX C: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RE-EVALUATION
CONTENTS
A. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..................................1
SAR Approach ................................1
ICR Approach .................................1
Available data and methodology .................................1
Assumptions .................................2
Remarks .................................4
Farm Incomes .................................4
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ....5.............................5
C. PROJECT RISK .................................8
TABLES
1. Behbahan: Wheat Crop Model
2. Behbahan: Broadbeans Crop Model
3. Behbahan: Sesame Crop Model
4. Behbahan: Rice Crop Model
5. Behbahan: Vegetables Crop Model
6. Behbahan: Cropping Pattern and Yield Projections
7. Behbahan: Crop Financial Prices
8. Behbahan: Net Incremental Benefits
9. Moghan: Wheat Crop Model
10. Moghan: Alfalfa Crop Model
11. Moghan: Sugarbeet Crop Model
12. Moghan: Cotton Crop Model
13. Moghan: Soybean Crop Model
14. Moghan: Cropping Patterns and Yield Projections
15. Moghan: Crop Financial Prices
16. Moghan: Net Incremental Benefits
17. Zarrineh Roud: Wheat Crop Model
18. Zarrihen Roud: Alfalfa Crop Model
19. Zarrineh Roud: Sugarbeet Crop Model
20. Zarrineh Roud: Grape/Raisin Crop Model
21. Zarrineh Roud: Vegetables Crop Model
22. Zarrineh Roud: Cropping Patterns and Yield Projections
23. Zarrineh Roud: Crop Financial Prices



Annex 7
Appendix C: Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
24. Zarrineh Roud: Net Incremental Benefits
25. Tajan: Wheat Crop Model
26. Tajan: Rice Crop Model
27. Tajan: Vegetables Crop Model
28. Tajan: Cotton Crop Model
29. Tajan: Soybean Crop Model
30. Tajan: Clover Crop Model
31. Tajan: Cropping Patterns and Yield Projections
32. Tajan: Crop Financial Prices
33. Tajan: Net Incremental Benefits
34. Current Cost of Main Agricultural Inputs
35. Current Prices of Main Agricultural Outputs
36. Derivation Import of Parity Prices of Major Project Output/Input
37. Cotton: Export Parity Price
38. Financial and Economic Prices of Major Project Outputs and Inputs
39. MOJA - Projects Cost (in Million Rials)
40. MOJA - Projects Cost (in Thousand US$)
41. MOJA - Projects Cost Summary & Percentage of Actual Expenditure/SAR (in Million
Rials)
42. MOJA - Projects Cost Summary & Percentage of Actual Expenditure/SAR (in Million
US$)
43. MOJA - Project Financing (in Million Rials)
44. MOJA - Project Financing (in Million US$)
45. MOJA - Procurement Arrangements (in Million Rials)
46. MOJA - Procurement Arrangements (in Million US$)
47. MOE Project Cost in Current Terms
48. Project Cost: Central Level (MOJA)
49. Moghan Sub-project Cost (MOJA)
50. Tajan Sub-project Cost (MOJA)
51. Zarrineh Roud Sub-project Cost (MOJA)
52. Behbahan Sub-project Cost (MOJA)
53. Project Cost by Component and by Sub-project Area
54. Project Costs, Total and by Sub-project Area Expressed in Constant June 2001 Prices
55. Total and Unit Cost of IIP Civil Works (MOA Part)
56. Total and Unit Cost of IIP Civil Works (MOE Part)
57. Total Project: Economic Rate of Return
58. Behbahan : Economic Rate of Return
59. Moghan: Economic Rate of Return
60. Zarrineb Roud: Economic Rate of Return
61. Tajan: Economic Rate of Return
ii



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX C: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RE-EVALUATION
A. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
SAR Approach
1.        Agricultural benefits derived from  irrigation and drainage improvements were
expected from changes both in cropping patterns and yield increases. As such changes depended
on local ex-ante situation and on the nature of irrigation improvements, different agricultural
zones (called here << Land Types o) were distinguished within each of the four sub-project areas.
The SAR identified seven land types in total. Changes in cropping patterns and in yields on these
land types would be influenced not only by irrigation investments, but also by the adoption of
new technologies, which the project was to facilitate through its support to research and
extension. For each land type, crop models were established to reflect the situation before and
with project. The full project benefits were assumed to be reached by year 8, and the incremental
benefits (the difference between the net value of production after and before) were distributed in
a linear way over the 5 years of project implementation starting in year 3.
2.        At appraisal, benefits were also introduced to account for the improved maintenance
of irrigation & drainage infrastructure made possible with the project in Behbahan, Moghan and
Zarrineh Roud. It was assumed that, without project, waterlogging would further deteriorate,
which would be reflected in agricultural production through a yield decline averaging one
percent annually over the total project duration (25 years).
ICR Approach
3.        At project completion, the major irrigation improvement works have just been
completed or are about to be achieved. The first benefited areas received water through the
improved structures only in late 1999, and so the impact of the works on the productivity of crops
or on cropping patterns cannot be verified yet. There is however some evidence that crop yields
and land use started to change faster in the project areas than in the surrounding districts. Clear
examples of increased productivity can be found in wheat (Behbahan, Zarrineh Roud, Moghan),
sugarbeet (Moghan, Zarrineh Roud), cotton (Moghan). These benefits must be attributed to the
improved efficiency of research and extension services under the project. However, there are also
cases where yields have somewhat receded. In Zarrineh Roud and in Moghan, this is due to the
drought which has affected the region from 1998/99 to 1999/00. In Behbahan, the ebb is
attributed to the temporary negative effect of land leveling.
Available data and methodology
4.        During project preparation, various land types had been identified within each of the
sub-project areas, depending on the major constraints to intensification, e.g. poor drainage or lack
of water. These land types had marked differences in land productivity before project, and would
develop differently under the project. It was therefore logical to use different farm models for
each of these zones. It was expected that these changes would be tracked during project
implementation, but data collection has been deficient even at district level (Sharestan).



Annex 7
Appendix C: Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
5.        During Mid-Term Review, the same approach was still followed, as delays had made
a reduction in works unavoidable, and this would have different results depending on which
zones would be affected by the reductions. Extended visits to the areas affected made it possible
to collect sufficient data to produce acceptable models for the various land types. This was not
possible during ICR preparation. However, thanks to the efforts of central and sub-project
consultants, a relatively acceptable set of data on cropping patterns and yields was finally
assembled at sub-project level, based on various sources, including district level statistics, and
covering the project implementation period.
6.        Due to data limitations, it was therefore decided to simplify the approach followed at
appraisal and to develop crop and farm models at sub-project rather than at land type level. The
situation without project is based on the SAR models, aggregated at sub-project level, with minor
modifications where there is clear evidence of a bias (e.g. in the case of Zarrineh Roud for wheat
which was affected by a virus disease at the time the preparation studies were conducted: the
disease had receded when the project was launched). The situation with project reflects the gains
already made in crop productivity, as a result of improved farm advice, plus the benefits expected
from improved water control.
Assumptions
7.        Sub-project areas used for calculating project benefits correspond to areas that have
been impacted by project activities, not limiting to irrigation improvements. The major
differences with SAR sub-project areas are in Moghan, where completed works have exceeded
plans, reaching 41,500 ha against 36,000 ha; and in Tajan, where the total area benefiting from
project interventions is considered, i.e. 28,000 ha, rather than the area expected to benefit from
irrigation improvements (which at SAR was expected to be 7,500 ha). In the case of Zarrineh
Roud, the SAR area of 36,000 ha has been kept, although works will be completed only over
22,800 ha. This allows to take into account the benefits from agricultural extension over the
whole area where the project has had a direct impact.
8.        Improved water control. It is expected that the improved water control resulting from
project works will essentially translate into changes in cropping patterns, rather than in crop yield
changes. This is because there is at present no serious water shortage for the crops grown - except
in case of a general drought as occurred in northwest Iran during 1998-2000, as cropping patterns
are adjusted to reflect water availability. Increased water availability at sub-project level will
allow increased cropping intensity, and a shift towards higher value crops, but it is not expected
that more water will be available for each crop on a per ha basis.
9.        Improved farm advice. While benefits from changed cropping patterns, i.e. from
increased water availability, will be entirely attributed to the project, this cannot be assumed for
yield increases if they are assumed to result mainly from improved practices, including better
varieties. The project has improved research and extension, but without project, some of the
improved practices would have found their way to a number of farmers, as is shown by progress
outside project areas. A systematic comparison is not possible for lack of data and also because
the reforms introduced by the project have started permeating through the entire provinces
concerned. It has been assumed that only 20% of the increased benefits resulting from better
practices are attributable to the project (25% in the case of Behbahan).
2



Annex 7
Appendix C: Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
10.        Phasing. Crop yield increases have been phased over 5 years, starting from year 3 of
project implementation - which is assumed to be when the extension system improvement start to
bear fruit. Changes in cropping patterns have been phased over 4 years, starting from year 8,
when the new systems are becoming operational.
11.        Detailed assumptions regarding yields and cropping patterns are shown in the Tables
I to 33. Assumptions on crop yields and cropping intensities are summarized below:
Yields (t/ha)   Behbahan            Moghan      I       Tajan           Zarrineb Roud
Without   With   Without  With   Without   With    Without   With
Wheat            2.1       3.5       3.1     5.5       2         3.5       2         4.5
Broadbean        5.5       7.0
Vegetables        12        16             _           15        20        14        20
Sesamie          0.6       0.8
Clover                                                 20        30
Alfalfa           7         10       7,2      9    _                       5.7       8.3
Rice                                                    3        4.5
Cotton                               1.8     2.8       1.5       1.8
Soybean                              2       2.5       2         2.3
Sugarbeet                           38.5      50                           25        35
Cropping          84       131       72      126       103       117                  4
Intensity %                                                                 6              l
12.        These assumptions indicate that project agricultural outcomes, as can be inferred
from the information available, are somewhat contrasted between regions. In general, expected
yield increases match SAR's expectations, which is remarkable given the fact that current yields
are already close to the with project yields shown above, and this was reached before water
improvements were achieved. However, cropping intensities are expected to increase
significantly only in Behbahan and in Moghan. In both sub-project areas, a sharp increase is
already shown in the 1999/2000 land use statistics, as a result of works already completed. By
contrast, cropping intensity increases in Tajan and Zarrineh Roud are expected to remain very
modest, far below SAR expectation. In Tajan, works will extend over an area bigger than
envisaged at appraisal (11,900 ha as against 7500 ha). However, tertiary canals have been
excluded from the project (contrary to SAR plans), so that irrigation water will initially reach
only farms situated along the secondary canals. The cost of the tertiary canals is no longer
included into project costs, but is now expected to be shared between government and farmers
(who still have to agree). The potential benefits from those canals when built, cannot be
attributed to the project. However, as indicated in Tables 25 to 33, total incremental benefits that
can be attributed to the project include also the positive impact on crop yields of the research and
extension component over a total area of 32,900 ha and, therefore, adding the 21,000 ha of
rainfed area. In Zarrineh Roud, project works have been sharply reduced as compared to original
plans, and because of delays, their impact remains difficult to estimate. However, water
availability will remain a constraining factor, even after project completion.
3



Annex 7
Appendix C: Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
Remarks
13.        It must be recognised that data limitations are extremely serious. Statistics provided
to the ICR mission were incomplete and often inconsistent. Most of the time, SAR data were
kept, because there was no evidence that current statistics on the situation before project are any
more accurate than those available at the time of appraisal. Only few changes were made, as
summarised above, and only when there was enough evidence of large variations with appraisal
estimates, and there was sufficient consistency over different sources and/or mission observations
and interviews. The major difficulty arises as little effort has been made so far to monitor trends
over the different land types distinguished at appraisal. Instead, it appears that excessive reliance
is made by project management on Sharestan (district) statistics which are both inappropriate to
monitor changes due to project activities and of much irregular quality.
14.        These limitations acknowledged, two main trends can be observed. As stated earlier,
yields, when they differ from SAR estimates, tend to be now higher than at appraisal. However,
the reverse is true for cropping intensities, which are much lower at present than stated at
appraisal in two sub-project areas: Tajan and Moghan. This is essentially because areas of winter
crops are well below expectations, either because they were overestimated at appraisal (Tajan),
or because they declined significantly since (Moghan). Whatever the reason, there is no
assurance that cropping intensities, particularly in those two sub-projects, will ever reach the
target levels envisaged at appraisal. As project benefits are largely linked to increased cropping
intensities, this stresses the need for project management to understand current trends and foresee
future changes.
Farm Incomes
15.        A financial analysis has been carried out to allow an assessment of the likely benefits
at farm level expected to be generated by the project. For this purpose, and in line with the SAR
approach, typical farm models based on average holding sizes of 5.4 ha for Behbahan, 7.0 ha for
Moghan, 3.7 ha for Zarrineh Roud and 2.7 ha for Tajan have been prepared. However, within this
range, farm models could not be prepared to represent areas with no constraints, with moderate
constraints and with constraints, e.i. saline and waste lands, as given at appraisal because of lack
of data. Farm sizes for each sub-project and total project irrigated area are presented in the
following table:
Farm Size           Total Project
Farm Model                                         Irrigated Area
(ha)                  (ha)
Bebbahan                                        5.4                  8,400
Moghan                                          7.0                 41,500
Zarrineh Roud                                   3.7                 22,800
Tajan                                           2.7                 11,900
Total                                                               84,600
16.        The farm income analysis without and with project is based on crop budgets per ha,
as given in details in Tables I to 33. Results are summarised in the table below:
4



Annex 7
Appendix C: Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
Net Farm Income             Increase due to Project
Farm Models         Before Project     Actual (ICR)        SAR         Actual
1/    q                                       (ICR)
. ........... (Rials'000) ............   ..........   .........
Behbahan                       8,400             29,500            153         251
Moghan                        17,1  00          36,000             153          110
Zarrineh Roud                  3,500             11,100            346         217
Tajan                          7,200             10,100            165          40
1/ SAR: Average values (see staff appraisal report Annex VIII, Table 2) and converted into 2001 prices.
17.       As indicated above, the impact of the project on farm income would be satisfactory,
confirming the financial viability of the project as estimated at appraisal. At full development,
increases in net farm income would range from 40% for farms in Tajan to 250% for farms in
Behbahan making the project effectively attractive to the farmers. Furthermore, considering that
these farms' incomes are based on crop budgets per ha including water charges and incremental
O&M costs for irrigation infrastructure, the actual increases in the net farm incomes to be
foreseen under the with project situation, clearly indicate the farmers ability to pay for these
incremental costs. As regards the cost recovery and finance for operation and maintenance the
sustainability of the present system, which by law provides for recovery of scheme O&M costs
from farmers up to 3% of average gross income per hectare for each crop, would be better
assured by the increased level of farmer's income to be generated by the project.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
18.       General. The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a whole of
for each of the four subprojects of Behbahan, Moghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan and on the basis
of average output/input prices (Table 38). The analysis, which has been carried out over a project
period of 25 years, is described in details as follows:
19.       Cost stream. The economic analysis has been carried out in constant June 2001
prices. The exchange rate of Rials 3,000/US$ has been used. The investment costs in economic
terms as estimated by the MOJA and MOE are given in Table 54. However, in the case of Tajan,
the investment costs relative to the civil works so far completed have been excluded from the
analysis because the tertiary canals remain to be constructed and full benefits from improved
irrigation have not yet been materialized (para. 12). In estimating the ERR for the specific
subprojects, the costs of central level coordination for both the MOJA and MOE (Table 48) have
been allocated proportionally to the related subproject areas, i.e. 10% for Behbahan, 49% for
Moghan, 27% for Zarrineh Roudand and 14% for Tajan. Specific investment costs in constant
June 2001 prices that have been included in the ERR analysis are given in detail in Table 54.
Final and accurate O&M costs for the main and secondary irrigation and drainage networks were
not yet available. The MOE has delegated the O&M responsibility to private companies (MOE
being the major share-older) working in each subproject. These companies collect water charges
from the farmers which vary from one subproject area to another. As foreseen under the project,
the studies on O&M are being completed for each sub-project area. Two phases were foreseen:
the first concentrated on collecting information on existing situation, and the second will finally
include a plan of actions for a sustainable O&M system after works completion. For the purpose
of the analysis, O&M costs of Rials 300,000 ha for the sub-project areas of Moghan, Behbahan
and Zarrineh Roud and Rials 100,000/ha for Tajan were included. Incremental operating costs of
5



Annex 7
Appendix C: Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
both agricultural support services, i.e. Extension and Research, and project facilities have also
been included in the analysis.
20.       Benefit streams. The benefit streams for the economic analysis for the project as a
whole have derived from aggregating the benefits from the total cultivated area of 105,600 ha
including 84,600 ha of irrigated land and 21,000 ha of rainfed area as indicated in para. 12. These
benefits have been estimated on the basis of per hectare crop models which are presented in
details for each specific subproject area in Tables I to 8 for Behbahan, in Tables 9 to 16 for
Moghan, in Tables 17 to 24 for Zarrineh Roud and in Tables 24 to 33 for Tajan. The ICR
approach for estimating future project benefits is described in paras. 3 to 6 above and
assumptions on yields and cropping patterns and remarks are discussed in paras. 7 to 14..
Contrary to the SAR approach under which in the absence of the project yields in affected areas
would have declined in the future by 20-30 percent and that a value corresponding to these
averted losses were considered as a project benefit has not been taken into consideration. This
hypothesis has not in fact materialized and, as indicated by data collected in the field by the
MOJA, yields have not shown any declining trend since 1994.
(a) Prices. The following are basic principles on which the prices used in the analysis are
based:
(b) Traded output. Major project crops including rice, wheat, soybeans and sugarbeets have
been priced on the basis of import parity, brought to the point of first sale, i.e. at the farm
gate. Cotton has been treated as exportable as statistics indicate that Iran is a net export
country for both cotton lint and cotton seed meal. These economic prices have been
estimated on the basis of projected 2005 parity prices derived from the January 2001
World Bank Commodity Price Projection and expressed in June 2001 constant prices as
shown in Tables 36 and 37. In the case of rice, domestic production has a higher quality
of imported rice and trades at prices well above the price of imported rice (Thai - 5%
broken). The traditional Tarom variety is of a quality comparable to Basmati rice which
trades on the world markets at a premium between 30-50%. A quality adjustment factor
of 130% has therefore been applied to local rice.
(c) Non traded commodities. Other output crops, which are either not internationally traded
or for which no world market reference price was obtainable (for alfalfa, clover, grapes,
broadbeans and vegetables) have been priced based on local financial prices (Table 38).
(d) Inputs. Urea, DAP and MOP, the main fertilizers used in the project area have been
priced at import parity taking into account the January 2001 World Bank Commodities
Price Projections as indicated in Table 36. The financial prices of other tradable
agricultural inputs in the crop budgets (mechanization, seeds, pesticides) exhibit currently
prevailing subsidization and other distorsions in the domestic and foreign exchange
markets. To correct for these distorsions, a conversion factor of 1.5 has been applied to
these items.
(e) Labour. Wage rates vary from Rials 25,000 to 35,000 a day depending on area, season
and sex, and age of the workers. There is seasonal labour surplus in all areas and chronic
labour surplus in some. On the other hand, current financial prices of many agricultural
outputs are below economic prices leading to a downward bias in financial wages as
6



Annex 7
Appendix C: Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
indicators of the opportunity cost of labour. To reflect both aspects, an average wage rate
of Rials 30,000 a day has been applied to both hired and family labour.
(f) Recurrent costs. Annual recurrent costs in economic terms as derived from Table 54 of
the Extension & Research, Environmental components have been included in the
analysis. Similarly, the operating costs of the central offices of both the MOE and MOA
have also been taken into consideration.
(g) Water charges. Irrigation water charges have been excluded from the economic analysis
as the scheme investment and O&M costs have already been included in the project costs.
Water charges have been included, however, in the farm income analysis.
22.       Economic rates of return. Cost to be included in the economic analysis have been
summarized in Table 54 and on the basis of the assumptions outlined above, the ERR for the
project as a whole at project completion is estimated at about 17% (Table 57). As indicated
earlier, separate economic analysis has been carried out for each of the four different subprojects
area namely Behbahan, Moghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan. The results of the economic analysis
are given in details in Tables 58 to 61 and summarized in table below with a comparison with
SAR estimates:
Results of the Economic Analysis
Economic Rate of     Hectares
Subproject     Return (%)
SAR      ICR      SAR      ICR
Behbahan        22.6     9.3    11,500    8,400
Moghan          15.6     22.4    35,600   41,500
Zarrineh Roud   20.0     6.9    36,000   22,800
Tajan           24.5     23.5     7,500   32,9001
Total Project   18.8     16.6    90,600   105,600
23.       The above ERR's estimates indicate that the project as a whole as well as the
individual subprojects remains, at project completion, satisfactory. The Zarrineh Roud
subproject, with an ERR of about 7%, well below SAR estimate, may be considered slightly
marginal. In reality, the ERR for the Zarrineh Roud subproject is to be considered underestimated
on the assumption that the heavy rehabilitation programme that has been undertaken has involved
full lining of the primary and secondary canals, which would result in a considerable saving in
water for irrigation and therefore allowing an increased availability of water downstream. Data
on possible water savings as a result of the project were not available at the time of the ICR and it
would be difficult, at this stage, to quantify accurately the relative project benefits in the
downstream areas. Furthermore, the Zarrineh Roud subcomponent should be maintained because
of the high expectation of the farmers in the area.
Including 21,000 ha of rainfed area.
7



Annex 7
Appendix C: Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
24.         Sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis indicates that the ERR to the project
and for the four subprojects has been found to be quite resistant to deviations from the base case
assumptions. With benefits lagged one year or reduced by 10%, the project as a whole would
generate ERRs of 14.2% and 14.9% respectively. The sensitivity analysis results are summarized
below:
Sensitivity Analysis Results
Basic                   ERR                   Decrease
Item                    ERR                Benefits Lagged             Benefits
______________       _   |by   10%
................................... ....... ..............%....... ... %.........................................
Total Project                    16.6                    14.2                    14.9
Behbahan                         9.3                      7.9                     7.9
Moghan                           22.4                    19.4                    26.7
Zarrineh Roud                    6.9                      5.6                     5.4
Tajan                            23.5                    19.9                    21.4
C. PROJECT RISK
25.        The economic and financial risks, as foreseen at appraisal, are at ICR considerably
reduced. The economic risk related to the wide disparity between economic and financial prices
still remains applicable for most of agricultural inputs but it is drastically reduced for major
project output. In particular, as indicated in Table 38, economic prices of fertilizers are still about
400% over the current financial prices. The economic prices of wheat, soybeans and cotton are
more in line with their respective financial prices with specific conversion factor ranging from
0.65 for wheat to 1.55 for rice. The policy of GOI has been effective over the last five years to
bringing domestic prices more in line with international prices. This policy is expected to be
maintained in the future mitigating, as a result, the economic risk.
26.        The financial risk at ICR is considered negligeable. Discussions with MOE and
MOJA officials and project beneficiaries suggest that the financial risk associated with the
project may not cause in the remaining construction programme. At project completion, in fact,
about 98% of the civil works contracts have been carried out, and are expected to be completed
by end of October 2001. The GOI, in view of subprojects farmers' high expectation and aiming at
reducing social pressure, has reaffirmed its commitment to the full financing of both the
investment and recurrent costs of the project.
8



ANNEX 8
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



Islamic Republic of Iran
Irrigation Improvement Project
IBRD LOAN 3570 IRN
Borrower 's Contribution
in
ZIP Implementation
Completion Report (ICR)
July 2001
Ministry of Agricultural Jihad                    Ministry of Energy
Deputy Ministry for Techniques and Infrastructure  Water Resources Management Organization
Liaison Office                                Liaison Office
YEKOM Consultinq Enqineers                        LAR - NESPAK



Table of Contents
1. INTRODUCTION ........................................................I
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................                                                        1
3. PROJECT ORGANIZATION .......................................................                                                      1
3.1. The Borrower and Concerned Ministries .......................................................                            ]
3.2. The Implementing Agencies .......................................................                                         2
3.3. Coordination Arrangements .......................................................                                         2
3.4. Consulting Engineers .......................................................                                              2
4. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD .......................................................                                                     2
4.1. Period .......................................................                                                             2
4.2. Midterm  Review  ....................................................... 2
4.3. Expenditure .......................................................                                                       3
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .......................................................                                        3
6. STATUS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS COMPLETION ....................................................... 4
6.1. Institutional Support ....................................................... 4
6.2. Irrigation/ Drainage Development (MOE) .                       ....................................................... 5
6.3. Agricultural Development ....................................................... 6
6.4. Irrigation/ Drainage On-Farm  Development (MOA) .......................................                     ................ 6
6.5. Project Facilities including O&M  (MOE) ....................................................... 6
6.6. Environment ....................................................... 6
7. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................                                         7
7. 1. Enhance water resources management ....................................................... 7
7.2. Raise crop output, farm  incomes and foreign exchange savings ................................................ 7
7.3. Improve Planning and Implementation capacity of sector institutions ....................................... 7
8. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................                                                    7
9. BANK PERFORMANCE .......................................................                                                          8
9. I. Lending ........8............................................... 8
9.2. Supervision ....................................................... 8
9.3. Overall Performance .......................................................                                                8
10. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .......................................................                                                     9
10.1. Pre-implementation.                    .........................                   .............................. 9
10.2. Government Implementation Performance .................                            ...................................... 9
10.3. Implementing Agency ....................................................... 9
10.4. Overall Performance .......................................................                                              9
11. LESSONS LEARNED .......................................................                                                          9
12. ACKNOWLEDGMENT .......................................................                                                          10
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (iCR), July 2001



GLOSSARY/LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASC         Agricultural Service Centre
CAM         City Agricultural Management
CC          Central Consultants
DOE         Directorate of Environment
FAO         Food and Agricultural Organisation
FAO/(CP)   FAO Co-operative Program
GL          Guidelines
IDDB        Irrigation & Drainage Development Bureau
lIP         Irrigation Improvement Project
]PM         Integrated Pest Management
M& E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MOAILO    Liaison Office Ministry of Agriculture
MOF/LO    Liaison Office Ministry of Energy
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture (Later changed to MOAJ)
MOE         Ministry of Energy
MoF         Ministry of Finance
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
Ml          Management Information
OFDB        On Farm Development Bureau
O& M        Operation and Maintenance
PA          Pilot Area
PBO         Planning and Budget Organisation (Later changed to MPO)
PAO         Provincial Agricultural Organisation
PWMS        Pilot Water Management Studies;
R&E         Research and Extension
RRA         Rapid Rural Appraisal
RET         Research, Extension & Training
RWA         Regional Water Authority
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report (World Bank)
SP          Sub-Project (of IIP)
SPC         Sub-Project Consultants
TOR         Terms of Reference
WB          World Bank
WUG         Water Users Groups
Islamic Republic of lran lIP, Borrower's Contribution in lip Implementation Completion Report (ICRj, July 2001



Page I
1. Introduction
Pursuing a policy of rehabilitation of existing irrigated areas rather than a policy of new land
reclamation, the GOI selected the following four sub-projects areas as a target for rehabilitation
under this project: i) Behbahan (11,500 ha) in Khuzestan province; ii) Moghan (35,600 ha) in East
Azarbaijan and Ardebil province; iii) Zarrineh Roud (36,000 ha) in West Azarbaijan province; iv)
Tajan (7500 ha) in Mazandaran and Golestan province. The improvement was thus targeted in a
total area of 90,600 ha. The emphasis of GOI was to improve irrigation and drainage network in
sub-project areas, on-farm development including improvement of irrigation and drainage
networks, selective sub-surface drainage and land leveling, carrying out of institutional reforms,
full recovery of O&M costs, carrying out of several pertinent studies and overseas and on-job
training of managerial and technical staff.
The Project was implemented by the Ministry of Energy (MOE) and the concerned Regional
Water Authorities (RWAs), and by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the concerned
Provincial Agriculture Organizations (PAOs). The IBRD Loan amount was to be shared by the
two ministries as follows:
(Allocation in Million US $)
Category                     MOE/RWAs    MOA/PAOs             TOTAL,
I (a) Works                     76.00
I (b) Works                      --            33.00           109.00
2(a) Equipment and Materials    11.00
2(b) Equipment and Materials     --             7.00           18.00
3(a) Consultants Services       12.20            --
and Training
3(b) Consultants Services        --             17.80          30.00
and Training             ----- ---       ---
Total                       99.20          57.80           157.00
The present report is the contribution of The Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran (GOI) for
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Irrigation Improvement Project (IIP) financed
by the GOI and the WB.
ICRs are an integral part of the World Bank's systems of knowledge management and
accountability. ICRs aim to improve the quality and effectiveness of Bank loans and enhance
borrower's ability to design, implement and operate projects.
One of the borrowers responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR is preparing its own final
evaluation report on the project (current report). In this report it is aimed to present an assessment
of the project and an evaluation of performance of involved parties
2. Project Objectives
The overall objectives of the project were:
a) To enhance water resources management through the rehabilitation and improvement of
irrigation and drainage systems in four subprojects (SPs);
b) To upgrade research and extension in the four SPs in order to raise crop output, farm
incomes and foreign exchange savings through increased agricultural production;
c) To improve the planning and implementation capacity of sector institutions, including
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Energy (MOE).
3. Project Organization
3.1. The Borrower and Concerned Ministries
The borrower was the GOI, represented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and finance (MEAF).
The beneficiaries of the loan were MOA, MOE and the relevant RWAs and PAOs of each SP.
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 2
3.2. The Implementing Agencies
The execution of the SPs was carried out by the relevant PAOs (OFDB & IDDB as their
headquarters) and RWAs, according to their mandates. Each of the four subproject PAOs were
responsible for implementing on-farm and agricultural developments, and RWAs executed the
main, secondary and tertiary Irrigation & drainage systems.
3.3. Coordination Arrangements
.3.3.1 Project Steering Committee (PSC).
Because of the complex institutional and budgetary arrangements and coordination between two
ministries, GOI established a Project Steering Committee at the central level to guide the project in
policy matters. The PSC was chaired by a Deputy Minister of MEAF and its members included the
former MOA and MOE Deputy Ministers.
3.3.2. Liaison Offices (LOs)
MOA and MOE set up LOs in Tehran to coordinate implementation by PAOs and RWAs; to
provide support in specialized areas; and to harmonize and consolidate work programs, reports,
budgets and accounts between MOA and MOE.
3.4. Consulting Engineers
3.4.1. Central Consultants
LOs required assistance principally for preparing special studies. The consultants also assisted LOs
in coordinating project activities. The consultants were a joint of an international firm and a local
consulting engineer. MOE central consultants were NESPAK from Pakistan jointed with LAR
from Iran. The central consultants of MOA were Arcadis/Euroconsult from Netherlands (till July
2000) joined with YEKOM from Iran.
3.4.2. Subproject Consultants
Subproject consultants who had already started their preliminary work before the loan, were
contracted to carry out the planning, design and supervision of construction of the irrigation,
drainage and land leveling works. In Moghan and Zarrineh Roud, four contracts in all were signed
with YEKOM-ACE and Mahab Ghods respectively. Associated with works under the scope of
MOE and MOA. In Tajan there was just one contract for MOE part with Mahab Ghods and in
Behbahan, one contract with Pandam for MOA part. The subproject consultants also performed
some special studies.
4. Implementation Record
4.1. Period
Project activities started when the FAO/CP (Food and Agricultural Organization Co-operative
Program) and a WB identification mission visited Iran in October 1991. Additional required
information was collected by GOI. Three consultancy firms already engaged for each SP
completed preliminary preparation reports in December 1991.
A project preparation report was submitted by FAO/CP in May 1992. The WB's pre-appraisal was
carried out in June/July 1992, and the Bank appraisal, following a mission to Iran in
October/November 1992 was finalized in February 1993. The Loan Agreement between GOI and
WB was signed on March 31, 1993. It became effective in April 29 1993. The project completion
date was June 30 2001.
4.2. Midterm Review
During the Mid-Term Review (MTR) held on March 1998, conducted jointly by the World Bank
Mission and MOE, MOA, PAOs, RWAs and DOE based on the reports prepared by LOs,
adjustments necessary to achieve the project objectives within the remaining three years were
made.  As a result of these adjustments and other factors emerging during the course of
implementation, the project has undergone the following salient variation:
a) Major deviations from SAR were in the costs of the Irrig.lDrainage Development (MOE)
and the Irrig./Drainage On-Farm Devel. (MOA) components which have increased by
23% and 189% respectively due to unit cost escalation, in real term, of the civil works. On
the contrary, the institutional support and the agricultural development components were
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in lIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 3
scaled down by 45% and 63% respectively because of the reduced need for services
related to these activities. A summary of project costs by component at MTR is given in
the following table where a comparison with SAR estimates is also provided.
b) The development envisaged under the four sub-projects was reduced from 87,500 ha in
SAR to 56,700 ha. However, the satisfactory work progress in later years resulted in an
increase of the rehabilitated areas to 84,600 ha.
Subproiect         SAR              MTR                 Completed
Behbahan            8,400 ha       8,400 ha              8,400 ha
Moghan            35,600 ha       18,000 ha             41,500 ha
Zarrineh Rud      36,000 ha       22,800 ha             22,800 ha
Taian               7,500 ha       7.500 ha             11,900 ha
Total             87,500 ha       56,700 ha             84,600 ha
c) Purchase of hydrometric equipment was cancelled due to non-allocation of funds by MPO.
d) Hydrological network studies were also cancelled, as MPO did not allocate funds.
e) Mathematical groundwater monitoring component excluded from the project.
4.3. Expenditure
The project expenditure by component and source of funding is presented in the table below:
Actual
Component            SAR          MTR            (Rials billion)           (USS million)
(MillionUSS)  (MillionUSS)   GOI    IBRD    Total   GOI    IBRD   ToI
Funded   Funded         Funded  Funded   ota
Institutional Support          41.9         27.1     46.7    64.7  111.4    15.6    21.6   37.1
Irrig/DrainageDevel. (MOE)    120.8        149.2    285.6   228.0  513.6    95.2       76.0  171.2
Agricultural Development       40.2         15.0      12.8      0.0  12.8      4.3      0.0    4.3
Irrig-/Drainage On-Farn        26.3         75.9    102.6   147.6  250.2    34.2    49.2   83.4
Devel. (MOA)
Project Facilities including   27.7         27.6      10.7    30.0  40.7  7.53.6       10.0   13.6
O&M
Environment                     3.4          4.9       5.7      0.7    6.4     1.9      0.2    2.1
Resettlement                    0.2            -        -        -      -        -        -      -
Total Baseline Costs          260.5        299.7        -        -      -        -        -
Physical Contingencies       18.6         25.1        -        -      -        -        -
Price Contingencies          32.5         69.4        .        -      -        -        -
Total Baseline Costs          311.7        394.3    464.2   471.0  935.2   154.7    157.0  311.7
5. Major Factors Affecting the Project
a) The project faced considerable difficulties during the initial three years of implementation
mainly due to inadequacies in the envisaged institutional arrangements some of which
continued even till later stages. The staff was not adequately familiar with the World
Bank's procedures. The result was that the implementation of the project suffered as; i)
approval of the budgets was delayed; ii) counter-part funds remained insufficient till 1997;
iii) approval of appointment of Sub-Project Consultants was delayed until June, 1995
although they had started working in 1993, which in turn caused delay in approval of final
designs and tender documents; iv) high inflation rates caused substantial increase in cost
of civil works which were procured belatedly; v) appointment of CC for MOE was
delayed for four years which adversely affected the monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
activities. They were commissioned in April 1997 vi) payments to Contractors and
Consultants were sometimes not made promptly; vii) O&M Studies for the three sub-
projects of MOE were delayed; and viii) training programs were delayed.
b) There were factors outside the control of the implementing agencies such as; i) inadequate
management capability of the civil works contractors; and ii) lack of experience of the
sub-project consultants in respect of agricultural development and O&M studies, which
hindered the progress of project activities.
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 4
c) Yet there were factors that could be controlled such as; farmers' resistance to execution of
civil works, insufficient coordination among many organizations involved in the
implementation of the project and use of variable exchange rate of US Dollar that caused
difficulties in budgeting of counterpart funds.
6. Status of Project Components Completion
6.1. Institutional Support
6.1.1. Project Coordination
Project coordination was carried out by LOs. The only hampering issue in the LOs' efficiency was
staff changes, which happened a few times for MOALO and twice for MOELO during the project.
The steering committee had 6 meetings. Considering the project's complexity, more meetings
could have resulted a smoother pace in the project and more coordination between the parties.
6.1.2. Technical Assistance
The services of SPCs with regards to supervision of civil works are ongoing and shall be
completed fully even after the loan closing date. Regarding to special studies:
a) Agricultural Developments studies reported in 10 volumes including Research and
Extension; Present Status except Behbahan which includes planning (MOA)
b) Water User Group studies, 4 reports (MOA)
c) Land Tenure studies, 2 reports (MOA - Zarrineh Roud and Behbahan)
d) Women in Development (MOA - Behbahan, Tajan & Zarrineh Roud)
e) O&M studies, 4 reports
The services of Central Consultants were carried out in two contracts for MOA and MOE
separately as described in Para. 3.4.1.
It is worth mentioning that the contracts of the Central Consultants were signed with 3 years delay
mainly due to a lack of coordination between PBO and the Ministries of Agriculture and Energy.
The following services were carried out by the CCs:
a) M& E of the Project improved significantly after the beginning of the CCs activities and
periodical progress reports of the project were formed and prepared regularly.
b) The CCs assisted LOs in all project activities such as supervision of technical and
agricultural studies, coordination, preparation of periodic monitoring reports and
conducting several training seminars and workshops. They accompanied all of the WB
supervision missions in the meetings and site visits;
c) The CCs jointly produced guidelines for Monitoring Network of the Surface/Groundwater
Quality for Chemical Substances (MOE/CC) and Agro-Chemicals (MOA/CC), which is
under implementation by EARWA, WARWA and MGRWA.
d) Agricultural Development and Operation and Maintenance studies in the subprojects were
supervised by the CCs;
e) A model and implementation plan for the establishment of Water Users Groups was
formulated by MOA/CC and a pilot project for the formation of WUGs was developed in
Behbahan (MOA/CC) and in Tajan (Both CCs);
f) Assisting LOs in preparing periodical and quarterly Progress Reports together with MTR
and ICR;
g) General supervision, review and evaluation of O&M studies carried out by SPCs in Tajan,
Zarrineh Roud and Moghan SPs by MOE/CC;
h) General supervision, review and evaluation of O&M studies carried out by SPCs in
Behbahan and Moghan (tertiary) SPs by MOA/CC;
i) Pilot Water Management Study (MOA/CC) which concluded that water application to the
field can be reduced with 30-50% while similar (Behbahan) or even higher yields (170%
Moghan) are obtained. In other word, during three cropping season it was proved that the
yield per cubic meter of irrigation water can be increased 170 to 280 percent.
Consequently substantial water saving can be realized with better controlled irrigation;
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 5
j) An Agro-Chemical Management Plan was prepared by MOA/CC. As part of the Pilot
Village studies the replacement of expensive polluting agro chemicals with biological
agents was introduced at field level. This proved to be highly successful. It served as a
practical proof to the farmers that pollution control, cost reduction with similar or higher
yields can go hand in hand. The results of pilot farms during three cropping seasons
showed that using biological agents increased the yield 10 to 40 percent while decreasing
the spraying by 50 to 80 percent;
k) A  model for adaptive research and extension services was formulated and its
implementation plan was prepared by MOA/CC. To obtain the necessary information
from the field as inputs for development of the model, Pilot Village Studies (PVS) were
set up. At the same time, the PVS demonstrated participatory methods, tested farmer-to-
farmer extension, provided information about the actual needs of farmers and introduced
and tested the Farmer Field School concept.
1) A Management Information System covering the project input and progress, project
finances and project impacts indicators were provided to the MoALO by its CC. All
systems can be tailored for other projects. The experience of this project proved that
implementation of such systems can be very effective especially for complex projects like
IIP. However, the system was completed in the last year of the project due to the late start
of CC services.
6.1.3. Training
MOE arranged a total of 53 courses of Category - I training (local training) which were conducted
in Abbaspour Institute Tehran. 425 participants; managers; professionals; and technicians from 3
RWAs attended these courses. A two-day national workshop on the subject of O&M and
Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) was also held in this institute. A three-day training
workshop with 15 participants from 3 RWAs and the concerned OMCs was also held relating to
the use of GIS technology for preparing databases for irrigation and drainage networks. Besides
CC of MOE imparted on-job training to a substantial number of staff members of 3 RWAs,
consulting engineering companies and contractors related to state-of-the-art computerized M&E
activities. MOA arranged two categories of training; i) Central Level Training; and ii) Sub-Project
Level Training. Ninety percent of the central level training programs were completed while only
eighty five percent of sub-project level training programs was carried out.
MOA training programs had two categories:
1. Central Level Training - US$ 2.5 million, 90% of programs completed;
11. Sub-projects Level Training - US$ 3.8 million, 85% of programs completed;
During the project course the MOA arranged 720 and 237 staff/months of local and overseas short
courses, respectively. Furthermore, 105 workshops, 12 study tours and 9 staff/years of fellowships
were conducted.
Most of the progress in both categories has been achieved in local short courses and workshops
(more than SAR estimates). There was a contract for study tours with FAO. It should be mentioned
that the TOKTEN program that was carried out by the MOA was successful with the participation
of 37 Iranian professors and specialists from overseas.
Regardless of number of conducted programs and participants, lack of a detail Training Need
Assessment at the beginning of the project, caused incompatibilities between the programs and the
participants and their job.
6.1.4. Institutional strengthening
The total expenditure in this part has been 63% of MTR plan. The activities under this section
consisted of procurement of vehicles and equipments for central offices of MOA and MOE.
6.2. Irrigation! Drainage Development (MOE)
The overall completion of MOE part of the civil works was 81.35 %, which is based on 92.5 %
completion in Moghan Sub-Project, 76.8 % completion in Zarrineh Roud Sub-Project, and 84.5 %
in Tajan Sub-Project. The individual completion of 14 awarded Contracts was; MC-I/1 (100 %);
MC-1/2 (100 %); MC-1/3 (100 %); MC-1/4  (96 %); MC-1/4A (68 %); ZRC-I/1 (80 %); ZRC-1/2
(79 %); ZRC-1/3A (65 %); ZRC-1/3B (87 %); ZRC-1/3C (58 %); ZRC-1/4B1  (79 %); TC-I/1&2
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 6
(83 %); TC-I/4 (100 %); and TC-I/4A (85 %). It is pertinent to mention that there were delays in
awarding of the civil works contracts due to initial institutional weaknesses. The progress on
awarded contracts was also not achieved at the rate envisaged due to various reasons until the year
1999 when MOELO and RWAs particularly WARWA started concerted effort and the pace of
work was increased.
6.3. Agricultural Development
This component covers just the physical activities in the filed of agricultural development. All the
studies and pilot programs, which fall in this field, have been described in Para. 6.1.2 in order to be
consistent with the SAR and MTR classifications. The following activities have been carried out
under this component:
a) Totally, 4,000 m2 buildings have been constructed for different offices related to Research
and Extension;
b) US$ 8.3 million have been financed for procurement of vehicles, audio/visual equipments,
laboratory equipments, farm machinery and computers and distributed among the
Research and Extension offices in the subprojects.
6.4. Irrigation! Drainage On-Farm Development (MOA)
Nine contracts were active in that section covering 33,000 ha in all subprojects except Tajan. The
total expenditures in this section reached to 142% of MTR. The contracts in different subprojects
are as follows:
a) Moghan. There were 5 contracts covering about 18,350 ha in Moghan. One contract for
260 km canalette production, two contracts for installation of canalettes in 16,000 ha and
two contracts for installation of subsurface drainage in 6,600 ha of lands.
b) Behbahan. Two contracts for land leveling (7400 ha) and subsurface drainage (3500 ha).
Both contracts were completed before the loan closing date.
c) Zarrineh Roud; Two contracts for subsurface drainage (11500 ha). The contracts started
with much delay due to several revisions in the designs and delay in selection of the
contractor. The contractor had many problems due to lack of trencher machines but both
contracts will be completed by the loan closing date.
6.5. Project Facilities including O&M (MOE)
MOE engaged the services of Satkab to prepare bid documents for procurement of the machinery
and equipment under the Project including; i) O&M machinery for Moghan, Zarrineh Roud, Tajan
Sub-Projects; ii) Pumps for Behbahan Sub-Project; and iii) Hydrometric Equipment. Later the
procurement of Pumps for Behbahan and Hydrometric Equipment was dropped, as PBO did not
approve their funding under the Project. However, some assorted equipment required for
implementation of Surface/Groundwater Monitoring Program was procured at the request of
EARWA, WARWA and MGRWA. Sixty three (63) pieces of machinery for O&M were procured
from overseas, which included 37 pieces purchased from 5 different international suppliers (Japan
and Europe) and 26 pieces were purchased from local manufacturing companies. Nineteen (19)
pieces of machinery were given to EARWA for use on Moghan Sub-Project, thirty one (31) pieces
were given to WARWA for use on Zarrineh Roud and thirteen (13) pieces were given to MGRWA
for use on Tajan Sub-Project.
6.6. Environment
Surface/Groundwater Monitoring Programs for Moghan, Zarrineh Roud and Tajan sub-projects
were prepared by the MOA/CC. These programs have been used to monitor surface and
groundwater qualitatively in Tajan and Zarrineh Roud Sub-Projects for one year cycle during
1999-2000. However, in Moghan Sub-Project no measurement or testing was made due to
incomplete installation of piezometers. It is expected that implementation of this program would
be institutionalized and it will continue to generate useful data for better management of irrigated
agriculture in the concerned sub-project areas. Tajan Plain Environmental Study was completed
by Messrs. Khazar - Ab Consulting Engineers. The preparation of an environmental management
plan based on this study was also undertaken under the Project. The Delta and Wetlands
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 7
Management Studies in Zarrineh Roud Sub-Project were carried out by Messrs. Mahab Ghodss
Consulting Engineers.
The following activities have been done in the MOA part:
a) Incremental staff: 4 persons in Behbahan and 5 persons in Moghan subprojects.
b) Studies:
* Marun River Fish Management;
* Environmental studies of Lake Urumieh (Zarrineh Roud), 1600 million Rials;
* Conducting a National workshop titled "The First Workshop on Applying The Ecosystem
Approach to The Management of Lake Uromiyeh"; 2-4 July 2001;
* Environmental studies of Shadegan Marshes (Behbahan), 800 Million Rials;
* FAO studies, US$ 453,912 on the said wetlands;
* Regional studies on existing condition in all subprojects.
c) Goods: Laboratory equipments (250 Million Rials) and three pickups for DOE.
d) Facilities:
* Office Building in Shadegan, 645 Million Rial
* Visitors Building in Abadan, 985 Million Rial
e) Training Activities:
* Participation of DOE staff in abroad short courses;
* Participation of 8 DOE specialists at M.Sc. courses in Netherlands;
* Inviting several environmental specialists using TOKTEN program.
7. Achievement of Project Objectives
7. 1. Enhance water resources management
The major part of project funds and activities was allocated for achieving this objective. Irrigation
and water management was enhanced in about 84,600 hectares of subproject areas through
construction or rehabilitation of irrigation and surface or subsurface drainage and land leveling.
Moreover, the results of pilot water management studies proved water application to the field can
be reduced with 30-50% while similar (Behbahan) or even higher yields (170% Moghan) are
obtained. In other words, during three cropping season it was proved that the yield per cubic meter
of irrigation water can be increased 170 to 280 percent. Consequently substantial water saving can
be realized with better-controlled irrigation.
7.2. Raise crop output, farm incomes and foreign exchange savings
Agricultural indicators have been greatly improved comparing the situation at the project start.
Average cropping intensity of the SPs has been increased from 90% to 113% and total yield have
had 64% average increases. Consequently, this advance leads to an increase of farmers' income
and foreign exchange savings.
It is worth to mention that due to completion of civil works just in the last year of the project from
one side and heavy drought in the subprojects from the other side, it is predicted that the impacts
of IIP will be more outstanding than the current figures.
7.3. Improve Planning and Implementation capacity of sector institutions
This project had lots of experiences for all of the involved parties in different levels. Central
offices of the ministries, regional water authorities, provincial agricultural organizations, research
stations and agricultural service centers, all gained experiences in one or another way during the
project. The project had major effects on the traditional top-down decision-making system of the
sector.
In the other side, Consultants got good experiences particularly for carrying out the agricultural
development and environmental studies.
8. Project Sustainability
The sustainability of the project has been achieved fully by adopting following measures:
a) WUG. The expansion of the modem irrigation sector results in an increasing involvement
and financial burden to the Government. Within the framework of the privatization policy
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 8
of the Government of Iran, the Ministries of Agriculture and Energy have started the
process of handing over the responsibility for irrigation management to the farmers. The
successful experience in formation of the WUG in Tajan & Behbahan SPs in this project,
which is the first legal WUGs in Iran, is now a National Policy, which is carried out at the
present with the strong support of government.
The government provided good incentives like agricultural and O&M machinery, office
building & implementation of pressurized irrigation, all for free to enhance this activity.
It is important to mention that the WUGs, which have been formed in this project, are the
first legal one in Iran.
b) O&M. Operation and maintenance of the networks in the subprojects were studied in
parallel with formation of WUGs. In all subprojects, special studies were carried out
covering all aspects of these companies in terms of organizational structure, authority,
staff and administration procedures. Moreover, for each of the networks a manual for
operation and maintenance of* irrigation and drainage schemes has been prepared
individually.
As the first subproject, the farmers are now the partners of Tajan O&M Company and are
taking part of the responsibilities.
In the other side, special local and overseas training programs have been carried out on
O&M issues for related staff.
With the said actions, it is evident that the government is seriously following up
motivation of these companies with participation of farmers, which will guarantee
appropriate operation of networks constructed or rehabilitated in IIP.
c) Training. Human resources are one of the key elements of sustainability. Training
activities which were carried out in IIP covered a large number of MOA central and local
staff and farmers. Through these trainings the main topics of IIP were transferred to the
staff and farmers and results of PWMS, IPM, PVS, O&M and WUG studies were
disseminated. There is a good chance that the trained people will disseminate the project
findings, which maintains the sustainability of the project.
9. Bank Performance
9.i. Lending
Bank performance in the lending phase of IIP was satisfactory. Although, there were some issues
which can be improved for future projects. The objectives of the project were in line with GOI
strategies but the implementation plans had some conflicts with the economic and administrative
rules and regulations of GOI. These conflicts were mainly in procurements of goods and
recruitments for R&E staff.
Moreover, the components consisted of different types of functions (procurement of goods,
training, studies, etc.), which were more than the authority and competences that had been
appraised for the liaison offices.
9.2. Supervision
Bank performance regarding the supervision of the project was satisfactory. Appropriate experts
were visiting the project regularly. At the beginning, the supervision missions were every 3
months but in the last years, due to considerable improvements in project implementation it was
carried out every 6 months.
During the last months of the project, the payments requests by MOA/LO were not replied timely
by the WB.
9.3. Overall Performance
Overall Bank performance is satisfactory based on the several issues discussed above.
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 9
10. Borrower Performance
10.1.   Pre-implementation
As the first experience of the country in this sector, the Borrower's performance in the pre-
implementation phase was satisfactory. The weak points of this phase were due to inadequate
involvement and coordination of several organizations.
10.2.   Government Implementation Performance
Some difficulties such as late recruitment of the central consultants, changes in the management
and staff of the LOs and untimely provision of local funds, arose at the beginning of the project,
however, during the last three years of the project, activities gained momentum and so government
implementation performance can be ranked as satisfactory.
10.3.   Implementing Agency
The performance of the implementing agencies, which comprise of PAOs, RWAs and LOs, were
satisfactory. Taking into account the limitations that were out of their control, the implementing
agencies achieved good results. The good performance of the LOs during the last years of the
project enhanced such good achievements.
10.4.   Overall Performance
The overall performance of borrower is satisfactory. Although IIP was the first WB loan in this
sector (lack of experience of working with the bank regulations), involvement of too many
organizations (difficult to coordinate), diversity of the project (in 4 subprojects) and moreover, the
complexity of the project due to the variety of the components, the project mostly achieved all of
its objectives.
11. Lessons Learned
a) This project was the first experience of GOI on implementation of an integrated irrigation
improvement project, which covers all aspects of agricultural developments. This
integration proved to be very useful as it guarantees the sustainability of the investments.
The GOI will use this framework for future similar projects.
b) The experience of IIP proved that participatory approach is very successful and
effective. It should be used in all levels of management and beneficiary levels. This
approach could affect the traditional top-down system of decision making in R&E
activities, pilot activities and formation of WUGs in the subprojects.
c) Some of the activities, which had been planned in the appraisal phase, were not completely
in accordance with GOI administrative and economic regulations and it took a lot of
efforts to solve the related problems. For any new project with the WB, this lesson has to
be considered in the project design to prevent such problems.
d) Management of a project covering several organizations is very complicated and
somehow impractical. IIP showed that the number of involved parties could be reduced
without hampering the integrity of the project. In addition, all parties should be involved
from the early stages of the project otherwise they will act reluctantly during the project
implementation.
e) One of the most important aspects of the project organization was the Liaison Offices.
Their performance could make them an acceleration engine for the project as well as a
bottleneck. For the future projects, the structure of the liaison offices, their TOR and their
authority should be carefully designed. More over, it should be tried to minimize the
changes in the staff of these offices during the project. In this regard, The MOA has
assigned the current LO as the permanent focal point of all similar projects for the future
in order to keep and use the experiences achieved during the implementation of IIP.
f) A Training Need Assessment Detail Plan is very essential for a training component. It
should define the qualification of trainees, trainers and training materials based on the
project objectives, assessment of project staff and sustainability of the project
achievements.
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 10
g) Due to the complexity of integrated development projects, a MIS and M&E from the very
beginning is a very essential element. During implementation of IIP, these systems were
very useful not only as a management tool but also as a documentation tool.
h) Dissemination of the useful findings and outcomes of the project should be predicted and
taken into account in the planning phase of the project.
12. Acknowledgment
At the end of this report, it is the best opportunity to acknowledge the key persons that were
greatly involved and had major contribution with the IIP project. However, it is hardly possible to
name all the people who had contributed to such a large project:
Mr. A. Bichara          WB         Task Leader
Mr. F. Dauphin          FAO\CP    Agriculture Specialist
Mr. E. Khan             WB         Civil Engineer
H.E. Mr. Amidi          MoF        Deputy Minister for Foreign Investments
Mr. Davoodi             MoF        General Director of International Affairs Office
Mr. Pakbaz              MoF        General Director of Foreign Investments Office
H.E. Mr. Gh. Hosseinifar   MOA     Deputy Minister for Techniques and Infrastructure
H.E. Mr. R Zargar       MOE        Deputy Minister for Water Affairs
Mr. A. Banisaeed        MOA        Liaison Officer
Dr. M. H. Mousavizadeh   MOE       Liaison Officer
Mr. H. Mirnezami        MOA        Senior Expert of the Liaison Office
Dr. J. Jebelli          MOE        Deputy and Technical Advisor
Mr. S. Khalaj           MOE        Senior I&D Expert of MOELO
Mr. D. Malek Ghassemi   MOA        Liaison Officer (retired)
Mr. Farzaneh            MOA        Moghan Subproject Coordinator
Mr. Ettehad             MOE        Moghan Subproject Coordinator
Mr. Khodadadnejad       MOA        Behbahn Subproject Coordinator
Mr. A. Nabavi           MOA        Tajan Subproject Coordinator
Mr. Frouzan             MOE        Tajan Subproject Coordinator
Mr. H. Yahyappour       MOA        Zarrineh Roud Subproject Coordinator
Mr. Azadi               MOE        Zarrineh Roud Subproject Coordinator
Dr. K. Shiati           MOA/CC   Central Consultant Project Manager (YEKOM Consulting Eng.)
Mr. F. Croon            MOA/CC   Central Consultant Team Leader (Arcadis EUROCONSULT)
Mr. Y. Van Staveren     MOA/CC   Agriculture Specialist (Arcadis EUROCONSULT)
Mr. Sh. Ghotbi          MOA/CC   MIS Specialist, ICR preparation (YEKOM Consulting Eng.)
Mr. A. Zohadi           MOE/CC   Central Consultant Project Manager (LAR Consulting Eng.)
Mr. M. Ehsan            MOE/CC   Central Consultant Team Leader (NESPAK Consulting Eng.)
Mr. M. Sharifzadeh      MOE/CC   Senior Expert (LAR Consulting Eng.)
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 1 1
Annexes
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 12
Annex A
Key Indicators
Cropping Intensity
Subproject      Area (ha)                              Yield Increase (%)
Before   After
Behbahan         11,500      88        129        38 (w,b,a,r,s,y,m,f,bb,y)
Moghan           35,600      104       138        49 (w,b,c,a,m,ct,v,sb,s,sy,sf)
Zarrineh Roud    36,000      70        80.6       90 (w,b,a,m,c,v,sb,s,sy,m,sf)
Tajan            7,500       95        117        48 (w,b,a,c,sb,v,m,sf,p,sg)
Total            90,600      90        113        64
w    Wheat                       r    Rice                     sy   Soybean
b    Barely                      s    Sesame                   sf   Sunflower
a    Alfalfa                     m    Maize                    pt   Potatoes
f    Flax                        c    Colza                    v    Vegetables
bb   Broad Beans                 ct   Cotton                   sb   Sugar Beet
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 13
Annex B
Effect of reduced water use
Water Use and Yield
Water Use (1000 m3/ha)                  Yield (toniha)
Cropping      Pilot        Crop                            % of                                  % Of
Season                                Ref.      Pilot   reduction      Ref.         Pilot      increase
Parsabad        Silage      8.0       5.0       37           33.0         56.0         70
Summer   Bileh Savar        Soya        9.7      4.6        53           2.2          3.8         73
1999
Behbahan        Maize       17.0      9.5       44           4.4          5.0          14
Winter     Bileh Savar     Wheat        5.4      3.6        33           4.0          6.8         71
99/00      Behbahan        Wheat        7.2      3.9        56           3.4          3.7          7
Spring     Parsabad      Sugar beet    13.6      10.5       23        Root: 51.9    Root: 664   Root:28
2000                                                                  Sugar: 4.9    Sugar: 7.9    Sugar: 81
Summer   Bileh Savar        Soya        3.8      1.7        54           2.1          2.8          36
2000       Behbahan        Maize       13.9      8.9        36           5.3          5.9          11
Efficiencies of Water Use & Application
Water use eff. (kglm3)             Application eff. (%)
Cropping      Pilot        Crop                    Pl         % of        Ref.       P            % of
Season                                  Ref.              0 incBreasei                         increase
Parsabad        Silage       4.1        11.1        171        32          59          84
Summer   Bileh Savar       Soya          0.2        0.8        257         23         49          113
1999
Behbahan        Maize         0.3       0.5         104        20          47          135
Winter     Bileh Savar     Wheat         0.7        1.9        171         27         60           122 
99/00      Behbahan        Wheat         0.5        0.9         98         -          69            -
Spring     Pasbd         Sugar bet Root: 3.8   Root: 6.3    Root: 87       33         61           82
2000       Parsabad            beet   Sugar: 0.4  Sugar: 0.8  Sugar. III
Summer   Bileh Savar        Soya         0.5        1.6        200         27         58          115
2000       Behbahan        Maize         0.4        0.7         76         34         61           79
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP, Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



Page 14
Annex C
Effects of IPM and Reduced A Cs Use
Yield, Total Cost and Net Income
Yield (ton/ha)           Total Cost (10A6 [RR/ha)      Net Income (106 IRR/ha)
Pilot      Crop%o%f
Ref.    Pilot    ce of        Ref.    Pilot     % Of         Ref.    Pilot  increase
Moghan        Cotton      2.4      3.2       38         NA       NA        NA          NA       NA       NA
Parsabad      Silage     37.8    38.4        1          1.7      1.7       0           0.8      0.9       13
Moghan        Cotton      2.4      2.5       5          2.4      2.0       20          4.9     5.6        16
Bileh Savar    Soya       1.9      2.8       49         1.4      1.3       7           1.5      2.5       68
Tajan          Rice       4.1      4.7       12         4.7      4.2       11          10.4    11.9       14
Joibar
Tajan          Rice       4.9      5.4       8          4.2      4.1       2           13.2    15.8       20
Sad
Agro-economic Indicators
|  Pilot       Crop          Chemical        Herbicide       Pesticide    Additional Yield   Income
Pilot   Crop         ~~Fertiliser                                                     Income___ ________ ________
(Kg/ha)         (Kg/ha)         (Kg/ha)      .  (Kg/ha)        (IRR/ha)
Moghan/         Cotton            NA             -60%           -60%            +860             NA
Parsabad         Silage          -174.0          -0.7            -1.5            +640          +100000
Moghan/         Cotton           -84.0           -0.6            -4.8           +113           +790000
Bileh Savar       Soya           -176.0             0             -3.0            +920         +1000000
=_~~~~R .                                              Nose
Tajan/Joibar _     Rice           -27.0           -1.8           Not used         +503          +2650000
I  Tajan/Sari         Rice     |    -225.0             0             -2.1            +404         +1500000
Islamic Republic of Iran: IIP. Borrower's Contribution in IIP Implementation Completion Report (ICR), July 2001



