Page  1
December 20, 1999
H. E. The Minister of Economic 
   Affairs and Finance 
Ministry of Economic Affairs 
   and Finance 
Islamic Republic of Iran 
Nasser Khorrow Avenue 
Tehran, Iran
IRAN - Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 3570-IRN)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement                      
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Iran (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
dated March 13, 1993, as amended. We also refer to the Ministry of Economic Affairs 
and Finance’s request, dated November 30, 1999(Ref 1793-3-21) to increase the  ceiling 
of the Special Account from four (4) million Dollars to seven (7) million Dollars, in 
order to allow for the Project to be completed on schedule. We are pleased to inform 
you that, after due consideration, the Bank has acceded to the above request and, 
therefore, proposes the following amendments:
Schedule 6: Special Account shall read as follows:
“(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$7,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule”.
All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, shall 
remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your official agreement to the foregoing, as the Borrower’s 
authorized representative under the Agreement, by duly signing and dating the 
corresponding form of confirmation below and returning this amendment letter to us at 
your earliest convenience. A signed duplicate original of this amendment letter is 
enclosed herewith for the Islamic Republic of Iran’s official records.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Director
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
By /s/ Navab                              
Authorized Representative
cc and cleared with:  Messrs. A. Bichara, MNSRE; Belhaj, LEGMN, Thao Le Nguyen, LOAEL
Page  2
