Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3570 IRN
Loan Agreement
(Irrigation Improvement Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 31, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3570 IRN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1993, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement. The General Conditions shall apply to this Agreement 
to the extent the provisions thereof are consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MEAF" means the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance of the 
Borrower;
(b)
"MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"MOE" means the Ministry of Energy of the Borrower;
 
(d)
"PSC" means the Project Steering Committee referred to in Part A (1) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Project Area" means the irrigation and drainage schemes in Behbahan, 
Tajan, Moghan and Zarrineh Roud of the Borrower;
(f)
"RWA" means a Regional Water Authority operating under MOE in the Project 
Area;
(g)
"PAD" means a Provincial Agricultural Department of MOA in the Project 
Area;
(h)
"LO" means a Liaison Office established by MOA or MOE and to be assigned, 
under the Project, the functions stated in Part A (6) (b) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
"DOE" means the Borrower's Department of the Environment; and
 
(k)
"Resettlement Plan" means the plan prepared by MOA and furnished to the 
Bank on November 2, 1992 for resettlement of 49 families whose village would be 
flooded as a result of the reservoir to be created by the ongoing construction of the 
Maroon River Dam, 15 km upstream of Behbahan in the Project Area.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fifty-seven 
million dollars ($157,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and 
other charges on the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay commission on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Commission 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay the commission 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Commission Period, 
calculated at the rate applicable during such Commission Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Commission Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the 
Commission Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay commission on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
commission accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Commission 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Commission Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Commission and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOA and MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate engineering, financial and administrative practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOA and MOE to maintain, through 
their respective LOs, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices their operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause MOA and MOE:
 
(i)
to have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
   and Finance
Nasser Khosrow Avenue
Tehran, Iran
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC
212838 MEF IR
   AFFAIRS AND FINANCE
   TEHRAN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
By /s/ Mohamad Khazaee
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ C. Koch-Weser
Page  6
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works:                                      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
    (a)  to be executed       54,000,000
         by MOE and the
         RWAs
    (b)  to be executed       16,000,000
         by MOA and its
         PADs
(2) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
    materials:                                  expenditures
    (a)  for MOE and          24,500,000
         its RWAs
    (b)  for MOA and          31,500,000
         its PADs
(3) Consultants'                                100% of foreign
    services and                                expenditures
    training:
    (a)  for MOE and          10,500,000
         its RWAs
    (b)  for MOA and           6,000,000
         its PADs
(4) Unallocated               14,500,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               157,000,000
                             ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  7
The objectives of the Project are (a) to enhance management of water resources 
in the Project Area, (b) to upgrade agricultural research and extension services and 
improve agricultural productivity in the Project Area, and (c) to enhance the capacity 
of the institutions involved in Project implementation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Irrigation and Drainage Facilities
 
(1)
Construction, improvement or lining of main, secondary and tertiary canals, 
construction of drains and of pumping stations for irrigation lifts and for drainage 
return flow.
(2)
Carrying out of on-farm development; comprising subsurface drainage and land 
leveling and of demonstration schemes for on-farm water management.
(3)
Construction of offices and staff houses and provision of vehicles and equipment 
for operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems in the Project 
Area.
Part B:
Agricultural Services
 
(1)
Strengthening of agricultural research and extension through the provision for 
the Agricultural Services Centers of MOA in the Project Area of operation equipment 
and vehicles, housing facilities and additional staff.
(2)
Training of PADs' staff.
 
(3)
Carrying out of a pilot program to test methods for the creation of specialized 
extension services for women.
(4)
Provision of farm machinery and implements for sale to farmers in Tajan and 
Zarrineh Roud.
Part C:
Environmental Protection
 
(1)
Provision of equipment, technical services and training to strengthen the 
environmental management capacity of MOA, MOE, DOE, PADs and RWAs.
(2)
Development of model surface water and groundwater quality monitoring programs 
and agricultural chemical management programs for the Project Area.
(3)
Carrying out of erosion control programs in Moghan and Tajan and archaeological 
site survey in Behbahan.
(4)
Carrying out of environmental management studies concerning the Shadegan Marshes 
Protected Area, Lake Oruyimeh National Park, man-made shallow ponds in the Tajan 
Plain, and fishery resources in the Maroon and Tajan Rivers.
Part D:
Institutional Development, Training and Studies
 
(1)
Provision of equipment, staff and other facilities to the LOs in Tehran and to 
the planning units of MOA and MOE.
(2)
Carrying out, with the assistance of experts, of: (a) an irrigation subsector 
review, (b) feasibility studies for selected priority irrigation schemes in the 
Project Area, (c) studies of common aspects in Project implementation, such as 
monitoring and evaluation, and operation and maintenance procedures, (d) a study of 
rural financial markets, and (e) hydrometric monitoring.
(3)
Employment of a panel of experts to review all technical and operational safety 
aspects concerning the Maroon River and Shahid Rajai Dams.
(4)
Training for the managerial and technical staff of MOA, MOE, RWAs, PADs, DOE, 
Page  8
the Agricultural Bank of Iran and other staff involved in project implementation.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1998
through November 1, 2009
6,540,000
 
On May 1, 2010
6,580,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The commission rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but 
0.35
Page  9
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before 
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
(a)
Bidders for works shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Islamic Republic of Iran may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for the construction of offfices, staff houses and workshops or for 
on-farm development, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $1,000,000, may 
be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank.
2.
Items or groups of items of equipment and materials estimated to cost not more 
than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Items of spare parts which the Bank agrees, for purposes of compatibility with 
existing machinery and equipment, to their procurement from particular suppliers, may 
be procured under contracts to be concluded with such suppliers on terms satisfactory 
to the Bank.
4.
Miscellaneous items of equipment and spare parts estimated to cost not more than 
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $7,000,000, may be
procured under contracts concluded in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Bank, on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
suppliers.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  10
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 (a) 
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the MOA and MOE in the carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause MOA and MOE to employ, in accordance with a time schedule 
acceptable to the Bank, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Implementation Responsibilities and Arrangements
 
(1)
The Borrower shall maintain the existence of the Project Steering Committee 
(PSC), chaired by a Deputy Minister of MEAF, and assign to it the responsibilities for 
(a) approval of annual work program and budget for the Project, (b) monitoring 
progress in Project implementation, and (c) coordination with other agencies to 
facilitate such implementation.
(2)
MOE shall be responsible for the carrying out of works under Part A (1) and (3) 
of the Project.
(3)
MOA shall be responsible for the carrying out of Parts A (2) and B of the 
Project.
(4)
MOA and MOE shall be responsible for the carrying out of activities falling 
under their respective jurisdictions under Parts C and D of the Project.
(5)
Whenever relevant, DOE shall participate in activities of PSC related to the 
carrying out of Part C of the Project.
Page  11
(6)
MOA and MOE shall:
 
(a)
assign the technical responsibility for the carrying out of their 
respective activities under the Project to their PADs and RWAs in the Project Area; 
and
(b)
each maintain and adequately staff its Liaison Office (LO), and make it 
responsible for: (i) review of draft Project annual work plan, and for submission of 
the same to PSC, (ii) coordination of activities under the Project, (iii) preparation, 
on the basis of information obtained from agencies involved in the carrying out of the 
Project, of Project consolidated progress reports, (iv) maintenance of financial 
procedures for the Project, preparation of application for withdrawal of the proceeds 
of the Loan and arranging for audit of the Project accounts referred to in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, (v) review of procurement documents under the Project and 
carrying out such procurement whenever feasible, and (vi) preparation for the carrying 
out of the studies referred to in Part D (2) of the Project.
B.
Special Requirements
 
(1)
The Borrower shall cause MOE: (a) to employ the panel of experts referred to in 
Part D (3) of the Project not later than December 31, 1993 and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(2)
The Borrower shall cause MOA and MOE to strengthen, during the period of Project 
implementation, the functions of operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage 
systems in the Project Area through the assignment of additional technical and 
administrative staff.
(3)
The Borrower shall cause MOA:
 
(a)
to implement the Resettlement Plan in accordance with the time schedule 
indicated therein, and
(b)
to incorporate information regarding such implementation in the reports 
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to Part C of this Schedule.
(4)
For the import and distribution of farm machinery and implements under Part B 
(4) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MOA:
(a)
to seek offers for such import from importers with appropriate 
qualifications and experience;
(b)
to undertake the evaluation of such offers in accordance with criteria 
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and MOA; and
(c)
to make the proceeds of the Loan allocated for such machinery and 
implements available to the selected importers under contracts whereby such importers 
shall be required (i) to pay the equivalent in Iranian Rials of the proceeds of the 
Loan made available to them on the basis of the free market exchange rate used by the 
Central Bank of Iran on the day of opening the relevant letter of credit on account of 
such import, and (ii) to limit distribution of such machinery and implements to
the parts of the Project Area located in Tajan and Zarrineh Roud, and to furnish to 
MOA evidence demonstrating such distribution.
C.
Reporting
 
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure the preparation by the LOs and the furnishing to 
the Bank, by June 30, 1997, of a detailed report on the status of Project 
implementation, describing, inter alia, progress in achieving the physical targets, 
specified in the annual work program referred to in Part A (1) of this Schedule, the 
managerial and technical difficulties encountered in the implementation of the Project 
and the adequacy of resources allocated for such implementation, and (b) cause MOE, 
MOA, PADs, RWAs and DOE to conduct jointly with the Bank, on the basis of the findings 
of such report, in September 1997, or such other date as the Bank may agree, a 
mid-term review of the Project with a view to agreeing to such adjustments to the 
Project components or such other measures as may be required to achieve the objectives 
of the Project.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
Page  13
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
