Page  1
October 20, 1993
His Excellency Dr. M. Navab Mutlagh
Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
Nasser Khosrow Avenue
Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran
Re:
Loan No. 3570-IRN
Irrigation Improvement Project
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-mentioned Project, dated March 31, 
1993, entered  into by and between the Islamic Republic of Iran (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).
I am pleased to inform you that, pursuant to the letter received from the 
Director of the Office for International Organizations and Institutions, Ministry of 
Economic Affairs and Finance, dated September 28, 1993, the Bank agrees to amend the 
Loan Agreement (i) to provide for the financing of part of local expenditures, (ii) to 
provide for two special accounts, and (iii) to increase the total amount of the 
"Authorized Allocations" for the special accounts.
The Loan Agreement is, therefore, hereby amended as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 (i) is amended to read as follows:
 
(i)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this 
Agreement;
 
2.
Section 2.02 (b) is amended to read as follows:
 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two 
special deposit accounts in commercial banks on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against 
set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the 
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
6 to 
this Agreement. One such Special Account shall be for purposes of those parts of the 
Project 
carried out by MOE and the other shall be for purposes of those parts of 
the Project carried out 
by MOA.
 
3.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in 
Attachment A.
4.
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Borrower; and
 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of the Borrower or 
for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
 
5.
Schedule 6 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment B.
 
6.
All other references to "Special Account" are amended to read "Special Accounts"  
and any necessary corresponding grammatical changes are deemed to be made.
Page  2
Please confirm the Borrower's agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing 
and dating the attached duplicate original of this amendment letter, and returning it 
to us at your earliest convenience.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOIPMENT
By /s/ Rene Costa
Acting Director
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
December 14,1993
 
Attachment A
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
 
(1)
Works:               
100% of foreign
expenditures and 40%
(a)
to be executed by MOE
   54,000,000
of local 
expenditures
and the RWA's
(b)
to be executed by MOA
and its PADs
   16,000,000
 
(2)
Equipment and Materials:
100% of foreign
expenditures and 70% 
of
(a)
for MOE and its RWAs
   24,500,000
ex-factory 
cost for locally
manufactured
goods
(b)
for MOA and PADs
   31,500,000
 
(3)
Consultants' services and
100%
training:
(a)
for MOE and its RWAs
   10,500,000
 
(b)
for MOA and its PADs 
    6,000,000
 
(4)
Unallocated
   14,500,000
 
TOTAL
  157,000,000
 
ATTACHMENT B
Page  3
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocations" means, with respect to the Special 
Account for purposes of those parts of the Project carried out by MOE, an amount 
equivalent to $2,000,000, and with respect to the Special Account for the purposes of 
those parts of the Project carried out by MOA, a further amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 (i.e., the sum of the two Authorized Allocations is $4,000,000), in each 
case to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the relevant Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit in the relevant Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the relevant Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the relevant Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the relevant 
Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Nothwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
Page  4
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the sum of the Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the relevant Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) and amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
