Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4447-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 106.3 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 2, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization-



Currency Equivalents
(As of February 26, 1987)
US$1.00        =    Rs 13.07
Rs 1.00        =    US$0.0765
Rs 1 million   =    US$76,511
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except as otherwise noted, made at the
rate of US$1 to Rs 13.
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CGA      -   Central Ganga Authority
DLB      -   Directorate of Local Bodies
COI      -   Government of India
GOUP     -   Government of Uttar Pradesh
GPD      -   Canga Project Directorate
HUDD     -   Housing and Urban Development Department (of COUP)
IPMC     -   Investment Planning and Monitoring Cell (of HUDD)
KUDP     -   Kanpur Urban Development Project
MOUD     -   Ministry of Urban Development
UNDP/TAG -   United Nations Development Programme/Technology Advisory Group
UP       -   Uttar Pradesh
UPJN     -   Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam (state water and sewerage authority)
UPWSSP   -   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 585-IN)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
1-i
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTr
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             India, acting by its President (cot)
Beneficiaries:        Government of Uttar Pradesh (COUP) and up to 30 towns
in Uttar Pradesh (UP); and Gangs Project Directorate
(GPD) and four or more towns in Bihar, UP, and West
Bengal.
Amount:               Bank Loan :  US$20 Million
IDA Credit:  SDR 106.3 Million (US$130.0 M equivalent)
Terms:                Bank Loan :  Repayment over 20 years including five
years' grace, at applicable rate of
interest.
IDA Credit:  Standard.
Relending Terms: (a) From GOI to COUP:  As part of central assistance to
states for development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
From COUP to the development authorities, municipal
corporations or boards, town water and sewerage
authorities, in about 30 urban areas for:
(i)   technical assistance:  grants, remainder on
loan - see (v);
(ii)  low cost sanitation:  50% grants;
(iii) slum upgrading: grants up to Rs 250/capita;
(iv) community facilities in sites and services: grants
and
(v)   other project activities:   at 8.75Z p.a. interest
over 20 years including five years' grace period
on principal repayments. Agencies would on-lend
to beneficiaries at not less than 12% p.a. over
varying periods of time.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World llank authorization.



-ii-
(b) From GOI to GPD: grants.
From CPD to designated implementing agencies in Bihar,
UP, and West Bengal: grants.
GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description: The project would: (a) support policy adjustments,
institutional strengthening, and urban shelter and
infrastructure developments initiated by COUP; and (b)
address sector policy improvements to support GPD at the
national Level by strategic planning for pollution
reduction and control in the Canga River.
The project comprises two distinct programs: the UP
Program, and the Canga Program. The UP Program would
support: (a) sector management, technical assistance and
training, sites and services, slum upgrading, area
development, water supply, sewerage and sewage treatment,
drainage, low cost sanitation, solid waste management,
maintenance management, and traffic engineering and
management, in about 12 urban areas in the state, and (b)
low cost sanitation investments in a further 18 towns where
United Nations Development Programme/Technology Advisory
Group (UNDP/TAG) feasibility studies have already been
carried out. This program would focus on improving urban
management, and operations and maintenance of investments,
including improved resource mobilization and utilization.
The Canga program would provide consulting services,
studies, training, priority rebabilitation and pollution
control works, and equipment for sewer cleaning operations
and river monitoring to reduce pollution of the Canga
River.
The potential risks of the UP program are: (a) the
capacity of UP's Investment Planning and Monitoring Cell
(IPHC) to manage the project; (b) the institutional
capacity of town agencies to implement a multi-sector
investment program; and (c) non-compliance by COUP and
project towns with policy conditions relating to cost
recovery and resource mobilization. However, GOUP has
staffed the IPMC with its most experienced
multi-discipline officers who are familiar with
programmed activities. Project towns would implement
an operational action plan, supplemented by
training, to strengthen their institutional capacity.
COUP and project towns have already demonstrated a firm
commitment to objectives by having increased



-iii-
substantially, water tariffs and water and sewer taxes
and charges. The potential risks of the Ganga program
are low since GPD will be engaging specialist
consulting services to support its core team.
implementation will be carried out by competent
authorities at the state level.
Estimated Costs:                              Local        Foreign        Total
…(US$ million)-
Sector Management, Technical
Assistance and Training                  5.7            2.3          8.0
Sites and Services                        14.3            1.3         15.6
Slum Upgrading                             7.5            0.8          8.3
Area Development                           1.8            0.2          2.0
Water Supply                              35.8            7.8         43.6
Sewerage                               * 19.8            19.4         39.2
Drainage                                  12.7            1.4         14.1
Low Cost Sanitation                        6.1            0.7          6.7
Solid Waste Management                     5.2            1.5          6.8
Maintenance Management                     4.5            1.2          5.7
Traffic Engineering and
Management                              4.8             0.5          5.3
Sub-total                             118.2           37.1        155.3
Physical Contingencies                    10.1            3.0         13.1
Design, Supervision and
Management                              13.8           4.0          17.8
Price Contingencies                      39.3            12.3        51.6
Total Project Cost /a                 181.4            56.4       237.8
a Includes $12.0 million of taxes and duties.



-iv
Financing Plan:             Local        Foreign       Total
--   (US$ million)--
IBRD/IDA               93.6          56.4        150.0
COUP             74.5                        74.5
CGA               13.3                       13.3
Total Project Cost      181.4           56.4       237.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY        1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
~~~------------- (S  jl-                   ---------S mlio)
…-~~Tus~~ mlionY--- --                     …
AnnuaL          6.0   18.0   24.0   25.5   24.0   19.5   16.5   12.0    4.5
Cumulative      6.0   24.0   48.0   73.5   97.5  117.0  133.5  145.5  150.0
Economic Rate
of Return:          Between 10.2Z-17.0Z on components representing about 52%
of total project cost for which benefits are
quantifiable.
Appraisal Report:    No. 6458-IN dated April 2, 1987.
Kaps:                 IBRD 19880  Central Ganga Program
IIBRD 19881 UP Program



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDIA
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
of US$20.0 million and a proposed credit to India for SDR 106.3 million
(US$130.0 million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a project to
support (a) urban development in about 30 towns of Uttar Pradesh; and .o)
investments in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal leading to the reduction
of pollution levels in the Ganga River. The Government of India (GOI) wouLd
channel part of the proceeds of the loan and credit to the Government of
Uttar Pradesh (COUP) in accordance with COI's standard terms and arrangements
for financing state development projects, and the balance to the Canga
Project Directorate (CPD), as grants. GOUP would onlend part of the credit
proceeds to implementing agencies in the project towns for 20 years including
five years' grace period on principal repayment, at 8.75X interest per annum.
GPD would pass on its portion of the credit proceeds to designated
implementing agencies in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, as grants.
GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.    A country economic report, "India:  Economic Situation and Development
Prospects" (6090-IN, dated May 9, 1986), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 12, 1986. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is the seventh largest country on earth and with a
population of about 780 million (in mid-1986) the second most populous.  It
is also among the poorest, with an average per capita income of about
US$260. Agriculture dominates the economy, accounting for about two-thirds
of employment. The steady increase in population, which continues at a rate
of 2.0% a year, has put increasing pressure on natural resources, in
particular cultivable land. By the mid-1960s, nearly all arable land had
been brought under cultivation, although irrigation continues to expand total
cultivable area. Industrial development has not progressed rapidly enough to
bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly higher
productivity and income levels. The relatively modest historic long-term



-2-
rate of growth of the economy, 3.5% per year, has meant increases in the
labor force have had to be absorbed in agriculture and other low income
sectors. The long-term growth of per capita income has only averaged about
1.4% p.a. and close to one-half of India's population continues to live
below the poverty line. Alleviation of poverty has been and remains at the
core of India's development problem.
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was
characterized by slow economic growth, moderate infLation and a sustainable
external position. GDP grew at about 3.5%, agriculture at 1.8% and industry
4.8%; imports grew at 4.6% and exports at 5.8% a year. Although India was
able to reduce its dependence on foodgrain imports, from a peak of 14% of
total consumption in 1966/67 to 4.5% in 1969/70--mainly as a result of the
Green Revolution--progress in poverty alleviation was slow.
5.      The 1970's was a decade of wide swings in India's economic fortunes,
dominated by movements of the international terms of trade and the influence
of weather on agricultural output. The steep rise in international oil
prices and accelerating global inflation led to a sharp deterioration of
India's terms of trade in the early 1970s, eroding its capacity to import.
The Government successfully responded to this by intensifying export
promotion efforts and liberalizing exporters' access to imported inputs. As
a result of these efforts, which were helped by the expansion of export
markets, especially in the Middle East, export growth rose from an average of
2.2% a year during the 1950s and 1960s to 7.3% in the 1970s. This expansion
of exports, together with continued import substitution, particularly in
foodgrains, and increased remittances, made it possible for India to attain a
surplus in its current account between 1976/77 and 1978/79. However, towards
the end of the 1970s, India experienced a series of domestic and external
setbacks. In 1979/80 India suffered one of its worst droughts in history,
reducing agricultural output by more than 15%. This coincided with the
second major increase in international oil prices, which doubled India's oil
import bill. As a result, the external current account swung into deficit
and the price stability that the Indian economy had enjoyed after 1975 came
to an abrupt end. The Government responded by mounting an economic
adjustment program, which was eventually embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan
(1980-85). The principal objective of the program was to raise the GDP
growth rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% per annum through
alleviation of infrastructure and supply constraints, increased energy
independence, improved efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and
efficient import substitution.
The Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85)
6.      On the whole, the adjustment program has been successful, as GDP grew
by 5.4% per year during the Plan period, domestic inflation was moderate and
the balance of payments situation remained under control. The developments
in the Indian economy during the Sixth Plan underscore the fundamental
soundness of key policies and programs, particularly in agriculture and
energy. They attest to prudent and skillful macroeconomic management, which



-3-
allowed production to grow while keeping external borrowing within acceptable
levels and holding inflationary pressures in check. However, performance
during the Plan period also indicated weaknesses in the industrial sector,
continuing infrastructure problems, especially in electric power generation,
increasing pressures on public finances and a lack of dynamism in exports.
7.      The increase in the growth rate of the economy during the Sixth Plan
period reflected improvements in the performance of several key sectors. The
average growth of agricultural value added of 4.5% a year exceeded the Plan
target of 3.8%, as the ambitious targets for foodgrain and oilseed production
were virtually attained. 11 This is an indication
of the effectiveness of programs to expand irrigation, strengthen research
and extension and encourage the efficient use of agricultural inputs. The
spread of irrigation appears to have made agriculture more resilient and
resistant to poor weather as high levels of foodgrain production could be
sustained through years of indifferent monsoons. India also succeeded in
raising the output of some important raw materials. Domestic production of
petroleum grew at 20%, natural gas output at 19.2%, coal output at 6.9%, and
the production of cement and fertilizer at 10.6Z and 8.1%, respectively.
8.      Improvements in performance did not occur evenly throughout the
economy. The industrial sector performed less well. Its growth averaged
about 4.9% (1980/81-1984/85) a year--below the growth rates achieved in the
1960s and 1970s. Industrial growth has been inhibited by rigid Government
controls, slow growth of domestic demand, power shortages, and labor unrest.
Much of the industrial sector is not internationally competitive as
quantitative restrictions and high tariffs on imports of inputs and capital
goods have generated high costs and prices for industrial goods. India's
export performance reflects this lack of competitiveness. Instead of the
targeted 9Z a year, exports grew only by 4.5% per annum. The savings
performance of the economy also deteriorated somewhat. The national savings
rate, which had risen steeply in the 1970s, fell from 24.3% to about 23%.
The shortfall in savings was most noticeable in the public sector, reflecting
low profits or financial losses of puD'ic enterprises and lower than expected
tax revenues. Savings thus, remaine. below the rate required (24.5%) to
finance the investment program and the growth of investment had to be limited
to 6.4Z a year instead of the targeted 8.9%.
1/ Actual GDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.4Z per
annum. However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years because
of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5Z CDP growth per annum
and 3.3% annual agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983184 (two "normal"
years) are more representative of the growth rates during the period.



-4-
The Seventh Plan (1985-90)
9.      To deal effectively with the challenge of alleviating pervasive
poverty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor force, the
growth momentum attained under the Sixth Plan will have to be sustained
through the Seventh Plan period and beyond. India's policymakers have become
aware in recent years that this will require some changes in the existing
framework. The Seventh Plan reflects this in focusing on the ways to achieve
greater efficiency, productivity and competitiveness in the economy. In
agriculture, the Plan gives highest priority to the completion of ongoing
irrigation schemes; in industry, it emphasizes improvements in productivity,
cost reduction, and improved competitiveness. Unlike its predecessors, the
Seventh Plan calls for a greater role for the private sector and promises to
provide the incentives needed to encourage private industrial investment.
Measures taken during the Sixth Plan already provided entrepreneurs with
greater flexibility in decision making. The Seventh Plan envisages building
on this by further easing licensing requirements and introducing more
flexibility into the pricing of commodities which are subject to Government
administration. It also calls for continued trade liberalization and
emphasizes the promotion of exports. The Plan reaffirms traditional concerns
about poverty and attempts to ensure the benefits of accelerated growth are
distributed equitably. It also gives high priority to ensuring sufficient
availabili,y of food, which would keep food prices down and protect real
incomes of the poor, as wcll as to expanding employment and raising
productivity.
10.     Recent Developments.  The Government's commitment
to policy change has been underscored by the introduction of a series of new
initiatives in industry, trade and Government finance. Several important
measures, many of which represented radical departures from past practice,
were implemented in 1984185. This included opening up telecommunication
equipment manufacturing to the private sector, liberalizing imports for the
electronics and computer industries, allowing greater flexibility in product
lines ("broadbanding") for the automotive and machine tool industries. Other
controls on industry were loosened: the number of industrial units coming
under the ambit of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act was
reduced by about 15%; the number of industries required to obtain licenses to
install new capacity or expand existing capacity was reduced substantially;
the number of industries benefiting from "broadbanding" was increased; and
procedures for obtaining investment clearances and approval of foreign
collaboration were streamlined.
I1.     Changes have also been made in trade poLicy.  However these were less
sweeping than those in the industriaL area. In its new Import-Export policy,
the Government adopted measures to ease restrictions on imports, especially
capital goods for the modernization of industry, including selective import
duty reductions, and introduced new export incentives. The 1987/88 budget
continues this process, providing for a rationalization of tariffs on
machinery inputs. The import measures led to a surge in investment and
imports. However, the export promotion measures--which included a



simplification of the administrative requirements for duty free imports by
exporters, a widening of the eligibility for advance licenses, and a
reduction of export taxes and improvements in foreign exchange forward cover
facilities--had only a marginal impact on the ease and profitability of
exporting. This was at least in part due to several offsetting measures,
including tightening of the advance licensing system and withdrawing or
restricting a number of faciLities previously available to large export
houses.
12.     In parallel with the policy changes in industry and trade, the
Government introduced significant changes in tax policy. In order to improve
cax compliance and simplify administration, the 1985/86 budget reduced income
tax rates for individuals and abolished the surcharge on income tax. Wealth
taxes were also lowered which, together with lower income tax rates, reduced
the maximum marginal tax rate on income from wealth from over 110% to 70%.
The 1986/87 budget continued tax simplification, introducing a new, more
smoothly phased excise tax concession scheme for small scale industry and
eliminating some special excise duties. Perhaps the most far-reaching policy
change was the introduction of the modified value added tax system covering
about 35% of its manufactured production. The 1987/88 budget extends this
tax to all sectors except textiles, tobacco and petroleum.
13. The'performance of the economy in the first year (1985/86) of the
Seventh Plan attests to the soundness of the Government's approach. Real CDP
is estimated to have grown by 5.3%, with industry growing at about the target
rate of 6.6%. Agricultural GDP growth was rougily on target with foodgrain
production reaching about 150 million tons, just a little below the peak
production level of 1983/84. There was also a marked improvement in the
performance of the key infrastructure sectors. Electricity generation
increased by about 8Z on top of the 13% increase achieved in the previous
year, mainly because of better utilization of thermal plant capacity. While
coal production grew more slowly than in the previous year, this reflected
the Government's efforts to reduce large pithead stocks. Railway freight
traffic increased an estimated 92 as larger quantities of cement, coal,
petroleum and fertilizer were shipped.
14.     The growth momentum of the Sixth Plan period was sustained without
apparent inflationary pressures. The wholesale price index rose by only 3.72
during 1985/86 compared to nearLy 8% in 1984/85. Ample availability of
foodgrains, sugar and edible oiL, combined with the strict control of
Government expenditures, and tightened monetary policy were the key factors
limiting inflation. While the prices of coal, fertilizer, grain and
petroleum products have been increased recently, this is not expected to
affect the inflation rate significantly.
15.     Export growth was a significant exception to the general strong
performance of the Indian economy. Nonpetroleum exports grew by only 2X in
dollar terms in 1985/86, although there was a discernible improvement in the
second half of the year which portends better performance in 1986/87. This
contrasts with a 131 increase in imports. However, some of the increase in



-6-
imports was due to n bunching of raw material and intermediate goods imports
by State agencies to take advantage of lower commodity prices. This should
moderate import growth in the follr.Ang year.  Despite the increase in the
trade deficit, gross reserves inicreasied by US$550 million to a level of about
US$6.7 billion at the end of March 1986. This is in part due to a moderate
increase in worker's remittances, larger tourism receipts and a surge in
inflow of deposits by non-residents.
16.     Development Prospects and Policien.  Attaining the objectives of the
Seventh Plan in the years ahead will require Eurther improvements in domestic
policy aimed at increasing the efficiency of resout.nce allocation and use.
India will need to: (a) maintain the recent higher rate of expansion of
agricultural production; (b) accelerate industrial production and export
growth through policy changes that encourage domestic competition and
efficiency; (c) improve basic infrastructure services and the availability
of energy; and td) sustain the overall levels of saving and investment.
17.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the
Sixth °lan, Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the second half of
the decade. As possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink,
agricultural growth will depend on finding new ways of increasing the
productivity of land through further development of irrigation, better water
management, more intensive use of new technology, efficient delivery of
inputs and services, and appropriate pricing policies. High priority must be
given to the expansion of the country's irrigated area through completion of
ongoing irrigation projects, as well as selective investment in new
undertakings. Besides creating new irrigation potential, the efficiency of
irrigated farming will have to be enhanced through the improvement of water
management practices in existing irrigation systems. Greater emphasis should
also be given to obtaining higher yields under rainfed and dryland farming
conditions. Finally, even greater efforts must be made to build and
strengthen institutions to ensure the efficient delivery of agricultural
services, input supplies, credit and technoLogy.
18.     Industry and Trade.  Prospects for raising India's GDP growth rate
will, to a large extent, depend on more rapid industrial production and
export growth. A key requirement will be greater competitive pressure on
industry than in the past. While the size of the Indian economy suggests
that much of this competitive pressure can come from within the domestic
economy if the burden of Government regulation is eased, greater exposure to
foreign competition both at hame and abroad wouLd induce greater efficiency,
technological innovation and modernization.
19.     Domestic policies will need to allow greater freedom for industrial
firms to enter, exit and adjust production levels and lines in rerponse to
market price signals. The Government has taken various initiativrs in this
direction during the past several years. These changes have begun to produce
a marked favorable impact on the investment climate, and the manufacturing
sector is beginning to respond. However, the policy changes initiated to
date only begin what will be a long process of adjustment. Much more remains



-7-
to be done to shift the balance of policy from the present reliance on
extensive direct control and intervention to one which relies more on
competitive pressures from both within the country and abroad, in order to
induce the improvements in productivity and the technology upgrading which
are required for accelerated investment, production and export growth. More
specific attention will have to be paid to export development. The measures
taken to promote exports have not had a significant effect on export growth
so far. Unless export growth accelerates, the prospects for sustaining the
import liberalization effort and, in turn for sustaining higher industrial
and overall CDP growth will be jeopardized. Thus, there remains a need for
the Government to modify trade policies in such a way that the net impact of
the incentive structure is more neutral between exports and import
substitution. To do this it must: (a) intensify its efforts in improving
export incentives and ensuring exporters greater access to imported inputs
and capital goods at world prices; and (b) reduce the high protection of the
domestic market by moving away from direct import controls to protection
based on more moderate and uniform tariffs.
20.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in infrastructure currently
constitute about one-third of total investment in India. The planning,
implementation, and the efficacy of management of these investments has an
important bearing on the overall efficiency of investment and the growth of
the entire economy. There is substantial evidence that better planning and
management of public investments in power, coal, railways and irrigation
could improve returns and lower the capital-output ratios. For example,
investment requirements could be reduced and/or output increased by better
water management in irrigation projects, improving load factors in thermal
power generation, raising capacity utilization in the fertilizer industry and
improving efficiency in railway transport.
21.     Resource MobiLization.  India's national savings rate (22.6% in
1980-85) is high for a country at its level of income. The Seventh Plan
calls for an increase in the share of public sector investment financed from
its own resources to 42% compared to 37% during the Sixth Plan period. This
will require restraint in current expenditures (including a reduction in the
rapidly growing food and fertilizer subsidies), and some further increase in
the aggregate savings rate especially in pubLic savings. Appropriate pricing
policies in public enterprises, supported by improvements in their
operational efficiency, will be required to increase public resource
mobilization.
22.     Balance of Payments.  Sustaining GDP growth of 5% per annum wiLl
require measures which assure a viable balance of payments position.
Acceleration of industrial growth will lead to a substantial increase in
import requirements, even after allowing for continued import substitution.
Bank staff estimates place the export volume growth necessary to support
these growing import requirements without excessive increases in external
borrowing at about 6Z a year over the Seventh Plan period. Prospects for
India attaining this growth rate will depend heavily on changes in domestic
policy to improve the profitability of exports.



-8-
23.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India will continue to
need substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for the
foreseeable future. Even with 6% export growth, the 5% CDP growth implies an
increase in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion during the Sixth Plan
period to US$27.5 billion for the Seventh. In the past, the bulk of
external financing was provided in the form of official development
assistance. In more recent years there has been a large deterioration in the
terms of aid from multilateral sources. For example, while total lending
from the Bank Group continued to increase in nominal terms, the grant element
declined from 71% to 41% as new commitments of IDA declined from a peak of
$1,535 million in FY80 to $673 million in FY85 and about $640 million in
FY86. In addition India has had to rely somewhat more heavily on commercial
borrowing and, in the early 1980's, on drawings from the IHF.
24.     As a result of the larger volume and harder terms of external capital
flows during the first half of this decade, India's debt service ratio can be
expected to rise from the present 18.9% to about 26% by the end of the
decade. In large measure, this reflects the peaking of scheduled repurchases
from the IMF in 1989/90. However, the debt service ratio would taper off
rapidly thereafter, declining to just over 21% by 1994/95.
25.     In the near term, a relatively high level of external borrowing,
including an increased reliance on nonconcessional borrowing, will be
necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of the growth
strategy and to repay outstanding debt to the IMF. However, India's past
prudent balance of payments management indicates that it would sacrifice its
growth objectives rather than borrow excessively or on unfavorable terms.
Thus, a greater volume of official assistance is warranted, particularly on
concessional terms. Apart from the quantitative arguments for concessional
aid, there remains the imperative of assisting India in addressing the
problems of pervasive poverty. While India is now better placed than many
other poor countries to tackle its development problems, her ability to
mobilize additional resources to address poverty problems is limited.
Concessional assistance can play an important role in relieving this
constraint.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
26.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 110 loans and 185 development
credits to India totaling US$10,228 million and US$14,000 million (both net
of cancellations), respectively, for a total of US$24,228 million. Of this,
US$9,169 million was undisbursed as of September 30, 1986 and US$1,735
million had been repaid, leaving a balance of U$13,324 outstanding. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through September
30, 1986 totaled US$182 million, representing an increase of about 2
percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary
statement of disbursements as of September 30, 1986.



-.9-
27.     Since 1959, IFC has made 45 commitments in India totaling US$396
million, of which US$209 million has been repaid, sold, terminated or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$187 million, US$179 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as
of September 30, 1986, is also included in Annex II.
28.     The thrust of Bank Croup assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy
and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic
agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing,
storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also
been directed at: (a) helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while
curbing the growth of oil imports, and (b) easing the infrastructure
bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth, particularly through power
generation and distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects.
The Bank Group has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and
small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through
support of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of
improving the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural
populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition and family planning
programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and
other urban infrastructure projects.
29.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevarnt, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Seventh Plan. High
priority will continue to be given to the agricultural program. While India
has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have
to be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to
contribute to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will
continue to support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and
agricultural extension, research and credit. Increased assistance will be
provided for industrial development, to support Government efforts in
promoting greater efficiency and faster development of the industrial
sector. In line with the emphasis the Seventh Plan gives to the expansion
and more efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the
development of india's indigenous hydrocarbon resources, the Bank Group will
continue to provide substantial support to the development of the energy,
transport and telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical shortages
which constrain output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors.
Finally, support of urban development and other basic social services
programs for the poor will also continue to be essential, since despite
successes in lowering birth rates, India's population is increasing by about
16 million each year.
30.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India has been able to



-10-
successfully adjust to the rapidly changing international situation since the
mid-1970s. However, India will continue to require a substantial level of
foreign assistance to sustain the higher investment and growth rates achieved
during the Sixth Plan period. In order to insure adequate levels of resource
transfer, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should continue to
include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. However, the foreign exchange component tends to be
small in many projects, particularly in the case of agriculture and the
social sectors.
31.     India's poverty and needs are such that, whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.5
billion in FY80, mostly due to funding constraints. The amount of IDA funds
available to India is likely to remain small in reLation to India's needs for
external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will have
to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and prudent macroeconomic policies, India is judged creditworthy
for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts
already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity, trade expansion,
higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the
rate of population growth should result in sustained economic growth and
improvement in the balance of payments.
32.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1970/71, the Bank
Group accounted for 22X of total commitments, 11% of gross disbursements, and
10% of net disbursements as compared with 56%, 39% and 51%, respectively, in
1985186. In 1985/86, about 23.3% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group. On March 31, 1986, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was estimated to be about US$27.0 billion, of which the
Bank Group's share was US$11.9 bilLion or 44% (IDA's US$9.8 billion and
IBRD's US$2.2 billion).



-1l-
PART III - URBAN SECTOR IN INDIA AND UTTAR PRADESH
National Urbanization Trends and Management
33.     rndia's cities and towns are growing rapidly.  The country's increase
in urban population from 107 million in 1971 (20% of total population) to
156 million in 1981 (24Z of the total) marked an acceleration in the annual
rate of urban growth to 3.9Z from 3.3% in the previous decade. By the year
2000, India's urban population will more than double, reaching a total of at
least 325 million. In the next 15 years, more than 50% of India's population
growth will occur in urban areas. Approximately 40Z of India's urban
households have incomes below the urban poverty threshold (Rs 650 per month
in 1985).
34.     There is a growing realization in India that urban development is an
important part of economic development and that past efforts to limit urban
growth not only have had limited impact but may in fact have been
counterproductive. Increasing attention is therefore being given to the
development of more appropriate urban sector policies and to the strengthen-
ing of sector institutions. In keeping with the development prospects and
policies as embodied in the Seventh Plan (see para 9), the Central and State
Governments are now giving priority to better management of urban growth,
with three principal objectives: (a) to support the expanding urban economy;
(b) to alleviate urban poverty; and (c) to improve living conditions.
35.     The Central Government provides overall policy guidance on urban
development to the State Governments through its Ministry of Urban Develop-
ment (MOUD) (formerly the Ministry of Works and Housing but reorganized in
1985 to better reflect a broader emphasis on urban policy). The role of the
existing Housing and Urban Development Corporation of India (HUDCO) may be
expanded. HUDCO is currently the onLy central level agency performing the
role of financial intermediary for a Bank-supported urban development
project. In 1985, GOI established the Central Ganga Authority (CGA) to
assist the states along the Canga in reducing river pollution, principally by
improving sewerage and sanitation in urban areas. The Ganga Project Direc-
torate (GPD) within the CCA is responsible for the preparation of action
plans for the clean-up of the Canga River. Early in 1986, GOI also estab-
lished a national Urban Infrastructure Finance Corporation to provide both
financial and policy support to State Covernments and sector agencies. A
proposal is under consideration to establish a National Housing Bank during
the Seventh Plan period. The above are examples of India's newfound resolve
to build a coherent urban policy and a sound framework for executing that
policy. Other agencies of MOUD involved in the urban sector include the Town
and Country Planning Organization, the National Building Organization, the
Central Public Health Engineering and Environmental Organization, and the
National Institute of Urban Affairs. Notwithstanding the above, primary
responsibility for urban development rests at the state and local levels.
For instance, laws governing urban planning and administration are enacted at
the state level; urban development budgets are controlled at that level as
well. While specific urban policies and programs may be devised by the



-12-
Central Covernment, states differ widely in their approach to urban develop-
ment.
Urban Trends in Uttar Pradesh
36.     Uttar Pradesh (UP) is the fourth largest state in India, covering 9%
of the total area of the country. It is, however, firsL in population, with
111 million people, according to the 1981 census, and has about 17% of
India's population. The 1981 urban population of UP was about 20 million,
or 18% of the state's population, and grew at the rate of 4.9% a year during
the period 1971-1981, compared to the All-India growth rate for urban popula-
tion of 3.9% over the same period. About one million persons per year are
being added to UP's urban population. Current projections are that the urban
population could exceed 52 million, or 30% of the state's population, by
2001.
37.     Although the economy of the state is primarily agricultural, with 52%
of the State Domestic Product (SDP) originating in agriculture and allied
sectors compared to 40% for India as a whole, urbanization in UP is rising.
For many decades, economic growth in the state lagged behind the rest of
India. Recently, however, its economy has expanded at a rate of about 6X,
which exceeds the growth rate of the national economy. Some of UP's
industrial sectors, such as chemicals, machinery, transport equipment,
non-metallic products, and miscellaneous manufacturing, which are
predominantly urban in location, are growing particularly rapidly. Of the
five economic regions of the state (Western, Eastern, Central, Hills, and
Bundelkhand), the Western region is the most advanced economically because of
its greater agricultural productivity. This in turn has led to growth in
local manufacturing and service activities and to developments of
agro-industries in the region. Another significant advantage of the Western
region is its proximity to New Delhi, which has led to industrialization
opportunities not found in UP's other regions.
38.     In early 1985 COUP completed a comprehensive urban sector review.  It
showed that almost half of the annual increase in urban population resulted
from migration from rural areas, especially from the less developed Eastern
and Hill regions. The urban population is widely dispersed in about 660
cities and towns, indicating the need for decentralization of urban develop-
ment responsibilities to the local level and to the private sector, with
State Government interventions focused on the establishment of broad policies
and on an appropriate framework of incentives. The review revealed the
following deficiencies in the sector.
Urban Services
39.     Urbanization is taking place in a context of inadequate public
utility infrastructure. Problems of urban growth are all the more severe in
the largest cities because of the greater numbers of people involved. About
45% of the urban population does not have access to a safe water supply, 55X
have no access to electricity, and 27% have no access to latrine services.



-13-
Shelter
40.     State provision of developed land and shelter falls far short of
needs. GOUP investments in housing are mainly intended for the poor, yet the
units constructed remain out of reach of the intended beneficiaries. The UP
Housing and Development Board, whose jurisdiction extends to 113 cities and
towns in the state, completes about 1200 housing units and plots a year.
Annual requirements for new shelter alone, however, are about 70,000
units/plots. Estimates show that about 30% of the state's urban population
now resides in slums or slum-like conditions, which account for about 40% of
the total urban housing stock. Earlier GOUP sites and services projects have
not been successful because of (a) poor location; (b) relatively high stand-
ards; (c) bureaucratic delays; and (d) Lack of enforcement of financial and
technical regulations. The state-sponsored slum improvement schemes
presently provide water supply to slums plus other basic services.
Municipal Services
41.     Local government services, such as solid waste management, road
construction, and street cleaning and lighting, suffer from inadequate fund-
ing for maintenance. Service is particularly poor in low-income areas.
There are serious storm drainage problems requiring immediate attention,
especially where drainage channels have been blocked by unplanned development
and improperly deposited soLid waste. Municipal governments have inadequate
resources to extend maintenance to newly improved low-income areas.
Community participation in the planning and maintenance of services in these
areas could be achieved if community development support were provided.
Organization of maintenance activities by local governments needs to be
radically improved. Serious traffic problems exist in the larger towns, due
to different modes of transport, undisciplined road use, and lack of traffic
Law enforcement.
Water Supply and Sewerage
42.     Most of UP's towns lack an adequate water supply of good quality.
The service suffers from a lack of adequate capital and a lack of recurrent
funding. While the water and sewerage undertakings often show nominal
surpluses because their accounting is on a cash basis, accrued payables are
not taken into account. In effect, the water and sewerage agencies operate
at deficits varying from 20%-50Z of their operation, maintenance, and debt
service costs. Debt service payments to UP Jal Nigam (UVPJN) (the state water
and sewerage authority) are not met (hence UPJN' also defaults to COUP), and
charges for electricity are not promptly paid, or are only partially paid.
Billing is in arrears; a high percentage of town water meters (40X average)
are not functional; cost recovery on current receivables varies from 40% to
60%; and there is no formal system of penalties for defaulters. The amount
of water lost through wastage and leakage is presently unknown but is
estimated to be about 30Z-40Z. From November 1979 until 1985, GOUP did not
raise tariffs and taxes for water supply and sewerage except through revi-
sions to the flat rate tariff to provide incentives for metering.



-14-
43.     Sanitation receives less priority than it deserves.  Few towns have
waterborne sewage systems, and these have considerable operational problems.
Disposal methods are highly unsatisfactory and add to pollution of the
environment. Low-cost sanitation is being introduced in some towns.
Urban Finance
44.     Resource Mobilization.  Octroi (a local level point of entry tax on
goods) remains the main source of revenue (60% approximately) for municipal
governments in UP. It is perceived in some quarters, however, to have had
adverse effects on economic efficiency, and has been abolished in some of
India's other states.
45.     Property Tax.  The property tax is the second largest source of
income (about 20%) for municipal governments in UP. According to current
legislation, this tax cannot exceed 252 of the assessed annual rental value
of a building, irrespective of use. Assessment is carried out by untrained
persons, and rent control has some marginal effect on assessment. In UP
there is no rent control on new properties for a specified period. This
period was recently extended from 10 years to 20 years (see para 46). The
rent agreed between the two parties at the end of the specified period
applies thereafter. Periodically, GOUP issues orders permitting rents to
increase by a fixed amount.
46.     Actions Taken and to be Taken.  Based on the findings of its urban
sector review, and drawing also on the lessons learned from two
bank-supported projects in the sector (see para 51), GOUP has revised its
urban sector policies and prepared an action plan for the implementation of
necessary policy adjustments. These focused on improved cost recovery and
local resource mobilization, a shift of housing construction to the private
sector, relaxation of constraints on private bus operations in urban areas,
relaxation of rent control, and greater reliance on local community initia-
tive and resources. COUP and local authorities have already made good
progress in introducing policy adjustments and in implementing the action
plan. Principal steps taken and to be taken include:
Pricing and Cost Recovery: (i) GOUP has rescinded its freeze on
increases in water charges. A number of towns, including all the
proposed project towns, have raised tariffs (increases ranged from
50% to 200Z) and water and sewer taxes (increases ranged from 12% to
100%); (ii) all project agencies have begun enforcement of the
collection of arrears of general tax, water, and sewer taxes and
charges, and hire purchase on loan schemes.
Resource Mobilization: COUP has rescinded its freeze on reassessments
of urban property values for tax purposes, and a number of towns,
including all proposed project towns, have introduced revised
property value assessments. Pro5ect towns have extended octroi
reforms incorporated in Kanpur and have minimized exceptions from
octroi.
Rent Control: GOUP amended the rent control act to extend the
"control Tree' period for new properties from 10 to 20 years.  SOUP,
in consultation with GOI, will also prepare proposals by March 31,



-15-
1989, to minimize the negative effect of rent control, and thereafter
take steps to implement the proposals.
Institutions: GOUP (i) expanded a state-level urban ceLl established
under the Kanpur Urban Development Project (KUDP) (Credit 1185-IN) in
its Housing and Urban Development Department (HUDD) into an urban
investment planning and monitoring cell (IPMC) to strengthen sector
management and to carry out appraisal, supervision, and evaluation of
projects proposed by local authorities; and (ii) has created a cell
in the Directorate of Local Bodies (DLB) to manage an expanded low
cost sanitation program.
Legislation: GOUP Mi) amended the Slum Areas (Improvement and
Clearance) Act of 1962 to streamline the process of land acquisition
(this will aid in cost recovery in slum upgrading); and (ii) amended
the Mahapalika Adhiniyam (municipal corporation act) and the UP
Municipalities Act of 1916 to permit urban commercial properties to
be taxed at higher rates than residential properties, and improve the
procedures for reassessing urban properties.
Transportation Study: COUP has prepared a draft study in Kanpur to
assess options of introducing private bus services.
Canga Pollution Strategy
47.     About 240 million people (37% of the total population of India) live
in the Ganga basin within a catchment area of some 900,000 km. Of these,
about 80% live in rural areas and the remainder in more than 600 urban cen-
ters. Apart from non-point source pollution, about 100 cities with a com-
bined population of 15 million discharge liquid and solid waste directly into
the Ganga River. GPD is responsible for the preparation of action plans for
the cleanup of the Ganga River, and would be assisted under the proposed
project (see para 54).
The Bank's Sector Role and Assistance Strategy in India
48.     To date the Bank has committed a total of US$1,395.6 million in
credits and US$89.1 million in loans, net of cancellations, to support 21
projects in the urban and water supply sector in India. Nine projects have
been completed (Calcutta Urban I and II, Calcutta Transport, Bombay Water
Supply and Sewerage I, Bombay Urban Transport, Madras Urban I, Uttar Pradesh
Water Supply and Sewerage, Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage, and Punjab
Water Supply and Sewerage), while 12 projects are under implementation (Cal-
cutta Urban III, Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage II and III, Bombay Urban,
Madras Urban II, Kanpur Urban, Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage, Gujarat
Water Supply and Sewerage, Madhya Pradesh Urban, Tamil Nadu Water Supply and
Sanitation, Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation and Cujarat Urban).
49.     The Bank's sector assistance strategy has evolved from an initial
phase of exploration and demonstration of alternative sector approaches,
relying mainly on specific investment projects, to the current phase of more
concerted and better focused efforts to assist governments in formulating and
implementing a consistent set of urban sector policies, with increasing
reliance on broader lending operations in the sector as vehicles to support
change. The current phase of the Bank's assistance also gives more emphasis
to sector analysis and to the provision of direct staff support in evaluating



-16-
sector performance and in disseminating lessons on policy initiatives and
impLementation.
50.     The Bank's urban and water supply lending program will continue to
include specific investment projects to introduce improved resource utiliza-
tion and cost recovery, particularly in states where no or little Bank assis-
tance has been provided previously. However, overtime there will be a shift
towards sector lending operations which provide more support to broader
resource mobilization and sector management improvements, starting with
states where the Bank has substantial prior sector experience. At the same
time, there will be continued support to, and through, central level inter-
mediaries to help ensure that policy initiatives and new methodologies are
disseminated more rapidly among states, and that all states adopt a
reasonably consistent urban policy framework.
Past Experience in the Sector in UP
51.     The Bank has supported one water supply and one urban project in UP.
The statewide UP Water Supply and Sewerage Project (UPWSSP) (Cr. 585-IN) was
completed in 1983. 1/ While physical works were carried out satisfactorily,
institutional and financial objectives were not fully achieved, largely due
to (a) a relatively centralized approach with insufficient involvement of
local governments and communities; and (b) a lack of detailed action plans.
The objectives themselves were ambitious, in retrospect, and could not have
been achieved in the time span of a single project. KUDP, approved by the
Board on October 27, 1981, focuses on the introduction of institutional and
financial improvements in only one town and, with its more limited objectives
and emphasis on operational and financial improvements through action plans,
has been more successful. Host major works were completed by the original
closing date of June 30, 1986. A one-year extension was granted to complete
building and sewer connection loans to beneficiaries and to finish the slum
upgrading program, which has been delayed by land acquisition problems.
11 See Project Completion Report (PCR) dated December 1985.



-17-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
52.     The proposed project wab prepared by COUP and GPD.  It was appraised
in June 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in January/February
1987, with a delegation representing GOI coordinated by Mr. P.V. Bhide. The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6458-IN, dated April 2, 1987) is being circulated
to the Executive Directors separately. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
53.     The overriding objective of the project would be to support the
policy adjustments and the institutional strengthening initiated by COUP and
GOI/CPD (as set out in Part III), and to reduce the serious deficits in urban
rhelter, infrastructure, and services. To that end, COUP's specific objec-
tives would be to improve: sector finances by improving cost recovery and
resource utilization and mobilization; sector management by strengthening
sector organizations; and infrastructure and services by extending and
improving, for example, water supply, sanitation, drainage, solid waste
collection, maintenance management, and traffic management for the urban
population, especially the urban poor. GPD's specific objectives would be to
address sector policy improvements by: the introduction of program manage-
ment systems; the development of river pollution control models; and the
preparation of strategic plans for reduction and control of pollution in the
Ganga River.
Project Concept
54.     The project comprises two distinct programs of investment.  The first
program would include about 50% of UP's Seventh Plan and part of its
Eighth Plan investments in urban development including technical assistance
and training, in 11 cities and one new urban area, 1/ and low cost sanitation
in an additional 18 towns. 2/  Three standby towns 3/ have been selecced and
1/ Grouped as follows:
Group A:  Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad, and Lucknow--KAVAL
towns--the largest towns with populations ranging from 600,000
to 2,000,000.
Group B:  Bareilly, Moradabad, Gorakhpur, Aligarh, Saharanpur, and
Chaziabad--the towns with populations ranging from 300,000 to
600,000.
Group C:  Shaktinagar - a "new" urban area located near the Singrauli
coalfields and power stations.
2/  Group D:  Eighteen towns for which UNDP/TAG feasibility studies have been
carried out.
3/  Standby:  Dehradun and Jhansi (Group B), and Nainital (Group C).



-18-
would be included in the project in the event any of the initially selected
towns were not able to meet the agreed-upon financial performance targets
(see para 68), or lagged unduly in implementing their investment programs.
The second program would involve phase 1 investments by CPD in three states
(Bihar, UP, and West Bengal) under its Seventh Plan, mainly for technical
assistance and training, and urgent rehabilitation works, pending the for-
mulation of a phase 2 action plan to reduce pollution in the Canga River. As
the project provides for rehabilitation of, and additions to, existing water
works and schemes, there will be no adverse effect on the flow of waters.
Instead, the project will abate pollution and improve the quality of the
flows. In view of this, no notification of downstream riparian impact is
required pursuant to OHS 2.32.
Project Description
55.     The UP program would include the following components:  Sector
Management, Technical Assistance, and Training; Sites and Services; Slum
Upgrading; Area Development; Water Supply; Sewerage and Sewage Treatment;
Drainage; Low Cost Sanitation; Solid Waste Management; Maintenance Manage-
ment; and Traffic Engineering and Management. Within a funds allocation
based on per capita criteria, Group A and B towns (see footnote, page 17)
were given the latitude to select investment priorities from the
above-mentioned components. This approach addresses one of the options
proposed in the Project Completion Report of Uttar Pradesh Water Snpply and
Sewerage Project, namely, the desirability of decentralizing the planning
function so that awareness and a sense of ownership and responsibility for
the investments can be established at an early stage. The Canga Program
would include the following components: consultancy advisory services and
training; pollution monitoring and maintenance equipment; and priority pollu-
tion and control works. IDA appraised all proposed investments in water
supply and sewerage as well as a representative sample of other types of
investments. The following appraisal criteria were used: (i) design stand-
ards affordable by target group; (ii) least cost solution (e.g., in water
supply and sewerage); (iii) emphasis on rehabilitation and maximization of
existing investments; (iv) adequacy of operation and maintenance; and
(vj technical assistance and training needs.
56.     in addition to these investments, a number of interrelated project
activities are to be undertaken by participating agencies to accelerate
project implementation and to improve the operating efficiency and financial
viability of sector agencies. These activities have been incorporated into
an operationaL action plan COAP). The OAP would be reviewed and updated
annually by COUP and GPD, and cleared with the Bank and IDA.
Project Implementation
57.     UP State Level Agencies.  Housing and Urban Development Department
(HUDD) has responsibility for overseeing project implementing agencies,
including local governments, development authorities, and town water and
sewerage agencies. Policy guidance and coordination of other state and local
agencies rests with a Project Coordination and Monitoring Committee (PCMC) at
the state level under the chairmanship of the Secretary HTUDD. At each city
level a Local Coordination and Monitoring Committee (LCMC) was formed to
coordinate and monitor project activities. LCMC would report to PCMC. The



-19-
actual formulation, monitoring of project implementation, authorization of
disbursements to project agencies, and evaluation of the investment program
would be the responsibility of an Investment Planning and Monitoring Cell
(IPMC), a separate unit within HUDD which evolved out of the urban strategy
cell created under Kanpur Urban Development Project (KUDP) to develop a
strategy for statewide urban development and strengthen urban management and
finance. IPMC participated with the Bank in the pre-appraisal and appraisal
of the project, demonstrating a professionalism and independence which would
make it suitable for assuming some supervisory responsibility during
implementation. COUP has created a Special Area Development Authority (SADA)
to oversee the development of Shaktinagar. Within its Directorate of Local
Bodies (DLB), GOUP has created a low cost sanitation cell to supervise the
low cost sanitation program in the 18 Group D Towns. UPJN, would assist
project towns in implementing their respective water and sewerage components.
In its Town and Country Planning Department, GOUP would create a Traffic and
Transportation Appraisal Unit (TTAU) to assist in evolving appropriate traf-
fic and transport policies at the city level, and coordinate work among
various departments.
58.     UP Local Level Agencies.  In accordance with the OAP, COUP would
create traffic engineering and management cells in the municipal corporations
of Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad and Lucknow, similar to the cell created in
Kanpur under KUDP. The cells would receive technical assistance from TTAU.
Responsibility for implementing individual project components would, with few
exceptions, be as follows:
Sites and Services                -  Development Authorities
Slum Upgrading, Drainage,         - Minicipal Corporations and Boards
Low Cost Sanitation, Solid
Waste Management, Maintenance
Management,
Area Development                  -  Development Authorities
Water Supply                      -  Jal Sansthans (city water and
sewerage authorities in the KAVAL
cities)
- Municipal Corporations and Boards in
other cities/towns.
Sewerage                          -  Same as in Water Supply above
Traffic Engineering & Management -  Municipal Corporations
59.     Central Level Agency.  Central Canga Authority (CGA), which is coor-
dinnted by the Ganga Steering Committee, 1/ has drawn up a Ganga action plan
1/ Chaired by the Secretary, Department of Environment, and members consist-
ing of the Chief Secretaries of UP, Bihar, and West Bengal, Secretaries
of Ministry of Urban Development, Department of Non-Conventional Energy
3ources, Joint Secretaries of Fertilizer Division Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Ministry of Finance, Industrial Development concerned with licens-
ing of industrial units, Chairman of the Central Board for Prevention and
Control of Water Pollution, and a representative from the Ministry of
Health.



-20-
for which the Ganga Project Directorate (CPD) has implementation respon-
sibility. CPD would rely heavily on consultants for corporate consulting
advisory services, environmental impact studies, sewer condition assessment,
program monitoring, including review of tender documents and the technical
assessment of schemes, river water monitoring, and the preparation of
rehabilitation works not yet identified. The project would provide financing
for the above services.
60.     CPD would delegate responsibility for executing priority rehabilita-
tion works under the project to the following state implementing agencies:
Bihar:           Bihar State Water and Sewerage Board (BISWAS)
Uttar Pradesh: UPJN
West Bengal:    Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CZDA)
and Public Health Engineering Directorate (PHED).
The states may also designate other agencies to assist in implementing this
component.
Project Costs and Financing
61.     Estimated project costs, including contingencies, amount to US$237.8
million. The foreign exchange component is US$56.4 million, or 24Z of
project costs. Taxes and duties are estimated at US$12.0 million, or 5% of
project costs. The project components are as follows: sector management,
technical assistance and training (US$8.0 million); sites and services
(US$15.6 million), slum upgrading (US$8.3 million); area development
(US$2.0 million); water supply (US$43.6 million); sewerage (US$39.2 mil-
lion); drainage (US$14.1 million); low cost sanitation (US$6.7 million);
solid waste management (US$6.8 million); maintenance (US$5.7 million); and
traffic engineering and management (US$5.3 million). Physical contingencies
of 10% and 15% for detailed and preliminary engineering, respectively, amount
to US$13.1 million, and price contingencies of 6% in 1986/87, 6.8% for
1987/88-19881B9, 7% for 1989/90-1990/91, and 4% for 1991192-1993194 have been
added to both local and foreign costs, and amount to US$51.6 million. Design,
supervision, and management would be about US$17.8 million.
62.     The proposed Bank loan of US$20 million, IDA credit of US$130 million
would finance about 66% of project costs net of taxes and duties. The credit
would cover 100% of the foreign exchange costs and about 52% of local costs.
Retroactive financing of up to US$15.0 million is proposed to cover Ci)
consultant assistance for project preparation after November l, 1985; and
(ii) other project expenditures after August 1, 1986. The loan and credit
would be made available to GOI, which would pass them on to GOUP on its
standard terms and conditions as part of central government assistance to the
state, and to CGA as a grant (credit only). GOUP would make available to the
project towns all funds required for their investments, including the
proceeds of Bank and IDA financing, in a combination of loan and grants. The
terms of COUP loans to implementing agencies would conform to current prac-
tices, as follows: 8.75% per annum, to be amortized over 20 years, including
A five year moratorium on principal repayments. GOUP would provide funds on
a grant basis for the following investments: (i) low cost sanitation (50%
grant); (iir slum upgrading (100% grant up to Rs 250/capita or such other
threshold to be set from time to time by COI); and (iii) community



-21-
facilities, including schools, health centers, police stations, post offices
and community halls in the sites and services component. GPD would make
available ditectly to implementing agencies in Bihar, UP and West Bengal all
funds required for rehabilitation works and new construction, including the
proceeds of the IDA credit, as grants.
Procurement and Disbursement
63.     Out of a total estimated value of contracts for civil works of
US$165.3 million, about US$58.0 million would be awarded under international
competitive bidding (ICB) on a turnkey basis to prequalified contractors for
(a) design, construction, and commissioning of water treatment plants at
Lucknow and Agra, and augmentation of river water supplies at Varanasi; and
(b) sewage treatment plants at Allahabad, Hardiwar, and Kanpur. The turnkey
option was selected by both COUP and GPD to take maximum advantage of avail-
able technology options, and to ensure that least cost treatment process
designs are adopted. For these turnkey contracts, margins of preference for
domestic manufacturers and contractors would be agreed between the Bank/IDA
and GOUP/GPD. An amount of about US$107.3 million would be spent on the
remaining civil works, to be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures. These contracts would not attract foreign bidders since they
would be widely disbursed over area and time. Under the sites and services
and area development components, however, the works for each site would be
let on a "slice and package" basis to pre-qualified contractors advertised on
an all-India basis. The size of contract would vary from about US$0.5 mil-
lion to US$4.5 million.
64.     Contracts for equipment and materials to be procured under the
project would total US$28.9 million. Of this amount, US$18.8 million would
be procured under ICB based on a contract package threshold of US$100,000
equivalent. The equipment and materials would be grouped into packages and
further aggregated by towns in order to achieve lower unit costs. The
following items would be covered: aerial tower wagons, carrier vehicles and
containers, cast iron/ductile iron pipes and fittings, compaction collection
vehicles and bins, cranes, gully pit emptiers, hydraulic towers, jeeps, sewer
cleaning and jetting machines, static road rollers, tipper trucks (417 mt),
water meters, and vibratory road rollers (1-4 tons). IPMC would, on behalf
of towns, tender for b ch equipment each year and recommend to the respective
towns the lowest evaluated bidder (i.e., procurement through nominated
suppliers). Towns and suppliers would settle directly with each other.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evalua-
tion of 15% or the import duty, whichever was the lower. Cther equipment and
materials totalling US$10.1 million would be procured through
contracts/purchase orders advertised locally, except for minor items of
equipment, such as aluminum tower ladders, fogging machine and trailer,
handcarts, mobile generators, minor tools, primary collection equipment,
pumps (20 hp), silt/water wagons, test equipment, and tractor attachments
totalling US$1.6 million, which would be purchased on the basis of at least
three quotations.



-22-
Procurement Method
(US$ Million)
Total                                 IDA
Project Element                     Cost      ICB     LCB       N.A.   Financing
Equipment and Materials - ICB        28.9   12.2       -        6.6       10.5
Equipment and Materials - LCB                  -      10.1                 6.5
Civil Works - ICB                   165.3   58.0       -                  49.0
Civil Works - LCB                              -     107.3                69.0
Loans                                 0.9                       0.9        0.8
Sector Management, Technical
Assistance and Training              9.0                       9.0        9.0
Land                                  4.6                       4.6        0.0
Dsn, Spn and Mgt                     16.9                      16.9        0.0
Taxes and Duties                     12.1                      12.1        0.0
Unallocated Bank/IDA                  -                          -         5.2
TOTAL     237.7   70.2    117.4    50.1        150.0
65.     Sector management, technical assistance and training costs under the
project would total US$9.0 million. Of this amount, US$1.5 million would be
for sector management in UP, US$2.5 million for engineering services provided
by UPJN for the design of the water and sewerage (UP and CGC) components,
US$1.4 million for training, and US$3.6 million for technical assistance.
Bank guidelines for the use of consultants would be complied with for the
following: (i) in the UP component, in leakage and wcste control in all
KAVAL towns, in utility mapping and inventory in all project towns, in a
tariff study for water supply and sewerage, in assistance to implement
accounting and management information systems, in mainteniance studies, in
audits, and in other technical assistance needed to achieve project objec-
tives; and (ii) in the CPD component, in corporate consulting advisory serv-
ices,in environmental impact studies, in sewer condition assessment, in
program consultants services, in river water monitoring and documentation,
and in assistance to GPD in programming and preparation of rehabilitation
works not yet identified.
66.     All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost US$500,000
equivalent or more, and all bidding packages for equipment and materials
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more, would be subject to the
Bank's and IDA's prior review of procurement documentation, resulting in a
coverage of 49% of the total estimated value of works contracts and about 30%
of goods and materials contracts. This would involve a review of about 41
contracts (22 civil works, 19 equipment and materials). The balance of
contracts would be subject to random post review by the Bank and IDA after
contract award. All contracts would be subject to IPKC and GPD review.
67.     The proceeds of the loan and credit would be disbursed against:  (a)
100% foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials, and
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment
and materials procured through ICB; (b) 65% of expenditures for equipment and
materials procured through LCB or through quotations; (c) 85% of expenditures



-23-
on contracts for civil works, including turnkey contracts, awarded under ICB;
(d) 65% of expenditures an civil works contracts awarded under LCB; (e) 85%
of expenditures on home improvement loans; and (f) 100X of expenditures for
sector management, technical assistance and training, and related equipment.
Disbursements for (e) above, for civil works and equipment and materials
expenditures, against contracts not exceeding US$200,000, and sector manage-
ment and training expenditures, would be made against statements of expendi-
tures (SOE's), the documents for which would not be submitted to the Bank/IDA
but retained and made available for inspection during project supervision
missions, and subject to independent audits. A special account with an
authorized allocation of US$5.6 million would be established to finance all
eligible expenditures, and would be replenished from time to time on receipt
and approval of withdrawal applications, supported by the required documenta-
tion. Retroactive financing of up to US$15 million would be required.
Cost Recovery
68.     About 452 of total project costs would be recovered directly from
beneficiaries (10% through payments in the sites and services and area
development components, and 35% through user charges in the Water and
Sanitation components). The costs of slum upgrading (only the additional
amounts expended in this component over the GOUP's Minimum Needs Program),
drainage, solid waste management, maintenance management, and traffic
engineering and management would be recovered indirectly through the general
revenues of local bodies. The OAP requires, inter alia, local bodies to
finance an increasing proportion of their revenue expenditures during the
project period from internally generated revenues.
69.     In sites and services and area development, full cost recovery would
be achieved. In the former component about 95% of the total cost would be
directly chargeable to beneficiaries (land, site preparation, on-site
infrastructure, off-site infrastructure, on-site development, and shelter
loans). Land would be costed at market prices (up to Rs 100 per square meter
compared to Rs 10 per square meter typical in past projects). Overhead would
be included in the costs to be recovered. Interest at not less than 12Z per
annum would be charged, which is expected to be positive in real terms, since
the annual inflation rate during the project period is expected not to exceed
7%. That rate is well above the 4% to 6% now charged in simiLar projects.
Cost recovery at this level would be made affordable through appropriate
designs and a system of differential land pricing, with upper income and
business plot beneficiaries paying higher than average costs. Thus, about
78% of plots would be affordable to economically weaker section (EWS)
households and lower income group (LIC) households with incomes between Rs
700 per month (about the 25th percentile) and Rs 1,500 per month respec-
tively.
70.     Investment costs in water supply and sewerage would be recovered
under the UP component through water tariffs, charges, and water and sewer
taxes. Project towns would recover the full cost of operation, maintenance
and debt service. During implementation, further tariff and tax increases
would be necessary, together with other operational and financial improve-
ments which are included in the OAP. The capital cost of investment under
the Ganga component would not be recovered.



-24-
Benefits and Risks
71.     The urban poverty impacts of the UP program would be as follows:
(a) about 78% of the residential plots in the sites and services
component would be affordable to the urban poor (8,300 out of
10,640);
(b) about 90Z of the households in the slum upgrading areas would be in
the urban poverty group;
(c) about 60Z of the households in the area development schemes are
classified as urban poor;
(d) 1001 of the households benefitting from low cost sanitation invest-
ments would be urban poor;
(e) about 45Z of the benefits of offsite water supply, sewerage and
drainage are expected to accrue to the urban poor;
(f) solid waste management improvements will accrue mostly to the low
income areas and about 70% of the benefits are expected to accrue
to the urban poor; and
(g) traffic management measures are concentrated in the most densely
developed areas of cities, and about 45% of the benefits are expected
to accrue to the urban poor.
72.     The benefits under the GPD program are:
(a) improved environmental conditions for urban dwellers;
(b) improved amenities at pilgrim towns;
(c) utilization of treated effLuent for irrigation; and
(d) direct health benefits for farm workers.
73.     Major risks are: (a) the capacity of IPMC to manage the UP component;
(b) the institutional capacity of Group B and C towns which, unlike the Group
A towns, have not been part of a Bank-financed project; and (c) and possible
non-compliance with policy conditions relating to cost recovery and resource
mobilization. COUP has staffed IPMC with its most experienced officers,
almost all of whom have been involved in the preparation and implementation
of KUDP. GOUP and project towns have already demonstrated a firm commitment
to project objectives by implementing critical policy adjustments. In the
GPD component the potential risks are low. GPD will be employing special
consulting services to perform the bulk of its appraisal, supervision and
monitoring. The agencies selected to perform physical tasks have been estab-
lished for some time and have a proven track record.



-25-
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
74.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association. I recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan and Credit.
B. B. Conable
President
April 2, 1987



ANES 1
Page 1 of 2
-26-
GNP PER CAPITA EN '3l3 US$260 gI
GaOSS aIXtSfC  PdOUCT 14 I1I416 tb                               _     ANNUAL KATE 09 S_l1H It CONSTANT PUICES) Ct
IS~ Eta.  l  33~J333    O/6I4161691616617    p0171-ta;19  r5?9I7-T9Q0  *0i61-P13164
GoP at Market Priese             IF334  100.0              32.           3.6           3.7           2.9           4*1           1.2
Grte       : Domeet,e Inveatnt   4113   23.4
Gras Natlt   owing               311.33   20.0
Current Atewnt  blance            5.96    2.4
OU?TPUT. LAEO  FORCE Auo PEoOUCIVITV IN  M
UmlUm Added (at         Lr..fsr.n             -V.A. Per Warmer
U ot Ntional
Agriculture          52.1    2*.69       1T.?       70.6        304          91
Industry             24.S    22.3        2a.1       12.6 0     .062         112
Serwvces            ALI    e49            SJ -*eJ ajs                       aS
Totall4werage       146.2   100.0        244.6    110.0         96          100
oovumaur FINAcE
Goeeral overnment                       Central Ganaunt
IaeSln.           5.of0               ReSMgin,           tofp G0p
1J14119        169  Uf_LLJZU          C            InL 7  te-sa
1||^^|" ~ ~ ~~~t              !Item/l"{e   Xl|  1111M    Rl-|Z
Curre nt U.eiots                  426.23       20.45        1Usl       240.11          11.3       10 .42
Curreni taEpmentures              476.26       22.24       20.0e       274.97          12.16       11.36
Current Surplual0eficit           -40.03       -1.1D       -0.49       -32.33         -I.S        -0.36
caoItal Esp_enlturee #t            164.24       5.54        8.12       146.90          6.16        6.0*
E-tarnal Aaelatace Enet)  1         11.37       0.74        0.67             -             -           -
OwEV. CKREDT SlO PRICES               fO7071  1J  f7Xt" L        l"ROI a to 2   Iu1         21     663  1o84169  Feb-       EuL.JI
Money and Guaci-enev                   100.8    224.3    472.3    S57.7    627.1    723.7    660.3  1.12k7  1.003.4  I.164.0
Sank Credit ta Coarnment (net)          54.6    105.3    200.1    251.2    306.3    353.6    407.3 6        01.5    4960.    59332
-ank Cradit to Caimertlal Sector        64.6    15.62    310.1    36116.4    434.6    517.1    612.7    715.0    688.0   7l1l
1970171  j1997jflh6    1950151                            j333~j  1934111  er-a    l, 1 la
MS70 109,1{6 01-9 !InILI.                f           19g2/3 19"0D!D   r-
rer *na 0 -nltes -nIeltre
M1a-ey And O.saaIMoter aib a S-
if GDP MP                            27.3      30.3      43.0      43.6     42.5      44.2      44.4      46.0      -         -
f-lr-c- PrICe Incea
(l610/?'100)                         100.0    173.0    217.6    257.3    261.3    28.?    316.0    335.4    334.0    357.5
A...a  Percentage Cnngea in;
a,..lasale Pr,ce Inow.                   7.7      -E        1        17.1                                                       9.2
r.. Credit to GOrenent  nietl           15.0      227      29.3      23        16.1      19.9     iS.3      22        20.3 5  .  116 0 0
O..  Credit to Commercial Secter        19.4      22.7     21.9      11.2      1806      19.0     13.5      14.7      12.2 1.  10.4 at
a, Tns per capIta CGP eatleate is at market pricee. using Warid Snk AliSe methodlogy  bass oerIad 141-63.
All etenr toneraos ne to dollars In         t      ar  at the average aec-ienge rate prevalling auring tnh  perioa coavred.
a,s aics Eateate   Central Stitatcal Oranization.
s' Ceeo.ted erom trnen  Bine of GNP at fattoer  ost serles. IncluaIng one obaertatlen cetore first yFar and onh
goeervation tOr Itemt wer of listed perioa.
' eerl    s eatimatas of net diasrrs_n   of conceaslonal ala ein  ZERO.
.: Transfers cat.aan Centre  na States have bean nettoe  0.fl
a,ll loans an     deantee to third prtles nave omn netted Out.
jP Percentage cn an free end-Marcn 19H4 ro ano-Fmerary 1590.
ii Pereeni a   cnange from end-Marchn 1Q9S-a ernP-erarysr  1386.
.; Tatal Lacor Force end wecantage oreabao.n from 19ll Conet..  Etcludee data for D      kOeac.



ANNEX 1
-27-Page Zof 2
BALANCE 31 P4V66kT3              lSi'2S   flfljf    1664163 lt IgIUlIE [I    MENCNANOISE INPONTS (avEUaGE 136112 - 134g15  9t
[us$ mollion) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    US   ilio 
f.pgrtil uecas gI V341J6                      6617      6321        1s5           gtneelnmrin  Good.               1146         13.6
1erts of Goon S                  143S        14360     I33ZS      144Id          T"                                 477         5.7
r. as  *4lance                   -moH        -m1a3    -sem7       -6241           0_              *                1013         13.1
kIS (nel                           035        0oe        lii        948          Clothing                           753          6.4
Leather enm Leather Prafucte    2l77        *41.11
nw.rce Elenc -e 4044                         -4134     -3236      -429t          .jute innufc turee                 222          Lu
___________     - ____Iron Ore                                                                                      311          4.6
Cate'.. Tesullee                  I      2      . 6
i..tr.es  InCfee  (nw   i         -255        -7Wi      -515       -340          Sugar                               74          0.O
Net trnanfer. 1t                  2904        2130       2232      2315           Others                          3241          42.4
B.mance on CurrQnt ACCOunt       -2616       -2771     -1IW2      -To2.
________--_-----_--_-------                                                      Total                             8337        100.0
Go         63         63
IUitecl Ifnl-temfnt
Cyn.clal hO*A a Geants fnst)    6706         1is          666      2133           *xTflha  D66 r         itC _9s5
4..ue0Osoersenents                2321        2163      2*E6       2112
a--rt laoen '13                                *         51to       Go                                                    us  e1enion
1.. meaLs *iarro.tng tnstE         3"7         644       6D         4o4            aseelinden enM DiseMeat                   2M.33
Undiaerue                                  1*.s7
k..u.-6.s,mint ODangslt            434         738       30        1320          OutftA -ffre includIne Undibursed El        38.T0
T .nsatstel  .itn jar (net)        1040    . 271          70       -2l2
ALil iner ftews 21               -1e43         622      -746         30O
lnr-e as on Aeru.res (-)           505         6        -263       -560          -
tress -awrfN.x-  (end year) 1J    466         367        11sf      6670               _
htt Rose"-es (enl y-ak  el        2090        1607      2179       2314
-                                          t"" ~~~~~~~~~~senn  tSSZfl. " iCei *1 urn fit  5   §w
0.41 ano Nelatea materilsl                                                                - ---- - -
C.utetading andH D Oaurse               2S"   mS"
1f.arto (Petrulel SP ji                      3410      3212       2546 u7 iiIereed                                       4710   2102
ea  n,tfe  Cr,cde               3096        2240      1521       2466          Ouatetfing and  UndoltUbrued             73   12582
Proa.cTs            1422        325s      uSOz       ied
k'E oF LACBImGE
_ l_9ble . to aso-oeca.cer l91`        us5 .00   . R7.50
asl 00 * i5560.13332
--u-DCces.sfl  17o to eno-June !973    uS5-.00 5 557.2717
anl 00 * US3O.1373f6
attar sn-dine 1372                      Plaitiflo Nate
m ntSte ena-Iorcn 9IIS                 USS .00 - *a12.4300
08.100 - uS2O.06106
Su.t gaso eno-"ecr  19Q6                uSS .00 * Rui2.30S11
Hal 00 a usSO1.Co0
r-,,_,. ,-.-  co.r all  n.estwt Inc..  (net).  majer paVyaengs are interest en forelgn loans eno cn rg s
uSU twu 1SF  ,.e .a js r  -c..ts a1s  iereat earned on foreign assets.
*- Pg.rn 1*,- lncl.a.  n.rb-  raittasces, Out e-cluds officll grant asslatanee SliCh Is Included Itnin
ort.claS  oane sno  grants. alo ndn-reslelnt eoaaita  tck eore eneomn spae tely.
t.LIdS  -ox as of IMF Creis.a
n  AirtlRat.on fana Interest paornts on foreign loans as e percentag  of tetal current recetpts.
_Inc l.awwecrangcg  rats aojm.stents te tre valation of reserves aea  fiaUncing  f 0 olncmee  In rupe  trade.
g. Ntl  or eas- paetrle.dm all eaperts.
:* Inc luoau tIUF



Annex II
-28-                                   Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OP BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1986)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of CanceLlations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA 11     Undisbursed 2/
59 Loans/                                             2,858.5         -              -
113 Credits fully disbursed                               -       6,987.6            -
1251-IN    1976     Andbra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0         -             8.55
680-rI    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          0.52
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          0.04
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -         200.0           4.41
806-IN    1978     Jaumm-Kashbir Horticulture            -           14.0          7.58
842-rN    1979     Bombay Water Supply rI                -          196.0         62.89
B48-rN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -           38.0          2.79
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          7.53
1648-rN    1979     Ramagundam Ther-ml Power             50.0         -            32.83
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0          9.36
981-IN    1980     Population 1I                         -          46.0          11.44
1003-IN    1980     Tamil ladu Nutrition                  -          32.0           9.18
1011-IN    1980     Cujarat Irrigation rI                 -         175.0          51.39
.1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                            -           22.0         li 75
1027-1D    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0          64.90
1028-IN    1980     Ke-rala Agricultural Extension        -           10.0          3.23
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -          56.0          11.43
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulcure                 -          54.0          15.15
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0          29.39
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                 -         225.0          35.83
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -           11.93
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                     -          35.0           6.87
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                     -          83.0          27.81
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -          42.0          13.99
1108-IN    1981     H.P. Medium Irrigation                -         140.0          58.08
1112-IN    1981     Teleco-unications VIII                -         301.2           2.60
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -          54.0          23.90
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project             -         399.1          41.92
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -          23.0           3.18
1137-IN    1951     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -          28.0          10.41
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -          37.0          23.14
1146-IN    19b1     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -          125.0         42.06
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -         400.0         201.3!
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         124.41
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          18.84
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          11.84
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                           150.0         -             3.63



AMX rI
-29-                                    Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
2076-IN    1982      Ra&Mgundam Therml Power II           300.0         -           222.48
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0           3.80
2123-Ih    1982      Refineries RationaLization           200.0         -            49.95
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III            304.5         -           138.31
1269-IU    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -          60.0          15.15
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -            20.00
1280-IN    1983      Cujarat Water SuppLy                   -          72.0          59.30
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          19.11
1288-Il    1983      Chambal Kadhya Pradesh
Irrigation It                       -           31.0          14.28
1289-EN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0          91.88
2205-EN    1983      Krishna-Codavari Exploration         165.5         -            81.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance 1I                      -          200.0         134.61
2210-tN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance It                    200.0          -           197.04
2241-IN    1983      Soutb Bassein Gas Development        139.3         -           114.86
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0          85.11
1332-EN    1983      U.P. Public Tubevells II              -          101.0          76.25
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravaci Hydro Power           -          170.0         136.76
2278-lN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -           156.01
1369-EN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III        -          147.0         131.57
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission          250.7          -           250.07
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            43.42
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Wacer Utilization         -           32.0          20.52
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water UtiLization        22.7          -            22.64
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1          -            22.47
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II                  -          105.0          59.99
1424-IN    1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -           31.0          35.17
1426-IN    1984      Population III                        -           70.0          65.94
1432-IN    1984      Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.0          21.19
2387-IN    L984      Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0          -           234.52
2393-IN    1984      Dudhichua Coal                      151.0          -           131.33
2403-IN    1984      Cambay Basin Petroleum              242.5          -           218.84
2415-IN    1984      Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6          -           141.32
1454-IN    1984      Tamil Nadu Water SuppLy               -           36.5          42.20
SF-12-IN   1984      Tamil Nadu Water SuppLy               -           36.5          42.83
1468-tN    1984      Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -           17.5           5.53
SF-16-IN   1984      Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -           17.5          20.14
1483-IN    1984      Upper Ganga Irrigation                -          125.0         134.02
1496-IN    1984      Cujarat Medium Irrigation             -          172.0         146.99
2416-IN    1984      Indira Sarovar HydroeLectric        L57.4          -           153.71
SF-20-IN   1984      Indira Sarovar HydroeLectric          -          129.8         147.48
2417-IN    1984      Railways Electrification            280.7          -           268.11
2442-EN    1984      Farakka II Thermal Power            300.8          -           295.24
2452-IN    1984      Fourth Trombay Thermal Power        135.4          -           125.98
1502-IN    1984      National Cooperative
Development Corporation III         -         220.0         211.87
1514-EN    1985      Kerala Social Forestry                -           31.8          33.33
1523-IN    1985      National Agric. Extension I           -           39.1          44.95



-30-                                      e    of4
US$ million
Loan or  Piscal                                                 (Net of Cancellationa)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank        IDA il      Undisburued 2/
1544-IN    1985      Bombay Urban Development              -         138.0         145.11
2497-IN    1985      Nermeda (Gujarat) Dm and Power   200;0            -           200.00
1552-ID    1985      Narida (Cujarat) Dm and Power         -         100.0         103.93
1553-IY    1985      Narmada (Gujarat) Canal               -         150.0         170.82
1569-IN    1985      macand National Agricultural Ext.   -            49.0          53.65
1611-I1    1985      National Social Forestry              -         165.0         184.67
1613-IN    1985      Indira Sarovar Hydromlectric          -          13.2          15.05
2498-Il    1985     Jharia Coking CoaL                   248.0         -           248.00
2505-I'   1985      Kaharashtra Petrochemical            300.0         -           290.12
2534-IN    1985      Second National Highway             200.0         -           200.00
2544-Il    1985      Chandrapur ThermaL Pover            300.0         -           275.37
2555-IX    1985      Rihand Power Transmission           250.0         -           248.14
2582-IN    1985      Kerala Power                        176.0         -           175.97
1619-Il    1986      Vest Bengal Minor Irrigation          -          99.0         122.56
1621-IN    1986     Naharashtra Composite Irrigation    -            160.0         198.26
1622-Il    1986     Kerala Water SuppLy and Sanitation  -             41.0          51.81
1623-Il    19B6     West BengaL Population                 -          51.0          59.32
1631-Il    1986     National Agricultural Research Ir   -             72.1          83.96
2629-Il    1986      IndustriaL Export Dev. Finance       90.0         -            90.00
2630-IN    1986      ICICI-Indus. exp. Dev. Finance    160.0           -           160.00
1643-IN    1986     Cujarat Urban*                         -          62.0          70.99
2653-IN    1986      NABARD 1                            375.0         -           375.00
2660-IN    1986      Cement Industry*                    165.0         -           165.00
2661-IN    1986      ICICI - Ceamnt Induatry*             35.0         -            35.00
1665-IN    1986     Anthra Pradesb It Irrigation*          -         140.0         L54.71
2662-IN    1966      Andhra Pradesb II Irrigation*       131.0         -           131.00
2674-IN    1986      Combined Cycle Power*               485.0         -           485.00
2729-IN    1986     Cooperative Fertilizert              150.2         -           150.20
2730-IN    1986      Cooperative Fertilizer*             152.0         -           152.00
Total                                   10,227.8    13,9993
of which has been repaid               1,458.6       276.8
Total now outstanding                    8,769.2    13,722.7
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        8.769.2    13,722.7
Tocal undisbursed (excluding *)          5,231.88    3,937.31
I/ IDA Credit saounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for effective SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at
the SDB/US dollar exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1986.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



-31-                             Page 4 of 4
B. STATEEDIT OF SPC IYESThWm
(As of September 30, g1986
Fiscal                                                 Amunt (Ust million)
Year                    COmPanY                     Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -       1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.           0.8         -       0.8
1960            AssaA 3ilLimmnit* Ltd,                1.4        -       1.4
1961            .S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -       0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearing. India Ltd.        0.6        0.4      1.0
1964            Port Closter Industries Ltd.         0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3    13.1
1964            Lkabni Macbin. Vorks Ltd.             1.0       0.3      1.3
1967            Jaysbres Cbmicals Ltd.                1.1       0.1      1.2
1967            Indian Explosive. Ltd.               8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chmicals Ltd.             15.1       3.8     18.9
1976-87         Escorts Limited                      15.2        -      15.2
1978            Housing Developmat Finance Corp.   4.0          1.2      5.2
1986            Sjaj Tpo Limited                    29.3         -      29.3
1980            Despak Fertilisar and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.      7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coroenadel Fertilizers Limited       15.9        -      15.9
1981-86         Tats Iro and Steel Company Ltd.    50.4          -      50.4
1981            Mahindra, Nahindra Limited          15.0         -      15.0
1981            Nagarjia Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9        0.2      3.1
1981-86         Nagarjun  Signode Limited            2.3        0.3      2.6
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited             1.5        0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited               28.0         -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.           18.8        -       18.8
1986            The Great Eastern Shipping
Company Ltd.                      8.0       2.0      10.0
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.           15.8         -      15.8
1982            The Indian Rayou Corp. Ltd.          8.1         -       8.1
1984-86         The Gwalior Rayon Silk Menu-
facturing (ieaving) Co. Ltd.     15.9        -       15.9
1987            The Cujarat Rural Housing
Fiance Corp.                       -        0.2      0.2
1985            Bihar Sponge                        13.7        0.8     14.5
1985            Bajsj Auto Ltd.                     23.5         -      23.5
1985            Modi Cement                         12.9         -      12.9
1985            India Lease Development Ltd.         5.0        0.4      5.4
1986            Larsen and Taubro Ltd.              20.6         -      20.6
1986            India Equipment Leasing Ltd.         2.5        0.4      2.9
1987            Cujarat Fusion Class Ltd.            7.5         -       7.5
1987            Hero Honda Motors Ltd.               7.5        -        7.5
1987            Wimco Limited                        4.7         -       4.7
TOTAL GROSS COKHITMEITS       379.4      16.1    395.5
Less:  Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales          201.0       8.1    209.1
Now Held                   178.4       8.0    186.4
Undisbursed                114.6       3.5    118.1



-32-
ANNEX III
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project.
About two years
(b)  The Agency that prepared the project.
Ci) The Investment Planning and Monitoring Cell of the
Department of Housing and Urban Development of the
Government of Uttar Pradesh; and
(ii) The Ganga Project Directorate of the Central Ganga
Authority within the Ministry of Environment and
Forests of the Government of India.
,c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank Group and date of
first mission to consider the project.
June 19B3
June 1984
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
June 23, 1986
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
February 2, 1987
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
July 31, 1987
Section II: Special Bank and IDA Implementation Actions
None



-33-
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) COUP, in consultation with GOI, to present proposals by March
31, 1989, to minimize the negative effect of rent control, and
thereafter to take steps to impLement mutually agreed proposals
(para 46).
(b) An operational action plan to be reviewed and updated annually
by COUP and GPD, to be satisfactory to the Bank and IDA (para
56).
(c) Project towns to generate revenues sufficient to finance an
increasing proportion of their revenue expenditures (para 68).
(d) UP project towns to recover the full cost of operation, main-
tenance, and debt service requirements on their water supply
and sewerage operations (para 70).
;



IBRD 19880
-30'                                       )  7r KHARIDWAR                         CHINA
PAKISTAN                                j
NEPAL   *SiKKIM.    r.
.1 -_BHUTAN
9_     ~~R At J A :,f II1 A N      .}--     UTIAR l'RADFSH      \\.   
A:;  IIb A N        cNP UIR                             -A   %.%        b> J7KNSAM
|  (     X             ALLAHARAOJ§* PATNA                    CHAlAYA
oVARANASI8 II AAGHAAY
>   i?      .1  } \   /       n         V^R^"4lS~~~~~~~~~~~ If1 A R 
r                                          )                                         j >}   Vt   <   >  QA>NGLADESH
CUJARAT                            MADHYA                                   B
X               ~~~~~P R A D F S H         >      a  
-w2r                                                                        ORISSA                         2Dt
MAHARASH rRA
BombayO
ANDRA PRADESH
OA                                                   I N D I A
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
A4rab ar'             KARNATAKA                                    Central Ganga Program
0   SELECTED TOVWNS
SEC,                                                                 0   POTENTIAL TO INS
a Madras            *  NATIONAL CAPTAL
- n-G   -STATE BOUNDAR.'
-. - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES
RIVERS
TAMIL
Due to sclar consideroton manie armas could not
.NI tvADU                    be included in the map; se text for any
-10°                                   >                                  information thol may apply to such areos.
KERALA
MILES
0      100    200    300
iA.ebnt_ '                                                                I      I       I      I
n.  nsn",                                                                O0  100  200  360  400  500
~~~~~~~~-.                     -  SRI                         Et~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KlOMETERS
SRI
- LANKA
:700                                            BOo    -                                     00
JANUARY 1987



IBRD 1988'
5~~~~r 55             S_ 1-_,_ P-~ 1. f-lS Ift 9--  r                                          _ 
ftIMACHAl MADfS \H~o,                                                         ='w 
4            )'                     C~~~~~~~            ~       ~     ~~~~~~ H  I N  A  It-        N   D)  I A   J.
Cj-Z UT7A* KASHI                                                                                          'J   20A,  St t
2    )"@lw "-o    _  t JK  9   <;                         Fr^#ao \,          /    :S"2,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0
r    ,x9v,  \ .   :7 ~~~~~~~f  eH I                                                                           )ShTORH J~o RI LANKA
g s; > ~~~PAURI /j.
-  _   ~~~~~'    >   f   \       f ~~~~~~~~INDIA
h%M2AFFI*tNAG At&°1'2   ^- UTTAR PRADESH URBAN
t->' N - 5 sj"O"& g       P    jDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MEERUT                          N f t AINITAL    ¢  .UP Program
¢                     S         >                                                          _~-A   ECONOMIC FREGION BOUNDARIES
= 2 C 2 wFI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-OJFCT  TOWNSs
]  W E S TiE/*E~ILLr )   FIIBHNI           AV 0e   STATE CAPItAL
> W9AP5^HR  f \ _,   S    _    _r1 RJ YS   5>_   #qJ                    _         F4W^To#,eINAT le.- LG-*-I
4   \  ATHHKA                 <S  HA         HJ >        V      %5    SHAC  
fli'A~~~~~                                     ~X I vcGONDA    4                      -      -    
AGR                                                                  O-   t U            ^ *   C_ =PU
7~~~~/,                      P        >   t~~~~~~~~~~AIZA_AO         t  
26                 4    IALA   4           r ;<       RAE b^REU  5            E 9T   t RANPUN \%
JAAt                                            AL AN uw E
(/~~~~~~~~"MRU L^-\£ 'J  GHADRZPU 
JHANSI ~      ~        ,LIIEIR                           -\"-f        \
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUR ;&AND  .Y






