Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16579
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2797/Credit 1780-IN)
May 8, 1997
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
USS 1.00 = Rs. 12.29 at appraisal (June 1986)
Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.08137 at appraisal (.lune 1986)
USS 1.0()  Rs. 35.00 at closure (March 1996)
Rs. I .00 - tUS$ 0.02857 at closure (March 1996)
GOI/GOTN FISCAL YEAR
April I - NMarch 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m                -        mcter (39.37 inches or 3.28 't)
km               -        kilometer (0.62 miiles)
ha               -        hectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
sq. km           -        square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
I                -        liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 [JS gallons)
led              -        liters per capita per day
cu. m            -        cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 LIS gallons)
Mld              -        million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial gallons per day or 0.264 million
tUS gallons per day)
Rs. I lakh       -        Rs. 100.000
Rs. I crore      -         Rs. 1(0,000,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGA               -        Central Ganga Authority
DA               -        Development Authority
DCA              -        Developimenit Credit Agreement
DEA              -        D)epartment ot'Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, GOI
ERR              -        Economic Rate of Return
GAP               -       Ganga Action Program
CilAs             -       Ganga [mplemeniting Authorities
GOI              -        Government of India
GOUP              -       Ciovernment of Uttar lPradesh
IUD              -         Integrated tJrban Development
IPMC             -         Investment Planning and Monitoring Cell
LA                -        Loan Agreement
LCS               -        ILow Cost Sanitation
OAI'              -       Operational Action Plan
O&M               -       Operation and Maintenanec
PA               -        Proicct Agreemnent
PTs               -        IProject 'rowns
PWD              -        Plublic Works Department
SOF              -        Statemenit o E'xpenditure
STP              -        Sew age 'T'rcatment Plant
s/w              -        Staff-weeks
UP                -       Uttar Pradesh (sometimes refers to Government of UP)
UPUDP             -        UP UJrban Development Projcct
UPIAs            -        UJttar Pradesh Impiemiienting Agencies
WSS               -        Water Supply and Sanitation
Vice President                      Mieko Nishimnizu
Director                            Robert S. Drysdale
Division Chief                      Jean-Francois Bauer
Staff Member                        Michael Whitbread



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2797/CREDIT 1780-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                -             -                             I
A. ProjectObjectives  ------------------------------------------------------------1---------                               I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives -------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project --------------------------------- 9
D. Project Sustainability ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- II
E. Bank Performance --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 12
F. Borrower Performance---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16
H. Future Operations --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 17
I. Key Lessons Learned ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 17
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ----------------------------------------------------------------------- 20
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits --------------------------------------------------------------------21
Table 3: Project Timetable --------------------------------------------------------------------------------23
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ---------------------------23
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ---------------------------------------------------24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ---------------------------------------------------------- 25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project---------------------------------------------------------------------- 25
Table 8A: Project Costs ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 26
Table 8B: Project Financing-------------------------------------------------------------------------------26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits------------------------------------------------------------------- 27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants---------------------------------------------------------------------28
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ----------------------------------------- 30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs-----------------------------------------------------------------30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions--------------------------------------------------------------------- 31
APPENDICES
A. Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Evaluation
Maps: IBRDNos. 19881R;28389
This document hag a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2797/CREDIT 1780-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Uttar Pradesh Urban
Development Project in India, for which the Loan 2797-IN and the Credit 1780-IN, in the amount
of US$20.0 million equivalent and SDR106.3 million respectively, totaling US$150.0 million
equivalent, were approved on April 21, 1987 and made effective on February 26, 1988.
The project had two separate parts: Part A - Uttar Pradesh (Urban Development); and, Part
B - Central Ganga Authority (Ganga Action Program). On October 1, 1992 the project was
restructured to permit, inter alia, financing of damage repairs in response to a serious earthquake in
three northern hill districts of the State of Uttar Pradesh. To reflect the earthquake amendment, Part
A - Uttar Pradesh, was sub-divided into Part A(i) - Urban Development (as before), and Part A(ii) -
Earthquake Reconstruction.
The Loan was canceled in its entirety on December 5, 1991. SDR7.4 million of the Credit
was canceled on December 5, 1991. The Credit was closed on the original closing date of March
31, 1996 and final disbursement took place on August 19, 1996 at which time a Credit balance of
SDR8.1 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Michael Whitbread of the Bank's Agriculture and Water
Operations Division, Country Department 2, South Asia Region. The ICR was reviewed by Mr.
Jean-Francois Bauer, Chief, Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department 2,
South Asia Region, and Ms. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, Country Department 2, South
Asia Region.
The preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission in May and June
1996. It is based on mission findings, which are included as Appendix A to the ICR, and material
from project files. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by providing project and other data,
including for Part A(i) the results of an independent evaluation of a large sample of schemes, and
for Part B the results of several independent monitoring studies of river quality. Additionally, the
Borrower provided views on the project outcome for Part A(i) which are included as Appendix B to
the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2797/CREDIT 1780-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Uttar Pradesh Urban Development Project (UPUDP) had two parts: Part A, which at
appraisal consisted of an integrated urban development (IUD) project in the State of UP, and Part
B, which consisted of support to the Central Ganga Authority (CGA) of the Government of India
in its efforts to abate pollution in the Ganga River.
2.    Part A, Urban Development, followed-on from two earlier projects in the State, the UP
Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Cr.585-IN) and the Kanpur Urban Development Project
(Cr. 11 85-IN). Part A was a progression to a state-wide, multi-city IUD concept after several
earlier single-city IUD projects in other parts of India (Table 2). Part B, Ganga Action Program,
was included in the project at a late stage of preparation of Part A as a response by the Bank to a
request by the Government of India to support its new policy, actively backed by the Prime
Minister, of cleaning up the holy river. The project received the Board's approval on April 21,
1987. In October 1992 the project was restructured to permit, inter alia, the financing of damage
repairs in response to a serious earthquake in the northern hills of the State of UP. The closing
date was March 31, 1996, unchanged from the original.
Project Objectives
3.    There were two project objectives at appraisal which reflected the two parts. These were:
(a) to support the improvements in urban sector management and institutional strengthening
initiated by the GOUP and to reduce the serious deficits in urban shelter, infrastructure and
services in the State; and (b) to assist the CGA in its efforts to reduce pollution levels in the
Ganga River. Urban Development was the larger part. At appraisal, Part A was expected to
constitute about 79 percent of total project costs, and Part B about 21 percent. The Earthquake
Reconstruction introduced in 1992 was to support the earthquake damage repairs, using 'savings'
under the project arising from the depreciation of the Indian Rupee. Part A was then divided into
Part A(i), Urban Development, and A(ii), Earthquake Reconstruction. At closing, the breakdown
of actual total project costs was as follows: Part A(i) - 80.4 percent; Part A(ii) - 10.1 percent;
and, Part B - 9.5 percent.
4.    Part A had several covenants relating to the policy and institutional improvements in the
sector. Probably the most significant were agreed financial performance targets for
implementing agencies in the 11 (later increased to 15) main project cities. In order to achieve



- 1i -
the physical objectives of Part A there were 10 components and sub-components relating to
shelter, water supply, sewerage, drainage, low cost sanitation and municipal services. The
project was designed before the Bank formally introduced its strategy for poverty reduction but
Part A had a strong poverty focus in the provision of low cost sanitation, slum up-grading and
sites and services, which includes price cross-subsidization for plots in favor of the poor. In
addition, Part A embraced the Bank's other primary priorities for urban lending, finance and
environmental improvement.
5.    Although multi-faceted in its approach, the main thrust of the Ganga Action Program
strategy of Part B was the interception of municipal sewage and other city pollution at the point
of entry into the river, and pumping to other locations for treatment and disposal.
6.    Earthquake reconstruction consisted of reinstatement of roads and bridges, irrigation
works, water supplies and public buildings, particularly for health and education, in the
earthquake hit region.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    The Loan/Credit. The approved project consisted of a loan of US$20.0 million and
credit of SDR106.3 million totaling US$150.0 million equivalent. The loan was canceled in its
entirety in December 1991, along with SDR7.4 million of the credit, due mainly to slow progress
with implementation. Following the final disbursement after the closing date of March 31, 1996
there was a credit balance of SDR8. 1 million which was canceled. Thus, disbursements
proceeded considerably more slowly than was envisaged at appraisal, and the available resources
were not fully utilized.
8.    Assessment. With such a complex and varied project it is difficult to sum up the extent
of achievement of project objectives. The project was successful in achieving some of its
physical targets, particularly in providing: (a) equipment and works of modest size for municipal
services, slum upgrading and water supply under Part A(i); (b) equipment under Part B; and (c)
repair works for the Earthquake Reconstruction under Part A(ii). However, the sustainability of
the Part A(i) and B schemes is in doubt due to financial weaknesses of many of the responsible
agencies and their inability to finance O&M costs. Many of the larger schemes for water supply
and sites and services under Part A(i), and sewage treatment under Part B, were not finished by
closing. These larger schemes suffered from poor planning and procurement. Protracted
litigation between the contractor and the executing agency, UP Jal Nigam, greatly delayed two
major sewage treatment plants under Part B, and although the details are confusing, the root
causes are traceable to inadequate disputes resolution provisions in the bid documentation.
9.   Institutional performance was generally very poor when assessed against the expectations
at the time of appraisal, particularly in the area of financial strengthening of the urban local
bodies under Part A. Throughout implementation there were financial weaknesses in most of the
large number of implementing agencies (over 40). The project has made negligible impact on
the longer-term policy, strategy or institutional arrangements for the urban sector in the State of
UP.



- iii -
10.   For Part B, the project's impact on Ganga river quality has been insignificant.
Monitoring studies indicate no differences in measured water quality for key parameters at the
time of closing from corresponding readings which were taken in 1986. Undoubtedly India has
learned from the GAP process. NGOs and stakeholders are now engaged. However, Bank
support made negligible contributions to the strategic thinking and policy formulation of the
CGA or its successors, and the Bank gained little from its involvement.
11.   Factors Affecting the Project. There were no major factors outside the Borrower's
control affecting the achievement of the project's objectives except a substantial depreciation of
the Rupee which led to the 'savings'. Delays were the biggest cause of concern with execution
of the physical works, and the main causes of these delays were under the Borrowers' control.
Poor planning and procurement procedures for major civil works contracts posed problems for
both Borrower and the Indian contractors. As experience grew, so processing procedures for the
larger schemes improved and later implementation speeded up, but regrettably not by enough to
ensure that they were completed by the time of closing.
Performance of the Bank
12.   There were shortcomings in Bank performance at preparation, appraisal and with
supervision during the early years of implementation which gave rise to major problems. The
main shortcomings were as follows:
(a)   at identification and during preparation, there was underestimation of the
supervision and management tasks, and associated costs, that would arise from such a
complex and far-reaching project and actual supervision time by the Bank was 40 percent
greater than the estimates at appraisal;
(b)   appraisal and negotiations failed to include a legal agreement with the project's
main implementing agency, the UP Jal Nigam, which was responsible for over half the
project expenditure and which was associated with most of the project's problems of
physical implementation, an omission which greatly reduced the Bank's leverage in
dealing with the problems;
(c)   although a programmatic project in structure, neither the SAR nor other project
documents contained model schemes to guide the preparation and evaluation of
individual schemes and sub-projects;
(d)   the Bank did not adequately appraise the Ganga component, undertook no testing
of alternatives to the basic strategy, and later gave this part of the project neither attention
nor resources, all of which contributed to poor implementation; and
(e)   overall there was lack of continuity of management, Task Managers and Bank
specialist staff and consultants and, in the crucial years 1988-90 following Board
approval, a serious lack of support for the project by the Bank.



- iv -
After 1991 Bank supervision stabilized, and the skills mix was appropriate for the tasks. But by
that time the problems created by the earlier supervision shortcomings were substantially beyond
repair.
Performance of the Borrower
13.   Part A physical implementation performance was mixed. Small schemes and
procurement of equipment caused few problems and generally were properly implemented. But
larger schemes, particularly of water supply and sites and services, proceeded slowly at the
design and procurement stages, and were unfinished at closing. Hoped for institutional and
financial improvements of the implementing agencies did not materialize. The cause was
inaction, mainly by the State Government, which showed little interest in taking the necessary
steps to alter the deteriorating outcome of the project.
14.   Part B proceeded slowly and remained substantially unfinished at closing. Inefficiencies
of the implementing agencies in preparation for procurement were mostly to blame, made worse
by the UP Jal Nigam's stand-off approach to the handling of a major contractor dispute which
caused delays lasting many years.
15.   Earthquake Reconstruction was well executed. This outcome is consistent with overall
Bank experience of its emergency recovery activities, with their clear objectives and high level of
Borrower ownership.
Assessment
16.   Although the project successfully implemented many of the small schemes, their
sustainability is in doubt as a result of the poor finances of the relevant agencies leading to
insufficient O&M expenditures. Many of the larger schemes were not finished at closing.
Institutional performance was not improved by the project. From 1993 to closing UPUDP was
classified as a "problem" project due to failure by many agencies under Part A(i) to achieve
agreed financial performance targets. At various times during the latter stages of implementation
the Bank considered, and sometimes carried out, suspensions of disbursements. In contrast to
this overall gloomy picture, a few Part A(i) entities did perform well. The Earthquake
Reconstruction was successful. However, these modest successes were not significant enough to
alter the overall assessment as "deficient". Although many factors contributed to this overall
assessment, three stand out: (a) the project design was too far-reaching and ambitious; (b) the
Borrower was not committed to the project objectives and urban sector reform; and (c) there
were critical deficiencies in the Bank's performance, especially during the early years of
supervision.
Key Lessons Learned
17.   Project concept and design. The Bank needs to give full attention at identification,
preparation and appraisal to the potential scale of management and supervision activities of



- v -
multi-dimensional projects of this kind, and to proceed only if it realistically assesses that it is
able to commit sufficient resources to perform these tasks.
18.   The Urban Development part was ambitious and complex. The Bank needs more
evidence of the long-term commitment of Government to all aspects of the project, and sector
reforms, than is provided by the active participation of a few key officials during project
preparation.
19.   The Ganga Action Program part was not fully appraised. It was accepted for support by
the Bank management at a late stage in project preparation. Inadequate appraisal contributed to
poor performance during implementation.
20.   There should have been a separate legal agreement with the most important of the
project's implementing agencies, the UP Jal Nigam, which has autonomous corporate status.
This omission greatly reduced the Bank's leverage in discussions with the Borrower about the
many implementation problems with which this agency was associated. There need to be
agreements in place with all the key implementing agencies.
21.   Implementation and supervision. An important feature of project design was the internal
performance "incentive" mechanism which permitted reallocation of funds to better performing
entities and away from those performing badly. This mechanism was reasonable, credible and
enforceable. However, the mechanism was not activated by the Borrower due to political
resistance to imposing penalties, and poor performance went unpenalized and good performance
unrewarded. The Bank has to be resolute in seeking the implementation of project incentives and
penalties to achieve improved performance since, on this evidence, Borrowers are likely to be
hesitant.
22.   A specially constituted cell, the IPMC, monitored and coordinated Part A activities but
lacked any incentive to take important decisions. Project management effectiveness would be
enhanced by clear delegations of decision-making authority to the project team.
23.   Bank management should investigate arrangements for partial suspension of
disbursements, which currently is not possible. Partial suspension would cover situations where
some project entities are performing badly and are in breach of covenants, while others are
performing well and should not be penalized.
24.   Contractor disputes can continue for many years and greatly delay progress. Bid
documents need to be carefully prepared and, consistent with features of current Bank standard
bid documents, contain appropriate disputes resolution clauses.
25.   The Bank should ensure that there is reasonable continuity of the management, Task
Managers, other staff and consultants working on a project. A key individual or, better still, a
core team should assume project responsibility for a number of years at a time. It is especially



- vi -
important to maintain continuity during the period spanning preparation, appraisal and the first
few years of implementation.
26.   Future urban development projects. UPUDP has provided the following lessons for
future urban development project lending in India: (a) close attention needs to be given to
political factors at the state level to ensure there is genuine backing for urban sector policy
reform; (b) large project/loan size is not sufficient leverage to secure policy change; (c) project
design should be kept simple; (d) with appropriate design, multi-city and multi-sector projects
can stimulate competition for funds as a spur to improved performance, but the Bank needs to be
resolute in pursuing reallocation/withdrawal of funds wherever performance is unsatisfactory; (e)
project design needs to reflect the scale of Bank supervision resources likely to be made
available; and (f) municipalities and local water utilities are appropriate agencies for Bank
support for urban services and slum upgrading, but design-and-construct agencies such as
development authorities and state water undertakings, lack sufficient accountability to the public
and should not be supported.
27.   Future river pollution abatement projects. UPUDP provides the following lessons:
(a) rigorous evaluation of the proposed policy is required to ensure it is economically and
environmentally justified; (b) the strategic approach to pollution abatement needs to be tested for
its cost-effectiveness against alternatives; (c) the stakeholders need to be engaged in the design
and implementation process; (d) technology should be appropriate to local conditions, and
affordable; and (e) agencies ultimately responsible for O&M need to be parties to any decisions
on capital expenditure.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2797/CREDIT 1780-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The Uttar Pradesh Urban Development Project (UPUDP) had two parts: Part A, which at
appraisal consisted of an integrated urban development (IUD) project in the State of UP; and Part
B, which consisted of pollution abatement in the Ganga River. Corresponding to these two parts,
the project objectives were as follows: (a) to support the improvements in urban sector
management and institutional strengthening initiated by the Government of Uttar Pradesh
(GOUP) and to reduce the serious deficits in urban shelter, infrastructure and services in the
State; and (b) to assist the Central Ganga Authority (CGA) in its efforts to reduce pollution levels
in the Ganga River. At appraisal, Part A: Uttar Pradesh (Urban Development) was expected to
constitute about 79 percent of total project costs, and Part B: Central Ganga Authority (Ganga
Action Program) about 21 percent (Table 8A).
Part A: Uttar Pradesh
2.    Part A consisted of carrying out in the State of UP a program to improve urban sector
management and strengthen institutions, and to provide critical infrastructure in the following
components: shelter, including sites and services, slum upgrading and area development; water
supply; sewerage; drainage; low cost sanitation (LCS); municipal services, including solid waste
management (SWM), maintenance management, and traffic engineering and management. The
project supported the project management cell for Part A. There was a strong poverty focus
particularly in the support for slum upgrading, LCS and sites and services, which includes cross-
subsidization of plot prices in favor of the poor. In addition to urban poverty, Part A embraced
the Bank's two other primary priorities for urban lending, urban finance and environmental
improvements.
3.    The Part A components were to be implemented in 11 main towns and one new urban
area. Additionally, the LCS program covered 18 smaller towns. During implementation four
main project towns were added to the original 11, three from a "stand by" list included in the
legal agreements and one which was new and which required an amendment to the agreements.
One of the original 11 towns was dropped during implementation due to its lack of performance.



-2 -
4.    With the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project, which was implemented at about the
same time, Part A was the last of the state-wide integrated urban development (IUD) projects
supported by the Bank in India'. UPUDP was a logical progression to a state-wide, multi-city
IUD concept following several earlier single-city IUD projects in India, in Madras, Calcutta and
Bombay (see Table 2). Part A directly followed-on from two earlier urban projects in the State:
(a)   the UP Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Cr.585-IN), which closed in 1983,
which stressed the need for institutional reform in urban WSS; and
(b)   the Kanpur Urban Development Project (Cr. 1185-IN), which closed in 1987,
which focused primarily on shelter provision but which included some
infrastructure and municipal services upgrading. The principal lessons of this
project were the need for: cost recovery and attention to the pricing of urban
services; rent control reform; and, institutional strengthening.
Part B: Central Ganga Authority
5.    During preparation of Part A of UPUDP the Government of India (GOI) adopted a policy
to abate the pollution of the holy river. This policy was actively promoted and supported by the
Prime Minister. GOI approached the Bank for support to CGA, the responsible agency, and
UPUDP was perceived as an appropriate project vehicle for this support. The Ganga Phase I
program was already fully funded by the GOI so the Bank's resources were not additional.
6.    Most of the Ganga river pollution originates in the cities located on the river banks.
About 75 percent is untreated municipal sewage. Natural river cleansing mechanisms operate.
The worst of the river pollution is at, or close to, the cities with progressive improvement
downstream, although the overall profile of river pollution is affected by many other factors such
as the incidence of tributaries which can dilute, or occasionally add to the pollution levels.
CGA's strategy towards pollution abatement was multi-faceted and included, for example,
provision of LCS, crematoria and river-front facilities in the cities along the river banks.
However, the main thrust of the strategy was the interception of waste water flows at their point
of entry into the river, and pumping them to another location for treatment and disposal.
7.    The CGA strategy had not been seriously evaluated, nor was this undertaken at the
appraisal of UPUDP. Accordingly, it has not been determined whether the policy of cleaning the
river was a beneficial use of resources in terms of quantifiable costs and health and other
environmental benefits for the cities' citizens. Nor has the strategy of interception been shown
to be the best approach. One serious concern with interception, for example, is that no matter
I  The India: Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project (Cr.1923-IN) was due to close on September 30, 1995. It
was extended to permit the further development of its successful Municipal Urban Development Fund. For a
discussion of IUD experiences see, for example, OED Precis Number 35, Integrated Urban Project, Experience in
Ecuador, India and Brazil (October 1992).



-3 -
how successful it may be, the waste water continues to pollute the cities through which it flows,
mostly in open drains, on its way to the river. 2
Earthquake Reconstruction
8.    In December 1992, following a serious earthquake in the previous year in remote
northern hills of the State of UP, the following, third, objective was added: "...to support the
1991 earthquake damage repairs". UPUDP was considered by Bank management to be a suitable
vehicle to provide prompt assistance. There were project "savings" that could be utilized arising
from Rupee depreciation against major currencies. When Earthquake Reconstruction was added
it became Part A(ii). Part A(i) became UP Urban Development and Part B remained, as before.
The three districts of Uttarkashi, Chamoli and Tehri Gabhwal were the location for Part A(ii)
(see Map IBRD 28389).
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Part A(i) - UP Urban Development
9.    Actual project costs for Part A(i) were Rs 4,018 million, or about 80.4 percent of total
project costs (Table 8A). Part A(i) consisted of about 50 percent of UP's Seventh Plan and
partial Eighth Plan investments in urban development and water supply. Institutional
improvements were reflected in several covenants, and physical development was represented by
ten project components and sub-components. The following table provides a summary
assessment of the achievements with cross-references to the specific evidence on which the
judgments have been based. Additional evidence was provided by the Part A(i) evaluation
studies which were undertaken by the Borrower:
2   The Institute for Economic Growth at Delhi University has been commissioned to undertake an expost
investigation of the net economic benefits of the GAP. The terms of reference emphasize quantification of costs
and benefits. The study is using costs derived from GAP Phase I and benefits measured by contingent valuation
methods and based on surveys of river users and non-participants. This study will be concluded in 1997 (See, para
21 of Annex I of Appendix A of this ICR).



-4-
Covenant/Component         Targets/Actions                    Assessment                   Reference
Carry out Operational    The many actions in the  The following OAP actions were not    Table 10: PA S
Action Plan (OAP):     OAP were carried out,    taken: updating of entity assets registers;   2.01(b)
consisting of numerous   with four exceptions    appointment of commercial auditors;
policy and operational                           mapping of utilities (except in 2 towns);
changes                                          preparation of an action plan for
maintenance study. Assessment: partially
achieved
Project towns to meet    GOUP and towns generally  There was persistent and widespread  Table 10: PA
covenanted financial    failed to take agreed    failure, although a few towns did perform    Sch paras 1, 7, 8
performance targets    actions which were        well. This failure led the Bank to consider
required to meet targets  and undertake partial suspensions of Part
A(i). Assessment: not achieved
Project towns to be    Mostly this requirement   Assessment: partially achieved         Table 10: PA
adequately staffed for    was achieved at the                                           Sch paras 2, 4
their functions to be  technical level. Some
performed              senior posts in
implementing entities
remained vacant for many
months
UP to minimize         Direct action on rent     Formula based property tax assessment is   Table 10: PA
negative effects of rent   control was not taken by    being considered which will have  Sch para 9
control                GOUP                      beneficial effects on revenue generation by
local bodies. However, no action occurred
on the ground. Assessment: not achieved
Shelter Component:     SAR target was 10,000     By closing many schemes were not       Annex A:
Provision of Sites and    plots in 8 towns, or about   finished (eg road works and water and  Completion
Services (8.5% of actual  50,000 people mostly in    sanitation facilities incomplete) nor were    Mission's Aide
total project cost)    low income groups. By     all schemes occupied. There were several   Memoire paras
closing, 12,700 plots had    deviations from agreed allotment, funding   15-42
been provided            and pricing procedures. Assessment:
partially achieved
Shelter Component:     SAR target was upgrading   Targets were achieved. No design      Annex A:
Provision of Slum      for 58,000 h/holds, or    standards were defined in the SAR, but an   Completion
Upgrading (5.6% of     about 300,000 people in    expenditure limit appears to have been  Mission's Aide
actual total project cost)  230 slums, later revised  used to determined the extent of  Memoire paras
upwards to 89,000 h/holds   upgrading. Some schemes were in      43-58
and 398 slums, in 13 towns  satisfactory condition at closing but some
needed further upgrading. Off-site
infrastructure was generally missing. No
assessment has been made of the
community participation efforts.
Assessment: achieved



-5-
Covenant/Component        Targets/Actions                  Assessment 
Shelter Component:    SAR target was coverage   Assessment: not achieved             Annex A:
infrastructure provision   of 2,920 h/holds in 6                                     Completion
for Area Development   locations in two towns.                                       Mission's Aide
(0.6% of actual total  Actual implementation                                         Memoire paras
project cost)         was 1,038 h/holds in 6                                         59-68
locations in one town.
Schemes were completed
by closing for only 740
h/holds in 3 locations.
Financial perf. poor
Water Supply          This was a major         All smaller schemes were completed and  Annex A:
Component (46.3% of   component for the        commissioned by closing. Major works in   Completion
actual total project cost)  project. Implemented in   four towns which were implemented by the   Mission's Aide
11 towns, later increased   UP Jal Nigam were delayed. In none were    Memoire paras
by 4. Major investments  the works completed by closing although all  69-77
were proposed in 6 towns  were advanced. These schemes would have
including new treatment   provided major benefits to towns.
plants, transmission    Assessment: partially achieved
systems and capacity
augmentation
Sewerage Component   Main emphasis was:        All works completed by closing, although    Annex A:
(4.1% of actual total    rehabilitation of sewerage  rate of progress was often slow.  Completion
project cost)         systems by cleaning and    Component has helped with environmental   Mission's Aide
repairing; expanding   improvements and O&M, particularly      Memoire paras
coverage; and some new   through provision of equipment.       78-79
construction of sewers in   Assessment: achieved
11 original towns
Drainage Component    SAR target was for 10    Some of the storm water drains are working  Annex A:
(5.1 % of actual total    towns to prepare and  well. Others have been taken over by  Completion
project cost)         implement drainage plans  sullage and sewage disposal. Many drains   Mission's Aide
consisting of           are silted. Assessment: partially achieved   Memoire para 85
rehabilitation of existing
and construction of new
drains. All plans were
prepared and fully
implemented
Low Cost Sanitation   SAR target was for       Revised target achieved. A few units not    Annex A:
Component (3.1% of    conversion of 51,700     utilized because superstructures were not    Completion
actual total project cost)  latrines and provision of   built. But generally a successful program.    Mission's Aide
7,700 new units in 26   Additionally, community latrines are well    Memoire paras
towns. The target was   maintained and utilized. Assessment:   80-84.
later raised to 75,300  achieved
converted/ constructed
latrines, serving about
380,000 people. Some
community latrines were
also provided



-6 -
Covenant/Component         Targets/Actions                   Assessment                    Reference
Municipal Services     SAR target was for       Equipment procurement was fully         Annex A:
Component: Solid       additional equipment and  implemented and is mainly put to good use.  Completion
Waste Management       improved management      Staff exposure to better management     Mission's Aide
(3.4% of actual total  practices in 10 towns    practices was limited. Assessment:      Memoire para 86
project cost)                                   partially achieved
Municipal Services     SAR target was for 9     Equipment was purchased and is being put   Annex A:
Component:            towns to purchase        to good use. Only modest training and    Completion
Maintenance            equipment, undertake     exposure to modem practices was achieved.  Mission's Aide
Management (2.6% of   training and studies      Assessment: partially achieved          Memoire para 87
actual total project cost)
Municipal Services     SAR targets were for     On the whole, schemes have worked well    Annex A:
Component: Traffic     preparation of transport    and provide important if localized traffic  Completion
Engineering and        proposals with support to  benefits, although there are some design  Mission's Aide
Management (4.7% of   low cost solutions,       limitations. This sub-component has made a  Memoire para 88
actual total project cost)  purchase of equipment    real, if modest impact. Assessment:
and carrying out safety  achieved
programs. Traffic
engineering and
management cells were
established and plans
drawn up and
implemented
Project Management               ---            IPMC performed co-ordination and
(1.2% of total project                          monitoring functions well, but lacked
cost)                                           management authority to take difficult
decisions. Assessment: partially achieved
Summary of Urban Development Achievements in UP
10.    There were substantial variations in town performance in Part A, and between the
different parts of the project. Physical development of Part A(i) tended to be more successful
where expenditures were small and/or straightforward to execute, such as with procurement of
maintenance equipment and slum improvement works. Components and sub-components with
larger expenditures such as water supply and sites and services were not completed. The main
shortcomings were with institutional strengthening, particularly the improvement of financial
performance of project entities for which covenants were in only partial compliance at closing.
11.    Part A(i) had limited impact on Government policy and no impact on the Government's
institutional arrangements for urban policy formulation and execution. During the project GOUP
produced two urban policy discussion papers. These papers contained many innovative policy
and institutional proposals including some being promoted under UPUDP. However, there was
little sign of these proposals being taken forward to implementation outside the project .
3 The first of these papers was, Department of Housing, State Housing Policy (August 1992). This document is
far wider in scope than housing and covers most of the important issues of urban planning and policy for urban
Prepared draft ICR in the field



- 7 -
Part B - Central Ganga Authority
12.   Actual expenditure under Part B was Rs 380 million, which was 9.5 percent of total
project cost, well down on the appraisal amount (Table 8A). Part B provided for consultancy
advisory services and training, pollution monitoring and maintenance equipment, and priority
pollution works. The program was implemented in three states, UP, Bihar and West Bengal, by
local or state agencies under the overall direction of CGA. Equipment, such as sewer jetting
machinery, dumper trucks and automatic water quality monitoring stations, was procured and put
to good use but not all the available funds were utilized. The achievements for consultancy
services and training were negligible as only Rs 0.9 million was spent on training and nothing at
all on TA and studies.
13.   The main expenditure was for works on major schemes in two states, UP and West
Bengal. All works were substantially delayed. In UP at closing, the activated sludge STPs at
Kanpur and Allahabad were, respectively, 85 and 80 percent complete for civil works and 65 and
40 percent complete for equipment (without the power packages). Delays were the result of a
protracted contractual dispute (the two STPs had the same contractor, and the dispute was similar
in each case). Although the details of the dispute are cloudy, the root causes were: (a) bid
documentation - which was without adequate disputes resolution procedures; and (b) bid
evaluation - since the contract was signed after intervention by the courts. The implementing
agency was the UP Jal Nigam. It was difficult for the Bank to influence events once the dispute
had got underway aside from the use of the penalties. The Bank's difficulties were compounded
by the absence of a separate legal agreement with the Jal Nigam, thereby reducing the Bank's
leverage in discussions on how to solve problems. This lack of agreement was despite the
agency being responsible for over fifty percent of total project expenditures and having corporate
status.4
14.   There were problems also with a third STP, at Haridwar in UP, which was also the
responsibility of the UP Jal Nigam. The STP was commissioned in May 1994, minus its power
package. Installation of the power package was delayed by two years and its effectiveness was
impaired after installation by an explosion resulting from deficiencies in either its design, the
installation or operation.
15.   Works in West Bengal were undertaken in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area and consisted
mainly of 26 sewage lifting stations and 4 pumping stations in 14 schemes to intercept and divert
pollution. Again, progress was very slow. Only five of the 14 schemes had been commissioned
by closing although most remaining schemes were 95% complete.
development. It was updated and enlarged in 1995 and was used in discussions with the Bank on a possible Second
UP Urban Development Project, which the Bank later declined to support.
4  The UP Jal Nigam was established under the UP Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1975. Jal Nigam is a State-
wide agency responsible for the design and construction of WSS schemes.



- 8 -
Summary of Ganga Action Program Achievements
16.   Part B of UPUDP remained substantially unfinished at closing. The poor implementation
performance of Part B reflected the experience of Phase I of GAP as a whole, which has
5
proceeded slowly and without much overall impact .
17.   Monitoring studies of Ganga River water quality undertaken under CGA's direction
provide evidence that the total Program effectiveness has been slight. Initial targets were for
pollution reduction of at least 75 percent. Trends in dissolved oxygen (DO) and biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) at selected observation points in the river indicate generally slow
6
improvement between 1986 and 1992, but deterioration since then . Around major cities such as
Kanpur and Calcutta, where pollution was most acute, the pollution levels display no differences
now from those the outset of the program in 1986 (see Annex I to Annex A of this ICR). There
are many factors contributing to these poor results, but they would have been better without
extensive delays to the major works.
Part A(ii) - Earthquake Reconstruction
18.   There were 1 ,195 schemes approved under this new part of the project under four main
headings: roads and bridges; irrigation; water supplies; and public buildings, covering education
and health. Total expenditure was Rs 404 million, which was 10.1 percent of actual total project
costs. Implementation was slow initially with practically no expenditure in 1992, the first year.
Thereafter, progress substantially picked up and 1,130 schemes (95 percent) were completed by
closing. All works were of critical importance for the restoration of normal life following the
earthquake. Notwithstanding the shortfall, UPUDP's earthquake reconstruction objective was
achieved.
Overall Assessment of the Achievement of Project Objectives
19.   With such a complex and varied project it is difficult to sum up the extent of the project's
achievements of its objectives. The project had some success in providing works and equipment
in the provision of municipal services, slum upgrading and small water supply schemes under
Part A(i), equipment under Part B and for most of the Earthquake Reconstruction works of Part
A(ii). Many of the larger schemes under Part A(i) and Part B took far too long to implement and
in many cases remained unfinished at closing. Institutional strengthening performance was poor
when assessed against the expectations at the time of appraisal, particularly in the area of
5   Many of the larger GAP Phase I schemes are unfinished, not only those financed under Part B of UPUDP.
Generally the small schemes, such as low cost sanitation and river front facilities, have been finished but their
impact on river pollution levels has been modest.
6   River pollution measurement is more wide-ranging than the simple indicators of DO and BOD and includes
total loads and the impact on the natural environment. Studies which have looked at a wider range of measures also
suggest there has been limited impact of the GAP on pollution levels in the river.



- 9 -
financial strengthening of the urban local bodies under Part A(i). None of the project's Parts
7
were completed, and there was a significant balance of credit left unutilized at closing
C.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
20.   There were no major external factors beyond the control of the Borrower affecting the
project, other than the substantial depreciation of the Rupee which resulted in savings.
21.   Part A(i) - Urban Development. The monitoring and coordination activities were
competently performed by the specially-constituted Investment Planning and Monitoring Cell
(IPMC). IPMC benefited considerably from continuity and dedication of its staff. However,
IPMC lacked the authority or sufficient influence to bring about improvements to implementing
agencies' performance. The Bank still considered it necessary to undertake as much supervision
on the ground as possible despite the fact that IPMC were deputed to perform supervision tasks.
IPMC reported to the Secretary of Housing on a regular basis but generally the Housing
Department did not take management action and there was little evidence during implementation
that GOUP was interested in the progress of the project, or pursuit of its objectives. The main
problem was with Government. Its largely rural constituency, combined with a traditional
approach to policy, may have accounted for the project's low priority.
22.   Members of the IPMC were on deputation from their departments and agencies to which
they would later return. For this reason, the staff may have been reluctant to engage in criticism
8
and promote punitive action, such as funds withdrawal for poor performance .
23.   Implementation of some of the Part A(i) program of physical works was completed well
within the project period, helped by the small-scale nature of the works. However there was a
late start with the larger water supply schemes due to procurement and planning problems at the
principal agency, the UP Jal Nigam, with the result that these schemes were not completed by
closing.
24.   Large civil works contracts posed major problems for both the Borrower and the Indian
contractors, leading to delays. Consultants were not used for project management. As local
experience grew, so processing procedures were improved during the second half of the project,
for example with the large Jhansi water supply scheme and Agra water treatment plant which,
7  The Borrower requested an extension of one year to complete the project but this was refused by Bank
management. Refusal was on the grounds of poor project performance, and in order to be consistent with the policy
agreed earlier with the DEA of the GOI to remove the older projects from the portfolio as soon as practicable.
s strong centralized management is a necessary condition for the success of integrated urban development
projects. It is a characteristic of these projects that project monitoring and co-ordination units, like IPMC, have not
possessed the necessary authority to take management decisions and, as in the case of UPUDP, have not been
backed by resolute Governments.



- 10-
although delayed due to procurement shortcomings, subsequently proceeded during
implementation more smoothly than earlier schemes.
25.   The Remote Sensing Applications Center Lucknow failed in the production of aerial
photographs. Hence the production of utility maps for the major cities, which were to be based
on the photographs, was not undertaken except for the towns of Lucknow and Allahabad which
used ground level surveys.
26.   The main causes for concern in Part A(i) was the poor and continuously deteriorating
financial performance of the local bodies implementing the project against targets agreed at
appraisal. The fault lay primarily with the GOUP, which failed to take action within its authority
to increase revenues, for example by approving requests for tax and tariff increases, and
otherwise encourage local bodies to perform better by setting the right policy environment9. The
local bodies themselves were also to blame. They performed poorly from the standpoint of
billings, collections, maintenance of registers and other aspects of revenue generation, although
there were a few exceptions.
27.   Part B - Central Ganga Authority. Implementation was excessively slow. The
contractor for the two major STPs at Kanpur and Allahabad and the implementing entity, the UP
Jal Nigam, engaged in a protracted contractual dispute. Bid documents did not contain adequate
dispute resolution procedures. Once begun, the Jal Nigam failed to find a reasonable
accommodation with the contractor, assumed an entrenched position and generally seemed
disinterested in arriving at a speedy solution. The implementing agencies under Part B in West
Bengal also made very slow progress with the civil works contracts due primarily to weaknesses
of planning and co-ordination of investments.
28.   Part A(ii) - Earthquake Reconstruction. There were no problems with the
implementation of this part of the project, other than initially in mobilizing contractors to work in
remote hill areas. This difficulty was partly overcome by the acceptance by the Bank of the use
of force account procurement procedures.
Assessment of Project Risks
29.   Three risks were identified at appraisal, all of them "internal" to the project and relating
to Part A:
(a)   limitations of the appraisal and supervision capacity of IPMC - in the event this
risk proved to be unfounded, but IPMC lacked the executive authority and willingness to
take project management decisions and was not well supported by GOUP;
9  An illustration of the weakness of local urban finances is provided by the case of octroi which was abolished
during the project period. This local tax on the movement of goods is buoyant and, in states where it exists,
provides the main part of local revenues. A state "octroi compensation" grant was introduced by GOUP which was
far lower than the octroi revenues which were lost to the municipalities.



- 11 -
(b)   limitations of the institutional capacity of the towns to manage their programs -
this risk proved to be mostly unfounded, probably because of the modest sizes of the
individual towns' investment programs; and
(c)   cost-recovery and resource mobilization - this was a serious problem for which
the identification of the risk was fully justified, although the risk itself was under-
estimated.
Other risks that should have been identified at appraisal were:
(d)   lack of ownership of and interest in the project by GOUP, with its largely rural
constituency, made more apparent with frequent turnover of senior officials who lacked
commitment;
(e)   poor performance by a few key agencies, most notably the UP Jal Nigam in both
Parts A(i) and B, which adversely affected implementation of parts of the program; and
(f)   the wide geographical, sectoral and institutional spread of the project, which
reduced supervision effectiveness and increased costs.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   Part A(i) - Urban Development. The very weak local body finances for municipal
services and water supply and sanitation, which the project failed to improve, constitute the main
concern. The inadequate financial situation identified at appraisal deteriorated further during
implementation. Most local bodies did not generate sufficient revenue to undertake their regular
O&M activities and, as a consequence, many of the facilities provided under the project are not
likely to be properly utilized.
31.   The LCS program is likely to be sustainable as ownership is with individual households.
The sites and services and area development schemes were not fully completed at closing, and
occupation levels were, at best, modest. As a result, it is likely that these shelter investments will
deteriorate, making full occupation, and the sought for cost recovery, difficult to achieve. Some
of the slum upgrading schemes are in need of repairs for which resources do not exist.
32.   Part B - Central Ganga Authority. It is likely that the unfinished STPs and other
works will be completed using GOI funds. However, there will be on-going problems with the
take-over of responsibility by local government. Local governments cannot finance from their
current resources the O&M costs of these facilities, nor do they posses the technical capacity to
operate them. CGA agreed to a 5-year period of sharing of the financing of the on-going O&M
costs, but this obligation expired in 1995. Accordingly, there is expected to be limited
sustainability of the major investments under Part B.



- 12 -
33.   Part A(ii) - Earthquake Reconstruction. Because the works involved reinstatement, no
problems with sustainability are anticipated.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
34.   Identification and preparation. There were four preparation missions (Table 4), which
were staffed with appropriate skills. Inputs for preparation and appraisal were 113 s/w, which
was low relative to the Bank's IUD average of 176 s/w. However, the Borrower undertook
substantial preparation work, including a sector study which was completed on time and the
preparation of individual town investment plans.
35.   The project concept, however, caused many subsequent problems. The Bank did not
assess correctly the scale of the supervision and management tasks, and associated costs, that
would arise from such a complex and far-reaching project. Actual supervision time by the Bank
was 40 percent greater than the appraisal estimates.
36.   Identification of Part B occurred about 12 months later than Part A. Possibly as a result
of time pressure, the appraisal lacked an evaluation of the GAP strategy towards river pollution
abatement operations, and the strategy was accepted by the Bank without review. Appraisal did
review the implementation details of the CGA proposals.
37.   Appraisal. There were concerns expressed within the Bank at the time of appraisal about
the proposals for the management of the project. The Loan Committee raised questions about
project complexity. The project concept was successfully defended against the criticisms, which
later were proved justified, that there would be supervision and implementation problems.
38.   As indicated above (para 13), there was no separate legal agreement with UP Jal Nigam,
the State-level WSS design and construction agency. The UP Jal Nigam was associated with
most of the problems of implementation, particularly the extensive delays with major water
supply schemes under Part A and the STPs under Part B. The absence of a legal agreement with
the UP Jal Nigam reduced the Bank's leverage to deal with these problems.
39.   The wide-ranging nature of Part A, with numerous individual schemes in many different
sectors being implemented in dispersed locations, called for a programmatic project design.
However, the appraisal did not include any model schemes, for example, for sites and services or
road improvements, which could be used to guide individual designs.
40.   Supervision. Great reliance was placed on IPMC to act as the supervision
"intermediary" for Part A(i), a role for which it was untested. Although there was no lack of
effort by IPMC to interact with project entities, undertake field visits and perform co-ordination
duties, the Bank felt the need to go into the field during supervision missions. In the event the
actual Bank supervision time greatly exceeded expectations and took up 257 s/w compared with
the appraisal estimate of 180 s/w. The Bank-wide IUD supervision average is 187 s/w.



- 13 -
41.   Yet, despite the high supervision inputs by the Bank, the completion mission was of the
opinion that there were supervision shortcomings (Annex A, para 114). Some of these were: (a)
no project launching workshop for IPMC and CGA; (b) no Bank briefing to the Borrower on
procedures and good practices; (c) high turnover of Bank staff and consultants between
identification and final supervision, but especially for the three years following effectiveness,
with resulting lack of continuity;'0 and, adding further to the lack of continuity, (d) six different
Task Managers spanning the 19 missions between identification and closing. There was no
recognized expert for the important Shelter component during supervision.
42.   Changes in mission composition and TM responsibilities after effectiveness sent
unfortunate messages to the Borrower about the strength of the Bank's interest in the project's
outcome. Further, as pointed out in the Borrower's evaluation (Appendix B), small differences
in advice given by many different Bank personnel led to Borrower confusion, particularly
evident in the early stages of the project in the area of procurement. Later Bank procurement
functions were transferred to the New Delhi Office where advice was more consistently applied
and was more accessible to the Borrower.
43.   The Bank was keen to promote large contracts for civil works, which went somewhat
against the Borrower's preferences for packages of smaller contracts. The Bank's procurement
preferences may have been appropriate for the longer term development of procurement
management. However, the policy caused many problems and substantial delays through being
implemented ahead of adequate acceptance of and experience by the Borrower and Indian
contractors. The Borrower did not use consultants to assist with procurement management,
which might have mitigated some of the problems.
44.   Supervision activities for Part B were dominated by issues arising out of the very slow
progress with the large civil works contracts. Consideration was given by Bank management to
suspension of disbursements because progress with the STPs had come to a halt, but the dispute
was resolved before action was taken and work again proceeded, although it remained unfinished
at closing.
45.   The Funds Re-allocation Mechanism. A covenant of the project permitted reallocation
of project funds away from under-performing entities to other entities performing better, and
which were more able to utilize them (Table 10: PA Sch. 2). This was a potentially powerful
incentive device to secure greater efficiency in implementation and covenant compliance. There
were no problems with the specification of the mechanism; it was reasonable, credible and
enforceable. But the mechanism was unused, in spite of the widespread failure to reach financial
performance targets by project entities. Since the Borrower was extremely hesitant about
penalizing these poor performers the Bank should have been resolute. The mechanism for re-
tO  Altogether 31 different Bank staff members and consultants went on mission between identification and
closing, of which 18 went once only. The February 1988 mission was staffed entirely by consultants, none of
whom worked on the project beforehand, nor subsequently. Most of this lack of continuity occurred at about the
time of the Bank re-organization in 1987, which unfortunately was a most critical time for the project.



- 14 -
allocation would have been used to maximum effect with early application, after about two years
of implementation. But this was the time when the Bank's supervision was at its least effective
(para 41), and the opportunity was lost.
46.   Problem Project Status. In 1993 the project was classified as a "problem" project by
the Bank due to the poor financial performance of the implementing entities in Part A(i).
Normally, problem project status requires that within a year there is either restructuring,
suspension of disbursements (or closure), or an upgrade of status. As financial performance of
the entities, if anything, continued to decline, a status upgrade was not possible. Nor was
restructuring feasible.
47.   Accordingly, the Bank considered suspension of disbursements due to the poor financial
performance of implementing entities against covenanted targets. Some entities were in
compliance of the relevant covenants even though the majority were not. Penalizing the good
performers was undesirable so only partial suspension would have been appropriate. Partial
suspension is not possible under Bank procedures, and as a result the suspension route was not
taken and the project persisted as a problem project until closing.
48.   However, the Bank did suspend disbursements for another reason, audit objections.
Suspension was against the statements of expenditure to which many audit objections under Part
A(i) related until the issues had been clarified to the auditors' satisfaction. The auditors'
objections were all eventually dropped and suspensions lifted. IPMC played a valuable role in
assisting with clarifications leading to the dropping of objections.
49.   Part A(ii) - Earthquake Reconstruction. Bank supervision of Part A(ii) was
undertaken out of the New Delhi Office, and not by the project TM. Despite the urgency
involved and the remoteness of the location, the identification and appraisal of this new part of
the project was thorough. This was followed by an early supervision mission, and subsequent
short mission visits to the earthquake region by staff from the New Delhi Office. The Bank
supervision of the Earthquake Reconstruction was satisfactory.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
50.   Identification/Preparation/Appraisal. There was close involvement of the Secretary of
Housing of GOUP and his senior professional staff throughout the initial stages of the project
cycle for Part A. This involvement provided encouragement to the Bank to proceed. The
Borrower was active with making inputs to project preparation and was responsive to the Bank's
requirements, for example, in commissioning a sector study. The selection of project towns was
not a rigorous process, nor were the town's investments systematically evaluated. Nevertheless,
the bottom-up process of preparation led to Borrower ownership of the town plans, and as
guidelines for implementation, the town plans were adequately prepared.
51.   The programs proposed were expected by GOUP to be completed in five years. Indeed,
to reflect this optimism, the SAR included details for a five-year project cost/disbursement



- 15 -
profile as well as the Bank standard profile of eight years. Eight years was the figure actually
used for the appraisal and was the approved project period, but the Borrower failed to complete
the larger water supply, sewerage and shelter schemes in this ample time period.
52.   Implementation. Part A(i) components other than water supply and shelter were
completed about two years ahead of closing. The schemes which were completed were mostly
relatively small and uncomplicated. Progress was slowest and least satisfactory for larger
schemes . In particular, for the shelter sub-components of sites and services and area
development, the development authorities were slow and ineffective in project execution. For
the larger water supply schemes, and the STPs under Part B, the UP Jal Nigam was late in
starting and displayed considerable inefficiency in executing its procurement functions.
53.   The Housing Secretary's efforts during preparation of Part A were not sustained by all of
his successors during implementation when there was evident lack of interest and commitment to
the project by the GOUP.
54.   The Borrower's audits were late initially, but on time after FY91. However, there were
many audit comments and objections for several of the Part A(i) implementing agencies (see para
48).
55.   The Borrower's performance regarding institutional strengthening, particularly
strengthening of finances of implementing agencies under Part A(i), was almost a complete
failure. There were two agreed targets each year of implementation for each implementing
agency to achieve. At the time of closing, only 14 of the 60 agreed financial targets were met by
local implementing entities, and none of the entities achieved both targets (Table 5). There was
progressive deterioration in entities' financial performance against targets throughout the project.
GOUP was as responsible for this failure as the entities themselves, as it failed to pursue the
necessary reforms at state level and did not grant tax and tariff revisions when they were applied
for. Many of these reforms were agreed with the Bank in action plans as the project proceeded.
The entities also failed to take necessary action, which was most apparent with the collection of
bills.
56.   CGA was the project intermediary for Part B, and state agencies implemented the
program under CGA's direction. CGA often failed to take decisions in a timely fashion and
interfered in the work of the state agencies. Yet CGA was unable to exert influence to resolve
the major dispute between the UP Jal Nigam and the contractor that led to the extensive delays
with the Kanpur and Allahabad STPs.
57.   The UP Jal Nigam demonstrated no interest in reaching a settlement in a timely way with
the contractor for the two STPs. There were difficulties, also, at Haridwar STP where the UP Jal
Nigam was also the implementing agency. The facility remained without the installation of the
1l  For Part A(i) about 40 percent of the total project cost was for small schemes, and 60 percent for large.



- 16-
dual fuel engine for two years after the work had otherwise been finished. The impasse was due
to cash-flow problems experienced by the contractor which, almost certainly, could have been
overcome by a willing implementing agency.
58.   Part A(ii) - Earthquake Reconstruction. All stages in the project cycle were satisfactory
for this part of the project, apart from the initial slow start with implementation which arose from
difficulties with contractor mobilization in the remote hill areas.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Part A(i) - Urban Development
59.   The overall achievement of Part A(i) has been rated as deficient. Some of the sub-
components involving small expenditures were implemented in a satisfactory fashion. Larger
schemes progressed slowly and remained incomplete at closing. Most of the institutional
strengthening objectives were not achieved, particularly in the critical area of financial
performance.
60.   The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated for water supply (Table 9). The
project's four major water supply schemes remained incomplete at the time of closing and hence
their benefits were not revealed. The ERR calculated on actual costs and benefits, which was 8
percent, is likely to be an underestimate of the returns over the longer term. The ERR fell well
short of the SAR estimate of 13 percent. The shortfall arose mainly from lower measured
benefits in the actual case compared with appraisal.
61.   Section D, above, concluded that the sustainability of Part A(i) components is likely to be
poor or non existent due to the poor financial performance of the implementing entities, resulting
in their inability to finance the on-going O&M costs.
Part B - Central Ganga Authority
62.   Part B of the project was incomplete by closing, resulting in failure to achieve most of the
objectives, and the overall rating is deficient. GOI is providing funds to complete the works.
The performance of Part B mirrors the poor overall performance of Phase I of the Ganga Action
Program. No ERR was calculated for Part B but costs were higher than those appraised as a
result of the delays. The benefits would be small relative to costs incurred because of the
unfinished nature of the investments. The sustainability of the investments is likely to be poor
since most require substantial on-going O&M expenditures by local entities for which there are
inadequate funds. In the case of the three STPs in UP, considerable technical competence is
required for operations which does not readily exist within the relevant local agencies.



- 17-
Part A(ii) - Earthquake Reconstruction
63.   This part of the project was executed well and is expected to achieve all its objectives in a
cost effective manner. Consisting of reinstatement of assets destroyed or damaged by the
earthquake, this Part is expected to be sustainable.
64.   The favorable performance of the Earthquake Reconstruction part, which was small
relative to the others and introduced only in 1992, is insufficient to outweigh the deficient rating
for Parts A(i) and B. The overall assessment of outcome for the project is therefore rated as
"deficient". Although many factors contributed to this overall assessment, three stand out: (a)
the project design was too far-reaching and ambitious; (b) the Borrower was not committed to
the project objectives and urban sector reform; and (c) there were critical deficiencies in the
Bank's performance, especially during the early years of supervision.
H.  FUTURE OPERATIONS
65.   No special arrangements are in place for the technical, financial, commercial and
institutional arrangements for project operations. In most cases the investments will constitute
assets of municipalities and other local bodies and will be operated and maintained as part of the
entities' continuing responsibilities. There are serious doubts as to the effectiveness of these
investments because of the technical and financial weaknesses of these implementing entities.
66.   The GOUP has disbanded the IPMC following project closure and no dedicated state-
level institutional arrangement exists under Part A(i) to monitor and evaluate the systems that
have been established.
67.   During the latter stages of UPUDP the GOUP requested the Bank to consider a Second
Urban Development Project (footnote 3). However, in the light of the poor performance of
UPUDP, the Bank did not respond positively to this request. Similarly, the National Rivers
Conservation Directorate, which is the successor to the CGA, also requested the Bank to consider
financing a GAP-type project for the Satluj River in Punjab, and possibly others elsewhere in
India. Again, in the light of the poor performance of Part B of UPUDP, and doubts about the
12
overall strategic approach, the Bank did not respond positively to this request,
I.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED
68.   Project concept and design. The Bank needs to give full attention at identification,
preparation and appraisal to the scale of management and supervision activities of complex and
multi-dimensional projects of this kind, and to proceed only if it realistically determines that it is
able to perform these tasks.
12 In addition to the Bank's involvement, the ODA of the UK and the Dutch Government supported Phase I of
the GAP. Both are proposing to give support to Phase 11.



- 18-
69.   The Urban Development part of this project was ambitious. The Bank needs more
evidence of the long-term commitment of Government to the project's objectives and urban
sector reforms than is provided by active participation of a few key officials during preparation.
70.   The Ganga Action Program part of UPUDP was not adequately appraised. It was
accepted for support by the Bank management at a late stage in project preparation. The
inadequate appraisal contributed to poor performance during implementation.
71.   There was no separate legal agreement with the most important of the project's
implementing agencies, the UP Jal Nigam, which has autonomous corporate status. This
omission greatly reduced the Bank's leverage in discussions with the Borrower about the many
implementation problems with which this agency was associated. There need to be agreements
in place with all the key implementing agencies.
72.  Implementation and supervision. An important feature of project design was the
"incentive" mechanism which permitted reallocation of funds to better performing entities and
away from those performing badly. This mechanism was not activated by the Borrower due to a
reluctance, on political grounds, to impose the penalty of withdrawal of funds. The Bank has to
be resolute in seeking funds reallocations as an incentive to improved performance since
Borrowers are likely to be hesitant.
73.  IPMC monitored and coordinated Part A activities, but lacked the incentive or will to take
important decisions. Project management would be enhanced by clear delegations of decision-
making authority to the project team.
74.   Bank management should investigate the possibility of arrangements for partial
suspension of disbursements for projects with numerous implementing entities. Partial
suspension would cover situations where some of the entities are performing badly and are in
breach of covenants, while others are performing well and should not be penalized by a
suspension.
75.   Contractor disputes can continue for many years and greatly delay progress. Bid
documents need to be carefully prepared and, consistent with features of current Bank standard
bid documents, contain appropriate disputes resolution clauses.
76.   The Bank should ensure that there is reasonable continuity of its management, Task
Manager, other staff and consultants working on a project. A key individual or, better still, a
core team should assume project responsibility for a number of years at a time. It is especially
important to maintain continuity during preparation, appraisal and the first few years of
implementation.
77.   Future urban development projects. UPUDP has provided the following lessons for
future urban development project lending in India: (a) close attention needs to be given to
political factors at the state level to ensure there is genuine backing for urban sector policy



- 19-
reform; (b) large project/loan size is not sufficient leverage to secure policy change; (c) project
design should be kept simple; (d) with appropriate design, multi-city and multi-sector projects
can stimulate competition for funds as a spur to improved performance, but the Bank needs to be
resolute in pursuing reallocation/withdrawal of funds wherever performance is unsatisfactory; (e)
project design needs to reflect the scale of Bank supervision resources likely to be made
available; and (f) municipalities and local water utilities are appropriate agencies for Bank
support for urban services and slum upgrading, but design-and-construct agencies such as
development authorities and state water undertakings, lack sufficient accountability to the public
and should not be supported'3.
78.    Future river pollution abatement projects. UPUDP provides the following lessons:
(a) rigorous evaluation of the proposed policy is required to ensure it is economically and
environmentally justified; (b) the strategic approach to abatement needs to be tested for its cost-
effectiveness against alternatives; (c) the stakeholders need to be engaged in the design and
implementation process; (d) technology should be appropriate to local conditions and affordable;
and (e) agencies ultimately responsible for O&M need to be parties to the capital expenditure
decisions.
13  Support to municipalities would be consistent with the objectives of India's recently enacted 74th.
Constitutional Amendment on municipalities, which promotes decentralization of powers and responsibilities.



- 20 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. AciAehieveinentofO bje es      Substa       PialO           Neligible          Not
ntial a)                                   aplicble
Macro policies                      O            O                O               U
Sector policies                     O            O                *               n
Financial objectives                O            O                *               O
Institutional development           C1           O                *               O
Physical objectives                 O            *                0               O
Poverty reduction                   O            *                E               O
Gender issues                       O            O                E                U
Other social objectives             O            O                O                U
Environmental objectives            O            O                *               O
Public sector management            O            O                *               E
Private sector development          O            O                O                U
B.rn                                                      Un l             Uncertain
C. Bank performance            Hihly        Stiarctory       Marginally       Deficient
Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
Identification                   O              O                O               U
Preparation assistance           O              O                *               O
Appraisal                        E              E                O               U
Supervision                      E              E                E               U
:D.; iBoroe pefr  mce
Preparation                      E              E                *               E
Implementation                   E              E                E               U
Covenant compliance                             E                E               U
Operation (if applicable)        E              E                E               U
E. Assessmen o outo   H::           igh4ysatisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
O                  E                 U



- 21 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/ Credit                           Purpose                      Year of          Status
l ____________________ ________________________________________           approval
Preceding Operations
1. Second Calcutta UD     Single city integrated urban development (IUD)   1978          Closed
Project (Cr.0756-IN)      project to extend and rehabilitate city's urban
service systems, and upgrade capacity of local
bodies
2. Second Bombay WSS   Construction of water supply and distribution      1979           Closed
Project (Cr.0842-IN)      works and sewerage improvements, slum
sanitation provision, water conservation and TA
3. Second Madras UD       Single city IUD project including: development   1981          Closed
Project (Cr.1082-IN)      of plots; slum improvements; provision of buses;
l_________________________    municipal services; and, TA
4. Kanpur UD Project      Project focused mainly on sites and services and   1982        Closed
(Cr. 1185-IN)             slum upgrading; also included infrastructure and                           l
municipal service improvements and TA
5. Third Calcutta UD    [ Single city IUD project, involving the spreading   1983   |    Closed
Project (Cr. 1369-IN)     of infrastructure and service improvements                                 l
outside of metrocore
6. Madhya Pradesh UD      Project mainly focused on shelter and sanitation    1983       Closed
Project (Ln.2329-IN)      improvements, in 10 cities                                                 l
7. Bombay UD Project    Single city IUD project including: land           1985         ICR-Active
(Cr.1544-IN)              infrastructure servicing; slum upgrading; local                            l
government finance and administration, and                                l
services; and, TA.                                                         l
8. Gujarat UD Project     Appraised as a state-wide multi-city IUD project  1986         Closed
(Cr.1643-IN)              with emphasis on: shelter; infrastructure; slum                            l
upgrading; solid waste; and, institutional                                l
strengthening. Restructured with large rural WS
component    _
9. Third Bombay WSS       Project involved: expansion of WS and sewerage  1987         ICR-Active
Project                   facilities in the city; sanitation for urban poor;
(Cr.1750/Ln.2769-IN)      and, improvements to irnplementation capacity
Following Operations                                                     l          l
1. First Madras WSS       Ground water supply, distribution and waste     1987      |    Closed
Project                   water improvements in city with small LCS
(Cr. 1822/Ln.2846-IN)     component and institutional improvements       l _        l



- 22 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (cont'd)
| 0LoanlCredit-                          Purpose                        Year of       Status
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __   ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ a p p ro v l
2. Tamil Nadu UD           State-wide multi-city IUD project with all main    1988         SPN-Active
Project (Cr.1923-lN)       sectors included: institutional improvements;
municipal services; shelter; traffic management
and transport
3. Hyderabad WSS           Expansion of WS to city, rehabilitation and       1990          SPN-Active
Project                    strengthening of existing WSS systems, with
(Cr.2115/Ln.3181-IN)       LCS component and institutional strengthening
4. Second Madras WS        Project included: major scheme to bring           1995      |  SPN-Active
Project (Ln.3907-0/6 IN)  additional water to city; distribution and
conservation improvements within city; and, TA
5. Bombay Sewage           Project included: construction of 2 outfall       1996          SPN-Active
Disposal Project           sewers; pumping facilities; sewage treatment;
(Cr.2763/Ln.3923-IN)       sewerage system improvements and
rehabilitation; and, slum sanitation
Table 2 lists all urban development and urban water supply and sanitation (WSS) projects in India for the 10 years of preceding,
and the years following, UPUDP approval. The UP Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Cr.585-IN) is not included in the
Table as it was approved over 10 years beforehand although, with Kanpur UD Project which is included in the table, it was a
directly related project.
Year of approval is Bank fiscal year.
Under Status: ICR-Active indicates that the Credit/Loan has closed but the ICR has not been finalized; SPN-Active indicates that
the project is being implemented and is under active supervision.



- 23 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Planned           Date Actual
Identification (Initial Executive Project Summary)                               28-Jan-86
Preparation (pre-Appraisal mission)                                              07-Apr-86
Appraisal                                                  23-Jun-86             23-Jun-86
Negotiations                                               28-Jan-87             28-Jan-87
Board presentation                                         21-Apr-87             21-Apr-87
Signing                                                                          21 -Dec-87
Effectiveness                                                                    26-Feb-88
Mid-termn review                                                                 26-Apr-93
Project completion                                         31 -Mar-95            31 -Mar-96
Credit/Loan closing                                        31-Mar-96             31 -Mar-96
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY      1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Appraisal
Estimate
Total:         6.0   24.0   48.0   73.5   97.5   117.0  133.5  145.0  150.0  150.0
Actual
Credit      8.4   16.2   28.9   46.1   61.4   73.1   82.2   99.3   111.7  127.1
Loan       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total:         8.4   16.2   28.9   46.1   61.4   73.1   82.2   99.3   111.7  127.1
Actual as
Percentage
of Estimate:    140.0   67.5   60.2   62.7   63.0   62.5   61.6   68.5   74.5   84.7
Effectiveness date:           26-Feb-88
Date of final disbursement:    19-Aug-96



- 24 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
!KeyImplementation Indicators                   Estimated                        Actual
1. Expenditure against project (SAR)
targets - overall:
- Part A(i) Urban Development              Rs 2,271 million               Rs 3,234 million
- Part A(ii) Earthquake Reconstruction                                      Rs 404 million
- Part B Ganga Action Program               Rs 590 million                  Rs 345 million
2. Physical progress against project
(SAR) targets:
- Part A(i) Urban Development:     825 physical progress indicators   Overall physical achievement
physical progress monitored by sub-   were defined - too numerous to    was about 87% by closing
component by town, with each sub-    include here, but Quarterly
component having between 2 and 11   Progress Reports containing the
indicators                         data are on project file
- Part A(ii) Earthquake            1195 schemes in total           1130 schemes (95%) were
Reconstruction: physical progress                                 completed at closing
monitored by scheme
- Part B Ganga Action Program:     17 civil works schemes in total,    Haridwar STP    99%
physical progress with civil works    consisting of 3 large sewage  Kanpur STP        60%
monitored by scheme               treatment plants (STPs) in UP  Allahabad STP        52%
and 14 smaller schemes in West   West Bengal (total)   95%
Bengal                         complete at closing
3. Financial Performance of           480 targets were defined - too  At closing, only 14 out of the 60
implementing agencies in Part A(i)  numerous to record here, but   final year targets were exceeded
Urban Development:                  Quarterly Progress Reports     (23%). None of the
2 performance targets were defined for  containing the data are on project  implementing entities exceeded
each year of project implementation (8  file                       the targets for both of the
years) for each municipal body (15)                                financial perfornance indicators
and each water supply and sanitation
entity (15). The 2 indicators were:
(a) ratio of internally generated
revenue to revenue expenditure;
and,
(b) percent collection of total demand
For item 1, expenditure progress for Part A(i) was monitored against individual targets by town (19 items), and by sub-
component (13 items).



- 25 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
IL Key Operating Indicators:                      Estimated                         Actual
None.
Key indicators of project operation were not defined in the SAR. The Minutes of Negotiation also do not provide any
information on whether indicators were discussed. Nor subsequently, during implementation, were any indicators defined.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as derined
Study                 at appraisal             Status               Impact of study
Water loss prevention   T.A. study                Completed         No implementation follow-
and leak detection                                                  through
Water supply tariff    To rationalize charging    Completed         No impact on cost recovery.
study                  elements, and make cost                      Recommendations not
recovery. recommendations                    implemented
Outline development    To assist long-term        Completed for    Necessary basis for strategic
strategy               development planning in    Lucknow and       planning, and for intensive
cities                     part elsewhere    discussion of development
options
Circulation plan and   Assist in evolving         Completed         Effective. Basis on which
functional plans for   appropriate policies and                     individual schemes were
initial traffic schemes   provide technical support at              implemented
city level
Baseline traffic study    ditto                   ditto             ditto
Individual towns       ditto                      ditto             ditto
traffic plans
Traffic and transport    ditto                    ditto             ditto
study for 11 Group A
towns
Low cost sanitation    To assist with project     Completed         Essential input to the
(LCS): updating of     planning                                     implementation of the LCS
feasibility studies for                                             program
Group D towns
LCS feasibility studies  ditto                    Completed         ditto
for Group A and B
towns
Maintenance            To assist project towns to be  Not done      None
management study       more effective
Utility mapping and    Precondition for systematic   Two towns      Effective in Allahabad and
inventory             maintenance                 completed         Lucknow
Manual of accounting   Not identified at appraisal    Completed     Under consideration by GOUP
systems of local bodies                                             at closing
All the studies included in the project were for Part A(i) - Urban Development. There were no studies under Part A(ii) - Earthquake
Reconstruction and Part B - Ganga Action Program



- 26 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
<--- Rs Million ---------> <----- US$ Million ----->
i   It..          -y-De:tails -;: :00000000000::DOWAppraisal    Actialf  Appral D:: AAtu
F'Stiae     __          Estimate
Part A
(i)     Uttar Pradesh - Urban Development                          2,271     3,234        174.7        141.3
Part A
(ii)    Uttar Pradesh - Earthquake Reconstruction                      0       404            0         12.4
Part B   Ganga Program                                              590        380         45.4         13.0
Design, Supervision and Management                          231         -          17.7
Total                                                     3,092      4,018       237.8        166.7
Project costs include physical and price contingencies.
Appraisal estimates are for an assumed eight year Bank-wide sector profile implementation period.
Details of local/foreign breakdown for actuals are not available. Accordingly, totals only are shown.
The magnitude of the actual design, supervision and management costs is not known.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Source                          Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
IDA Cr.1780-IN                                               130.0                            127.1
(54.7%)                          (76.2%)
IBRD Ln.2797-IN                                               20.0                               0.0
(8.4%)                           (0.0%)
Government of Uttar Pradesh                                   74.5                              38.2
(31.3%)                          (22.9%)
Central Ganga Authority                                       13.3                               1.4
(5.6%)                           (0.8%)
Total Project Cost                                          237.8                             166.7
(100.0%)                         (100.0%)
Increases in the Bank disbursement percentages introduced during 1991 account for most of the increase in the proportion of
Bank contributions to the financing of the project, compared with estimates made at appraisal.



- 27 -
Table 9: Economie Costs and Benefits
Year         Capital  Incremental    Total   Incremental    Incremental              Total      Incremental
(FY)          Costs    Operating    Costs Gross Benefits    Net Benefits             Costs     Net Benefits
Costs                                             (70% labor)      (70% labor)
1991            442            35      477             50            -428             406              -356
1992            132            62      194             87            -107             164               -78
1993            130            85      215            120             -95             183               -63
1994             94           121      215            127             -87             183               -55
1995            199           163      362            180            -183             308             -129
1996            197           140      336            197            -141             286               -91
1997                          140      140            197              55             119                76
2028                          140      140            228              55              119               76
2029                          140      140            229              55              119               76
ERR                   4%
ERR (70% labor)       8%
The economic analysis employed the same methodology as was used in the SAR (Annex 11). The economic rate of return
(ERR) was calculated for water supply and sanitation investments only. The analysis combined all the entities with water supply
and sanitation components. Capital costs were obtained directly from project records. Operating and maintenance costs were
measured from the accounts of the implementing entities incrementally from FY90, the year preceding the first year of
investment. Benefits were measured using the implementing entity revenues, also measured incrementally from FY90.
However, in the SAR analysis revenues were assumed to be equivalent to benefits whereas in this analysis the revenues have
been factored up to give the measure of benefit. The factoring up of revenues was by about 50%, which reflects an adjustment
for the poor revenue collections performance actually experienced during the project compared with the assumptions made at
appraisal. (Benefits accrue, of course, whether or not the beneficiaries make, and the entity collects, the payments for the
services). Also, to be consistent with the SAR, benefits have been increased by 0.5% p.a. after FY94 (see SAR, Annex I1, para
3). Incremental O&M costs and benefits are assumed to be constant from FY97 for 40 years from start of construction. For ease
of presentation, intervening years 1998 to 2027 are not shown in the table.
All costs and benefits were in Rs millions, converted to constant (FY89) prices. As with the SAR analysis, the ERR was
calculated twice: first, assuming that the economic value of labor is equal to the nominal wage rate; and second, with a shadow
wage rate (assumed to be 70% of the nominal wage rate), in each case applied to the wages component of both the O&M and
capital costs. Results were as follows:
SAR             Actual
ERR (100% labor costs)                     10%               4%
ERR (70% labor costs)                      13%               8%
The lower actual ERRs compared with the SAR reflect delays in the implementation of the water supply and sanitation program,
and lower than anticipated revenues even after taking account of poor collections performance. It should be noted that the actual
ERRs probably will be higher than estimated above. Some water supply schemes were unfinished at closing, and hence their
prospective benefits, and some of their costs, are not reflected in the analysis.
In the SAR at para 6.01 some estimates of the ERR were provided for sites and services, slum upgrading and area development
components (respectively, 12%, 13% and 11%). However, lack of data precluded the calculation of the actual ERRs for these
three components.



- 28 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant j;Pteseif0 lfbltlnti   yfuillmnt              Description of
Agte**ncnt   Section  type    ~ tatu~  ~late  date  Covenant                       Comments
DCA          3.01     5           C                                   GPD to cary out Part B with due
diligence
3.02(b)  3           C                                   Borrower to make available (a)  Revised allocation reflecting
SDR83.9 m equiv. to UP of       earthquake reconstruction
which up to SDRIO m may be      agreed and approved by Bank
allocated to new earthquake     Board in Dec-92
reconstruction component; and
(b) SDRI 5.0 m to GPD
3.03     5           C                                   Procurement of goods and
services as per Sch 4
3.04     5           C         31-Mar-88                 GPD and Ganga Implementing
Agencies (GlAs) to carry out
Part B through an OAP to be
reviewed, amended and agreed
annually with Bank/IDA
4.01(a)   I          C                                   GlAs to maintain adequate
records and accounts for Part B
4.01(b)   1          C         31-Dec-88                 GlAs to have project accounts
audited annually and audit certs
to be submitted within 9 months
of end of FY
4.02     1           C         30-Sep-88                 Special account to be audited
annually and audit cert to be
submitted within 6 months of end
.__ ___   _______of FY
4.03     l           C         31-Dec-88                 GlAs to maintain separate
records, accounts of SOEs
requiring separate audit opinion
.________  ______within audit cert under 4.01(b)
LA           3.03     3           C                                   Borrower to make available
.__________           __________  _______   ___________  ___________  proceeds   of  loan    to    UP
PA           2.01(a)   5          C                                   UP to carry out Part A with due
diligence
2.01(b)   5          CP        31-Mar-88                 UP to carry out Part A through (a)  Mostly in compliance.
implementation procedures in    Following items in OAP were
schedule to this agreement; and  not completed by closure:
(b) OAP to be reviewed, amended  surveys and updating of assets
and agreed annually with       registers; appointment of
Bank/IDA                        commercial auditors; utility
mapping (except in Lucknow
and Allahabad); action plan for
_____ __  _ _____ __  _ _________ _____   _______ ____maintenance  study
2.02     5           C                                   Procurement of goods and
services for Part A as per Sch 4 of
__ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   ________   ________    DCA
3.01     3           C                                   UP to make proceeds of Credit
available to project towns (PTs)
3.02(a)   I          C                                   UP implementing agencies
(UPIAs) to maintain adequate
records and accounts of Part A



- 29 -
Original     Revised
Covenent   Present  filfilImett   fulfillment            Desotiption of
Agreement   Section  type         status   4date        d.tt                     Covettan                       Comments
3.02(b)   1          C        31-Dec-88                 UPIAs to have project records and
accounts audited annually and audit
cert to be submitted within 9 months
after end of FY
3.02(c)   I          C        31-Dec-88                 UPIAs to maintain separate records,
accounts of SOEs requiring separate
audit opinion within audit cert under
3.02(b)
PA          Sch       2           C                                  PTs which fail to meet financial    Only one town dropped
con't       para I                                                  performance targets or lag in project    from project for non-
implementation may have their capital   performance. Four
funds reallocated to better performing    additional towns added
towns, or standby towns
Sch      5           C                                  Low cost sanitation cell to be      Done. But implementing
para 2                                                  adequately staffed                  limited program. Some
funds reallocated from this
component
Sch      I           C                                  UP to keep IDA informed of any
para 3                                                  proposed changes in role of UPIAs
Sch      5           C                                  TEMCs to be established in Agra,    TEMCs established but
para 4                                                  Varanasi, Allahabad and Lucknow, and  fully qualified staff only in
be adequately staffed prior to      3 (Lucknow position
commencing traffic engineering works   vacant)
Sch      5           C                                  UP to consult with Bank/IDA prior to
para 5                                                  changes in investment programs in PTs
Sch      2           C                                  Lease and HP agreements for Sites &  Generally in compliance.
para 6                                                  Services and Area Development       In few cases affordability
components to take account of       may have been adversely
repaying capacity of beneficiaries and    affected by down payment
ensure full cost recovery           requirements and pricing
policies of DAs
Sch      2           CP                                 PT s to cover O&M and debt servicing   Minority in compliance,
para 7                                                  costs on their water supply and     Majority of PT s have
sewerage operations                 failed to be in compliance
Sch      2           CP                                 PT s to generate revenues to finance  Overall financial
para 8                                                  increasing proportions of revenue   performance has been poor
expenditures. PT s revenue          when measured against
performance to be closely monitored  OAP financial
by IPMC                             performance targets
Sch      12          CP                                 UP in consultation with GOI to (i)  Direct action not taken by
para 9                                                  minimize negative effects of rent   GOUP. However, method
control; (ii) furnish information on the   of property tax assessment
actions taken to Bank/IDA; and, (iii)    is being changed to
take steps to implement agreed      formula-based approach
proposals                           which will have beneficial
effect on the generation of
I property tax revenues
Covenant type:                                          7. Involuntary resettlement                               Status:
1. Accounts/Audit                                       8. Indigenous people                                      C - Complied with
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries    9. Monitoring, review and reporting               CD - Compliance after
Delay
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds                10. Implementation                                        NC - Not Complied with
4. Counterpart funding                                  I1. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource  CP - Complied with
allocation                                               Partially
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing  12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
agency
6. Environmental covenants                              13. Other



- 30 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stagye of              Planned:                 ReVised                 Actual
project cqcle         Week          US$000      Weeks     US$000    Wees  I US$000
Through Appraisal        n/a         n/a        n/a         n/a         82.4       183.2
Appraisal - Board       n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a        31.0        78.6
Supervision          n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a        257.0       623.9
Completion           n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a         18.6        44.5
TOTAL               n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a        389.0       930.2
Table indicates n/a where information is not available from the Bank's MIS.
Completion Actuals are final estimates.



- 31 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/      Number    Days    Specialized         Implemen-      Develo-     Types of probtems
Project Cycle    Year       of Persons  in       staffskills     tation status    pmeot
Field    represented                   impact
Through         Oct-84           4         13    ME, FA (2), SE                      -
appraisal
Apr-85          5         5      ME, FA, SE(2),        -            -                     _
O&M
Nov-85          4         10    FA, SE(2),             -            -                     _
O&M
Apr-86          7         17    FA(2), O&M,            _            _                     _
Trans, SE(2),
ME                                                                      l
Appraisal       Jun-86           5         15    FA(3), SE, ME
through Board
approval
Board approval   May-87          5         9     SE(3), FA, ME                               Limited utilization of
through                                                                                      retroactive financing facility.
effectiveness                                                                                Financial performance of impl.
entities under Part A below
targets (by 50%)
Feb-88          3         l     SE, ME, FA            _             -        Effectiveness confirmed at
conclusion of mission. Slow
utilization of funds. Monitoring
arrangements, accounts, audits
and entity finl. performance
need attention
Supervision     Nov-88          6         12    SE(2), ME,             2             2       Part A: Slow progress with
Plan, FA, Proc                              studies. Financial perf. of local
bodies poor. Quart. progress
reports (QPRs) not done. Part
B: Contract award for 2 (of 3)
sewage treatment plants (STPs)
delayed by litigation. QPRs not
done. TA funds not utilized.
Jul-89          4         13    Plan (2), FA(2)        2            2        Part A: Local bodies
deteriorating financial situation.
IPMC needs strengthening.
Part B: Slow physical progress
and procurement problems
May-90          5         21     Plan(2), ME(2),       2            2        Part A: 4 new towns to be
FA                                          included but concem over
financial strength of the existing
11. Part B: continuing
procurement problems with
STPs, but litigation appears to
be concluding
Apr-91          12        19    Plan, ME(3),           2            2        Part A: Selected procurement
SE(2), Proc,                                problems. Continuing concems
FA(3),DC, LCS                               over financial weakness of local
bodies. Part B: audits late -
suspension of disbursements
followed



- 32 -
Oct-91          6          14     Plan, ME(2),          2              2       Part A: Local body financial
SE, FA, Proc                                 performance poor. Audits late,
with numerous audit comments
on local bodies - suspension of
disbursements against audit
objections followed. Part B:
none
May-92           5         17     Plan, ME(2),          2              2       Part A: Some modest
FA, Proc                                     improvement in financial perf.
of local bodies but still well
below target. Progress with
mapping of towns
disappointing. Commercial
auditors not appointed.
Training progress disappointing.
Part B: Slow progress with
construction of STPs. Appraisal
of Earthquake Reconstruction
part
Apr-93          4          18    Plan, ME, SE,          2              2       Mid-term Review Mission. Part
FA                                           A: Slow contTact award.
Deteriorating perf. of local
bodies. Audit objections
resolved. No progress with
Class C towns (Singrauli).
Part B: Dispute with contractor
at 2 STPs continues
Oct-93          4          6      FA, Plan, SE,         2              2       Part A: Slow progress with few
ME                                           remaining major works.
Continuing concem about
financial performance of local
bodies. Part B: slow progress at
STPs
Dec-93          2          1      ME, SE                                       Earthquake supervision
Feb-94          3          5      FA, SE, ME            2              2       Part A: Few remaining large
contracts proceeding slowly.
Financial performance of local
bodies continues to deteriorate.
Part B: Audits late. Contracts at
2 STPs canceled - work stopped.
Earthquake reconstruction:
Slow progress initially
Sep-94          3          11    F, SE, ME              S             U        Part A: Financial performance
of local bodies is only
remaining major problem.
Part B: Cancellation of STP
contracts causing uncertainty.
Earthquake reconstruction:
Progress considerably picked up
Mar-95          2          4      ME, SE                                       Earthquake supervision
Jul-95          2          16    FA, SE                 S             U        Part A: Financial performance
of local bodies continues to fall
well short of targets. Part B:
U       Work on STPs started again.
Earthquake reconstruction:
Good progress
Oct-95           1         3      FA                                           Mission considered a request for



- 33 -
extension of closing date to
permit completion of Parts A
and B. Part A: Financial
performance of local bodies still
poor. Part B: Progress on STPs
picked up.
Completion      May-96          4        14    FA, SE, Plan,
Env
Key to specialized staff skills: FA - Financial Analyst; SE - Sanitary Engineer; ME - Municipal Engineer; Ec - Economist; Env -
Environmentalist, LO - Loan Officer; L - Lawyer; O&M - Operations and Maintenance specialist; Proc - Procurement specialist;
Train - Training specialist; LCS - Low Cost Sanitation specialist; R&R - Relocation and Rehabilitation specialist; Inst -
Institutional specialist; DC - Division Chief
There were two separate Appraisal missions, one each for Parts A and B of the Project. Appraisal mission for Part A was from
23-Jun-86 to 08-Jul-86 and consisted of 3 persons, FA(2) and ME. Appraisal mission for Part B was from 07-Jul-86 to 1 9-Jul-
86 and consisted of 2 persons, SE and FA. The Earthquake Reconstruction part was appraised in May-92.



- 34 -
Appendix A
08-Jul-96
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln.2797/Cr.1780-IN)
10-May through 16-Jun-96 Completion Mission
AIDE-MEMOIRE
I. Background
1.    The mission. A World Bank mission visited India between 10-May and 16-Jun-96 for
the completion the Uttar Pradesh Urban Development Project. The mission members were
Messrs. Michael Whitbread (SA2AW), S. Sarkar (SA2RS), H. Unger (ASTEN) and Evan Rotner
(Consultant). Mr. Whitbread (Project Task Manager) acted as mission leader.
2.    Mission objectives. The mission objectives were to: (a) identify, assemble and otherwise
request data and contributions which are required to complete the project's Implementation
Completion Report (ICR); (b) review the physical progress and performance of the project in
relation to the project objectives at the time of Loan/Credit closure on 31-Mar-96; (c) review the
project's institutional strengthening achievements; (d) review the status of training, studies and
consultants' assignments; (e) identify unfinished parts of the project; and, (f) alert the Borrower
to remaining project obligations.
3.    During the last supervision mission in Oct-95, and in subsequent communications, the
mission had explained the procedures and requirements for ICR preparation, especially the
preparation of the Borrowers' contribution. Bank guidelines and relevant examples of previous
ICRs for other projects had been provided to project officials. The Government of UP (GOUP)
had appointed consultants to undertake an evaluation of a sample of individual schemes under
Part A (i) - Urban Development, and the consultants' work, though incomplete at the time of the
mission, was helpful to the mission. For Part B - Ganga Action Program (GAP), in addition to
reviewing the status of the project, the mission assembled information on GAP's overall
achievements using the extensive available documentation (the mission findings on the GAP are
summarized in Annex 1).
4.    Mission tasks. For Parts A (i) - Urban Development, and A (ii) - Earthquake
Reconstruction, the mission held discussions with officials of the GOUP; and, for Part B - GAP,
the mission held discussions with the National River Conservation Directorate (NRCD),
formerly the Ganga Project Directorate (GPD), of the Ministry of Environment and Forests
(MoE&F) of the Government of India (GOI). Field visits to inspect projects and schemes were
made to the cities of Kanpur, Lucknow, Meerut and Agra for Part A (i), and to Kanpur and
Varanasi for Part B. Discussions were held with local officials of the implementing agencies in
these cities. A list of key persons met is at Annex 2.



- 35 -
5.     All mission members wish to record their appreciation for the courtesies extended to
them and for the assistance and cooperation of all agencies and individuals concemed. The
findings and conclusions of the mission for Part A (i) were discussed at a State-level wrap-up
meeting chaired by the Secretary, Housing in Lucknow on 1 1-Jun-96. For Part B, there was a
wrap-up chaired by the Joint Secretary of GAP of the NRCD in Delhi on 14-Jun-96.
II. Summary of Agreed Actions
No    A-M                           Agreed Action                         By Whom    By When
para
I     129  First part of draft report of GOUP Evaluation consultants sent to    Cons. with  31-Jul-96
Bank                                                       IPMC and
GOUP
2     129  Second part of draft report of GOUP Evaluation consultants sent   Cons. with  31-Oct-96
to Bank                                                    GOUP
3     128  Submit the balance of withdrawal applications to Bank       IPMC          31 -Jul-96
NRCD
4     128  Submit audits of SOEs for fiscal year 1995/96 to Bank       IPMC           31 -Dec-96
NRCD
5     128  Comply with covenants for period of Credit                  GOI           Continuous
GOUP
6     129  Assist with preparation of ICR by providing required information   IPMC   31-Jul-96
to Bank as indicated in text of A-M. IPMC to provide 31 -Mar-96   NRCD   or as indicated
Quarterly Progress Report to Bank                                        in text of A-M
7     129  Bank to circulate draft ICR to GOUP and NRCD for comment    Bank           15-Sep-96
8     129  Comments on draft ICR to be forwarded to Bank               GOUP and      Within one
NRCD          month of
receipt
9     129  Borrowers' Evaluations for the ICR to be forwarded to Bank  GOUP and      31-Oct-96
NRCD
10     129  Draft final ICR sent to Bank management for review          Bank           14-Nov-96
11      21  Prepare estimates of expenditure required to "complete" S&S  DAs
schemes
12      27  Cease collection of earnest money from EWS and LIG S&S plot   DAs
applicants
13      42  Prepare realistic action plans and forecasts to "complete" S&S  DAs with  01-Sep-96
schemes and send to Bank                                   GOUP
14      67  Provide information to Bank regarding current disposition of  IPMC with    31-Jul-96
Development Area Agreements, down payments and loan        Kanpur DA
payments
15      82  Undertake survey of LCS latrines not in use and advise      GOUP with    31 -Jul-96
beneficiaries. Send results to Bank                        IPMC
16      84  Provide Bank with data on no. of community latrines         IPMC          31 -Jul-96
17     107  Define and implement a program of patch-and-repair works in the  Municiplities
upgraded slums
18     129  Last part of report of GOUP Evaluation consultants sent to Bank    Cons with  31-Dec-96
GOUP         I      _I



-36 -
II1. Status of the Project at Completion
Part A (i) - Urban Development
6.    Project management arrangements. All of the implementing agencies at the time of
appraisal reported ultimately to the then Housing and Urban Development Department (HUDD).
Accordingly, overall project management, monitoring and coordination was with the HUDD and
responsibility for the project was specially focused in a Investment Planning and Monitoring Cell
(IPMC) within HUDD. The Chief Executive Officer for the project was therefore the HUDD
Secretary to GOUP. The costs of the IPMC were funded out of the Credit.
7.    For day-to day project management, the IPMC was initially headed by a Chief Urban
Planner on deputation, like all the members of the IPMC, from the HUDD. All the members
were senior officials. IPMC was officially assigned key project management and supervision
functions, particularly for reviewing the project towns' investment programs and deleting,
substituting and including new investments and standby towns. Its most important power was
that it advised the State Finance Department regarding funds-release for project activities.
8.    For town level project management, provision was made for local Project Management
and Coordinating Committees which were to gather monitoring and other information and supply
it to the IPMC.
9.    Sector management, technical assistance and training. This component of the project
was envisaged to: support the establishment and operation of the IPMC and the Traffic and
Transport Appraisal Unit; prepare water supply schemes; prepare outline development strategies
for urban areas; support traffic engineering and management cells in the five largest "KAVAL"
towns; support consultants services for improving accounting and MIS in project entities;
support a number of studies; and, provide training for officials and staff of GOUP and project
entities.
10.   The project finalized all the above tasks with the exception of the improvement to the
accounting and MIS of the entities. The project failed to appoint any of the proposed eleven
(later reduced to six) independent commercial auditors to advise on systems. The assets registers
of the water supply entities were not systematically revalued and up-dated.
11.   However, a tariff study was completed, although this was undertaken in-house by IPMC
working with the Jal Nigam, rather than by consultants. Double-entry accounting based on the
Kanpur experience in the earlier Kanpur Urban Development Project (KUDP) was introduced in
the Jal Sansthans and Development Authorities, but not in the municipalities (except Aligarh). A
municipal accounting manual was developed by consultants which is being considered by GOUP
for its general applicability.
12.  IPMC provided the mission with an updated list of studies which were completed under
the project.



- 37 -
13.   Although no targets were set at appraisal, the training achievements were modest. 110
training courses ranging from three to five days duration were organized, benefiting about 2,000
personnel of the local bodies and IPMC.
14.   Expenditure on sector management and training fell well short of the appraisal
expectations, at Rs 41.0 million compared with Rs 49.2 million in the SAR.
15.   Shelter. Sites and Services. All the schemes in the project, at the time of appraisal, had
land already acquired by the Development Authorities (DA) responsible for sites and services
(S&S). Meerut was the exception, as this town was brought in to the project several years after
appraisal. The land requirement for 8 schemes was estimated to be about 122 hectares (ha), a
gross density of about 82 plots/ha. About 8.3 hectares of land for commercial and small business
plots were to be included in the schemes. Sites ranged in size from 4-60 ha, in Varanasi and
Kanpur respectively. Most of the sites were relatively small, in the range of 10-30 ha, equivalent
to 800 to 2,000 plots.
16.   Land acquisition is usually a large impediment in land development and other schemes in
urban areas. It has not been an implementation problem in S&S projects in UPUDP, except
apparently for a few small pockets in individual schemes. Other factors than land acquisition,
therefore, are responsible for delays in scheme construction and occupation by beneficiaries
which are discussed below.
17.   The SAR originally targeted about 10,000 house plots in all income categories. 78% of
residential plots were intended to be affordable to Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) and
Low Income Group (LIG) households with incomes of up to Rs 700/mo and between Rs 701 and
1500/mo respectively in 1986, the time of the appraisal. The production target was revised
upwards in 1992 to 13,250 plots, due to the greater availability of Credit resources. In fact, at
least five out of eight of the schemes fell short of the target proportion of plots for EWS and, in
six schemes, the target percentage of EWS and LIG plots in total plots was not reached.
18.   Schemes were to be implemented in at least eight category A and B towns, and possibly
additional ones depending on the financial performance of implementing agencies. Up to Feb-
96, 12,700 plots in 8 towns had been "completed" according to the IPMC data provided by the
implementing agencies. However, during site visits in Lucknow, Kanpur and Meerut, the
mission found that road works were not completed and water and sanitation facilities were not
fully operational. This raises doubts about the extent to which services on other schemes, which
the mission was not able to visit, have been completed and are functioning.
19.   Expenditure up to Dec-95, was Rs 363.4 million on all S&S schemes against the SAR
expenditure target of Rs 314.9 million; an estimated increase in costs of 16% compared to a 33%
increase in the number of plots. Clearly there are numerous unfinished works and "completed"
works which need to be put right to function, and on which additional expenditure is needed.
20.   The total estimated costs of S&S to make all services function adequately will clearly
exceed recent cost estimates because of delays in contract execution caused by the Development



- 38 -
Authorities. The mission was assured by DAs that funds had been provided in the 1996/97
budget of the concerned agencies to complete the schemes. By reviewing a few major schemes,
it is apparent that the costs to completion have been steadily rising during the project
implementation period, for example:
(c)   In Lucknow, the Sep-95 Quarterly Progress Report (QPR) showed Rs 48.2 million
IPMC-approved cost to complete works contracts; the SAR estimated Rs 69.5
million cost, but the QPR Dec-95 estimate of costs was Rs 98.0 million, which
also includes off-site roads.
(d)   In Kanpur, the Sep-95 QPR showed Rs 101.8 million cost to complete; the SAR
estimated Rs 121.8 million cost and the Dec-95 estimate of costs remained at Rs
101.8 million.
(e)   In Gorakhpur, the Sep-95 QPR showed Rs 53.6 million cost to complete; the SAR
estimated Rs 26.1 million cost and the Dec-95 estimate of costs was Rs 53.6
million.
21.   The SAR estimated the total costs for S&S including contingencies at Rs 314.0 million.
In 1991, the target cost was increased by 16% to Rs 363.4 million. It seems likely that more than
Rs 363.3 million will be needed to complete the works to a minimum standard. But a realistic
estimate of the probable costs for functional completion of services on schemes remains to be
developed by the DAs. The mission recommends that the preparation of a realistic
estimates of the expenditures required to put each scheme in working order be included in
the operational action program of the ICR to complete the project in accordance with its
valid original objectives.
22.   Final designs and bid documents had been completed or were in advanced stages of
preparation at appraisal for all S&S investments in project towns. Accordingly, contracts for all
or most of the on-site infrastructure and EWS houses were let early in the project implementation
period as all the implementing agencies already had the required land in possession. The
contract completion periods of about two years were typical for these types of work in India by
public housing agencies such as the DAs implementing the UPUD. For example: (a) in Kanpur,
most contracts let in Jan-90 were to complete in Mar-92; (b) in Lucknow, most contracts let in
Dec-90 were to complete in Jan-92; (c) in Allahabad, most contracts let in Mar-87 to Jul-87 were
to complete in Oct-88 to Dec-88.
23.   In reality, the project contract records and site inspections by the mission indicate that, as
of Dec-95, many of the site development contracts which had started in 1990/91 were scheduled
to complete only in 1996 on sites at: Kanpur; Allahabad; Lucknow; Meerut and Moradabad; and
possibly the other sites in Varanasi and Gorakhpur.
24.   IPMC has not recorded in its QPR any data connected with marketing of plots, such as
the date of marketing in individual city schemes or the number of applications received. Nor was



- 39 -
IPMC instructed or specifically requested by the Bank in the SAR or the Legal Agreements to
keep such records.
25.   The mission found that the DAs had advertised house plots early in site construction
periods (1991 in most cases). The applications for plots were on the average over four times
the number of plots put up for sale in Kanpur, for example. Plots were allotted (on the basis of
lotteries for all but HIG plots, if applications exceeded the number of plots offered) and
registration or earnest money fees of 10% of the plot price were paid by beneficiaries, mostly in
1991/92. From the cash flow statement of the KDA and the Meerut Development Authority
(MDA), both DAs were very slow to refund earnest money to the applicants.
26.   On affordability, the DAs' conventional practice, which they have continued during
project implementation, is in violation of specific provisions in Attachments to the Minutes of
Negotiations (MON). The MON rightly specified that no earnest money needed to be put up
with applications for plots. This provision was intended in particular, to make the plots offered
affordable to the EWS. It is well known that most EWS and LIG families have little or no
savings from which to put up earnest money or down payments. Accordingly, the DAs' practice
of requiring earnest money must be constraining applications from EWS families who were
intended to be about 60% of beneficiaries of S&S schemes.
27.   The mission recommends that in the post-project closing period, DAs do not require
earnest money from at least EWS and LIG plot applicants.
28.   Affordability of plots to EWS and LIG beneficiaries was also further adversely affected
by DAs' plot down payment requirements and the excessively large size of the EWS 3 and 4
plots (37 and 42 m2 respectively) and the high prices for these plots. For the Kanpur S&S
scheme, in the Feasibility Study prepared at the time of appraisal, down payments for EWS plots
ranged from 12 to 18%. This was too high for EWS families. Furthermore, plot prices for the
lowest income EWS 1 plot, which had no on-plot superstructure, were set so high that 16.7 % of
beneficiaries' income was to go towards plot loan debt service, leaving only the balance of about
9% of household income for debt service on a Building Loan of Rs 2,500, too small to even build
a simple one room shelter. While the EWS 2, 3 and 4 plots had fully-constructed walls and roofs
on them, 25% of income would be consumed on the plot and superstructure loan and no debt
service capacity remained for simple finishing of the house. Other charges, such as electricity
and property tax (where relevant) also were not included in the costs of housing for estimating
affordability, so the percentage of household income which would be used for shelter was
underestimated.
29.   When the plots were advertised several years later (in 1991), when incomes and plot
prices had to be adjusted for the passage of time and for actual contract site servicing costs, the
DAs departed further from pricing and affordability requirements. In the Kanpur S&S scheme,
household income was taken at a uniform Rs 1,000/hh/mo for all plot types. This was probably
acceptable for the top of the EWS, but it was much higher than the income of the lower strata of
EWS urban incomes which were probably of about Rs 550/hh/mo. Furthermore, KDA increased
the plot price (to Rs 425/m2 for all EWS plots) and the percentage of down payments to plot



- 40 -
price to 25%. The 25% down payment was applied to all income groups. So, KDA both
diminished the affordability of plot down payments to the EWS while enhancing the down
payment affordability to the Middle and Higher Income Groups (MIG and HIG), and diminishing
its early cash inflow from the MIG and HIG plot sales which normally should provide most of
the early cash in these schemes.
30.   At the time allotment letters were issued to beneficiaries, the Hire Purchase Tenure
Agreement (HPTA) and Lease Note was to be issued with authority for beneficiaries to deposit
HPTA loan payments in a designated bank. At this time it may be deduced from the QPR
contract data, that on-site infrastructure construction was 40-80% complete, and most contracts
had been let at fixed prices with no provision for escalation. Accordingly, the DAs were in
position to know their scheme costs provided that contract implementation delays did not require
revisions in the rates paid to contractors, re-bidding contracts, or increases in the few contracts
which were left to the later stage of scheme construction.
31.   The data made available to the mission suggests that when allotments and land leases
were completed with beneficiaries, HPTA were not executed by the DAs in many of the
schemes, despite understandings in attachments to the MON.
32.   The MON also provided that applicants would have to apply for particular plots
consistent with their household income. The mission was informed during its visit to the Kanpur
S&S scheme, that EWS and LIG applicants were free to apply for these plots regardless of
income.
33.   The Terms and Conditions of HPTA agreed in the MON provided for transfer of title on
the basis of 90 year leases, while payments for plots, less the down payment, would be at not less
than 12% per annum for not less than 20 years for the EWS and six years for all other plots. The
percentage of down payments applicable for each income group and plot type was not specified
in the MON or Agreements, nor were beneficiary affordability limits, expressed as percentage of
household income available for servicing plot and house loan project debt and other housing
costs. For these target parameters, the appraisal team appears to have relied on precedents
established in the earlier Kanpur Urban Development Project, which was the precursor to UPUD.
34.   The DAs appear to have adhered to the terms and conditions established in the MON for
HPTA. Except that, as mentioned above, down payments were increased in accordance with
DAs' normal practices which the DA seemed to have targeted. In addition, this made loan
payments fit within the 25% of household income affordability limits.
35.   Occupation of sites, on the basis of observations made during mission visits to sites in
Kanpur, Meerut and Lucknow, is meager. However, in Kanpur 800 EWS plots out of 2,400 were
occupied, and 85% of EWS I plots were occupied. EWS plots on which core housing had been
built were very sparsely occupied. On the Lucknow site, several hundred LIG plots (out of a
total of more than 1,700) had fully constructed row houses on them. They had been completed in
1994. LDA had built these row houses as deposit works for societies of plot holders.
Construction had been financed by an external institution. Hardly one of them was occupied.



- 41 -
36.   In mission discussions in the field with the few occupants, it appeared that water supply
was erratic and sparse and may have become available only recently, and that other services like
street lights and the sewage system were not fully operational. On both sites, only a few MIG or
HIG houses had been constructed. No school buildings or other community facilities were to be
seen on any of the sites visited by the mission. Nor was there any construction on plots
designated for commercial purposes. In the absence of residential occupants, there was naturally
no market for the commercial plots and the DAs were waiting for occupancy to increase before
marketing them.
37.   Almost certainly, occupancy has been delayed for several years after plots were
advertised and allotments made because essential on site services, like water, were not available,
even after infrastructure contracts were said to be complete (in the QPR). The mission was
informed that, about 1992, KDA as a whole encountered financial problems. It ceased paying
contractors on its Bank-funded scheme, to "divert" its resources to its other development
activities. It should be noted that the Bank-funded S&S projects, at least in the larger towns like
Kanpur and Lucknow, are only a small part of the DA's overall program.
38.   The information provided in the QPR for most sites shows large differences between the
number of plots allotted and the number of leases (presumably for land) completed. From the
data available, it is unclear whether HPTAs were issued to allottees at the time of allotment as
required by agreements with the Bank in the MON.
39.   Regarding financial arrangements and cost recovery performance, the QPRs do not
contain any specific information about down payments for plots, registration fees, and HPTA
loan payments, and these data were not available to the mission. However, there has been a lag
of several years between allotments and the payment of HPTA down payments and that the
detailed records will show large differences between the demand for periodic HPTA payments
(over 20 years) and the recoveries. This suggests that the cash flow from the projects must be
way below what was targeted for the full recovery of almost 100% of capital costs in the SAR.
From the evidence available, a negative cash flow on each scheme would be expected.
40.   Thefunding arrangements for schemes provide terms to the DA which modestly cushion
them against the negative financial impacts of the delay in recovering their project investments
from sales revenues. First, the DAs' loans from GOUP have a five year grace period for
repayment of principal. On the other hand, DAs' borrowing interest rate was increased to
12.25% (compared to 8.75% at appraisal) by GOUP as its borrowing rate from GOI increased
during the implementation period. Correspondingly, DAs increased their lending interest rate to
beneficiaries to 13.0% per the Agreements with the Bank. Secondly, GOUP funded as loans
100% of scheme investments by DAs in excess of DAs' S&S scheme expenditures. The Project
Agreement and MON contain no specific agreements regarding GOUP onlending terms to
implementing agencies, nor is there a component-specific funding plan in the SAR. However,
Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement provides that GOUP would make the proceeds of the
Credit available to the project towns on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
During implementation therefore, IDA could have required GOUP to lend only part of the S&S
investments to DAs, and reduced the grace period. This would have put financial pressure on the



- 42 -
DAs to accelerate their sales programs and relate them more closely to their investment programs
and project cost recovery and affordability requirements.
41.   A scheme cash flow statement obtained from KDA indicates that KDA loans of Rs 101.8
million, obtained from GOUP for its scheme, exceeded its capital investment of Rs 90.2 million
on the scheme. By the end of 1995/96 KDA had a net positive balance between its scheme
receipts and payments of Rs 49.4 million. In effect, GOUP may be funding KDA's debt service
and supporting KDA's inefficient revenue generation.
42.   The mission recommends that GOUP requires all DAs to prepare realistic revised
multi-year marketing, investment, pricing, revenue and affordability forecasts and action
plans in not more than two months. The out-turn of these forecasts should conform to the
cost recovery affordability and beneficiary targets agreed with the Bank and should form
part of the set of actions to be completed after project Closing. These forecasts should be
sent to the Bank no later than 01-Sep-96.
43.   Shelter: Slum Upgrading (SUP). The SAR originally targeted upgrading for 350,000
people (about 58,000 households) in 230 slums, on about 510 hectares of land. The average
estimated densities of 114 hh/ha, or average plot sizes of about 65 m2, are not high and
consistent with urbanized rural villages on the urban fringe. Upgrading provides basic services
such as, hand pump water supply, access via paved pedestrian paths and street lights. Provisions
for community facilities such as pre-schools are not funded under any of the project components.
The project provided for project funds to be on-lent to municipal bodies for off-site
infrastructure, and to beneficiaries for individual water connections and low cost sanitation.
44.   The SUP target was revised upwards to 89,130 households (about 534,780 people), due
to the greater availability of Credit resources and at Feb-96, a total of 89,130 households in 13
towns and 398 slums, indeed, had received improvements. Accordingly, the revised target
number of households and the construction of on-site basic services had been completed and in
service by the time the project closed.
45.   In terms of upgrading standards, neither the SAR or the legal documents, including the
MON, establish specific physical or performance standards. A standard is implied in the SAR
(Annex 5) which states that GOUP proposed to "supplement the ongoing Environmental
Improvement of Slums under its Minimum Needs Program (MNP) with project funds to ensure
an adequate level of upgrading." The MNP standard at the time of appraisal was Rs 250 per
capita and the estimated average SUP cost was Rs 476. However, shortly after appraisal this was
raised to Rs 435. This suggests the project essentially implemented the MNP standards.
46.   The mission visited a selection of SUP neighborhoods in Lucknow, Kanpur, Meerut and
Agra. The majority of the neighborhoods visited had been upgraded several years ago. So, there
was an opportunity to observe whether the implemented works had been implemented
satisfactorily, were functioning, being maintained and delivering direct and indirect benefits.
Most of the neighborhoods visited were old rural villages that had become embedded in the
expanding urban area. A few were inner city slums. The majority of upgraded slums are in the



- 43 -
urban periphery, as anticipated in the SAR, and probably because most slums in the city proper
had been previously upgraded under GOI and GOUP funded programs.
47.   Physical works were similar in most cases. Internal roads have been paved in fired brick,
sloped to drains on both sides. Drains were sometimes formed as brick channels; in other cases a
runway was provided against a curbing. No sub-base gravel was provided. In some narrow
lanes, the bearing capacity was insufficient to take repeated loading of small trucks and carts and
had rutted out. There were numerous instances in which stones put on drain crossings had
collapsed or were blocked due to lack of maintenance.
48.  In most slums there were drainage problems leading to standing water containing sullage,
silt, garbage and sewage. Blocked drains were filled with chemical dyes in one area in Meerut,
where there were a large number of power looms mixed with residential dwellings and market
areas. The drainage problems are due to: inadequately-formed or damaged slopes; lack of drain
cleaning; collapse of drains due to excessive pathway vehicular loads; house construction over
and in drains; deposits of manure and soil due to cattle being kept on some premises; in many
cases, lack of work on off-site drains needed to drain the neighborhood proper; and, in the
absence of a CP program, a failure to define and communicate to and with communities their
own and the municipality's separate responsibilities for maintenance.
49.   Hand pumps, with a small 3-4 foot diameter, circular concrete catchpan and bore wells
have been provided. In some cases, street lighting also has been provided. There were several
places where the Low Cost Sanitation (LCS) component of the project had been used to provide
households with on-plot sanitation. In one case observed by the mission SULAB had built and
staffed a washroom and toilet facility. Figures were not available from IPMC as to how many
LCS had been implemented under the project in SUP areas. In a significant number of cases,
installed handpumps were not working. Also in many cases there was inadequate provision for
properly draining water away from the handpump area.
50.   Generally, the municipal authorities met by the mission were vague about the on-site
physical and performance standards to which all services had been implemented. In one dense
and further-densifying inner city SUP neighborhood in Agra, the municipality had installed
conventional sewer lines and city piped water supply was available. However, the mission was
told that a significant number of houses in the area had not connected themselves to the sewer
lines.
51.   With regard to off-site infrastructure to support SUP, many of the environmental
problems seen by the mission in upgraded slums were due to inadequate or no consideration
being given to off-site works in the upgrading plan for a slum area. On-site drainage problems in
particular were frequently due to lack of work on small and in some cases, large, off-site
drainage channels. For sanitation, SUP relied on the project's sewerage and LCS components.
While in some slums LCS and conventional sewers have been installed under the project, the
planning and implementation of SUP seems generally to have stopped at the slum border. Off-
site infrastructure requirements have not been incorporated in SUP plans for neighborhood on-



- 44 -
site works, although site engineers with whom the mission met where aware that some off-site
works like storm drains funded by the project would help drainage in SUP neighborhoods.
52.   The on-site construction and performance standards are generally adequate, provided that
the municipal engineers understand the performance required in particular areas. However, the
mission saw numerous instances in which the absence of performance requirements and attention
to off-site conditions, or the need to link other project components with SUP, caused the SUP
schemes to fail to reach their full benefit potential.
53.   Regarding costs, up to Rs 250 per capita under the MNP as grant, or such other threshold
that GOI might establish from time to time, supplemented with project funds, established the
target cost of SUP at about Rs 476 per person (SAR costs of Rs 166.5 million to cover 350,000
people). The component cost was later revised to Rs 236.5 million. As at Feb-96, Rs 234.2
million was spent on SUP, covering 85,053 households, according to the Monthly Progress
Report (MPR), or about 510,320 people. The average per capita project expenditure therefore is
Rs 459 per person, compared to the SAR costs of Rs 476 per person.
54.   GOUP was to providefunds to municipalities as grants up to Rs 250/capita at the start of
the project, now at Rs 435/capita, for expenditure and loans (from project funds) for on-site
services under SUP, and off-site infrastructure to support SUP under the water, sewerage and
drainage components. The actual grant/loan ratio depends on the MNP per capita expenditure
established from time to time by GOI. In theory, if the MNP per capita expenditure were
increased, the project grant to loan ratio to municipalities would increase.
55.   The mission was unable to establish what funds, if any, were borrowed by municipalities
for basic on-site SUP services. It may be guessed that all the funds for SUP on-site basic
services were provided to municipalities by GOUP as grants, even though GOUP would have
had to borrow project funds from GOI at GOI's annually established terms and conditions.
GOI's terms and conditions for loans to states had by 1995 become substantially more than the
terms and conditions for GOUP onlending to implementing agencies that prevailed at appraisal
(8.75% interest 5 years grace on principal repayment and 20 years term). Because of the
probably large or 100% grant funding of SUP, GOUP's subsidy to municipalities for SUP
probably increased during the project period.
56.   Whether actually funded as part loan and part grant as it appears was intended by the
project, or all grant, because of the municipalities' failure to generate net resources for debt
service during the project period, the SUP component was effectively a grant-funded program.
57.   The SAR also anticipated that community participation (CP) would be sought in planning
the improvements, with individual home improvement to be carried out on a self-help basis
(SAR Annex 5, para 7). How and when CP would be enlisted goes unmentioned in the SAR;
and it seems that there was no CP in SUP. The mission did see many cases in which residents of
SUP neighborhoods were improving their houses substantially with their own resources and this
may be taken as a direct positive benefit of SUP.



- 45 -
58.   Generally, municipal engineers seem to be working against a specific Rs/capita
expenditure target. When asked by the mission why some particular item of work, which would
have improved a scheme, had not been done, the answer invariably was that the expenditure on
the work would have exceeded the Rs per capita expenditure limit (of Rs 435 presumably).
Thus, the following factors adversely affected the benefits of SUP: the municipalities' perception
of on-site per capita expenditure costs of SUP as a fixed constraint; the lack of integration in
scheme designs of off-site works under other project components; absence of specific service and
environmental performance standards for which SUP was to be implemented; and, the provision
for works costing more than the per capita expenditure limit to be loan and not grant-funded. For
SUP schemes the upgrading design and costs for an area should emerge from performance
requirements; and the implementing agencies should be required to identify, cost and implement
off-site investments that are needed to make on-site investments in basic services function.
59.   Shelter: Area Development. The SAR targeted Area Development (AD) for 17,500
people (about 2,920 households) in six sites on about 57 hectares of land in Kanpur and
Allahabad. AD was actually implemented only in Kanpur where six sites with 1,038 households
were targeted and the MPR reports, 740 had been serviced on three sites by the end of Feb-96.
60.   The areas targeted for AD are unserviced unauthorized settlements and communities
developed through private subdivision. The SAR contention that about 60% of the households in
such areas are in the EWS categories seems questionable to the mission. The average estimated
densities of 31 hh/net ha, or average plot sizes of about 200-300 m2, in these AD areas are
relatively low and consistent with what is affordable in urban areas by upper LIG and MIG
income groups.
61.   For AD areas, the component aims to provide roads, stormwater drainage, street lighting
and connections to off-site water and sanitation services. While the mission had too little time to
probe deeply, it appears that AD services are provide at the usual municipal standards. From the
SAR, the average cost/gross ha for AD on 57 ha works out at Rs 68 compared to the average
SAR cost/gross ha for SUP work of Rs 33/gross ha and Rs 236 /gross ha for S&S. The
difference between DA and S&S development costs/ gross ha is probably due to the fact that, in
AD areas, off-site water, sanitation and roads are already available, whereas in S&S they must be
created at a substantial additional scheme cost. The Kanpur Area Development Authority
implemented the AD schemes in Kanpur.
62.   The SAR estimated the cost of AD at Rs 38.0 million for Kanpur and Allahabad. The
revised target cost of AD was established as Rs 23.5 million for Kanpur and Rs 1.4 million for
Allahabad to make a revised total cost/expenditure target for AD of Rs 24.9 million.
63.   The AD schemes in Kanpur were contracted in 3 areas (Indrapuri, Tulsi Nagar and
Hitkaari Nagar I and II) early in the UPUD project period, between Jun-89 and Jan-92. These
contracts were to be completed in Aug-90 for Indrapuri and Jan-93 for the rest.
64.   As of Jun-96, works had not yet been completed. In Dec-95, only Rs 14.4 million of
contracted cost of Rs 22.4 million had been spent and completion was targeted for 31 -Mar-96 at



- 46 -
an estimated cost of Rs 24.9 million. The delay in implementation is due to the financial
problems which KDA experienced in 1992. In Kanpur, budget provisions have been made by
KDA in the current financial year 1996/97 to complete AD. Services were still being constructed
by the same contractors to whom these small works were awarded in 1992 and appeared to be
nearing completion on the one AD site which the mission visited in Kanpur.
65.   Regardingfinancial arrangements, Area Development costs of the DA are to be
recovered from resident/owners (RIO) of plots in AD areas. The terms of agreement
(Attachment 4 of MON) provide for the service improvement costs to be born by resident/owners
as follows:
(a)   25% of the scheme cost apportioned to the R/O as a down payment against costs;
(b)   12%/year interest charged on the balance of costs apportioned to the RIO as a
loan;
(c)   repayment to the DA of a loan in 24 quarterly equal installments (eg. 6 years);
(d)   R/O agreement that building boundary walls could be demolished by the DA in
order to construct services; and
(e)   in case the RIO failed to pay loan installments as required in accordance with
provisions in the UP Urban Planning and Development Act 1973, hypothecation
to the DA of the R/O's land and structure for the entire period of the loan.
66.   The mission had insufficient time to gather information about the amount of down
payments paid by R/O for AD and whether they are still being held by KDA. Also information
was not available regarding loan payments by RlOs. In the light of the long delay in KDA's
implementation of AD schemes, KDA should have postponed loan payments and at least paid a
market interest rate on R/O down payments. However, the MON agreement between DA and
RIO is silent about KDA's obligations in cases where it experiences delays in implementing the
AD scheme. From the QPR for Dec-95, it emerges only that out of 740 households in AD
schemes, agreements were completed with 445, and KDA had issued bills for loan payments to
365.
67.   The mission requests that the IPMC and KDA provide specific information to the
Bank regarding the current disposition of Agreements, down payments and loan payments
by 31-Jul-96.
68.   As for lessons, the AD schemes had substantial promise since about 45% of the housing
stock in UP cities is in the form of unserviced unauthorized settlements and communities
developed through private subdivision. Had the KDA not run into financial difficulties in its
own non-Bank-funded investment program (ten to 20 times larger than the Bank-funded KDA
schemes), the AD schemes might have been completed much earlier, and a promising experiment



- 47 -
could have demonstrated a replicable method of improving services for a large proportion of
households in UP cities.
69.   Water Supply. The augmentation of water supply constituted 28 % of the total project
cost at appraisal and covered 11 major towns, later increased by four. Major investments were
proposed for the six towns of Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad, Lucknow and Jhansi where
new treatment/filtration plants (with aggregate nominal capacity 720 Mld) were proposed. There
were, in addition in these towns, improvements in zonal transmission (82 km pipeline in
aggregate) and some rehabilitation of the existing water treatment plants and the distribution
systems (150 km of pipes, and construction of 13 reservoirs). In other towns, the water supply
capacity augmentation involved construction of 67 deep tube wells, laying 302 km of pipelines
and construction of 27 overhead reservoirs, and some rehabilitation measures.
70.   Mostly the Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam (UPJN) was responsible for the plan, design, and
execution of the construction works on behalf of the owner (Jal Sansthan (JS) or local body).
However, Varanasi was a notable exception where the entire responsibility of construction of the
headworks and the treatment plant and the clear water storage and pumping arrangements were
taken-over by the Varanasi Jal Sansthan. On successful completion and commissioning of the
works by UPJN, they were to be turned over to the owner to operate and maintain them. The Jal
Sansthans and the local bodies also carried out some small works in their respective areas.
71.   All the water supply augmentation based on ground water was completed and
commissioned by the Credit closing date. However, except in Allahabad, works in major towns
where additional treatment capacity of surface water were proposed viz. Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi,
and Lucknow, were delayed and in none of these town were the works completed by closure.
72.  In Kanpur, the 200 Mld water treatment plant had been commissioned in May-95 after
successful pre-commissioning trial, but the non-completion of the raw water transmission main
and the settling tanks restricted the overall production. These works are expected to be
completed and commissioned by end of Jul-96. The mission visited the water treatment plant
and found the construction quality is of acceptable standard. The mission was informed that the
JS carry out strict water quality monitoring and they are satisfied with the performance of the
filtration plant even during high turbidity of raw water in the monsoon. This plant is still
operated and maintained by the contractor who constructed it. He is assisted by the staff of
Kanpur Jal Sansthan.
73.  In Agra, the capacity of the existing treatment plant was increased by the provision of a
90 Mld filtration plants in Feb-90. The construction of the new 144 Mld treatment plant and its
associated works such as intake, pumps, raw water and clear water transmission mains are
expected to be completed and commissioned by Oct-96. Construction of the treatment plant and
other civil works were 95% complete at Credit closing, but there have been delays in supply and
erection of pumps, and with the electrical connections.
74.  In Varanasi, the water treatment plant of 250 Mld capacity had been commissioned in
Jun-95. But the clear water feeder main of 7.3 km to pump water to the zonal reservoirs which is



- 48 -
being constructed by the UPJN at the risk and cost of a failed contractor, is not yet complete. It
was indicated to the mission that this will be completed by Sep-96. Previous missions were
given various dates of completion of this important work by the UPJN, but the progress is not
satisfactory. The lack of construction management and organization skills and equipment in the
UPJN local unit at Varanasi is delaying the benefits of this investment.
75.   A 100 Mld capacity water treatment plant in Lucknow was commissioned in Feb-94 and
is being operated by UPJN. The mission visited the plant and was satisfied with the general
upkeep. Attempts by the UPJN to hand over the plant to its owner, the Lucknow JS have not
yielded any positive results. The JS is not equipped with skilled personnel to take over the
operation and maintenance.
76.   The works on the distribution extensions in Lucknow are in progress and are due to be
completed by end of Sep-96.
77.   Due to non-completion of about 3.5 km clear water rising main, the 110 Mld Jhansi water
supply scheme has not been commissioned. Present indications are that the scheme will be
commissioned by Sep-96. However, an emergency water supply scheme financed under the
project based on a battery of tubewells at Baratha basin was completed and 8 Mld has been
available to the town since early 1994. The distribution extensions works in the town were not
complete at the Credit closing.
78.   Sewerage. The main emphasis of this component was to: rehabilitate the existing
sewerage systems by cleaning and repairing, and expanding the coverage with provision of
service connections (up to 15,000 new connections) to maximize the utilization of the existing
networks. There has been some construction of new sewers to replace old sewers which were
beyond repair or had inadequate capacity. All the eleven original Group A and Group B towns
participated in this component. The works on this component were largely completed by
Closure, though the rate of progress was generally slow in Kanpur, Barielly, Dehradun and
Nainital.
79.   The mission was informed that the sewerage component helped significantly in
environmental improvement by way of making the sewers functional and eliminating the
surcharged conditions spilling the sewage on the street through the manholes. The respective
operation and maintenance agencies have benefited from the sewer cleaning equipment and the
mobile gully-pit emptiers and are using them effectively. However, the generally weak financial
condition of these entities raises the question of whether the equipment will be maintained in
good serviceable condition.
80.   Low-Cost Sanitation (LCS). The low-cost sanitation program was implemented in 26
towns (eight A and B towns and 18 D towns) with an initial target to convert some 51,700 bucket
conservancy systems to ventilated improved pit latrines with pour flush, and the construction of
about 7,700 new units. Whereas the implementation of LCS program in Group A and B towns
was directly handled by the local bodies, the LCS cell in the Directorate of Local Bodies
supervised the program in the 18 Group D towns. Kanpur had an annual target of 2,500 units



-49 -
(SAR para 2.11) for the whole project implementation period. Construction of community
latrines was also provided for under this and the SWM sub-components.
81.   An initial thrust in implementation led to early upwards revisions in the original targets,
but this momentum could not be sustained, largely because of beneficiary affordability
constraints with down-payments. Similar programs existed alongside the project where only a
nominal down-payment was required (GOUP program and the GAP) or where the latrine was
provided totally free of charge (Indo-Dutch scheme in Kanpur). The Bank advised GOUP to
review the conditions of different programs and to introduce some uniformity, but the Bank's
offer of increased grant assistance from the project failed to generate much interest.
Nevertheless, 75,305 units have been converted/constructed under the project. Of these, 13,890
units were in Kanpur.
82.   Financial assistance was provided for construction of new units up to the plinth level,
leaving the superstructure for the beneficiary to build. Such arrangements have led to the non-
utilization of toilets in some cases where superstructures were not built. Implementation was
without community education and user motivation. No data were available on the latrines not in
use. The mission recommended that the GOUP, through the local bodies, should conduct a
survey in each town of the number of latrines not in use, and educate the beneficiaries on
the use and benefits of these latrines and advise on the construction of superstructure. The
mission requested a report be furnished to the Bank before 31-Jul-96.
83.   Despite these difficulties, the sustainability of the LCS benefits seems likely, especially
for those which have been converted to twin-pit pour-flush latrines as the families in these cases
have been using individual household latrines before their conversion.
84.   The community latrines constructed under the Project are maintained by using the "pay
and use" model developed by Sulabh. Some of the latrines are maintained by Sulabh themselves.
So far, the experience is reportedly good as the latrines are well maintained and kept clean.
IPMC have agreed to provide data on numbers of community latrines by 31-Jul-96.
85.   Drainage. Ten of the Group A and B towns implemented the drainage component.
Proposals for each town were based on an initial assessment of the drainage problems and the
measures required. Plans were prepared by the respective Nagar Mahapalikas except for
Moradabad, Saharanpur and Barielly where they were prepared by UPJN. The drainage plan for
Lucknow was prepared under the guidance of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur.
Generally, the drainage work constituted rehabilitation (cleaning and repairs) of existing drains
and construction of some new drains. The mission's field visit to various locations in four towns
indicated that, mostly, these storm water drains are being used for disposal of sullage and, in
some places, sewage. The mission further observed that although there are some efforts to desilt
the drains before the monsoon, the local bodies appear not to be able to maintain the drains in
proper functioning condition since many are clogged.
86.   Municipal Services: Solid Waste Management (SWM). The project assisted with the
introduction of more efficient handling practices. The main procurement was of vehicles and



- 50 -
equipment. Some of this has been put to good use and is being maintained in a satisfactory
manner and is having a significant impact. More sophisticated equipment has, in some cases,
failed to be properly maintained and is off the road.
87.   Municipal Services: Maintenance management. This sub-component was intended to
focus on improvements to management practices, with the procurement of equipment in support.
There have been only modest amounts of training and exposure to modem practices, despite the
needs. The equipment, such as for road surface patch repairs and drain cleaning, is being put to
good use.
88.   Municipal Services. Traffic engineering and management. Traffic engineering and
management cells were established in all KAVAL towns, with fully qualified traffic engineering
staff in three. These TEMCs have developed circulation plans to help identify schemes, and
have implemented low cost solutions to reduce congestion and improve safety such as
intersection improvements, crossings, one-way circulation systems and signals. On the whole,
these schemes have worked well and this component has made a real, if modest, impact.
However, sometimes the schemes are rendered less than fully effective by the need to adopt
compromise designs which have the effect of minimizing encroachments onto the road margins.
With improved enforcement the benefits would be greater, and greater attention could be given to
the provision for pedestrians. The municipalities have also encountered some difficulty in
securing the removal of electricity poles from the road spaces in cases of road widening and re-
orientation of the traffic lanes. More road signage and "white lines" would also increase the
effectiveness of improvements. Total expenditure on this component (Rs 115.8 million) was
more than the anticipated SAR amount.
Part A (ii) - Earthquake Reconstruction
89.   Repairs and restoration of Oct-91 earthquake damaged infrastructure were undertaken
such as roads, bridges, irrigation channels and structures, drinking water facilities, schools,
health centers and other public buildings in three hill districts (Uttarkashi, Tehri Garhwal and
Chamoli). These emergency works were to be implemented in a period of two years from 01-
Oct-92 by various GOUP departments under the overall administrative and financial control of
the Divisional Commissioner of Garhwal Division.
90.  Implementation was very slow in the beginning. There was practically no expenditure in
the first year. However, thereafter progress substantially picked up and GOUP continued with
the implementation to the Credit closing date and achieved substantial success with
implementation of the program in spite of considerable practical difficulties in the remote hill
locations.
91.   Set out below are the schemes approved by the Empowered Committee and completed up
to the Credit closing. The 65 not completed schemes which were in progress will require Rs 39.6
million further expenditure, for which GOUP already has provided the funds. All incomplete
works are expected to be completed by Sep-96.



-51 -
No. of              Estimated                  No. of                  Actual
Items of Works                         approved                    cost                schemes               expenditure
schemes              (Rs million)            completed               (Rs million)
A. Roads & Bridges
.................................................................................  ........................................... ................I.................... ......................
Reconstruction                                     128                    56 8                    128                     55.9
Improved communication                              56                   106.9                      50                   101.5
................ .............................................................  ........................................  ........................................  ........................................  .............................
Gawana Bridge                                          1                   10.9                      1                     10.9
.................................................................................  ........................................  ........................................  ........................................  .... .........................
B. Irrigation                                          113                    14.9                    113                      14.6
Minor Irrigation                                    88                     3.0                     88                       3.0
.. ..................................... I..................................... .    ........................................  ........................................    ........................................  ............... ..............
C. Water Supplies                                     295                     33.1                    292                     31.5
............................................. ....................................  ........................................  ........................................    ........................................  .............................
D. Public Buildings
Education (a) Primary                             450                     95.0                   407                      82.6
(b) Secondary                         50                    96.0                     38                     78.8
Health                                              14                    27.4                     13                     25.6
.................................................................................  ............... f..... .................   ......................  ............................... .........   ... .................
Total:                    1195                   444.0                   1130                    404.4
92.   Earlier missions have confirmed that the bridges, primary and secondary schools, and the
hospitals and primary health centers have been reconstructed to good standards. All these works
were of critical importance to restoration of normal life and essential services in the region
following the earthquake.
Part B - Ganga Action Program
93.    This Part provided for: (a) consultancy advisory services and training; (b) pollution
monitoring and maintenance equipment; and (c) priority pollution works. The Ganga Project
Directorate, now the National Rivers Conservation Directorate (NRCD), under the Ministry of
Environment and Forests had overall responsibility for sanctioning investments under this
component, but the concerned state governments were responsible for execution of schemes in
their areas. The agencies responsible were as follows:
Bihar                           Bihar State Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BISWAS)
Uttar Pradesh                   Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam (UPJN)
West Bengal                     Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and the
State Public Health Engineering Directorate (PHED)
94.   The full status of (a) and (b) above was not available to the mission. NRCD agreed to
provide this information by 17-Jun-96. Included under (c), priority pollution control works, was
the construction of three sewage treatment plants in Uttar Pradesh, at Haridwar, Kanpur and
Allahabad, and various interception and diversion works in West Bengal. There were no
pollution control works in Bihar under the project.
95.    Bihar. Four sewer jetting machines, one gully pit emptier, and two pay loaders were
procured in Sep-91 for Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC). The jetting machines and pay
loaders are reported to have been found useful by PMC.



- 52 -
96.    Uttar Pradesh. The bids for three activated sludge sewage treatment works with
anaerobic sludge digestion were invited using ICB procedures and on a turn-key basis from
prequalified contractors. The contract included designs, civil works, mechanical and electrical
equipment, commissioning, and initial operation against performance requirements. The civil
works part of the Haridwar contract progressed well and the STP (without the power package)
was commissioned in Mar-94. However, the construction of the STPs at Kanpur and Allahabad
was severely delayed and remained incomplete at Credit closing.
Ciitywn   Treatment te                 Capacity  Completion status at Credit closing
Of STP
i  (Mid)
Kanpur      Activated sludge process     135    Civil works 85% complete; mechanical and
with anaerobic sludge                electrical works 65% complete; estimated
digestion                            completion (w/o power package) and pre-
commissioning trial by Dec-96.
. ...................... ......... ...... ...................................................... ............... .............. ........................... ..... ........ .............................................................................
Allahabad   Activated sludge process      60     Civil works 80% complete; mechanical and
with anaerobic sludge                electrical works 40% complete; estimated
digestion                            completion (w/o power package) and pre-
commissioning trial by Feb-97.
Haridwar    Activated sludge process      18     STP (w/o power package) commissioned in
with anaerobic sludge                Mar-94. The commissioning of power
digestion                            package is likely by Oct-96.
97.   Sewage Treatment Plant Haridwar. The effluent quality has been satisfactory and within
the prescribed discharge standards (BOD = 20 mg/l and suspended solids = 30 mg/l). However,
the treated effluent quality was affected by occasional prolonged power failure. It was reported
that, in normal power supply conditions, the performance of the STP was found satisfactory even
with an overload of about 10% during the peak tourist season.
98.   The supply of the dual fuel engine was through the tur-key contract but was installed
outside the contract. The engine has been run on diesel mode for a considerable period while
stabilization of the anaerobic digesters was continued. The mission was disturbed to learn that
the commissioning of power package will take even more time as the roof of one digester was
damaged by an explosion caused by air entry through cracks developed in the body of the
digester. These cracks were reported to have developed by vibrations induced by the operation
of the engines. This raises doubts about the adequacy of design, specifications, quality of
construction and supervision. The mission was informed that relaying of the roof is in progress
and it may be possible to commission the power package by the end of Oct-96.
99.    West Bengal. The priority pollution control works were undertaken in Calcutta
Metropolitan Area only. These works consisted of the construction of 26 sewage lifting stations,
and 4 main pumping stations in 14 schemes to intercept and divert sullage to sewage treatment
plants. The progress has been very slow. By the end of Credit closing, only 5 of the 14 schemes



- 53 -
have been commissioned. However, most of the remaining schemes are over 95% complete.
The likely dates of commissioning of these works were not available to the mission. One sewer
jetting machine and four gully pit emptiers were purchased under the Project.
Covenant Compliance
100.  Part A. All covenants for Part A of the project were in compliance at Closure with the
exception of three which were in partial compliance, as follows:
(a)   despite tariff revisions in 1994, some of the project towns do not cover their O&M
and debt servicing costs on their water supply and sewerage (WSS) operations
(PA Schedule para 7));
(b)   as has been the case for several years, there was a low level of achievement of
financial performance of project towns against agreed financial performance
targets in the operational action plan, OAP (PA Schedule para 8). Although data
were incomplete at the time of the mission, it appears that, in 1995/96: none of the
15 municipalities achieved both financial targets and only four achieved one
target; and, only one of the 15 water supply entities achieved both targets, with six
having achieved only one target; and
(c)   GOUP has not taken action directly to minimize the negative effects of rent
control during the period of the project (PA Schedule para 9). However, the
method of property tax assessment is being changed from annual rental value to a
formula assessment based on plot coverage and other physical factors. This will
have the effect of removing the negative impact of rent control on the generation
of property tax revenues.
101.  The execution of Part A of the project was covenanted to be in accordance with the
extensive OAP (PA Section 2.01 (b)). Most of the OAP has been completed. The following are
the OPA action items not completed at closure:
(a)   Item 4 - Finance: surveys of WSS assets for updating assets registers; revaluation
of WSS assets; appointment of independent commercial auditors; and
(b)   Item 5 H - Maintenance and Mapping: utility mapping was not carried out due to
failure to deliver aerial photography surveys by the Remote Sensing and
Application Centre, Lucknow, except for Lucknow which was executed outside
the project, and also Allahabad, which was physically surveyed at ground level;
action plan for maintenance study was not undertaken, due to failure of
consultants to submit reasonable final proposals.
102.  Part B. All covenants for Part B were in compliance at closure.



- 54 -
Project costs and disbursements
103.  The IPMC provided details of total project costs for Part A (i) at closure, and the
Additional Relief Commissioner, Pauri, provided details for Part A (ii). GPD agreed to forward
to the Bank the year-wise final total project cost data for Part B by 17-Jul-96.
104.  Disbursements from the Credit as at 11-Apr-96 were SDR 78.2 million (US$ 108.8
million equivalent), or 79% of the available Credit amount. GOUP and GDP are preparing and
submitting withdrawal applications having regard to the deadline of 31-Jul-96. The utilization of
the Credit is expected to be about 92% by 31-Jul-96. The Credit savings, on this basis, would be
about SDR 8.0 million (about US$ 12.0 million).
IV. Unfinished Works
Part A (i) - Urban Development
105.  Shelter. None of the S&S schemes visited by the mission could be said to be finished,
despite the information recorded in the MIS that contracts have been completed. Services such
as water supply are either not available at all, or are inadequate. And much of the on-site
infrastructure remains incomplete or is in a state of disrepair. As a result, the schemes have a
very low level of occupation, or none at all. Section III above includes mission
recommendations as to the actions that are required complete these schemes. GOUP agreed to
consider these recommendations and produce proposals within a short time-frame.
106.  Similarly, the Area Development schemes are not fully complete. The DAs need to
finalize works. This may then set a better example to other areas of unauthorized development
where further, much needed, area development schemes could be implemented.
107.  The slum upgrading schemes are complete. However, with the passage of time there has
been some deterioration in the infrastructure provided. The mission recommends that the
municipalities establish a program of patch-and-repair works in the upgraded slums to
bring them back to standard.
108.  Water Supply. Several works of major water supply schemes remained incomplete at the
Credit closing. The schemes and their costs to completion, and the estimated date of completion,
are given below:



- 55 -
Name of city                      Major Works Incomplete                            Estimated post                 Estimated
01-Apr-96 cost to   completion
complete              (Rs  date
million)
......................I.............   .......... ...................................................................................    .................... ........  .......   ................................... ........... .......................
1. Raw water transmission main                               18.0                 31-Jul-96
2. Settling tanks Nos. I & 2
.................................................    ...................................................................................    .............. .....................................    ............I.................................
1. Feeder main                                                6.0                  31-Jul-96
2. Settling tank
.................................................   ...................................................................................     .............. .....................................   ..............................................
1. Erection of pumps                                        20.0                  30-Sep-96
2. Water treatment plant
3. Raw/clear water Trans.
mains
.................................................    ...................................................................................    ............................... ....................    .............................I................
1. Distribution extensions                                   2.0                  31-Jul-96
2. Storage reservoir
.................................................   ...................................................................................    ............................... ....................    ............ .................................
1. Clear water rising main                                   11.0                  30-Sep-96
2. Erection of pumps
3. Distribution extensions
109.  Municipal services. Most schemes executed under the project were modest in size, and
all have been completed.
Part A (ii) - Earthquake Reconstruction
110. The 65 incomplete schemes were: improvement of communications - 6; water supply - 3;
primary school buildings - 43; secondary school buildings - 12; and medical buildings - 1. These
works are in progress and will require Rs 39.6 million, post 01-Apr-96, to complete for which
GOUP has already provided funds. All these incomplete works are expected to be completed by
Sep-96.
Part B - Ganga Action Program
111.  The major works not completed at Closure were as follows:
STP                Major work incomplete                                     Estimated post                   Estimated
01-Apr-96 cost to    completion
complete                          date
(Rs million)
Kanpur             I Sewage treatment plant                                             44.0                  Dec-96
2. Power package                                                     67.1                 not known
.Allahabad   1. Sewage treatment plant                                                  31.6                  Feb-97
2. Power package                                                     35.0                 not known
...................a...i a     ...1 .    w   ... package..........................n..................o......................o... t o...k...    n ..... w n.....................O c-..... ........96...............................................



- 56 -
V. Implementation Performance
Views of the mission
112.  Overall management of the project. For Part A (i) the IPMC played the central
monitoring and co-ordinating role. The monitoring reports and general attention to the details of
the project implementation were carried out by IPMC in a dedicated and satisfactory fashion.
The IPMC lacked management authority and were not much able to influence events on the
ground which hampered the achievement of objectives in key areas. There was, for example,
only one dropping of a non-performing town from the project in accordance with the project
Agreements, in spite of persistent performance failures by many more towns,
113.  The GPD acted as the management organization for Part B. The project constituted only
one part of the GAP, so no special arrangements were established for the project. As with the
IPMC, the GPD was better able to act as a monitoring and co-ordinating agency than as
implementation managers since all key decisions were for the implementing agencies to take,
such as UPJN.
114.  Looking back over the project, the mission is of the opinion that the supervision
performance of the Bank was largely ineffective and lacking in important respects in its
contribution to the achievement of project objectives. This aspect of implementation
performance will need to receive special attention in the Implementation Completion Report,
which should go into details of the reasons for the Bank's failures, and draw out lessons.
115.  Water Supply and Sewerage. The UPJN, which was primarily responsible for the
planning, design, bidding documents, bid invitation, award work and supervision of the water
supply and sewerage schemes, failed to perform adequately in respect of the large schemes.
However, their performance in respect of the smaller schemes such as the deep tube-wells in
Bareilly, Moradabad, Gorakhpur, Aligarh, Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Jhansi, Dehradun and Meerut,
with local distribution networks and storage reservoirs, was successful though often with delays.
116. The decision on award of "turn-key" contracts usually took over a year as the award
recommendations were scrutinized at various levels in UPJN. This situation had considerably
improved over the project period with UPJN's realization that this exercise is not required.
117.  In some cases, there was inadequate engineering preparation and appraisal viz. Kanpur,
Agra. In some others, there was poor management and administration of the "turn-key" contracts
viz. Lucknow. In Kanpur and Varanasi, both of the above were inadequate. Exceptions are: the
Allahabad scheme which, although delayed, did not face major problems during
implementation; and, the new Jhansi-Babina water supply scheme. The UPJN improved its
overall engineering and supervision to a significant level from the experiences of the schemes
taken-up before the Jhansi scheme though it was unfortunate that the clear water transmission
mains at Jhansi could not be completed before Closure due to difficult strata.



- 57 -
118.  The Jal Sansthans were involved in the execution of some smaller works and performed
satisfactorily. The Varanasi Jal Sansthan was faced with tremendous contractual problems in
their execution of the 100 Mld filtration plant and 150 Mld water treatment plant and the
associated intake and transmission arrangements. However, by renegotiating the contract they
had overcome the difficult situation and were able to complete the contract though with
substantial delay. However, the JSs in Lucknow and Kanpur, where the new water treatment
plants have been completed and commissioned, failed to take over the plants as they were not
able to equip themselves with the skilled personnel required.
119.  GOUP and UPJN/JSs failed to appreciate the need for the maintenance studies, though
these were agreed with the Bank. In the absence of these studies it seemed impossible for
UPJN/JSs to identify the measures required to improve technical, financial and managerial
performance.
120. Low-Cost Sanitation (LCS). The implementation experience was mixed. The
achievement of 75,305 units surpassed the SAR target of 59,400 units. The local bodies which
gave loans to the beneficiaries are not making sufficient effort, in most of the cases, at recovery.
121.  Ganga Action Program. Generally, the works have progressed very slowly particularly
in respect of the priority pollution works. Only 5 schemes out of 14 have been completed in
Calcutta Metropolitan Area although the balance are mostly 95% complete. There were
contractual disputes resulting termination of contracts in two cases. Generally slow progress
with the construction of critical part of schemes, delay in obtaining electric connections, and lack
of coordination between various agencies caused substantial delays in completion of these
schemes.
122.  The implementation performance of UPJN in respect of the three sewage treatment plants
in Uttar Pradesh under GAP is similar to the poor performance with the major water supply
works under Part A (i). There were excessive time overruns in all cases, although the
unresponsive contractor, in the Kanpur and Allahabad cases, was also a significant factor.
Views of the Borrower
123.  Both GOUP and the NRCD expressed the view that they wished to reserve their
judgments on the implementation performance until their respective Borrower Evaluation
contributions to the Implementation Completion Report.
VI. Operational Plan and Sustainability
124.  Part A. Sustainability of the water supply and municipal services components largely
depends on improvements to the finances of the local bodies charged with operating and
maintaining the assets. A second issue for sustainability is the general lack of suitably skilled
manpower, particularly for water supply and sanitation. In both these cases the prospects for
long-term sustainability are not good. The project has failed to make any significant progress in
strengthening the local body institutions concerned.



- 58 -
125.  Long-term sustainability of the S&S and Area Development schemes is problematic until
such times as the schemes are fully completed and occupation, particularly of S&S, picks up. In
the short-term the prospects for the S&S schemes are bleak, with continuing deterioration of the
assets through neglect. This makes it imperative that the DAs prepare proposals to restructure
the schemes to bring about their completion and occupation.
126.  The mission agreed with GOUP key indicators of project operation.
127.  Part B. Sustainability of the equipment and minor assets created under Part B of the
project is unlikely to be problematic. However, for major works, and particularly the STPs in
UP, the same problems of lack of resources and skilled manpower arise as for water supply and
sanitation under Part A, since it is the intention that these STPs will be handed over to the local
bodies to operate and maintain. The outlook is not encouraging given the substantial resources
required and the relatively advanced technology which has been deployed in these plants.
VII. Follow-up Actions in the Post-closure Period
128.  The mission reminded the Borrower of the project obligations which remain, including
those entered into under the Agreements, during the post-closure period. These are:
(a)   all withdrawal applications should be submitted to the Bank for eligible
expenditures incurred up to 31-Mar-96 by 31-Jul-96;
(b)   audits of SOEs for the fiscal year 1995/96 should be submitted in accordance with
the audit covenant by 31 -Dec-96;
(c)   the GOUP and NRCD will continue to assist with the preparation of the ICR in
accordance with the agreements reached with the mission (see Section VIII
below) and, additionally, GOUP and NRCD should each prepare their own
Evaluation of the project for inclusion in the ICR which was agreed to be
submitted to the Bank by 31-Oct-96; and,
(d)   in accordance with the Agreements the Borrower is obliged to comply with
covenants, as appropriate, during the period of the Credit.



- 59 -
VIII. Program for ICR Preparation
129.  The following program for ICR preparation was agreed:
Agreed Action                                                  By Whom                          By When
............  ........... ............   , . ................................................................    ........................................................  ....     ......  ...........- ......
Final IPMC Quarterly Progress Report for Part A (i) for                                                    IPMC                      3 1 -Jul-96
31 -Mar-96 and other data requested and not supplied at
the time of the mission, to be forwarded to Bank.
..................................................................................................................................... .......................    ........................................................  .............
First draft report of GOUP's Evaluation Consultants for                                    Consultants with                          31-Jul-96
Part A (i) schemes to be sent to Bank                                                     IPMC and GOUP
~~~~~~~~~~~......................................................................................................... ............................................    ............ ..........................................  ....
Draft of ICR (Bank portion including tables) to be                                                          Bank                    15-Sep-96
forwarded to Borrower for comment.
Second dra t report of GOUP's Evaluation Consultants                                       Consultants with                        3 1 -Oct-96
for Part A (i) schemes to be sent to Bank                                                                 GOUP
.... .................... ......................... .............................. .................................... ...............................   .......................................................   .............. ..................
Comments on Bank's draft ICR to be forwarded to                                             (i) IPMC staff, Within one month
Bank                                                                                   liaising with GOUP   of receipt of draft
ICR from Bank
(ii) NRCD
.... ...................... .......................... ................................ .................................... ..........................   .......................................................   ................................
Borrower's Evaluation to be sent to Bank                                                    (i) IPMC staff,                         31 -Oct-96
liaising with GOUP
(ii) NRCD
Final draft of ICR (complete version including                                                              Bank                   14-Nov-96
Borrower's Evaluation) to Bank management for
review.
............................................................................................................................. ......................................    .................. .....................................  .............
Final part of report of GOUP's Evaluation Consultants                                      Consultants with                        31-Dec-96
for Part A (i) schemes to be sent to Bank                                                                 GOUP



- 60 -
Appendix 1 to Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
STATUS OF GANGA ACTION PROGRAM PHASE I
I. Background and Context
1.    As a result of concern at the highest level over the rapidly deteriorating water quality of
the River Ganga the GOI established, in 1985, the Central Ganga Authority under the
chairmanship of the Prime Minister. Subsequently, in 1986, the Ganga Action Plan (GAP) was
launched and the Ganga Project Directorate was established in the Ministry of Environment and
Forests (MoE&F) to coordinate the implementation of schemes conceived under the GAP.
2.    The immediate objective of GAP was to improve the water quality of the river, while the
broader objective was to restore its biological health. These objectives were in the first phase to
be achieved through the implementation of coordinated program of schemes in Uttar Pradesh
(UP), Bihar and West Bengal (WB). The originally proposed 261 schemes mainly comprised:
interception at its point of entry into the river, and diversion, of polluted wastewater; additional
municipal sewage treatment plants (STPs) receiving the wastewater; low cost sanitation facilities
(LCS); various other schemes such as electric crematoria and river front bathing places; and,
other schemes for the biological regeneration of the river, as follows:
CATEGORY                   UP    BIHAR    WB   TOTAL
Interception and Diversion Schemes   40          17          31         88
Sewage Treatment Plants              13           7          15         35
Low Cost Sanitation                  14           7          22         43
Electric Crematoria                   3           8          17          2
River Front Facilities                8           3          24         35
Other Schemes for Biological         28           3           1         32
Regeneration of River
Total                                106         45          110        261
3.    As is evident from the large number of interception/diversion and sewage treatment
schemes, almost half of the total number, the emphasis of the initial GAP concept was on
reducing the highly visible wastewater flows directly into the river. These schemes were
relatively easy to implement and promised high impact.
4.    GOI has sanctioned (as of 01-Jan-96) capital expenditures for GAP of Rs 3787 million
which compares with the 1988 sanctioned amount of Rs 2563 million. Cost revisions are now
expected to lead to total GAP phase I capital costs of Rs 4260 million, to which can be added
GOI's share of O&M costs of Rs 253 million and expenditures on R&D, NGOs and GPD
establishment of Rs 168 million (see the cost summary in Attachment 3). Outlays for GAP phase



- 61 -
I constituted about 30% of the MoE&F's budget, and represented about 0.6% of the GOI Central
Plan for all sectors and about 0.3% of the Central and State and UT Plans combined.
5.    The Governments of the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, as well as the World Bank
in the UP Urban Development Project, have supported GAP through financing of selected
schemes as follows (see also Attachment 4):
Donor/Schemes                    Commitment         Expenditure (Dec-95)
(Rs millions)
Netherlands (integrated sanitation   459               434          Grant
in Kanpur and Mirzapur)
U.K. (TA for water quality monitoring)     data n/a                 Grant
World Bank (works and equipment      428               364          Loan
in UP, Bihar and WB)
6.    Following substantive completion of GAP phase I, GOI has approved GAP phase II.
Phase II is a scheme of pollution abatement of the Yamuna and Gomti Rivers which are
tributaries of the Ganga, at an estimated cost of Rs 4210 million. Under GAP phase II there will
be equal contributions from the Center and the state governments concerned. The Government
of Japan through an OECF loan of Rs 4010 million equivalent is supporting the Yamuna
component. The U.K. Government is supporting the Gomti component.
7.    Additionally, GOI has approved in principle an outlay of Rs. 10,000 million over ten
years, with 50% of the funding coming from the Center, for the National River Action Plan
(NRAP). NRAP will involve an approach similar to GAP covering the grossly polluted stretches
of rivers across the country with the aim of improving the water quality of the entire river
concerned.
II. Findings and Observations
GAP Phase I Implementation Experience
8.   Implementing Agencies' Perspectives. GOI and the implementing agencies consider the
basic technical concept of GAP as appropriate and sound, i.e. reducing the pollution load
entering the river from point and non-point sources and establishing sewage treatment plant
systems. This is evidenced by phase II and the NRAP which continue to apply this concept,
albeit with some minor modifications as noted below.
9.    The program as conceived, involving five key ministries with the Prime Minister chairing
quarterly progress meetings, had a very high profile and raised general awareness of river water
quality degradation. GAP received maximum attention and cooperation from the public in
general as well as from polluting industries.



- 62 -
10.   Other important elements of the concept were waste-to-energy conversion, using methane
gas generated by sewage sludge digesters to fill the energy needs of some of the activated sludge
STPs, and effluent reclycing through sewage farms.
11.   A wide range of supporting programs are considered to have enhanced the basic approach
to reduction of river pollution. These included: water quality modeling and monitoring; bio-
conservation through captive breeding of scavenging turtles; cleaning of clogged sewer systems;
relocation of dhobi ghats; desilting and renovation of tanks and ponds on the river banks; river
bank erosion control and landscaping; and, water supply and solid waste management schemes in
slums located along the banks of the Ganga.
12.   NRCD reports that by the end of 1995, 211 out of the 261 schemes have been completed.
Out of a total of approximately 1400 million liters per day (Mld) wastewater flowing into the
River Ganga from Class I towns (population over 100,000), 873 Mld was targeted to be
intercepted and 654 Mld (about 47% of the total and 75% of the target) have been intercepted.
STPs for 485 Mld have been commissioned. About 2,750 community toilets and 47,700
individual toilets have been commissioned under the LCS schemes.
13.   NRCD is satisfied with the extent of learning and experimentation which took place
during implementation. One of the successes was the low-energy Upflow Anaerobic Sludge
Blanket (UASB) system of wastewater treatment which was introduced through the Netherlands-
financed component in two pilot and two full-scale STPs, two of which are treating tannery
wastes. The active participation and involvement of a number of universities, institutes, and
private sector firms, especially in the monitoring and evaluation of the GAP, are also very
positive aspects of program implementation.
14.   NRCD reports a positive health impact of the program. Results available so far indicate
clearly that there is a decreasing trend in the incidence of water-borne diseases, such as diarrhea,
helminthic infection, skin diseases, respiratory tract infections, etc. in the relevant cities.
NRCD's impact evaluation is based on the results of a considerable number of monitoring and
evaluation studies and projects.
15.   GPD sponsored various academic and scientific institutes to: carry out monitoring and
evaluation studies which gathered water quality data; review and assess the implementation of
works and schemes and their performance; and, assess the acceptance of schemes by the
population concerned. GDP has installed five automatic water quality monitoring stations
(AWQMS) along the River Ganga which are now maintained and operated by the Central
Pollution Control Board in co-operation with the UPPCB and Bihar PCB. Technical assistance
provided by the U.K. (ODA) included water quality monitoring and modeling.
16.   The CPCB Annual Report 1994/95 presents the finding that along the Ganga at all
monitored locations the quality classification was D, fit for propagation of wildlife and fisheries,
while the target classification was B, bathing quality. The critical parameter in this assessment
was the total coliform count, which exceeded the desired standards.



- 63 -
17.   The trends of the observed water quality parameters are somewhat inconclusive. It is
disturbing that whereas DO and BOD trends in the summer averages for 16 stations on the Ganga
were positive for most stations during the years 1986-92, there was a deterioration of these two
key parameters for the period 1992-95. This deterioration could be due to increasing abstractions
of surface and groundwater (the latter affecting the summer base flows) which would result in
lower dilution of the pollution loads. Other possible explanations are increasing pollution loads
which cannot be dealt with adequately by the completed schemes, or inefficiency or partial
failure of interception and treatment works.
18.   Under GAP efforts were also made to encourage polluting industries along the Ganga to
install effluent treatment plants (ETPs). The Annual Report of MoE&F 1993/94 shows that most
industries had complied, others had closed down, and prosecution had been launched against six.
CPCB reported that early in 1996, for the first time, two industries were closed by court order
after they did not comply with effluent standards. Generally, the courts have been active in
supporting efforts to deal with polluting industries which failed to comply with standards.
19.   Some of the evaluation and monitoring studies also report that there has been acceptance
and use of the LCS facilities, and facilities such as electric crematoria and bathing places
implemented under GAP. However, these studies found that there was insufficient public
participation in planning, and low awareness of their importance.
20.   NCRD reports that the captive breeding program of the scavenging turtle has been
successful, and that large numbers of turtles have been released.
21.   In early 1996, NRCD with ODA support commissioned the Institute for Economic
Growth (IEG) in co-operation with other Indian and external organizations to carry out a study of
the net economic benefits of GAP. The study is expected to be concluded in early 1997 and, for
the first time, will attempt to quantify user and non-user benefits covering health, recreation,
conservation, biodiversity and bequest (inter-generation) benefits. Surveys employing
contingent valuation techniques will be carried out in 15 cities covering about 2,000 households.
The study will also assemble data on all GAP-related costs, such as those incurred by state and
local governments and industries. The results of this study will be used to shape future policy,
especially with regard to sustainability of the GAP.
22.   Donors' Perspectives. The Government of the Netherlands, in 1994, carried out a study
to review the implementation experience of its "Environmental and Sanitation Engineering
Project" in Kanpur-Mirzapur under GAP. The Dutch have supported GAP through integrated
urban environmental operations in these two locations. The study judged that the project has
been able to meet the objectives of GAP and has contributed significantly to improving
conditions. The study found that the establishment and involvement of a community
development cell in Kanpur was useful for initiating community-based activities.
23.   The Dutch evaluation also considered the experience from Kanpur and Mirzapur relevant
for application elsewhere, especially as far as integrated planning and implementation of sanitary
infrastructure, and introduction and application of new technologies such as UASB, are



- 64 -
concerned. With regard to the latter, the evaluation study claims that: UASB plants are lower in
capital costs; require fewer mechanical systems (prone to breakdown); due to their minimal
energy requirements, are lower in O&M costs; and, compare favorably in an overall cost
comparison with conventional activated sludge treatment plants.
24.   However, the Dutch have concluded that projects and programs directed towards
improved urban environments and reduction in the pollution load of surface water, should have
substantial components for local institutional development and for community participation and
health awareness. Accordingly, the Government of the Netherlands in 1995 started the Ganga
Institutional and Development (ICD) Project whose main objective is to develop and strengthen
the capacities of municipalities to ensure proper and sustainable O&M of capital works financed
under GAP-related investments (see also Attachment 5 for more details).
25.   Closely related to the Ganga ICD Project, the Netherlands Ministry for Development
Cooperation is now in the process of appraising the Ganga Action Plan Project which will
provide financing of NLG 48 million (US$27.3 million) for capital investments in Kanpur South
for sewerage, water supply, solid waste management and on-site sanitation, plus technical
assistance to the implementing agencies.
26.   The UK's ODA in phase I provided technical assistance for setting up water quality
monitoring systems. ODA is now preparing to implement a support project which will focus on
city-wide improvements in Lucknow on the Gomti River. The ODA-financed project will
emphasize institutional development, drawing together the different urban agencies to eventually
result in a city-wide masterplan. Two NGOs have been engaged to prepare community
improvement projects in two service areas which will also contribute to the masterplan. A
technical support project will finance urgent works.
27.   As mentioned above, OECF has approved a loan of Rs 4010 million equivalent for GAP
phase II implementation on the Yamuna River.
28.   Other Perspectives. The mission met representatives of NGOs concerned with the
cleaning up of the River Ganga and technical persons familiar with GAP. It was observed that
smooth implementation has been hampered by inter-agency differences, and differences between
administrators, engineers and scientists, over the concept and approach.
29.   Some have cast doubts on the sustainability of the program. Although physical
implementation achievements were good, frequent power outages cause adverse impacts on the
operation of treatment plants and the reduction of pollution loads. A Kanpur-based NGO
claimed that: some drains are still discharging wastewater into the Ganga; tannery wastes are still
discharged untreated into the river during power outages; many dhobis continue their operations
along the banks; a trade in turtles has not stopped; garbage disposal and defecation on the banks
also continue; and, corpses and animal carcasses are still dumped into the river.
30.   There are differences of opinion over the location, frequency and interpretation of water
quality monitoring. No sampling is undertaken near the banks where most of the human



- 65 -
activities take place. There is also disagreement amongst observers over the significance of the
various parameters, especially Total and Fecal coliform counts which are the most relevant
parameters as far as human health aspects are concerned.
31.   The UASB wastewater treatment process is considered by some to be too complex for
Indian conditions. It has been suggested that where their effluent meet certain requirements
industries should be encouraged to explore joint wastewater treatment with municipalities.
Commentators have suggested that industries need to be given more incentives, preferably
through water pricing and groundwater licensing and charges, to conserve water and adopt
waste-reducing, "clean technologies" in their production processes.
32.   GAP is seen by NGOs and others as a government program with too little people's
participation. The argument put forward is that if government were more open and willing to
engage in an active dialogue, GAP would move more into the public domain and the still largely
untapped resources of community associations and NGOs could be harnessed against pollution.
III. Operational Plan
33.   GPD/NRCD's plan for the O&M of all facilities implemented under GAP is that the local
governments are to take over O&M responsibility and funding after the end of phase I. The
relatively high operation costs and the financial constraints at the local government and state
levels may put this plan into jeopardy.



- 66 -
Attachment 1
LIST OF REPORTS RECEIVED AND REVIEWED BY THE MISSION
The Ganga. A Scientific Study. Editors C. R. Krishna Murti et al. Northern Book Centre. N.
Delhi, 1991.
Statistical Review of Ganga Action Plan (GAP). Phase I (as of 01/01/1996). Government of
India, Ministry of Environment & Forests. 1996.
Ganga Action Plan. Water Quality Bulletin - March 1996. Government of India, Ministry of
Environment & Forests. 1996.
Ganga Water Quality Monitoring Project, Technical Report No. 1 on Water Quality of Ganga in
Bihar (October 1993 - February 1996). Dr. R.K. Sinha & Dr. K. Prasad. Patna University,
Patna. 1996. No. M-12014/54(1)/85-GPD.
Final Technical Report for Ganga Action Plan. Phase I in Bihar State. July 1993. Monitoring &
Evaluation Project. Dr. R.K. Sinha. Patna University, Patna. 1993. No-7-1/92-HSMD.
Monitoring Evaluation of GAP & HSMD Works at Haridwar-Rishikesh. Fatehgarh & Kanpur.
July 1993. University of Roorkee, Roorkee.
Ganga river Water Quality Monitoring for Rishikesh. Haridwar & Garhmukteshwar. (September
1993 - September 1995). 1995. Pollution Control Institute, Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd.
Haridwar.
Monitoring and Evaluation Study of GAP Works at Allahabad. Mirzapur and Varanasi. 1993.
Motilal Nehru Regional Engineering College, Allahabad.
Down to Earth (April 15. 1996), When a River Weeps. Anjum Sharma,. Delhi.
Annual Report 1993-94, Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India.
Inspection Report (of wastewater treatment facilities on River Ganga), NEERI, 1994.
(Note: Exact title of report not known)
Environmental and Sanitary Engineering Project, Integrated Approach and Replicability. March
1994. Government of India, MoE&F, GPD and Government of Netherlands, MoE&F,
Directorate General of International Cooperation.
Annual Report 1994-95. Central Pollution Control Board, Ministry of Environment and Forests.
Delhi.



- 67 -
Status of Water Supply and Wastewater Collection. Treatment and Disposal in Class I Cities.
1988. Central Pollution Control Board. Delhi.
Status of Water Supply and Wastewater Collection. Treatment and Disposal in Class II Towns.
1988. Central Pollution Control Board. Delhi.
Environmental Policies. An Overview. R.C. Trivedi, CPCB. September 1992. Prepared for
USAID, HUDCO.
Swatcha Ganga Campaign. Sankat Mochan Foundation & Swatcha Ganga Research Laboratory.
1995. Varanasi, UP.
A Brief History of Ganga Pollution Control at Varanasi. Dr. Veer Bhadra Mishra. Undated.
Varanasi, UP.
Preliminary Feasibility Study on Interceptor Sewer Along Ghats at Varanasi. Memorandum by
Sankat Mochan Foundation (SMF). 1995. Varanasi, UP.
Comments on the Pre-Feasibility Report on Interceptor Sewer Prepared by SMF. Office of the
General Manager, Ganga Pollution Prevention Unit, UP Jal Nigam, Varanasi. 1996.



- 68 -
Attachment 2
SOME QUOTES ON THE RIVER GANGA
"One should not be amazed at the notion that this Ganges is really Power, for is she not
the Supreme Shakti of the Eternal Shiva, taken the form of water? This Ganges filled
with the sweet wine of compassion, was sent out for the salvation of the world by Shiva,
the Lord of Lords. Good people should not think that this Triple-Pathed River to be like
thousand other earthly rivers, filled with water."
Ganga Mahatma, Kashi Khanda
"A symbol of India's age-long culture and civilization, ever-changing, ever-flowing and
yet ever the same Ganga."
"A symbol, a memory of the past of India, running into the present, and flowing on to the
great ocean of the future."
Jawahar Lal Nehru
June 21, 1954
"Ganga is the symbol of India's culture, the source of our legends and poetry, the
sustainer of millions. Today it is one of the most polluted rivers. We will restore the
pristine purity of the Ganga."
Rajiv Gandhi, Prime Minister
Address to the Nation, January 5, 1985
"A small, often unnoticed but essential requisite of most Hindu rituals involves a simple
invocation to water. The person takes a handful of water and calls upon the Ganga,
Yamuna, Saraswati, Godavari, Narmada, Sindhu and Kaveri to manifest themselves in
that water. The simple message here is not of religion but of reverence for water - water
as precious, water as basic for sustenance of life and water as symbol for purity."
K.C. Sivaramakrishnan
Preface, The Ganga - A Scientific Study



- 69 -
Attachment 3
TOTAL COST OF GANGA ACTION PLAN
(Rs Million)
1            2           3            4            5               6              7
STATE              NO OF      NO OF    SANCTIONED SANCTIONED           REVISED          TOTAL
CLASS I  SCHEMES         COST          COST            COST        EXPECTED
TOWNS                     AT            AT                        ESCALATION
31-Oct-88    01-Jan-96                        (6 - 4)
UP                   6         106          1142          1496            1848           706
Bihar                4          45          336           503             533            197
WB                   15         110         1085          1788            1879           794
TOTAL                25        261          2563          3787           4260            1697
Estimated                                                                 253
expenditure
towards GPD's
share of O& M
Estimated                                                                 168
expenditure on
R&D, NGOs, GPD
establishment etc.
GRAND TOTAL                                                             4681



- 70 -
Attachment 4
SUMMARY OF EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO GAP PHASE 1'4
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........... .  . .....  .,. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . ... . .  . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
World Bank
Assistance
From Dec-87
Rs million
Item                                    Amount                   Actual               Expenditure                Physical
Committed   Expenditure to   in 1995-96                                 Progress to
31-Dec-95                                       31-Mar-96
......................................................................... ...................................................................................................................... ........................ .......
Priority pollution
control works
STP Haridwar                       40                     69                       0                       96%
STP Kanpur                         186                    113                      3                       70%
STP Allahabad                      80                     90                       2                       65%
Total Uttar Pradesh                305                    272                      5
Total West Bengal                   123                   108                      3                       98%
Grand Total                        428                    380                      8
Dutch Assistance
From Apr-87
Item                                    Amount                   Actual               Expenditure                Physical
Committed   Expenditure to   in 1995-96                                 Progress to
31-Mar-95                                       31-Mar-96
.........................................................................   . ....................................................................................................................  . ........................... .....
Integrated Sanitation
Project, Kanpur
ll Schemes                      261                    230                      26                      97%
Integrated Sanitation
Project Mirzapur
9 Schemes                        198                   204                      0                        100%
Grand Total                        459                    434                      26
Excludes ODA technical assistance, and World Bank assistance for equipment for Bihar and training.



- 71 -
Attachment 5
GOVERNMENT OF NETHERLANDS SUPPORT TO GAP
Starting 1987, the Netherlands Government has financially and technically supported the Indian
Ganga Action Plan through the implementation of the Environmental and Sanitary Engineering
Project in the cities of Kanpur and Mirzapur in the State of Uttar Pradesh. This project, which is
scheduled to end in May 1996, primarily focused on the construction of works for sewerage,
sewerage treatment, drainage, water supply, solid waste collection/disposal and on-site
sanitation. The project has devoted considerable attention to the training of Indian engineers for
operation and maintenance, community development and public and occupational health related
activities.
In total the Netherlands contributed NLG 35 million (US$20.0 million) for capital investments
and NLG 30 million (US$17.0 million) for technical assistance to the Kanpur/Mirzapur project.
Having regard to considerations of sustainability, the Netherlands has stressed the importance of
developing and strengthening the capabilities of the local implementing municipal agencies in
Kanpur and Mirzapur. The Ganga Institutional and Development Project (Ganga ICD Project)
started in March 1995 with the main objective to develop and strengthen the capacities of the
municipal organizations in such a way that proper and sustainable operation and maintenance of
the capital works financed under the Kanpur/Mirzapur project, and the awaited GAP Support
Project, are guaranteed.
The Ganga ICD Project, which is executed by the Netherlands consultant BMB/Euroconsult, is
assisting Kanpur Jal Sansthan (KJS), Kanpur Nagar Nigam (KNM) and Mirzapur Nagar Palika
(MNP) in defining reasonable targets for improving the performance and preparing business
plans and revenue enhancement plans.
At present the Netherlands Ministry for Development Cooperation is appraising the GAP
Support Project. The Project is scheduled to start in June 1996, when the Kanpur/Mirzapur
project ends. The GAP Support Project will finance approximately NLG 48 million (US$27.3
million) of capital investments in Kanpur South for sewerage, water supply, solid waste
management and on-site sanitation. The GAP Support Project will provide a limited technical
assistance to the Indian implementing agencies and support a project Planning and Coordination
Unit (PPCU).



- 72 -
Appendix 2 to Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
LIST OF KEY PERSONS MET
Part A
GOUP
Mr. A.P. Singh, Principal Secretary Housing
Mr. Nripendra Misra, Principal Secretary Finance
Mr. R.B. Bhaskar, Secretary Urban Development
Mr. V.N. Channa, Chairman UP Jal Nigam
Mr. P.K. Pandey, MD UP Jal Nigam
Mr. V.K. Dewan, Principal Secretary Institutional Finance
Investment Planning and Monitoring Cell (IPMC)
Mr. R. Jaiswal, Senior Specialist
Mr. Manmohan, Financial Analyst
Mr. O.P. Tripathi, Financial Analyst
Mr. N.R. Verma, Senior Specialist
Mr. M.I. Siddiqui, Consultant (Law)
Mr. S.L. Nagdev, Consultant
Mr. U.C. Das Gupta, Consultant
Mr. G.K. Trivedi, Consultant
Mr. R.D. Roy, Assistant Engineer
Mr. R.S. Tewari, Executive Engineer
Agra
Mrs. Baby Rani Morya, Mayor Nagar Nigam
Mr. M.L. Kadam, Municipal Commissioner
Mr. R.C. Agarwal, Chief Engineer Nagar Nigam
Mr. M.S. Mehta, Executive Engineer Nagar Nigam
Mr. R.K. Tripathi, GM Jal Sansthan
Mr. Zafar Naim Khan, Executive Engineer Jal Sansthan
Mr. C.M. Srivastava, Superintending Engineer UP Jal Nigam
Mr. Swraj Kumar, Executive Engineer UP Jal Nigam
Mr. R.K. Agrawal, Executive Engineer UP Jal Nigam
Mr. S. Dayal, Finance Officer Jal Sansthan
Kanpur
Mrs. Sarla Singh, Mayor of the Nagar Nigam
Mr. P.C. Chaturvedi, Chairman KDA and Divisional Commissioner
Mr. A.K. Upadhaya, Secretary KDA



- 73 -
Mr. S.C. Misra, Chief Engineer KDA
Mr. Pawan Kumar Jain, Executive Engineer KDA
Mr. R.N. Singh, Additional Secretary KDA
Mr. B.C. Chandola, Mukaya Nagar Adhikari
Mr. Harpal Singh, Deputy Mukaya Nagar Adhikari
Mr. S. Ahmed, Chief Engineer Nagar Nigam
Mr. Mahendra Singh, Executive Engineer Nagar Nigam
Mr. M.L. Sharma, Executive Engineer Nagar Nigam
Mr. Pradeep Tewari, Executive Engineer (Traffic) Nagar Nigam
Mr. K.K. Sahgal, Lucknow Jal Sansthan
Mr. Vijaya Kumar, Superintending Engineer, UP Jal Nigam
Mr. T.D. Daryana, Executive Engineer UP Jal Nigam
Lucknow
Mr. Sanjay Agarawal, Mukhya Nagar Adhikara Nagar Nigam
Mr. Ganga Deen Yadav, Vice Chairman LDA
Mr. Vivek Mehra, Superintending Engineer LDA
Mr. Dawan Ram, Executive Engineer LDA
Mr. A.K. Khanna, Executive Engineer Lucknow Nagar Nigam
Mr. Batoon Singh, Executive Engineer Lucknow Nagar Nigam
Mr. Rashid Ahmad Khan, General Manager Lucknow Jal Sansthan
Mr. B.N. Misra, Executive Engineer Lucknow Jal Sansthan
Mr. S.M. Zaheer, General Manager UP Jal Nigam
Mr. B.D. Gupta, Executive Engineer UP Jal Nigam
Meerut
Mr. H.L. Virdi, Commissioner
Mr. Rajiv Kumar, Vice Chairman MDA
Mrs. Anshuli Arya, Mukhya Nagar Adhikari
Mr. S.L. Goel, Superintending Engineer, UP Jal Nigam
Mr. R.L. Goyal, Executive Engineer, UP Jal Nigam
Mr. K. Singhal, Executive Engineer, UP Jal Nigam
Mr. Shashi Bhusan, Chief Engineer MDA
Mr. R.P. Singh, Executive Engineer MDA
Mr. R.P. Verma, Ex-Executive Engineer Nagar Nigam Meerut
Earthquake Reconstruction
Mr. P.S. Jangpangi, Additional Relief Commissioner Pauri



- 74 -
Part B
Mr. J.C. Kala, Joint Secretary, National Rivers Conservation Directorate, MoE&F
Mr. K. Mohan, Advisor, NRCD, MoE&F
Mr. Ansar Ahmed, Director, MoE&F
Mr. Brijesh Sikka, Joint Director, NRCD, MoE&F
Mr. Wiswanath Anand, Project Director (National Program), NRCD, MoE&F
Dr. Virendravats, Additional Director, NRCD, MoE&F
Mr. V.K. Gupta, Chief Engineer, U.P. Jal Nigam, Lucknow
Mr. S.M. Sharma, GM, Yamuna Pollution Control Unit, U.P. Jal Nigam, Ghaziabad
Mr. A.C. Vermeer, Sector Specialist, Environment, Royal Netherlands Embassy
Dr. K.C. Sivaramakrishna, former Project Director, Central Ganga Authority and Secretary,
Ministry of Urban Development GOI
Prof. Dr. M.N. Murty, Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi University Enclave
Mr. A.J. James, Visiting Fellow, Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi University Enclave
Sumita Misra, ICSSR Visiting Fellow, Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi University Enclave
Mr. Ian Curtis, Water and Sanitation Office (WSO), ODA, British Embassy
Mr. N.C. Gupta, Executive Engineer & Project Manager, U.P. Jal Nigam, Varanasi
Mr. J.P. Mani, Project Engineer, U.P. Jal Nigam, Varanasi
Mr. V.B. Mishra, President, Sankat Mochan Foundation, Varanasi
Mr. R.C. Trivedi, Senior Scientist, Central Pollution Control Board, MoE&F
Mr. D.V.S. Gupta, GM Ganga Pollution Control Unit, UP Jal Nigam Kanpur
Mr. Y.N. Chaturvedi, Chief Engineer, UP Jal Nigam



- 75 -
Appendix B
Borrower's Evaluation
This Appendix contains the Evaluation of Part A, Urban Development, by IPMC and the GO UP.
Although retyped, it has been included here unedited apart from the corrections to afew minor
typing errors in the original. The evaluation was received by the Bank on November 22, 1996.
No evaluation of Part B, Ganga Action Program, was made for this ICR by the National Rivers
Conservation Directorate of the Ministry of Environment and Forests of the Government of
India, the successor to the CGA.
This ICR is for Part A of the UP Urban Development Program amounting to SDR 73.90
million.
The ICR was prepared by Investment Planning & Monitoring Cell of Housing Department,
Government of Uttar Pradesh, India. It is based on the information received from the project
Entities and Consultants.
Project
Through two previous project in U.P. viz., UP Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 585-fN)
and Kanpur Urban Development Project (Cr. 1185-IN), the Bank attempted to lay the basis for
improvement in urban sector policies, and wider dissemination of required policy adjustments.
Project objectives
The overriding objectives of the UP Urban Development Project were to support the policy
adjustments, and the institutional strengthening programmes of the GOUP, and to reduce the
serious deficits in urban shelter, infrastructure, and services.
To that end, the GOUP set objectives to improve sector finances by improving cost recovery,
and resource utilization and mobilization; sector management by strengthening sector
organizations; and infrastructure & services, by extending and improving water supply,
sanitation, drainage, solid waste collection, maintenance, and traffic management for the urban
population, especially the urban poor.
Basically there were three broad aspects of the project:
(a)   reducing deficits in physical infrastructure;
(b)   instituting institutional strengthening measures; and
(c)   improving sector finances.



- 76 -
To this effect it included the following items addressing a complex set of sub-objectives:
(a)   development of about 122 ha in 8 cities;
(b)   upgrading of 89130 h/holds in 13 cities;
(c)   improvement of solid waste disposal services in 15 cities;
(d)   other urban infrastructure (water supply, sewerage, storm drainage etc.); and
(e)   institutional strengthening at local and State level through technical assistance and
training.
On the physical front, the project sought to reduce deficits in urban shelter, infrastructure and
services. It aimed at increasing the public sector supply of affordable land, infrastructure and
shelter particularly for low income families. To assure progress in the longer run, the project aimed
at strengthening planning, administration and financial management in local bodies and project
entities in urban management.
Sector finances were to be achieved through policy adjustments covering, inter alia, pricing and cost
recovery through raising of tariff (water and sewer taxes/rates), resource mobilization through
reassessment of property taxes and incorporating octroi reforms. A suitable financial action plan
was pursued to achieve these aspects.
Evaluation of objectives
The broad objectives and the sub-objectives of the project were quite relevant and appropriate for
the State. However, the detailed goals aimed through the different project components suffered
adversely owing to financial and institutional weakness of most of the municipal and other project
agencies that were to implement these components.
The physical objectives of the project were achieved to a highly satisfactory level, although initially
institutional weakness of many implementing agencies did lead to delays in design, procurement
and implementation.
Despite an increase in water tariff ranging from 50% to 100% most of the water undertakings were
not able to meet their O&M costs due to a rising wage bill and rising power dues in the context of
modest improvement in collections. Likewise the growth in municipal revenue income exceeded
those projected for the project cycle but the revenue expenditures maintained a much faster growth
owing largely to a rising establishment cost. Nevertheless, some of the municipalities did perform
creditably in raising their revenue income by 181% to 573% within a ten-year period from 1983/84
to 1993/94. Corresponding to this, rise in revenue expenditure h as been more so that the ratios
between revenue income and expenditure have fallen short of the projected performance level in
most cases.
Quinquennial assessments as scheduled 1992 (since then interrupted) could have substantially
improved the situation. Nevertheless the fact remains that collections have not reached the desired
level as projected under the project cycle. While most municipal bodies can just about balance their
revenue accounts with the aid of government grant (actually a proportionate legitimate share) and



- 77 -
subsidies, the water and sanitation undertakings are in substantial deficit, and operation can only be
financed on non-payment of bills, particularly for power.
A major concern in all towns is the magnitude of arrears towards which active steps are being taken
to reduce arrears through improved billing, resort to courts, adverse publicity, etc. Those actions
were instrumental in significant upward movements in revenue during the project period with
varying magnitudes.
In a sense therefore the institutional strengthening that resulted from the Project can be termed as
satisfactory. This applies especially in relation to the objective of raising municipal income which
was touched in most areas under the Project. Success in this area was brought about by improving
tax and tariffs as well as improved collections of the corresponding dues even though gaps persist.
In the context of the project, the project entities benefited through their increased capacities for
urban planning, and GOUP was able to support several cities in improving their financial
management although they fall short of the corresponding project sub-objectives.
Project sustainability
The Project brought improved solid waste management in various cities with increased capacity of
their mechanical workshops to maintain the fleet provided under the project and have also improved
primary collection. Given adequate back up measures for increased maintenance funds available
from municipal funds, the sustainability of the component seems likely to endure.
The sustainability of the low-cost sanitation component likewise seems quite likely, provided
adequate guidance on the use and operation o f the units are backed up by public awareness.
Despite financial prospects being less encouraging, similar conclusions can be drawn for the water
supply and sanitation component executed in view of significant raising of the Water Supply and
Sewerage rates by almost 100% over the project period.
Overall, however, the wider sustainability of the intended benefits of the project presently appears
to be uncertain given the enforcement of various follow up measures that are needed.
The validity of sustainability largely depends on the ability of the municipalities to raise the
resources for appropriate O&M.
Presently GOUP still (directly and/or indirectly) provides subsidies to the cost of debt service,
replacement and future investment.
Factor s affecting project performance
A factor that posed difficulties and hampered progress under the Project was the complexity of
operations involving a large number of sub-projects and executing agencies. There was also a
perceptible lack of coordination of the respective project activities at the entity level - a fact which
placed considerable burden on the IPMC, which performed creditably mainly focusing on reports



- 78 -
and general attention about details of project implementation, adherence to procurement procedures
and quick following on request for disbursement of funds to the project entities.
Another factor that hampered time bound project execution was the relative inexperience of most of
the project entities to plan and handle externally aided large sub-projects in terms of requisite
preparation, appraisal and managerial expertise. These became explicitly clear during the project
cycle in terms of a general lack in programme management and lack in sound construction
management under the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector, and inadequate managerial and
marketing experiences under the shelter programmes.
Project preparation in some places was found to be inadequately planned especially under the Water
Supply Sector where the requisite capacity of the distribution networks were not matched to fully
utilize the treated water from treatment plants constructed under the project. The detailed study was
conducted to finalize the water treatment methodology at Agra prior to reinviting the bids.
In the initial stage the implementation were delayed due to insistence by the Bank for a lump sum
turn key contracts package, which were not in practice in the State of UP in treatment works and
sites & service. Later, the Bank allowed functional slices of the package which succeeded.
More input of World Bank missions was desirable to prepare detailed specifications of large
treatment plant works and equipment procurement. In initial stage of the project implementation,
the Bank has neither provided any standard tender document and nor provided any training to
prepare bid documents. Later on the World Bank felt the importance and provided document and
training. The New Delhi Office provided good support in preparing specifications at the final stage
particularly at Agra Water Treatment Works.
Similarly the procurement issues for large contracts were decided at Washington office and at later
stage when Bank's New Delhi Office started to resolve the procurement issues, the interactions with
project entities became easier resulting in faster decisions.
Identification of sites for development under the Sites and Services programme often failed to grasp
the implications posed by shifting of approach roads on the marketability of the created assets as at
Meerut.
To reduce the water flooding in urban areas a city drainage plan needs to be prepared prior to
implementing any drainage works. The drainage master plan was submitted to the Bank for
Allahabad town.
The UNDP/TAG was awarded consultancy for preparing the feasibility report for 18 'D' towns; the
TAG has not provided any report till today. The towns ultimately prepared the project themselves.
Utilization of credit suffered because of in-built partition between U.P. Urban and Ganga
Programmes described in Development Credit Agreement. Due to diversion of credit and
cancellation of loan and inclusion of 4 towns, a wave of uncertainty developed regarding
availability or credit. At the fag end of the project Government of India desired to utilize the credit



- 79 -
irrespective of Ganga Programme, but it was too late to include and complete the projects, which
could have been more useful to utilize the infrastructure developed under the project.
An important issue affecting performance of project objectives and which cropped up during
implementation was constraints posed by running parallel several programmes of the State whose
terms and conditions were in conflict with those proposed under the project. The thrusts given
under the Project towards certain sub-objectives were thereby diminished owing to this extengency
e.g. s/s programme, S/U programme and low cost sanitation programme. Besides there has been a
felt need for introducing reforms in the prevailing systems covering inter-alia grant of award,
procurement, contractual systems, maintenance servicing, costing and pricing.
Time extension
The Bank had approved to include four more towns and some additional works in ongoing towns.
Thus the physical and financial target was raised to about 150%. The Bank has not allowed
justified extension of time for six months even after request by the Government of India. Though
the requisite funds were released to project towns by the State Government. All the procurement
issues were resolved and physical progress was excellent. The major water supply works at
Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi & Jhansi and sites & service works at Kanpur and Meerut were not
completed within credit closing date March 31, 1996. Now most of works are nearly completion
and likely to complete by the end of December 1996.
Key lessons learned
34.   While the project objectives and sub-objectives of the project were quite relevant and
appropriate for the urban sector there is a need to address multi-sectoral concerns which involve
multiple agencies by way of an integrated development approach.
35.   There is a need to bring about the required legal and institutional reforms in order to
tackle the broader aspects of sectoral objectives. An increased investment programme is not
necessarily a panacea to bring about this change in focus.
36.   In order to address multi-sectoral concerns and improve project performance, there has
been a felt need for exposure to appropriate training programme related to large scale projects
and their proper management. It is necessary to strengthen the performance of urban institutions
in this regard in order that the programmes are implemented more efficiently.
37.   Frequent changes in key personnel and staff in the Project entities has been a problem in
implementing coherent long term programmes. The continuity of key personnel is an important
element in developing adequate commitment to such multi-sectoral programmes and in realizing
their objectives.
38.   Frequent changes in key personnel within the Bank's mission team have been a problem
in setting priority of objectives and procedures of procurement. Several mission's team were too



- 80 -
bulky in numbers, but without proportionate contribution. Few persons visited once or twice
resulting delays in implementation due to variance in approaches.
39.   The role mandate and authority of an intermediary body like the IPMC should be
expanded to strengthen its capacity to influence events on the ground for timebound
implementation performance, achievement of financial objectives and improvements to financial
management in the participating agencies.
40.   In view of current experiences under Turnkey sub-projects, a trade-off needs to be made
between need for quick large scale projects and smaller more manageable and ultimately more
sustainable projects in line and within existing capacities of the institutions and slow pace of
financial devolutions in case of the municipalities.
41.   In addition to the possession of land, the preparation of detailed specification with
finalization of at least 25% bid document should be ensured prior to negotiation of the project, so
that implementation may be started immediately after effective date of the Agreement with the
Bank.
Ratings
A.    Achievement of Objectives
Macro policies - Substantial; Sector policies - Substantial; Financial objectives - Partial;
Institutional development - Partial; Physical objectives - Substantial; Poverty reduction - n/a;
Gender issues - n/a; Other social objectives - Substantial; Environmental objectives -
Substantial; Public sector management - Partial; Private sector development - n/a.
B.    Project sustainability - Likely
C.    Bank performance
Identification - Satisfactory; Preparation assistance - Deficient; Appraisal - Satisfactory;
Supervision - Deficient.
D.    Borrower performance
Preparation - Satisfactory; Implementation - Highly satisfactory; Covenant compliance -
Satisfactory.
E.    Assessment of outcome - Satisfactory.



- 81 -






IBRD 19881R
76'                                   78-                                      tto
The bou..dori,es, colors
derominations and  any
other inf-ormti- sh-w
HIMACHAM   PRA DECSH                                                                                                            thply  on   d.' pat 
on  this ma   do  not
The YWorld  Bankp G  rp.
an jdgment ontelga
\                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~status of any  territory.
or acceptance of such
f~ ?      UR  AH                                          C    H   I N   A                                      bou,ndor;rs.
CF/  UITAR K(ASHI               _ ,
ENRA -ij~        CHAMOLI
HAR YANA            IGA, TEHRI GARHWAt              .                   '
Ns'c 000 4   7    PllSt H  I L L    ) PITHORAGARH
2't  SAHAR PUR        A     PAURI      r'    -r
*1    <   11  t\             /   ~~~~~~~~~~ALMORA  tZ' .,
INDIA
{   MUZAFFARNAGAR o8nl      ,/        .[.Its,ni 43   )                                UTTAR  PRADESH  URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
t.  MEERUT  N-v       t     a AINITAL           2e  g.rUP Program
lJc.d.b  RAMPUR                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
r          h*O                    A                                                                                   _      (STAND BY) TOWNS
W  E S    E        N         J'                                                                  DISTRCT HEAD'UARTERS
8.1.110,'      I    EILLY      PILIEHI*                                                         STATE   CAPITAL
J >oBu-db- HAHr                                                                                                 N,ATIONAL HIG.WAYS
HAfYANA $                                                                                   <                                BROAD GAUGE RAILROADS
-l'    t) <                                      <,, o ) J rp)        KNEfI                     y                               '    -  O   tO ~ES 2DRIC   O ES
MATHURA J    AICGARN      ETAM                                                       BAHRAICH
-MAINUST,R                                                 GONDA
_  MAINPURI ~~~~~~~~~~~~    C  N~~~~~~TRAGOAKPU
fr -' .TJPARRUKAI4A                TI             ARA  AI                            B B ASTI   V GORAK HPUR   L.
E    C k UNNAO                                                                         GrhU
MADHrYA. PRADESH                                                                              - \
,,~~~~JLU                  KAPU HAMRPU                           SULTANPUR         t\  T 3-J\
2AD                       EAL K=W.rNDogcT 0 y                                            <                          0A.
011 -oi-T         AZAMGARM       /                     20
HAMIRPUR                                                                    GHAZI
r~~~~\f$/>  ;;          ~      ~             SBIAR
\t  LALITPUR  4                                                     )              <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IZAU
^,J Shski-insiS' ~
24                                           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                            ~      ~     ~~~~~~~0 40  6G  100  120  .___{
KllOME rEiNS
'!            lo                                        12                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBi-R 1996






IBRD 28389
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTRAL GANGA PROGRAM
*       SELECTED TOWNS                                             o      DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
l- --'--  RAILROADS                                                  0      STATE CAPITALS
-         NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                            -  STATE OR UNION TERRITORIY BOUNDARIES
UTTAR
e       oUttarkoski      '-eePRADESH
Ce ~ ~ ~ G
To Ambolo            Dehra Dun       Gopeshwaor                                                      P
akaran            Pouri 
Scsltoraopur)      HARIDWAR        Almor     -
Muzohocrnogor <) >         Naini Tal    Dadeldhura
/   Binor )\      |       (Ao
To  zaR o rntalc g          Noiadra
rO Robtak                                                              0 ai;  M   11  PiIibh,>  0  100  200  300
NEW   DELHI          zaba  X   Rampur                                     _______'__________.____
TO Narnou                                                                              KILOMETERS
t t   <;    X r  \\       BOkh~~~~~imnJur  '
To Jaipur                      M     ri
E   N  CK                                hpu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToHjiu
Orai                       RaBo lio
) tHomir ^ THeipur
\-Z~~~Bandoo                           2
To ShivpuriiF_ z1                                 A      L        H       N       S
Ths map wfprodured by theM.
Design UnDi o The Warld Bo-k Ihe
bounrdries, colors, enominatonP
-nd -ny other inormation shown on 
thi, nap do n-t iply, on he part of                                  To   olpurI
Th. World Rook Group, o-y judgme-t                                                                             ToosGayo
on the bgol status o, any terriory, or.
ny endorseoment or acceptance of  To Bhopal                                                        '-._
WA'EST                     Darjjljog    .-TDsu                         BIHAR                             0          100       200o
BE NGAL    Ja lapoahi
i  -OBalurghait e5Chh  ro, tljPtSmsu oN                                              o so
0 100      200                                               ToBalurgh1                                            200
KILOMETERS              9 .  9                                  Vomana,T Dv             ahpoILME ER                       T
logral'Pzari                                                        B e      ,Nawodoh                    -lcutt
To B N ABoarmu                               To DhaTGkatok
A uroogobad             <, 0 
To Roipur  *.       t ooro CA        LCUTrA             1\                                          m           o    U 
TO Bhubaneshrr                                                                    To Napu              Toi Bhuhoesha 
MAY 1 997









IMAGING
Report No.:          16579
Type:      ICR



