OFFICIAL
CREDIT NURBER 1780 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Urban Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         - e, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1780 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2797 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            ^       6tA I     , 1987, between
INDIA, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Dank
(the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000) (the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the State
of Uttar Pradesh with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the State of
Uttar Pradesh part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement;
(E) Part B of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower; and
(F) WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the State of Uttar Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Uttar Pradesh" means the State of Uttar Pradesh,
acting by its Governor, a State of India and any successor
thereto;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Association, the Bank and Uttar Pradesh of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(c) "Authority" means the Central Ganga Authority of the
Boriower established pursuant to the Resolution of the Ministry
of Environment and Forests of the Borrower dated February 16,
1985;
(d) "GPD" means the Ganga Project Directorate in        the
Ministry of Environment and Forests of the Borrower established
pursuant to the Order of the said Ministry dated June 7, 1985;
(e) "Project   Towns"   means:  (i)  the   towns  of  Agra,
Allahabad, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Lucknow and Varanasi;
(ii) Aligarh, Moradabad and Saharanpur; (iii) Ghaziabad and
Shaktinagar; (iv) if applicable, any or all of the following
towns: Dehradun, Jhansi and Nainital; and (v) such other towns,
not exceeding eighteen in number, for which a United Nations
Development Programme study for low-cost sanitation has been
completed and which are selected by Uttar Pradesh in consultation
with the Association;


﻿-3"
(f) "U.P. Implementing Agencies" means collectively, in
respect of Part A of the Project: Nagar Mahapatika of each town
included in Clause (e) (i) of this Section, Nagar Palika of
each town included in Clause (e) (ii) of this Section, the
City Board of Ghaziabad and Special Area Development Authority
of Shaktinagar, the Development Authority of each of the towns
included in Clauses (e) (i) and (e) (ii) of this Section with
the exception of Saharanpur, the appropriate agency specified
by Uttar Pradesh, in consultation with the Association for
each of the towns to be included as Project Towns pursuant to
Clauses (e) (iv) and (e) (v) of this Section and U.P. Jal Nigam
or Jal Sansthan, as appropriate;
(g) "Ganga Implementing Agencies" means collectively, in
respect of Part B of the Project: U.P. Jal Nigam for Project
activities in Uttar Pradesh; Bihar State Water and Sewage Board
for Project activities in the State of Bihar and Calcutta
Metropolitan Development Authority and the State Public Health
and Engineering Directorate for Project activities in the State
of West Bengal and such other agency or agencies designated by
the States concerned under intimation to the Association;
(h) "Implementing   Agency"   means  each  and  any  of  the
agencies specified in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this Section;
(i) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(j) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred six million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 106,300,000).


﻿4-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in the Reserve
Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Develcpment Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible curcency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.


﻿Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal. amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1997, and ending
March 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTIGLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the
Project through the GPD with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
Part B of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Uttar Pradesh to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of Uttar Pradesh therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appro-
priate to enable Uttar Pradesh to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) make an amount equivalent
to SDR 81,300,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit available
to Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's standard
procedures for development assistance to the States of India;
and (ii) make an amount equivalent to SDR 25,000,000 available
to GPD and the Ganga Implementing Agencies for Part B of the
Project by way of grant in accordance with the Borrower's
standard procedures.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause the GPD and the Ganga Implementing
Agencies to carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with an
operational action plan, as such plan may be reviewed on an
annual basis, and amended, as necessary, by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of Part A of the Project, shall be carried
out by Uttar Pradesh pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement and, in respect of Part B of the Project, by the
appropriate Implementation Agency.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Ganga Imple-
menting Agencies to maintain separate records and accounts ade-
quate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
their operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B
of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Ganga Implementing Agen-
cies to have their records and accounts referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other


﻿- 7 -
information concerning said records and accounts, and the audit
thereof and said records, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall have the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and furnish to the Association, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each year the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested.
Section 4.03. For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the Ganga
Implementing Agencies to:
(i) maintain in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) of
this Agreement records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until    at   least  one  year   after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders,  invoices,   bills,  receipts   and  other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in Section 4.01
(b) of this Agreement and that the report of such
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditures
furnished during such fiscal year together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
such withdrawals.


﻿ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it impossible that
Uttar Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement; and
(c) the Borrower, or any other authority having juris-
diction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the GPD, or the Implementing Agency, or for
the suspension of their operations, or shall have taken any other
action which will materially or adversely affect the ability of
the GDP or an Implementing Agency to carry out its respective
functions in respect of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and Uttar Pradesh; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except for
the effectiveness of this Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Uttar Pradesh, and is
legally binding upon Uttar Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By41
1Lt.W   Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCREDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of      Amount of
the Credit     the Loan
Allocated     Allocated
(P-xpressed    (Expressed    % of Expen-
in SDR       in Dollars    ditures to
Category         Equivalent)    Equivalent)   be Financed
(1) Equipment
and mate-
rials:
(a) procured       7,500,000     1,500,000    100% of for-
through                                  eign expen-
I.C.B.                                   ditures, 100%
of local ex-
penditures
(ex-factory
cost)
(b) procured       4,500,000     1,000,000   65%
through
other pro-
cedures
(2) Civil works:
(a) procured      35,000,000    6,500,000    85%
through
I.C.B.
(b) procured      49,000,000    9,000,000    65%
through
other pro-
cedures


﻿- 12 -
Amount of      Amount of
the Credit     the Loan
Allocated     Allocated
(Expressed     (Expressed    % of Expen-
in SDR       in Dollars    ditures to
Category         Equivalent)    Equivalent)   be Financed
(3), Home construc-       60,0O00       100,000    85%
tion and improve-
ment loans
(4)  Sector Manage-     6,500,000     1,000,000    100%
ment, Technical
Assistance,
training and
studies
(5) Unallocated         3,200,000       900,000
TOTAL       106,300,000    20,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 12,300,000, may be made in respect of Category (4) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after November 1, 1985, and in respect of all other Categories on
account of payments before the date of this Agreement but after
August 1, 1986.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the
improvements in urban sector management and institutional
strengthening initiated by the Government of Uttar Pradesh and to
reduce the serious deficits in urban shelter, infrastructure and
services in the State; and (b) to assist the Central Ganga
Authority in its efforts to reduce pollution levels in the Ganga
River.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Uttar Pradesh
The carrying out of a program to further improve urban
sector management, and to provide critical infrastructure in
shelter, water supply, sewerage, drainage, low cost sanitation,
solid waste management, maintenance management and traffic
engineering and management in the Project Towns.
Part B:   Central Ganga Authority
The carrying out of a program of technical assistance and
training, improvement and pricrity rehabilitation works and river
quality monitoring in the States of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West
Bengal.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1995.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the   term  "Authorized  Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to SDR 4,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account  and  deposited   in  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 15-
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the   -sociation when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article v of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible   Categories  shall   follow  such  procedures   as  the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 16 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   (a) The design, construction and commission of: (i) water
treatment plants at Lucknow and Agra, (ii) augmentation of water
supplies at Varanasi, and     (iii) Sewage   treatment plants at
Allahabad, Haridwar and Kanpur, shall be procured on a turnkey
basis.
(b) Wherever it is technically feasible and appropriate,
pollution control works shall be procured on a turnkey basis.
(c)  Bidders for works specified in paragraphs (a) and (b)
above shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
(d) To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
materials shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers/Contractors
In the procurement of goods and civil works in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manu-
factured in India and domestic contractors may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto. In the case of turnkey contracts the
preference shall be applied through mutually agreed procedures.
Part C:   Other Procurcment Procedures
1.     Civil works not included in the turnkey contracts and
contracts estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 each may be


﻿- 18 -
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost less
than $100,000 each but more than $20,000, may be let on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (c) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more,
and $200,000 or more, respectively, and the turnkey contracts,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such


﻿- 19 -
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement  and   Section  3.02  of   the  Project  Agreement,  as
applicable.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist Uttar Pradesh in the carrying out of Part
A of the Project and the Borrower to carry out Part B      of the
Project, Uttar Pradesh and the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section III: Procurement Agencies
Procurements to be made pursuant to this Schedule in respect
of Part A of the Project shall be made by the appropriate U.P.
Implementing Agency, and in respect of Part B of the Project by
the appropriate Ganga Implementing Agency.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


