DOOUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 2797 IN
Loan Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Urban Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        v                         , 1987


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2797 IN
CREDIT NUMBER 1780 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     -e"AuC<%  c(         , 1987, between
INDIA, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
International Development Association (the Association) of even
date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing of
the  Project  and   by  the  Development  Credit   Agreement  the
Association  is  agreeing   to  provide  such  assistance  in  an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to one hundred six million
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 106,300,000);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the credit provided for in the
Development   Credit  Agreement  be   disbursed  on   account  of
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of
the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made;
(D) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the State
of Uttar Pradesh with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the State
of Uttar Pradesh the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the
Agreement;
(E) Part B of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date between the Bank and the State of Uttar
Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the follow-
ing is substituted therefor:
"11.  the   term  "Project"   means  the   Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement (Uttar Pradesh Urban Development Project)
between the Borrower and the Association of even date
herewith as the description thereof may be amended from
time to time by agreement among the Borrower, the Bank
and the Association."
(b) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
Applicable   to  the  Development   Credit  Agreement   have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Development
Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association for the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied
to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000).


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement for expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means  the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per
annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.


﻿Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Articles III and IV (excluding Section 4.02)
of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1 and 2
thereto, as such Articles and Schedules may be amended from
time to time, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein; provided, however, that for the purposes of this Agree-
ment: (i) the reference to the Credit in said Articles shall be
deemed to be a reference to the Loan; (ii) the reference to the
Development Credit Agreement in said Articles shall be deemed to
be a reference to this Agreement; and (iii) the reference to the
Sections of the General Conditions in Section 3.05 shall be
deemed as reference to the following Sections of the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank dated January 1, 1985: "Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09".
Section 3.02. As long as any part of the Credit shall remain
unwithdrawn or outstanding and unless the Borrower has been
notified otherwise by the Bank, all information furnished by the
Borrower to the Association pursuant to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be furnished to
both the Association and the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Loan available to Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's
standard procedures for developmental assistance to the States of
India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in Section 5.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement shall occur.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that, any event specified in Section 5.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Corditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECOFAIRS                         953-32354
New Delhi


﻿-6-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 1 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By(
Ac,tWkp Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1992
through   September 15, 2006                665,000
On March 15, 2007                                715,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿-8-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                     0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                       1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


