CREDIT NUMBER 1780 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2797 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Urban Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated        L  U   6                1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1780 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2797 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     6-4dAA 6t,,,             , 1987, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
and STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH, acting by its Governor (Uttar
Pradesh).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make avail-
able to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 106,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
Uttar Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Uttar
Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in this Agreement;
(C) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Uttar
Pradesh with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan
Agreement and a part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
Uttar Pradesh by the Borrower; and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
and in further consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires:
(a) reference to the Association shall also be deemed as
reference to the Bank;
(b) reference   to  the  Credit shall also be     deemed  as
reference to the Loan; and
(c) the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement, in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development
Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Uttar Pradesh
shall otherwise agree, Uttar Pradesh shall carry out Part A of
the Project in accordance with: (i) the Implementation Proce-
dures set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule   may be amended from time to time by agreement among the
Borrower, the Association and Uttar Pradesh; and (ii) an opera-
tional action plan, as such plan may be reviewed on an annual
basis, and amended, as necessary, by agreement between the
Association and Uttar Pradesh.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Uttar Pradesh of
its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Uttar Pradesh shall make the proceeds of the
Credit available to the Project Towns on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall cause the U.P.
Implementing Agencies to maintain separate records and accounts
adequate   to  reflect   in  accordance  with   sound  accounting
practices, their operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Part A of the Project.
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall cause the U.P. Implementing
Agencies to:


﻿-4-
(i) have their records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fistal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as tae Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof and said records, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, Uttar Pradesh shall cause the U.P. Implementing
Agencies to:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until     at  least  one   year  after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors    as
to   whether   the   statements  of   expenditures
furnished during such fiscal year together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
such withdrawals.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Effective DLte; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and of Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and  the   Loan   Agreement  shall   terminate  in
accordance with their respective terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement terminate in accordance with their respective terms
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,
the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh
of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 t Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Uttar Pradesh:
Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh
Housing and Urban Development Department
Lucknow, U.P., India
Cable address:
HOUSING
Lucknow
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed by
a Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh or such other
person or persons as Uttar Pradesh shall designate in writing,
and Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By( {
4RA    Regional Vice President
J                     Asia
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By                           &x    K
Atlb     Regional Vice President
Asia
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By(7                Q
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Implementation Procedures
1.     Without limitation upon the rights of the Association,
Project Towns which fail to meet the financial performance
targets set forth in paragraph 8 of this Schedule and the
operational action plan referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of this
Agreement, or which unreasonably delay the implementation of the
Project activities, may have their capital funds reduced and such
funds may be reallocated by Uttar Pradesh to better-performing
towns or, in consultation with the Association, to towns included
in Section 1.02 (e)(iv) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.    Uttar Pradesh shall employ adequate staff in the Low-Cost
Sanitation Cell of its Directorate of Local Bodies with appro-
priate disciplines, sufficient to carry out the low-cost sanita-
tion component under Part A of the Project in respect of the
terms included in Section 1.02 (e)(v) of the Development Credit
Agreement.
3.    Uttar Pradesh shall keep the Association informed of any
proposed changes to be made in the role of any Implementing
Agency.
4.    Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that the Traffic Engineering
and Management Cells to be established for the cities of Agra,
Varanasi, Allahabad and Lucknow shall be similar to the Cell
established for the city of Kanpur, and shall be adequately
staffed prior to commencement of physical works under the
Project.
5,    Uttar Pradesh shall consult with the Association prior to
any major changes being made in the investment programs of any of
the Project Towns by Uttar Pradesh or the relevant Project Town.
6.    Lease and hire purchase agreements in respect of the sites
and services component and the area development component
included in Part A of the Project shall be on such terms and
conditions which shall take into account the repaying capacity of
the beneficiary and ensure full cost recovery.
7.     Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that the Project Towns shall
cover full operation and maintenance costs and debt service


﻿- 9 -
requirements in respect of their water supply and sewerage
operation. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i)  the term "debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than twelve months after the date on
which it is originally incurred; and
(ii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and
other charges in respect of debt.
8.     Project Towns shall be required to generate revenues
sufficient to finance an increasing proportion of their revenue
expenditures in line with measures outlined in the operational
action plan referred to in Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement.
9.   Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) prepare proposals, in consultation
with the Borrower, to minimize the negative effects of the rent
control in force in the State; (ii) furnish such proposals to the
Association for its comments by March 31, 1989; and (iii) take
steps to implement mutually agreed proposals.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


