Dommnat of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4268-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt11O MILLION TO
GECAMINES/EXPLOITATION
GUARANTEED BY THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 27, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAIRE
GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Zaire (Z)
z 1            =   US$0.02 (February 1986)
US$1.00             Z 55 (February 1986)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                British/US System
1 meter                                      3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer                                  0.622 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                              2.205 pounds
1 metric tonne (t)                           1.1 short ton (st)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE                     - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
EEC                      - European Economic Community
EIB                      - European Investment Bank
GECAMINES                - La Generale des Carrieres et des Mines
GECAMINES/Commerciale   - Metals Marketing
GECAMINES/Developpement - Other Activities
GECAMINES/Exploitation  - Metals Production (The Company)
GECAMINES/Holding        - Holding Company
LAFB                     - Libyan Arab Foreign Bank
MIBA                     - Socift6 Miniere de Bakwanga
SGM                      - Societe G6n6rale des Minerais
SMK                      - Societe Miniere de Kisenge
SMTF                     - Socigtg Miniare de Tenke-Fungurumf
SNCZ                     - Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
SODIMIZA                 - Societe de Developpement Industriel et Minier
du Zaire
SOMINKI                  - SocigtE Miniere et Industrielle du Kivu
SONATRAD                 - SociSte Nationale de Trading
SOZACOM                  - Socifte Zairoise de Commercialisation
des Minerais
SYSMIN                   - EEC's Minerals System Facility of ACP Mineral
Producers
UMHK                     - Union Miniere du Haut Katanga



FOR OMFCUL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Gecamines/Exploitation
Guarantor:            Republic of Zaire
Amount:               US$110.0 million equivalent
Terms:                IBRD interest rate, repayable over 15 years, including
a 3-year grace period; in addition the Borrower will
pay to the Guarantor an annual guarantee fee
equivalent to 10 percent of the IBRD rate.
Project               The Project would finance part of the foreign exchange
Description:          costs of Gecamines' five-year rehabilitation program
(1986-1990), which aims at maintaining production
capacity at its present level while raising
productivity and reducing production costs. The
Project would finance: (a) high priority investments
for replacement and rehabilitation of equipment; (b)
training to upgrade the skills of managerial and
technical staff, and permit a gradual replacement of
foreign personnel by trained nationals; and (c)
pre-investment and technical studies, and technical
assistance to improve on-going operations, review the
comPany 's social activities, reduce costs, and permit
the definition of a long-term development plan, beyond
the rehabilitation program.
Project Benefits:    The Project would help strengthen Zaire's principal
source of foreign exchange and play a significant role
in the country's medium-term economic recovery.
Incremental net foreign exchange benefits of the
Project would average US$66 million yearly in current
terms over the next five years.  The Project would
improve Gecamines's long-term competitive position by
reducing costs, strengthening the company' s managerial
and technical skills, developing a corporate planning
function, and helping to prepare a long-term
development strategy (including a potential role for
private investors). The Project would also help
ensure the continued enforcement of satisfactory
agreements with the agents in charge of Gecamines'
sales and purchases. Finally, the Project would help
in continuing to ensure full transparency and
predictability in the financial relations between
Gecamines and Government through continued enforcement
of the current satisfactory tax regime and the
definition of an appropriate dividend policy.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Sank authorinztion.



(ii)
Project Risks:       Major risks associated with the Project are the
uncertainty concerning future copper prices, the
possibility of resumption of undue Government
interference in the company's financial affairs
(marketing, taxes, demands for dividends not taking
into account operations and investment financing), the
maintenance of stable organizational arrangements, and
management performance. The risks on future copper
prices (over which Zaire would have no influence) are
partly compensated by Gecamines' greater control over
the cobalt market, assuming a rational approach to
cobalt sales. Other risks, particularly those linked
to the possibility of inefficient procurement, have
been addressed in the design of the Project and
assurances have been received concerning future
relations between Gecamines and Government.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
_---US$ million-
Rehabilitation and Replacement Equipment
Mining                                  89.4    130.4    219.8
Concentrators                           12.0     28.4     40.4
Metallurgical Plants                    44.8     71.3    116.1
Others                                  53.2    102.0    155.2
Sub-total                           199.4    332.1   531.5
Training                                    2.5      2.5      5.0
Preinvestment and Technical Studies
Pre-investment Studies                  11.7     17.4     29.1
Other Studies & Technical Assistance    0.4       1.6      2.0
Sub-Total                            12.1     19.0     31.1
Total Base Costs                          214.0    352.6    567.6
Physical Contingencies                  16.9     26.2     43.1
Price Contingencies                     35.7     56.3     92.0
Total Project Costs                266.6    436.1    702.7
(of which taxes)                  129.1       -      129.1



(iii)
Financing Plan:'
Local       Foreign       Total
---U-USS million
Equity
Gecamines             266.6        150.5         417.1
Debt
Wank                    -           110.0        110.0
EEC/SYS5IN              -           27.0          27.0
AfDB                    -            65.0         65.0
EIB                     -           48.0          48.0
CCCE                    -            28.6         28.6
(Others, Incl. Italy)                7.0           7.0
Debt Sub-total         -          285.6         285.6
Total Financing          266.6         436.1        702.7
Estimated Disbursements (IBRD)
Fiscal Years            FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91
-- ----U 7S$ million-
Annual            17.6      35.6      35.0     16.6       5.2
Cumulative        17.6      53.2     88.2    104.8    110.0
Economic Rate of Return:  24 percent (over 100 percent of project costs)
Appraisal Report: Report No.5842-ZR
Maps: IBRD 19111, 19112



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRZSIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO GECAMINES/EXPLOITATION
FOR A GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Gecamines/Exploitation, guaranteed by the Republic of Zaire, in
the amount of US$110 million to help finance a Rehabilitation Project.
The Project would be co-financed by the EEC-SYSNIN, the EIB, the African
Development Bank, and the French CCCE.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest country economic memorand'im entitled  Zaire:
Economic Change and External Assistance- dated March 29, 1985 (Report
No. 5417-ZR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1985. A
Bank mission to assess recent economic developments aed to review the
Public Investment Program visited Zaire in March/April 1986 and its
report is under preparation. The following section is updated to reflect
the findings of the mission.
Background                                      -
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of its
area and the fifth largest in terms of its population, but its GNP per
capita estimated at US$140 in 1984, ranks among the lowest in the
continent. With a population of about 30 milion, Zaire has a low
population density estimated at 12 persons per square kilometer. About a
third of its population lives in urban areas. Although agriculture
(commercialized and subsistance) accounts for only 30 percent of GDP, it
provides employment and income for more than three-quarters of the
population. Mining and mineral processing accounts for a third of GDP
and about two-thirds of the country's export earnings. Mining has
traditionally been a major source of public sector revenues.
4.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally. The first six years
following independence were marked by a violent political strife and a
severe disruption of the economy. After the restoration of political
orde- in 1967, however, the country enjoyed a period of relative
stability and economic growth which lasted until 1974. During this
period, GDP grew at a rate of about seven percent a year in real terms.



2 -
The Crisis Period
5.        The first signs of crisis began to emerge in 1975 as copper
prices started to weaken. Between 1975 and 1983, the performance of the
Zairian economy was characterized by a series of crises and short-lived
recoveries, severe underutilization and deterioration of productive
capacity and infrastructure, the emergence of significant economic and
financial imbalances, high inflation, and a decline in per capita
income. Several factors, some of them predating 1975, contributed to
these difficulties. Among these are: the zairianization and
nationalization measures of 1973/74, which though rescinded since,
destroyed the distribution network and undermined private sector
confidence; the heavy external borrowing of the early 1970s, much of it
at unfavorable terms and for projects with questionable economic
justification; and the deficiencies in economic management. The weakness
and volatility of world copper prices during most of this period
contributed to the severity of the crisis. By 1979, GDP contracted by
about 10 percent below the pre-crisis (1972-74) level; inflation soared
to more than 100 percent with chronic shortage of essential consumer
goods, fuel and intermediate goods. With the balance of payments under
strain, external payments arrears continued to accumulate. Although two
stabilization programs supported by the IMF were adopted, and three Paris
Club reschedulings were concluded during the 1975-79 period, these could
not be implemented.
6.        Systematic efforts to cope with the crisis did not start until
1979. These included a new stabilization program supported by the IMF,
new debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December 1979) and
with the London Club (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment
program (PIP) for the 1979-81 period with the support of the Bank, the
installation of external advisors at the Central Bank and the Ministry of
Finance, the revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the
ministry of Agriculture, the Investment Commission) and the creation of
others (a Central Pay Directorate in the Ministry of Finance). Along
with a strong recovery of copper production, these measures resulted in a
considerable improvement of the economic situation in 1980.
7.        Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in
mid-1981, Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an -Extended Fund Facility'. Zaire also
concluded another rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club in July
1981. Further weakening of copper and cobalt markets, however, caused
exports to fall by US$540 million (about 25 percent in nominal terms).
The immediate shortage of foreign exchange resulted in a sudden decline
in imports which in real terms were half of the pre-crisis level. With
weakening financial discipline, the budget deficit quadrupled in nominal
terms, reaching 7 percent of GDP. Zaire could not comply with either the



-3 -
criteria under the EFF or the Paris Club agreement. The EFF was formally
cancelled. The failure of the EFF meant the collapse of the premises on
which the hopes of recovery had been built. These comprised:
(i) improved economic and financial performance with the help of IMF
supported programs; (ii) major external debt rescheduling; (iii) system-
atic institutional reform; (iv) implementation of the public investment
program; and (v) well focused external aid in support of a realistic PIP.
8.        In 1982, copper prices continued to decline.  GDP contracted
further, and the overall balance of payments deficit reached a record
high. By end 1982, external payments arrears totalled US$940 million.
On the domestic front, the budget deficit continued to remain high as a
percent of GDP. Both external and domestic confidence were at a low ebb:
a grossly overvalued exchange rate, pervasive price controls, and high
inflation were the manifestations of widespread distortions in the
economy. Faced with a severe economic and financial crisis, the
Government began efforts to reestablish conditions for recovery at the
end of 1982. These efforts included implementation in the first half of
1983 of a 'shadow program-, as a precondition for a formal stand-by
arrangement with the IMF..
i,
The Stabilization Period
9.        The turning point for the Zairian economy came in 1983 when the
Government finalized, within the context of a formal IMF program, a
series of far-reaching measures, begun under the -shadow program'. These
measures included: (i) immediate devaluation of the zaire by 78 percent
vis-a-vis the SDR; (ii) introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate
regime, with unification of the two rates in February 1984 and -floating"
thereafter; (iii) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system, including a revision of customs duties; (iv)
decontrol of most prices, including agricultural producers' prices and
most interest rates; (v) tight expenditure controls, including reduction
of public sector employment; and (vi) a series of actions to reduce the
burden of parastatals on the budget, including the sale of some assets.
10.       The adoption of the policies outlined above was followed by a
substantive rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club creditors and a
meeting of the Consultative Group in December 1983. At the Consultative
Group meeting, the participants took two important steps relevant to the
execution of the 1983-85 PIP. They agreed on the appropriateness of
convening co-lender meetings on transport (highways) and Gecamines, and
they endorsed Zaire's decision to reactivate the External Resources
Coordinating Committee (which had not met for about two years). The
co-lenders meeting on highways was held successfully in March 1985 and
two meetings on Gecamines in September 1985 and March 1986.



-4 -
11.      The Government's stabilization-cum-liberalization program was
also a manifestation of the growing recognition of the Importance of
private initiative and of the need to reduce Government intervention in
the economy. The measures taken since 1983 were successful in putting
the Zairian economy onto a stabilization path: the budget deficit.
(taking into account rescheduling of interest payments on external debt),
which was 6 percent of GDP in 1982, turned into a budget surplus (about 1
percent of GDP) in 1985; the balance of payments current account deficit
(after reschedulings) declined from 4.8 percent of GDP in 1982 to 1.8
percent in 1985; and the rate of inflation which soared tn 76 percent in
1983 was estimated at around 30 percent in 1985. Some of these measures
had an imediate impact. Many price distortions were eliminated so that
private sector activities could be redirected from rent-seeking
activities towards directly productive sectors. The supply response in
the foodcrop sector was impressive, but the results were mixed in the
manufacturing sector. While short-run supply-side constraints, with the
exception of the availability of credit, were by and large eased,
capacity utilization rates in the industrial sector remained low. In
addition, demand for manufactured products was curtailed by the sharp
reduction in purchasing power in urban areas. Following a real GDP
decline of 2.6 percent in 1982, growth picked up in 1983 and reached 2.8
percent in 1984. According to the preliminary estimates, GDP growth was
around two percent in 1985. This slowdown was due largely to lower
import growth as the foreign exchange shortage worsened.
12.      With the floating exchange rate and the liberalization of
exchange restrictions, both the volume of transactions and the premium on
the parallel foreign exchange market were substantially reduced. In the
non-copper export sector, significant export volumes were restored to
official channels. Nevertheless, developments in the external sector
during 1983-85 were characterized by weak export prices and net capital
outflows. The primary source of strain on the balance of payments, has
been on the capital account. First, disbursements on grants and medium-
and long-term loans have declined precipitously since 1980. Second,
private capital flows, including new direct foreign investment, have
remained at negligible levels even after the 1983 reforms. Third, the
debt service burden has continued to increase notwithstanding debt
reschedulings. The rapid decline in disbursements on medium- and
long-term (M&LT) loans to Zaire can be traced back to fluctuations in the
commitments before 1983 and their continuous decline thereafter. Since
1983, the major source of commitments and disbursements has been
multilateral donors which have increased their lending to Zaire both
individually and as a group. Transfers from bilateral sources as a group
have been negative since 1983.
13.      Zaire successfully concluded another rescheduling agreement
with the Paris Club creditors in May 1985, and to date, has met all of
its external debt obligations under the Paris and London Club



-5 -
agreements. In spite of these reschedulings, the impact of debt service
and of the rapid depreciation of the zaire on fiscal management has been
drastic. The combined effects of exchange rate depreciation and revenue
measures taken since 1983 have been significant: the ratio of fiscal
revenues to GDP rose from 10 percent in 1982 to 17 percent in 1985. The
tax base, however, remains heavily dependent on export-based activities
such as copper and oil sectors. Despite significant revenue increases,
the budget has been under immense pressure because of the increasing debt
service burden since 1982. Soaring debt service payments in local
currency terms, have necessitated massive cuts in salaries, expenditures
on goods and services, and investment expenditures in real terms. The
share of debt service payments (after reschedulings and including arrears
and domestic debt service) rose from 17 percent of total expenditures in
1982 to 73 percent (of which 55 percent was for external debt service
payments) in 1985, thus considerably reducing the Government's latitude
in allocating budgetary resources.
14.       The brunt of financial adjustment fell on the investment budget
which financed 10-15 percent of the public investment program. As a
share of total budgetary expenditures, investment spending declined from
12 percent in 1982 to less than 3 percent in 1985. This corresponded to
0.4 percent of GDP. Overall financial execution of the 1983-85 PIP was
65 percent, with a much lower physical execution rate.  Implementation of
the program varied significantly among the sectors. Agencies which used
self-generated funds were able to implement a larger proportion of their
programs than those which depended on investment budget for domestic
funds.
Prospects
15.       Today, the Zairian economy is at a cross-roads.  Despite
Zaire's impressive stabilization effort in the last three years which
helped redress critical external and internal disequilibria and laid the
preconditions for the resumption of sustained growth., the success of a
medium-term recovery scenario will depend on the country's ability to
address four major constraints: (i) uncertain external financial
prospects which remain dominated by a heavy debt burden and attrition to
bilateral aid flows; (ii) a tight domestic financial situation which
underlines the considerable impact of debt service on reducing Govern-
ment's latitutde to allocate resources for development expenditures;
(iii) a weak institutional environment which requires the strengthening
of public sector management to enable it to conceive, implement and
monitor appropriate policies and action programs; and (iv) an inadequate
physical infrastructure in need of continued rehabilitation. Zaire has
recently adopted a Five Year Development Plan (1986-90) which identifies
these constraints, and offers ways to begin addressing them.



- 6 -
16.       Of Zaire's total external debt outstanding, estimated at US$5.4
billion at end-1985, almost.two-thirds have been rescheduled at near-
market terms. Zaire's ratio of external debt service payments to exports
of goods and non-factor services (after rescheduling) was 27 percent in
1985. While the previous debt reschedulings provided short-term relief,
they have increased the country?s medium-term debt burden.  Debt service
payments falling due during the 1986-90 period is about US$4 billion,
excluding Zaire's obligations to the DMF. In order to ease the external
and domestic financial constraints, future debt reschedulings will have
to be done with more concessional terms and for larger amounts than have
been granted in previous reschedulings.
17.       The next three years represent a critical period in the
transition from stabilization to sustained growth. While the vagaries in
world marl-ts for copper play a significant role in Zaire's external
financing prospects, the success of the transition wiln depend on the
country's ability to address the key constraints mentioned above. This,
however, would require a concerted joint effort by Zaire and the donor
community. On the part of Zaire, it would require pursuing financial
discipline and focusing on policies to stimulate growth within the
context of a structural adjustment program. The Government has
demonstrated its ability to implement a painful but comprehensive
stabilization-cum-adjustment program during the last three years and
there are clear indications that it is committed to undertake further
policy measures for structural adjustment. The success of the transition
will, however, also rest on the response of the international donor
community to the Government 's structural adjustment efforts. In addition
to the financial assistance to support these efforts in the form of
quick-disbursing non-project grants and loans, the level of new commit-
ments for projects will have to be increased to cover at least a minimum
public investment program. New projects, properly identified in the
context of a resource-constrained public investment program, are needed
to continue the rehabilitation of the country's physical infrastructure,
to permit the development of human resources, and to assist in the
recovery of productive sectors.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
18.       From 1969 to date, the Association has approved one Special
African Facility Credit (US$30 million equivalent) and 40 credits
totalling about US$650 million for agriculture, transport, development
finance company operations, water supply, power, petroleum technical
assistance and education projects. The Bank Group has also extended
grants totalling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of
US$100 million for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was
cofinanced by the European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign



-7 -
Bank, and which provided for special repayment arrangements. A Technical
Assistance Credit was approved in 1983 to assist Gecamines with its
efforts to restructure its organization, improve its manpower and prepare
a long-ternm rehabilitation and expansion program. The IFC, which has a
US$1.3 million equity participation in the Societe Financiere de        A
Developpement Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978
for an offshore oil production project, and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for
studies related to the development of an aluminium complex at Banana. In
1985, IFC has approved a US$6.25 million loan,to, and a US$528,000 equity
participation in a textile company (SOTEXKI); a US$15.0 million loan to
the "Grands Hotels du Zaire"; and a US$100,000 equity participation in a
cotton farming operation. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985.
19.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was
established in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major trans-
port agencies, ONATRA, Societg Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(SNCZ), REgie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), R0gie des Voies Maritimes (RVM)
and Office des Routes (OR), have received technical and financial
assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the National
Livestock Development Authority (ONDE). In the case of Gecamines, the
Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing and now supported by a
technical assistance credit, intended to define ways and means to
strengthen the management, financial position and planning of the
company, which helped in the preparation of the proposed operation.
20.       Project implementation has been satisfactory in spite of
difficulties resulting from the country's inadequate manpower and
mnmagement capability and, in recent years, because of the economic
crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the required
budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel,
and the deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have
resulted in severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and
retaining adequate staff has also been difficult. In January 1980, the
Bank undertook with Zairian officials an overall review of Bank Group
projects which, for the first time, provided an integrated view of
implementation problems; this resulted in an acceleration and improvement
in the utilization of Bank Group assistance, particularly in the
agricultural sector. A second overall review, focussing on
macro-economic and sectoral issues and on their impact on project
implementation, took place in May 1983 and assisted the Government in
formulating the important economic measures of September 1983 (para. 9).
21.       Sixteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed.
Completion reports have been issued for all projects. Performance Audit
Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE, the First, Second and
Third Highway Projects, the River Transport Project, the Rail/River
Project and the First Education Project. The conclusion of the audit and
completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution
building had been mixed. All project entities had encountered operat-



-8 -
ing difficulties beyond their control as the economy deteriorated,
financial resources grew scarcer and the problems besetting the invest-
ment environment were exacerbated by the Government' s zairianization/
radicalization measures. Nonetheless, effective administrations had
evolved in REGIDESO, SOFIDE and the Office des Routes, the highway
agency. Performance of ONATRA, the port and river transport agency, had
not improved as a result of the first River Transport Project but did
improve under the Rail/River Project. More attention to institution
building activities would have been beneficial in the education sector;
administrative weaknesses in the Department of Education were cited as
partly responsible for poor performance under the First Project and the
inability to implement investment components under the Second Education
Project which resulted in cancellation of US$18.8 million in February
1983. Details on the Bank Group's involvement with Gecamines are
provided in the remainder of this report. Bank Group support to all of
the above mentioned entities is continuing through follow-on projects
designed to address the issues raised by the completion and audit
reports.
22.       The rate of disbursement to Zaire (about 20 percent for fiscal
years 1983-1985) is average for the Eastern Africa Region. While
disbursement performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have
arisen in several projects. In the case of early credits for transport,
education and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of
a strong project entity caused implementation delays. Economic
conditions were also a factor in slowing project programs in instances
where government counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway,
Credit 660-ZR; Second Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the investment
environment experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of abrupt
nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR). Future project
implementation should be less affected by the above influences given the
strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts by
the Government to improve budgetary support of IDA-financed projects. As
of June 30, 1985, the Bank Group's shb! of Zaire's total debt disbursed
and outstanding was about 7 percent.
23.       In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have
been directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of
the agriculture, industry/mining and transport sectors, in part through
the design and implementation of appropriate new policies. Initial
efforts in support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional
Hydroelectric Power Project (Cr. 1421-ZR). Our lending will continue to
assist the development of the agriculture sector, including policy
reforms under the agricultural component of a proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit; to promote the development of the industrial and
mining sectors; and to support the transport sector. In addition,
further support will be considered for the energy sector to develop
power, and to minimize the cost of supplying petroleum products to the
country. An Education Technical Assistance and Training Project to
improve the management of the education sector and relevance of education
programs was recently approved. Preparation is under way for an eighth



- 9 -
line of credit to SOFIDE; a navigation improvement project; and a
technical assistance project to improve investment planning, budgetary
procedures, and parastatal management. In addition to projects, two
quick-disbursing policy operations are also under preparation: an
Industrial sector adjustment credit which would assist the Government in
rationalizing and simplifying tariff structure and export procedures, the
tax regime of industrial enterprises, and finance imports of spare parts
and essential equipment; and a structural adjustment credit to address
cross sectoral issues and pave the way for medium term recovery.
PART III - GECAMINES IN THE ZAIRIAN ECONOMY:
PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS
A. The Mining Sector
24.       Resource Base.  Zaire is richly endowed with mineral resources,
but a complete assessment of its mineral wealth is difficult because of
the relatively low level of exploration carried out so far. The country's
knovn reserves of base and precious metals are large, but spread unevenly
among different regions. In the Shaba province of southeastern Zaire,
the copp7er-cobalt deposits represent 7 percent of the world's inland
copper and 31 percent of the inland cobalt resources. Ore reserves in the
Gecamines concession are estimated at over 40 years of production at
present levels. Other known mineral deposits include: tin metal,
manganese, gold and diamonds, and significant undeveloped resources of
iron ore, bauxite, phosphate, and uranium. Industrial materials, such as
limestone are quarried for local use and petroleum is produced offshore
in small quantities.
25.       Institutional S.ructure.  Activities in the mineral sector are
organized around a few companies, dominated by the state-owned Gecamines,
accounting for 93 percent of the copper and 100 percent of the cobalt
produced in the country. The company also produces about 65,000 tons of
zinc. The otber copper producer is the state-owned Socift6 de
Developpement Industriel et Minier du Zaire (SODIMIZA), which accounts
for the remaining copper output.l/ SODIMIZA has an annual production
capacity of 40,000 tons, but no smelting facilities in Zaire. Its copper
concentrates have been shipped to Zambia for refining since 1984. The
rest of the industry comprises the diamond producer SociStE Minire de
Bakwanga (MIBA) - 80 percent owned by the Government - the state-owned
I/ Until 1983 SODIMIZA was 85 percent owned by Japanese interests and
under Japanese management. The Japanese shares were sold to
Government in 1983. The firm, currently under a management contract
with a Canadian firm, appears well run, with no major problems.



- 10 -
Office des Mines d'Or de Kilo-Koto, the country's most important gold
producer; and the Socilte Zairetain and Societe MiniAre et Industrielle
du Kivu (SOMINKI) producing tin, tungsten and gold as well as some other
minerals.
Sectoral Prospects
26.       Between 1981 and 1984, mining activities accounted for about 20
percent of Zaire's GDP, and contributed an average US$1.2 billion per
year, or 65 percent of merchandise export earnings. Moreover, the sector
plays an important role in generating government budget revenues with an
average share of over 25 percent in the past decade, of which Gecamines
accounted for 20 percent. The sector also contributes substantially to
industrial employment, energy and transportation demand, and provides
numerous social services and training.
27.       Since the mid-1970's, shortages of foreign exchange, skilled
labor and fuel, increasing transport bottlenecks, and unstable economic
conditions have led to a decline in productivity and to a growing
decapitalization of all mining companies. The performance of the sector
has been affected not only by external events (price fluctuations,
transport route closings, Shaba invasions), but also by government
policies in the areas of taxation, financial and personnel management,
and the role of foreign capital. These factors have initiated a
progressive decline throughout the sector which has resulted or will
eventually result in production decreases. Recent government measures to
reestablish business confidence and to promote investments provide hope
for an increased inflow of commercial and concessional foreign aid, to
support various rehabilitation efforts of the non-Gecamines sector.
28.       While the Government's priority remains to meet Gecamines'
investment needs, rehabilitation of the other mining companies should
become a key element of the Government's policy of diversification in the
mining sector. To initiate a sector-wide recovery program, various
issues will need to be addressed, including the viability of the
different subsectors, their financing needs, personnel and management
policies, ownership options and the possible role of foreign investors,
the need for improved infrastructure and communications, and marketing
arrangements. In this context, a crucial issue facing Government today
is how to control and reverse the decline of the non-copper sector, so as
to maximize the mining sector's contribution to economic recovery and
growth. To assist Government in assessing these needs, the Bank has
organized a sector mission in early 1986 to review the constraints as
well as the options for the sector's development.
29.       The technical supervisory agency of the mining sector is the
Ministry of Mines and Energy. Because of the significance of mining in
the economy and of the predominance of Gecamines in the sector, this
ministry is, however, only one of many government institutions involved
in the sector. Among these, the President's Office exercised during a



- II -
certain period a direct supervisory responsibility over Gecamines; the
Ministry of Finance subsequently assumed that role to oversee the design
and Implementation of fiscal regulations applicable to the sector; the
Central Bank controls most external financial transactions of the largely
export-oriented mining sector; the Ministry of Portfolio holds all
government property, including shares in mining companies; and the
Ministry of Foreign Trade oversees mineral exports as well as the
important imports for operations and investments. The Ministry of
Planning plays an important role in the design of sectoral investment
plans and mobilization of external financing.
B. The Gecamines Group
Background
.30.       Copper mining in Zaire started in 1911 under the aegis of the
Union Minigre du Haut-Katanga (UMHK), a Belgian company. UMHK's assets
were nationalized in 1967, and the company eventually became La Generale
des Carrieres et des Mines (Gecamines) in 1971. Under the compensation
arrangement which followed nationalization, the Socift6 Gneirale des
Minerais--SGM, an affiliate of UMHK continued to provide technical
assistance and to market GecaminesI production.  In April 1974, the
existing arrangements between the Government, Gecamines, and SGM were
modified to permit, inter alia, an increase in copper refining in Zaire,
and the marketing of Gecamines' production by a new Zairian marketing
company, the SociftE Zairoise de Commercialisation des Minerais
(SOZACOI4).
31.       Gecamines operated under the direct supervision of the
President's Office until 1981, at which time this responsibility was
transferred to the Ministry of Finance. SOZACOM, however, operated under
supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and its relations with
Gecamines were strained because of Gecamines' inability to control the
marketing of its production, SOZACOM's high marketing fees, and financial
irregularities. In mid-1982, a new Marketing Agreement between Gecamines
and SOZACOM gave Gecamines full ownership of its mineral production up to
the final sale, full control over its sales receipts, and increased
influence in defining the strategy for marketing its production. Despite
these rearrangements, disagreements continued. In July 1984, Government
abolished SOZACOM and reestablished Gecaminesr complete marketing
authority.
32.       In November 1984, Government reorganized the Gecamines/SOZACOM
group as follows: a new entity, Gecauines/Holding, was constituted to
oversee all Gecamines' activities, replacing the Ministries of Finance
and of Foreign Trade as direct supervisor of the group.
Gecamines/Holding in turn is supervised by a committee consisting of the
Minister of Mines and Energy, the Minister of Finance and Budget, the
Minister of Portfolio, and the Governor of the Central Bank.
Gecamines/Holding has three independent subsidiaries:



- 12 -
Gecamines/Exploitation, in charge of all metal production activities (the
former Gecamines); Gecamines/Commerciale, in charge of all the marketing
activities for copper, cobalt, zinc, and other minerals (staffed mainly
with former SOZACOM employees); and Gecamines/D6veloppement, in charge of
all non-mining activities of the former Gecamines (mostly agricultural
activities in Shaba, formerly organized under a Gecamines subsidiary).
Zairian executives were appointed at the top of each of the four
companies, underlining, as In other sectors, the political will to
replace expatriates by Zairian nationals. The new organization became
effective in January 1985.
33.       So far, the new structure has improved the integration of the
production and marketing functions. A full time coordinating body (the
Holding), reporting to a single interministerial committee, concentrates
on outside representation of the Gecamines group, facilitates contacts
with the authorities, and coordinates inter-group relationships, without
getting involved in day-to-day management and without presenting a
sizeable financial or bureaucratic burden. The Holding operates under a
Board, chaired by the President of the Holding, which includes the chief
executives of the three subsidiaries and four Government
representatives. The new organization has created an effective
institutional link between Zairets copper industry and the relevant
political and economic decision-making centers.
3-4.      In the past, Gecamines has suffered from repeated
reorganizations. Given the suitability of the new holding structure, it
appears essential that it be left in place, unless significant changes in
the economic environment justify adjustments or modifications. The
Government and the Holding would consult with the Bank prior to any
decision affecting the organization of the Gecamines group.
Gecamines/Exploitation2/
3_5.    The company s organizational structure is characterized by
functional centralization and geographical separation of three production
groups at Lubumbashi, Likasi, and Kolwezi. Following the recommendations
of a study undertaken under the Bank-financed extension project (Loan
1090-ZR of 1975, amended in 1979), Gecamines has undertaken a major
reorganization effort to decentralize responsibilities on a cost center
basis, and to establish a comprehensive control system for top management
as well as for each cost center. Since 1983, the IDA-financed technical
assistance project (Credit 1336-ZR) has been assisting this
reorganization effort, particularly in the Finance Department, with a
view to strengthening Gecaminest management in the production, financial,
marketing, and legal fields.
2/ Unless noted otherwise, Gecamines will be used in short for
Gecamines/Exploitation in the remainder of this Report.



- 13 -
36.       The company currently needs to address three key management
issues: to maintain stability at the top; to permit a gradual and
orderly replacement of retiring expatriates by qualified Zairians; and to
develop long-range corporate planning capabilities. Long range corporate
planning would help the company keep track of developments in the world
metals markets, to identify marketing opportunities, to coordinate
effectively the various functions of the enterprise (notably commercial,
production, and finance), to guide Gecamines' management on medium- and
long-term investments and production options within a longer term
context, and to reduce the company's dependence on external expertise in
these matters. Gecamines has already filled its top management
positions. To plan its long-term strategy, Gecamines would establish by
September 30, 1986 an adequately staffed corporate planning unit,
reporting to the Director General, and operating under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
37.       Gecamines' Personnel.  Gecamines employs about 36,000 people
and is the economic keystone of the Shaba province. The size of the
workforce is now under control, but compensation policies need to be
reviewed. While salaries have not kept up with inflation, the company
offers generous fringe benefits (free housing, schooling and medical
care, and subsidized food prices). As a result, absenteeism has been
growing and low salaries are a deterrent to hiring competent technical
personnel. To remedy this situation, Gecamines would prepare by December
31, 1986 a plan to implement its stated policy of gradually increasing
wages over the next several years (including incentive scheme) and of
reducing fringe benefits (in particular subsidized food), in order to
counteract the negative effects of low wages and generally reduce
absenteeism.
38.       Gecamines plans to increase the number of Zairian supervisory
staff from 2,300 in 1984 to 3,600 in 1992. During the same period, the
number of expatriate staff is expected to decline to about half its
present level of 700. To achieve these goals effectively, existing staff
constraints have to be taken into account and appropriate training needs
defined so that the planned transition can take place without impairing
the Company's efficiency. For this purpose, Gecamines would prepare not
later than December 31, 1986 a comprehensive manpower development program
for its supervisory staff taking account of the stated policy of
accelerated Zairianization. The program would include a detailed plan
for the progressive retrenchment of expatriates and would establish clear
recruitment and promotion policies for local staff, including an
appropriate merit system. Gecamines would also prepare a comprehensive
training program oriented toward improving the skills of its personnel in
management and technical positions, at the central level and in the
various plants. Special attention would be given to inventory control,
procurement policies, and purchasing.



- 14 -
39.       Gecamines' Productive Facilities. Gecamines' production complex
is an intricate matrix of operations spread over 300 km and grouped in
three separate geographic areas around Kolwezi, Likasi, and Lubumbashi.
Currently, the company has a mining capacity of about 450,000 tpy.
Gecamines' refining capacity is, however, limited to 250,000 tpy, and a
good part of copper production is refined overseas. Processing the
oxide, sulfide, and mixed copper-cobalt ores requires complex treatment.
The existing facilities require heavy inter-Group transport of
concentrates, and give Gecamines little flexibility but to keep the
present balance of concentrates, which corresponds to the characteristics
of its processing facilities. Given that oxide ores in the mines now
under exploitation are likely to be depleted over the next decade,
Gecamines will have to put new oxide ore deposits into production by 1995
to avoid a major redesign of its metallurgical plants. The most obvious
oxide ore sources would be the Tenke and Fungurume deposits. The overall
composition of Gecamines' ores will also determine the justification of
the construction of a flash smelter at Kolwezi. Such a smelter would
reduce the costs of concentrate transports, provide much needed
flexibility for the company to adapt to higher quantities of sulfide
ores, and make Gecamines self-sufficient in sulfuric acid, thus
eliminating future sulfur imports for acid production and reducing
foreign exchange outlays.
Gecamines' Performance
40.       Physical Production.  Over the past four years, Gecamines has
produced close to capacity. This was made possible through the use of
the company's buffer stock of mined ore, since a series of factors has
adversely affected Gecamines mining activities: shortages of spare
parts, supplies, inadequate maintenance, insufficient replacement
investments, poor mine planning, and management shortcomings due to
insufficient training. Problems have been particularly severe at Kolvezi
(especially after the 1978 invasion drove expatriates away) where
excavation is lagging behind targets and where the truck fleet spends
only 60 percent of its time on site. Given the importance of maintaining
production levels, Gecamines would present by December 31, 1986, a plan
to reorganize its mine planning (short, medium, and long-term) at all
mining divisions, and particularly at the Kolwezi open pits.
41.       Production Costs.  Until 1982, costs were poorly controlled and
Gecamines' production costs were adversly affected, when expressed in
US dollar terms, by the continuous overvaluation of the zaire currency.
The company remained, however, in the lower half in terms of worldwide
production costs. In 1983, fixed production costs represented 55 percent
of total costs (up from about 33 percent in 1973). In 1982, Gecamines'
management introduced cost cutting measures, particularly at head office,
which, together with the 1983 devaluation, have already contributed to
reducing costs considerably. The successful continuation of this cost
cutting program requires an improved knowledge of costs levels and trends
broken down by geographical production center to apply cost control
measures to high priority areas. Progress toward the gradual
introduction of cost accounting has been made under the IDA-financed



- 15 -
technical assistance to Gecamines' Finance Department. Given the
importance of cost cutting measures and of the reorganization of the
accounting system currently under way, Gecamines would submit for the
Bank's review by December 31, 1986 a program for cost accounting, cost
control and cost reduction by production center.
42.       Gecamines' Tax Regime.  Gecamines r tax regime has, in the past,
been subject to frequent ad-hoc changes, often made in an erratic and
arbitrary way, to meet the Government 's financial needs. The
unpredictability of its fiscal burden hampered the company's financial
management. To improve the situation, the Government agreed at the
Amendment of Loan 1090-ZR in November 1979 to carry out a tax reform
study. As a result of the study's recommendations, Gecamines' tax regime
was changed in September 1983. The new tax regime Involves two export
levies, one of which takes into account copper price fluctuations. The
new system has worked well by stabilizing Gecamines' tax payments while
ensuring regular tax income for the Government. To preserve these
positive results, Government would consult with the Bank before making
any changes to Gecamines' tax regime.
43.       Financial Results. Between 1978 and 1981, Gecamines' financial
situation showed good levels of net income and internal cash generation.
In 1981, when copper prices started to decline and the cobalt market
collapsed (in quantity and price), Gecamines' revenues decreased by about
one third despite a stable copper production. At the same time, costs
were allowed to increase and the overvalued Zaire currency continued to
exert its distorting effects, resulting in a sharp drop in the Company's
profitability. After the 1982 assets revaluation and its impact on
depreciation, Gecamines showed substantial net losses in 1982 (about
US$316 million) and 1983 (about US$111 million). The combined effect of
cost cutting measures, recovery of the cobalt market, and stabilization
of the tax regime in 1983, improved the Company's financial results
substantially. In 1984, Gecamines showed a net income of about US$42
million and an internal cash generation of US$210 million. A summary of
Gecamines  financial performance can be found in Annex IV.
44.       Liquidity Position and Foreign Exchange Availability.  Even
while showing high profits until 1981, Gecamines has encountered grave
liquidity problems due in large part to SOZACOM's weak cash management
and to the poor coordination between SOZACOM and Gecamines. Following
the 1982 Marketing Agreement, Gecamines' liquidity situation improved
substantially but its cash-flow remained insufficient to permit adequate
reinvestments, thus compounding operational difficulties. While it is
still too early to assess the performance of Gecamines/Commerciale and
its impact on marketing delays and short-term financing needs,
coordination with Gecamines is expected to improve under the Holding. In
addition, the IDA-financed technical assistance project has helped
initiate a major effort at improving Gecamines' cash management. Since
1982, the company has received 45 percent of its net sales in foreign
exchange, as agreed with Government in 1977, partly because the
implementation of the Gecamines/SOZACOM marketing agreement gave



- 16 -
Gecamines fuller control over its accounts. Under the proposed Project,
Government would continue to allow Gecamiues to retain 45 percent of its
foreign exchange earnings.
45.       Financial Relations with Government.  Gecamines has in the past
been subject to repeated Government interventions resulting in uncompen-
sated sales, barter operations without prompt and adequate reimbursement,
and payments or services rendered without proper compensation. Debts due
by Government to Gecamines from uncompensated sales had accumulated to an
amount of US$124 million until 1984, and now amount to about USS57
million. In 1983, the Government agreed on repayment of these debts
along a definite schedule, but the agreed schedule has not been strictly
respected in part because of budgetary constraints under the on-going
stabilization program agreed with the IMF and the World Bank. Quarterly
commercial audits to keep track of potential financial irregularities in
the commercial operations have, however, shown that no further
uncompensated sales took place after June 1984. Government has agreed
that it would define together with Gecamines and furnish to the Bank by
December 31, 1986 an appropriate dividend policy, and promptly thereafter
implement recommendations resulting from the study. Government has also
agreed that its financial relations with Gecamines would be governed
exclusively by the existing tax regulations and by the dividend policy,
and that no sales without proper and prompt compensation would take
place.
Gecamines/Commerciale
46.       Relations with Gecamines/Exploitation.  Gecamines/Commerciale's
relations with the production company are identical to those stipulated
in the 1982 Marketing Agreement between Gecanmines and SOZACOK (para. 31).
Gecamines/Exploitation has established satisfactory control mechanisms to
monitor the strict respect of the Agreement, and since the abolition of
SOZACOM in July 1984, external commercial audits report quarterly on the
functioning of the controls as well as on any potential irregularities.
Since the Marketing Agreement is essential for ensuring Gecamines t
financial autonomy and effective financial management, as well as for
designing a rational marketing policy, the 1982 Marketing Agreement
between Gecamines and SOZACG( would continue to govern the relationship
between Gecamines/Exploitation and Gecamines/Commerciale, and would not
be amended without prior Bank approval. In addition, Gecamines/
Exploitation would maintain its controls and half-yearly external
commercial audits would continue to apprise Gecamines/Exploitation, and
the Bank, of any potential irregularities in the implementation of the
Marketing Agreement. Finally, Gecamines/Commerciale would market
GecaminesT products in accordance with regular commercial practice,
ensuring that, at no time will Gecamines/Exploitation receive less than
full ex-works commercial price (subject to normal trade discounts) for
its products.
47.       Commercial Strategy.  The current concentration of sales in
Europe (about 85 percent) represents a potential marketing weakness
because of lack of diversification and of a foot-hold in other expanding
markets. In addition, Gecaminesr product line is currently dominated by
wirebars, a traditional product increasingly replaced by high grade



- 17 -
cathodes. While the market for wirebars is not expandable, Gecamines
could for a period of time maintain a safe and dominant position on this
market, if it pursues an active customer-oriented marketing policy and
provides adequate and reliable services along with the sale of its
products. To this effect, Gecamines/Commerciale would present by June
30, 1987, a plan defining its strategy for marketing wirebars in the
medium term, and for the progressive replacement of wirebars. Outside of
the two areas outlined above, the marketing of copper does not present
major difficulties. Unlike copper, cobalt marketing requires critical
judgments both in terms of setting selling prices and of finding market
outlets. With Gecamines' finances extremely sensitive to cobalt prices,
it is important that the cobalt pricing policy take account of the risks
of setting unreasonably high prices and of the need to maintain the
clients' confidence, which took several years to reestablish after the
1970's. Gecamines/Commerciale would, by June 30, 1987, submit to the
Bank its cobalt marketing policy.
Purchasing Arrangements
48.       Materials and consumables represent about 35 percent of
Gecaminesr production costs, and, together with equipment for investment,
amount to about US$250 million in foreign exchange annually. The success
of Gecamines cost reduction strategy depends on the company's ability to
improve its procurement process. The Government, aware of procurement
problems in all its public enterprises, chose to address them through the
creation in March 1985 of a central procurement agency, the Societe
Rationale de Trading (SONATRAD), to serve ali large public enterprises,
including Gecamines. SONATRAD's mandate is to permit substantial
improvements in procurement through improved negotiation techniques,
grouped orders from several public enterprises, standardization of
equipment, elimination of certain purchasing intermediaries,
diversification of supply sources, and promotion of competitive local
producers.
49.       Extensive discussions have taken place since March 1985 between
the Government, Gecamines, SONATRAD and the Bank to develop SONATRAD into
an institution that can effectively play its role, and to have the
respective roles and responsibilities of Gecamines and SONATRAD clearly
spelled out. A Purchasing Agreement between Gecamines and SONATRAD,
agreed as a result of these discussions, was signed on March 4, 1986.3/
3/ The draft agreement stipulates that SONATKAD will act as Gecamines'
purchasing agent for: (i) goods common tc various public enterprises
(so as to promote bulk discounts and equipment normalization), and
(ii) contracts specific to Gecamines astimated to cost more than US$1
million. The US$1 million threshold would give SONATRAD a limited
number (about 30) of large contracts in 1986 and it will be reviewed
every six months. Gecamines will purchase directly for its other
needs. SONATRAD will play an audit function for purchases by
Gecamines on its own account.



- 18 -
It is a satisfactory document which adequately addresses the weaknesses of the
present system and would not be amended without prior Bank approval. In
addition, Gecamines would maintain control over its purchasing, and quarterly
external audits of SONATRAD would apprise Gecamines, and the Bank, of progress
in the implementation of the Purchasing Agreement.
Transportation Routes
50.       The two main export routes for Gecamines' production are the Voie
Nationale (a multimodal chain of rail and river transport with multiple
trans-shipment points) and the Southern Route through the railways of Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwwe, Botswana, and South Africa. Total transit time in 1984
averaged 70 days on the Voie Nationale at an average cost of US$162/ton, and 57
days on the Southern route at the average cost of US$150/ton. Zaire's policy is
to export through the Voie Nationale on a priority basis because it does not
pose any security problems and does not require foreign exchange outlays. This
policy, supported by major donors, requires the continued rehabilitation and
improvement of the parastatals in charge of transport along the Voie Nationale
(SNCZ-the railway company; ONATRA--in charge of river transport, and the Regie
des Voies Fluviales, which maintains the river network). The Bank Group and
other donors are assisting these agencies, but progress is slow and significant
improvements are expected only toward the end of the decade.
Gecamines' Long-Term Strategy
51.       Gecamines' present strategy is oriented towards maintaining its
present production levels while improving its cost competitiveness through
further integration of mining and processing within each of the three
geographical production groups. It aims at a more efficient use of the
Company's total physical assets, improvements in productivity and quality, and
reduction of inter-group transport costs. In an increasingly competitive
market, Gecamines has little choice but to improve its cost competitiveness all
along the production and distribution chain, so as to remain within the lower
third bracket of the world copper production cost, including transportation and
financial charges.
52.       Implementation of Gecamines' long-term strategy, especially the mining
of new deposits, raises a number of issues about the future role of Government
in the development of Zaire's copper industry. In the short term, and in view of
the poor past performance of foreign investment in copper in Zaire, Gecamines
constitutes an irreplacable source of investment for the copper sector. In the
long term, however, questions remain as to whether Gecamines should develop new
dep- its alone, or seek private foreign partners, and in that case, as to the
structure of such a partnership. Government and Gecamines would discuss with the
Bank their expansion plans and the structure of the partnership envisaged for
diversification or new investments.
The Need for Rehabilitation
53.       The necessity of desigaing a substantial rehabilitation program arose
from the companyTs increasing vulnerability to operating difficulties. In the
past 10 years, the Company maintained fairly high production and sales levels
despite numerous obstacles, to a large extent because stockpiles had



- 19 -
accumulated, providing the company with the ability to withstand much buffeting
without major consequences. This flexibility has now disappeared. While
Gecamines had, in 1974, 19 months of production in banked ore, reserves have
dropped to 9 months in 1984 and the ore grade has decreased from 4.8 to 3.9
percent. Similarly, the concentrate cushion provided by the startup of a new
concentrator in 1980 has now been used up.
54.       The essential constraints in Gecamines' operations are the low
availability of mining equipment in the Western open-pit mines and low metal
recovery rates in its concentrators. Therefore, a large part of the Gecamines'
rehabilitation effort addresses those two main constraints. During the
elaboration of its rehabilitation program, Gecamines prepared in 1984 a
five-year investment program, which covers its requirements during the period
1984-88, and which directs investments to (i) replacement of worn and obsolete
equipment to improve performance and reduce cost, mainly in the mines and (ii)
projects increasing metals recovery in the concentrators and in the
metallurgical plants. The program has now been extended to the 1984-1990
period because of the low level of execution in the 1984-1985 period. The key
elements of Gecamines' rehabilitation program are summarized in Annex V.
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
55.      The Bank Group has been involved in Zaire's mining sector through two
operations with Gecamines: the 1975 IBRD Extension Loan (Ln. 1090-ZR), amended
in 1979, and the 1983 Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1336-ZR). These
operations have enabled the Bank Group and its cofinanciers to play a
significant role in the organization and the development of the company during a
troubled period in its history. In particular, the Bank Group and its
cofinanciers have strived to help the Government achieve and maintain full
transparency in the company's financial affairs, and to assist Gecamines in
continually improving the efficiency of its operations, and in increasing its
awareness of financial and commercial issues as well as its- exposure to critical
trends in the copper industry. The Marketing and Purchasing Agreements, the
design of Gecamines' tax regime, the improvement of financial management, the
decentralization of managerial responsibilities on a cost center basis, the
establishment of a corporate planning delartment, and the design of a
comprehensive training program addressing the needs of supervisory and
managerial personnel at all levels attest to the good quality of our dialogue
with Gecamines and Government on these difficult issues.
56.       The success of the Rehabilitation Program will depend on three sets of
conditions:
(a) Gecamines itself should improve the technical efficiency of its
operations, reduce its operating costs, upgrade its human resources in
a systematic way, design a long-term strategy, and adopt rational and
efficient marketing policies;
(b) Government should provide Gecamines with a stable and predictable
institutional and policy environment in which to conduct its affairs
(tax and dividend policies, designation of top executives,
organizational stability); and



- 20 -
(c) Gecamines's relations with its purchasing and sales agents
should remain organizationally clear and financially
transparent and should enable the production company to
maintain appropriate control over its ageTLts.
Based on experience, Bank Group involvement would increase the
probability that these conditions of success be met. It would also have
important economic justifications.
57.       Zaire is currently implementing a comprehensive program of
economic policy reforms (aiming mostly at stabilization and
liberalization), in collaboration with the IMF. While these stabilization
efforts should and will continue, the elements of a medium term recovery
scenario need to be put in place in the near future, and economic
recovery over the next two years will greatly depend on the availability
of increased external resources. In this context, Gecamines'
creditworthiness and sound rehabilitation program provide the Bank Group
with a unique opportunity to transfer IBRD resources in support of the
economy through Gecamines. These resources would constitute a net
addition to the concessional financing provided through IDA and to the
supplemental resources made available through the Special Africa
Facility. External financing of the program's foreign exchange costs
would increase Gecamines' ability to contribute to the economy, thus
easing binding internal and external financial constraints during the
crucial transition period between stabilization and recovery.
58.     Getting excernal support for financing Gecamines' rehabilitation
program is an important element of the Government ' strategy for
improving Zairets balance of payments through continuing export and
foreign exchange earnings. Gecamines' continued ability to generate and
contribute foreign exchange is also essential to support the Government's
strategy of diversification of the country's economic structure, so as to
attract private local and foreign investors, and permit economic .growth.
Gecamines is expected t5 generate a total of US$5.8 billion gross foreign
exchange (in current terms) over the next five years representing over
55 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings. The net foreign
exchange inflow would amount to USS3.2 billion over the next five years.
These economic benefits, together with the importance of helping ensure
that the conditions of success of the rehabilitation program are
adequately met, provide the main rationale for the Bank Group's support
of Gecamines' Rehab:litation Program.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
59.       The proposed Project was identified and prepared, starting in
1984, during implementation of the Gecamines Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1336-ZR). It was appraised in May 1985. Two co-financing
meetings were held: the first took place in Paris in September 1985, the
second in Washington in March 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington
from March 12 to 14, 1986. Mr. Kasongo Mutuale, Ambassador of Zaire to



- 21 -
Washington, led the Zairian delegation. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report, Zaire, Gecamines Rehabilitation Project", No.5842-ZR is
being distributed separately. A supplementary data sheet is provided in
Annex III.
60.       Project Objectives.  Gecamines' rehabilitation program is an
important element in the company's long-term strategy. The Project would
partly finance the foreign exchange costs of the program, whose
objectives would be to raise the company's productivity at the mines and
in the surface plants and, while maintaining production capacity at its
present level of about 470,000 tpy during the 1986-90 period, assure the
continued flow of the principal source of foreign exchange earnings to
Zaire. The Project also aims to Increase Gecamines' profitability and
ability to transfer resources to the Treasury, to consolidate its
position in the world copper market, and to integrate its operations with
other economic activities in Shaba. Specifically, the Project would aim
at:
(a)   maintaining metals production at the company's nominal capacity
to achieve optimal use of existing installations;
(b)   increasing metal recoveries at concentrators and metallurgical
plants to reduce quantities of ore to be produced at the mines;
(c)   reducing operating costs at the level of concentrators and
metallurgical plants, and containing mining costs;
(d)   diversifying the company's product mix through production of
high grade cathodes;
(e)   improving the company's management and efficiency of operation;
and
(f)   preparing of Gecamines' long-term strategy through
pre-investment, research and studies.
Project Description
61.       The Project would cover the priority investments required
during the period 1986-90 for replacement of old equipment and
rehabilitation of selected plant facilities. The Project would also help
strengthen the company's training department to upgrade management and
supervisory personnel, and would finance technical assistance and studies
needed to improve weak performance in selected areas (supply
organization, truck dispatch, short-term mine planning) or to prepare
investments after 1990. The Project consists of three major components:
(i) investments in existing mining and plant facilities for equipment
replacement and rehabilitation, aiming at improved maintenance,
productivity increases and reduction of operating costs; (ii) a training
program to upgrade skills of technical supervisory and managerial
persoinnel; and (iii) preinvestment, technical studies, and technical
assistance including preparation of investments after the Project period.



- 22 -
62.     Mining and Plant Rehabilitation.  The mining component would
consist of equipment replacement, mine development, and installation of
an in-pit crushing and conveying system for the KOV mine, designed to
assure a mining capacity of 470,000 tpy of copper. The concentrator and
metallurgical plant component would consist of numerous projects,
including replacement of worn, obsolete equipment, and rehabilitation at
sections of certain plant facilities in order to eliminate bottlenecks,
improve metal recoveries and reduce operating costs. These components
consist essentially of overdue investments which Gecamines has not
carried out in recent years, or of investments which would be part of a
normal program of replacement to preserve good operating conditions of
the production facilities.
63.      Training Component.  The training component would finance:  (i)
the creation of a Training Planning Unit and a Technical Supervisor
Training Unit at the Head Office; (ii) the evaluation and reorientation
of the activities training for trainers abroad; strengthening of
practical training; organization of specific courses on technical and
commercial subiects in Zaire and abroad; and study of the creation of a
Technical Training Center; (iii) a review of on-the-job training and
plant training programs to introduce modern training methods and to
standardize courses throughout the company; and (iv) on-the-job training
for supervisors in the open-pit mines.
64.     Pre-investment and Technical Studies and Technical Assistance.
The pre-investmnt work and technical studies would supplement and
complete the changes initiated after the organizational study and the
mining assistance carried out under the IDA-financed technical assistance
project to prepare for longer term developments and to analyze specific
activities with cost reduction potential. The proposed studies would
include a review of the inventory system; a review of purchasing
practices to improve the bidding and bid evaluation processes;
optimization of open-pit mining operations; exploration work within
GecaminesI concession and feasibility and engineering studies for future
orientation of the Kipushi mine and development of the Tenke and
eventually Fungurume deposits; and a comprehensive review of the
companyTs social activities, their costs and their links to operations.
Long-term technical assistance would be provided for inventory control
(one-inventory management specialist) and purchasing (one procurement
specialist and one purchasing specialist).
Project Implementation and Schedule
65.     The various components of the Project would be implemented by the
appropriate departments in Gecamines. For the replacement and
rehabilitation component, the management of the different operating
departments would provide technical specifications, assist in bid
evaluation and manage all on-site work, while procurement will be handled
by the purchasing division of Gecamines in coordination with SONATRAD.
The training component would be implemented by the Training Department.
Technical assistance would be provided to the Supplies and Services
Department and the Kolvezi production group and would generally be



- 23 -
coordinated by the Planning and Research Department. While in a Project of this
nature, it is unavoidable that implementation responsibilities be disseminated
throughout the company, Gecamines has the ability to carry out all tasks without
undue burden on its organizational structure. The Project is, however,
relatively ambitious and exceeds past implementation levels achieved by
Gecamines, and the company will have to rely more heavily than in the past on
outside contractors for construction and installation. In order to assure
implementation of the Project according to schedule, Gecamines should review the
impact of outside contracting on implementation of the Project on the basis of
its own implementation capacity with particular emphasis on manpower
requirements.
66.       The Project activities described above represent about 5 years of
Gecamines' rehabilitation effort. An implementation schedule for the project
components has been agreed. The replacement and rehabilitation component would
be carried out between 1986 and the end of 1990. The training component would be
initiated in 1986, and preinvestment and technical studies would be concluded by
December 1988.
67.       Environmental Aspects.  Health and safety conditions are satisfactory
in underground and open pit mines, but more lax in surface plants. The impact
of open-pit mining is, of course, considerable but limited in land area.
Significant quantities of gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes are by-products of
large-scale recovery of metals from ores. Tailing ponds are used as effective
solid retention basins. A project, currently under way, should reduce air
pollution in Lubumbashi. Water pollution from metallurgical operations
discharges is well above acceptable levels, but planned improvements in the
Luilu refinery will greatly reduce acid and metal losses. Presently, Gecamines
undertakes all environmental monitoring of the company's operations through
regular checks of water and air quality. Gecamines would submit to the Bank
regular reports on pollution control and effluent discharge monitoring, and
discuss with the Bank any corrective measures required, in particular for land
reclamation and water pollution control.
Project Costs and Financing
68.       Cost Estimates.  The total financing required for the Project,
excluding incremental working capital and interest during construction, has been
estimated at US$703 million, of which USS436 million (62 percent) in foreign
exchange. Of the total base cost of US$567.6 million about US$532 million
(94 percent) will be needed for investments in plants and mines, US$31 million
(5 percent) for Pre-investment and technical studies, and US$5 million
(1 percent) for training. Capital cost estimates were prepared in 1984 by
Gecamines' Planning and Research Department on the basis of previous experience
with procurement of similar equipment, updated suppliers' quotations, and
engineering studies. Base costs and the Projectts implementation schedule were
reviewed and updated to end-1985. Estimating methods have been found adequate
and capital cost estimates, reviewed extensively during appraisal, are
considered reliable. Physical contingencies of 5 percent have been assumed for
mobile equipment and equipment with little installation requirements, while 10
percent were estimated for investments with high installation contents. Price
contingencies are based on escalation of 7 percent each in 1986 and 1987, 7.5



- 24 -
percent in 1988, 7.7 percent in 1989, and 7.6 percent in 1990. They have been
applied to both foreign and local costs in view of the Government's floating
exchange rate policy. Consultant services for technical studies have been
estimated on the basis of prevailing market rates.
69.       Financing Plan.  The Project would be financed by Gecamines' internal
cash generation (59 percent of estimated costs) and by external sources (41
percent). The proposed Bank financing would cover about 16 percent of the
Project's total cost, and 25 percent of the total foreign exchange
requirements. The European Community (through their Minerals Systems facility
SYSMIN), the African Development Bank (ADB), the European Investment Bank (EIB),
and the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) would cofinance
the Rehabilitation Program. The effectiveness of all loans would be a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan. Should the Project experience a cost
increase, Gecamines would finance any such increase by borrowing within a
maximum overall 50:50 debt to equity ratio which is considered feasible.
70.       The proposed Bank loan of US$110 million would be extended to
Gecamines for a period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the IBRD
interest rate plus an annual guarantee fee to the Government equal to 10 percent
of the IBRD rate.
71.       The analysis of Gecamines' future financial position for 1986-1995
confirmed that it is expected to remain a profitable operation throughout this
period, even under difficult operational and market conditions, capable of
meeting its service obligations on borrowings on conventional terms. In
addition to the usual Government guarantee, special arrangements would be made
for the Bank loan and other loans made directly to Gecanmines on commercial
terms. These would be similar to the set-aside arrangements established under
the Gecamines expansion project that have worked well since 1975. They provide
for debt service to be paid out of a special fund managed by an independent
commercial bank, the Union des Banques Arabes et Frangaise (UBAF), of London.
The fund is replenished by Gecamines by monthly allocations directly from export
sales proceeds, and contains at all times at least half of the following
semi-annual debt service payment due. Satisfactory arrangements for the second
trust fund to continue or replace the existing UBAF Trust Fund would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
Procurement and Disbursements
72.       Procurement for all IBRD-financed items will follow the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Procurement of items financed by the other colenders
will follow the respective procurement procedures of these institutions. A
procurement schedule is provided in Annex VI.
73.       Equipment and Spare Parts.  Equipment including about two years of
spare parts, and transport to Zaire would be procured primarily through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Procurement
Guidelines. However, equipment and spare parts amounting to about US$10
million, or about 9 percent of the proposed Bank loan amount, is expected to be
procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) from at least 4 suppliers
from at least 3 different countries, to replace or serve existing mine and plant
equipment. This would also include packages costing less than US$300,000 each,



- 25 -
up to US$3 million. Some of the mine equipment can be supplied by local agents,
and the Zairian manufacturers would receive a 15 percent preference, or the
amount of customs duty whichever is lower. Ia addition, approximately US$10
million, or about 9 percent of proposed Bank loan amount, would be used for
direct purchase of proprietary equipment to replace or add to proprietary
equipment already operating in the mines and plants. Equipment items would be
grouped into packages designed to achieve maximum efficiency and economy under a
complex financing arrangement.
74.       Training and Technical Assistance.  Contracting for training staff
would be handled by the Training Department of Gecamines and would follow
procedures acceptable to the Bank. All technical assistance would be contracted
under Bank Guidelines.
75.       Contract Review.  On the basis of Gecaminesr list of procurement
packages, the Bank would do a prior review of bidding documents for packages
estimated to value more than US$300,000 (representing about 80 percent of
equipment financing).  Packages below US$300,000 would be subject to post review
by the Bank. To ensure proper adherence to Bank procurement procedures, the
first two procurement packages would be reviewed a priori irrespective of their
value and of wheth:er they are procured through direct purchase or LIB.
76.      The Bank loan would finance all foreign expenditures on the following
goods and services: (i) in-pit crushing and conveying facilities; (ii)
metallurgical plant; (iii) equipmert and spare parts for mining, mobile and rail
equipment, data processing and communications, and training equipment; (iv)
training; (v) preinvestment and technical studies; (vi) studies on wire-bar and
cobalt marketing; and (vii) services of consultants and experts. All
expenditures would be fully documented except expenditures in respect of
contracts, purchase orders, or training programs valued at less than US$50,000,
which would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. To ensure that funds
for the proposed Project would be made available when needed, a Special Account
operated by Gecamines, would be established with an initial deposit of US$5
million. The account would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence,
to be provided to the Bank by Gecamines, of payments made from the account for
goods and services required for the Project. It is expected that the account
would be used mainly for payments against the training and technical studies
categories, and for equipment packages costing less than US$1 million.
77.       The disbursement profile for the Project is based on estimates of
order placements, payment schedules, and expected delivery times. It differs
from the standard country and industry profiles as the Project is a
rehabilitation project. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June
1992.
Financial Covenants
78.       In order to ensure the necessary financing for the Project and its
completion in a sound manner, Government and Gecamines have agreed to the
following:



- 26 -
(a)  Government would: (i) ensure that Gecamines has adequate access
to sufficient foreign exchange to complete the Project and to
operate the company; (ii) let its financial relations with
Gecamines be governed exclusively by the existing tax regime and
by a dividend policy acceptable to the Bank; (iii) abide by the
financial covenants to ensure Gecamines' viability and ability to
implement the Project; and
(b) Gecamines would: (i) prepare every year and submit to the Bank by
November 1, (a) 5-year financial projections, including its
foreign exchange and local currency requirements, and (b) foreign
exchange and local currency budgets on an annual basis; (ii) in
any given year during the Project's period, not make capital
investments in addition to the already approved Investment
Program, exceeding in aggregate US$15 million, without prior Bank
approval; and (iii) maintain a current ratio of at least 1.3 and
a ratio of debt (excluding short-term maturities thereof) to
equity of not more than 40:60.
79.       Auditing and Reporting Requirements. All Gecamines companies would be
requested to submit to the Bank annual reports audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank within 4 months of the end of the accounting year.
Gecamines has in the past been audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and no special arrangements for selection of auditors have to be made. In
addition to the annual audit reports, Gecamines would submit quarterly financial
statements within 45 days after the end of each quarter, and monthly project
progress reports and procurement status reports within three weeks of the end of
each quarter. Finally, within 6 months after the closing date for the Project,
Gecamines would prepare and furnish to the Bank a completion report on the
Project dealing with its implementation, and the costs and benefits derived and
expected to be derived therefrom. Gecamines record of the last 10 years on
reporting to the Bank and alerting the Bank on potential problems has been
excellent and no problem is expected in complying with the Bank's requirements.
80.       Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity.  The financial rate of
return for the Project has been calculated on an incremental basis in real
terms. In assessing the ProjectTs results, it was assumed that without the
Project, output even from viable and competitive operations would decrease
by 1.5 percent annually. Based on these assumptions, the incremental financial
rate of return is 20 percent before taxes and 16 percent after taxes. The
return is mostly sensitive to the assumptions made on the percentage decline in
production expected, should the Project not be implemented. If this percentage
varies from 1.5 percent to 1 percent, the return decreases from 16 percent to 12
percent, demonstrating both the financial risks of the Project and the limited
validity of an incremental analysis when applied to a Project of this nature.
The return is less sensitive to operating costs, investment costs or copper
price variations (based on latest Bank forecasts which assume fluctuations
around an average of $.65/lb in 1986 reaching $.74/lb in 1995, both in 1985
dollars). Switching values have been calculated on the basis of a return of 12
percent after tax. The most critical variable is the production level: since
this variable remains to a large extent under Gecamines' control, and on the



- 27 -
basis of Gecamines encouraging record of the last 3 years (which should further
improve since cost reduction is clearly the main object of the Project), the
probability of reaching the switching values is small. The Project's return is
also sensitive to metals prices over which Gecamines has little (copper) to
reasonably good control (cobalt). Because of this favorable copper-cobalt mix,
and assuming a rational approach to cobalt sales, the overall downside risk on
sales receipts is also small in the 15-20 percent range, a very favorable and in
fact rather unique situation for a copper producer.
Benefits
81.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return of the Project
has been calculated in real terms, on an incremental basis. The economic cost
and benefit streams are measured from the viewpoint of the economy as a whole,
and have been adjusted to reflect distortions in the market prices of the
project inputs and outputs. They have been based on the sAme assumptions used
for the financial return, except for the exclusion of all identifiable taxes, as
a standard conversion factor of 1 was applied, which assumes that the Government
would continue to apply exchange rate and tariff policies eliminating
distortions between international and domestic price levels. As expected for a
project of this nature, the economic rate of return is high and amounts to 24
percent. As in the case of the financial return, the economic return is most
ensitive to the without-Project production levels. Should the Project prevent
a drop in production of only 1 percent yearly during 1986-90 (instead of 1.5
percent), the return would still be acceptable at 17 percent.  As the financial
return, the economic return is less sensitive to variations in revenues,
operating costs, and investment costs.
82.       Foreign Exchange Benefits.  The net foreign exchange benefits of the
Project are high since Gecamines generates 100 percent foreign exchange from
export sales of copper, cobalt, and zinc, while only a portion of its costs, in
addition to the service of foreign debt, is in foreign exchange. Incremental
foreign exchange benefits have been calculated based on the streams for the
incremental financial rate of return plus debt-service on foreign financing.
The resulting incremental net foreign exchange benefits of the Project are
considerable, averaging about US$66 million annually in current terms over the
next five years.
83.       Contribution to Government Revenues. Other macro-economic benefits are
the revenues accruing to Government (income and other taxes). On the basis of
the present taxation system, during the next five years, Gecamines is expected
to pay about US$0.9 billion in direct and indirect taxes, (or US$180 million
annually), of which US$0.4 billion in export and corporate taxes and US$0.5
billion in other taxes including import duties. Substantial additional benefits
could accrue to the Government from dividend payments.
84.       Institution Building.  As a part of the institution building effort,
training programs would contribute to strengthen the company. These
unquantifiable benefits would add to the attractiveness of the Project.
Finally, the Bank would work closely with Gecamines to help prepare a sound
investment program for its long-term development.



- 28 -
Risks
85.       The technical risks are small.  The rehabilitation and replacement
component is relatively straightforward in terms of technical design and
operation; it forms part of Gecamines' recurrent investment needs and has taken
adequately into account on-going operating arrangements.
86.       While Gecamines is not expected to encounter difficulties in marketing
its copper production, it cannot be excluded that copper prices decline more
than has been assumed and that cobalt prices and sales remain depressed. Future
copper price projections are subject to considerable uncertainty, and while most
experts expect some improvement, there remains a non-negligeable probability (in
the 20-25 percent range) that prices remain below the low copper price scenario
assumed in the Project.  The Project is not expected to influence the general
level of copper prices, as Gecamines would maintain its present share of around
7 percent of the international copper market. The risk on cobalt sales is more
controllable by Gecamines and a prudent marketing strategy should minimize this
risk. Given Gecamines' competitive cost structure and generally high
profitability, risks linked to future prices are not considered a major problem
for Project implementation.
87.       One of the main financial risks for Gecamines is the resumption of
undue government interferences in marketing, introduction of additional tax
burdens, and demands for transfer of maximum amounts of net profits as dividends
without due regard to the company's cash needs for operations and investment
financing. In order to minimize this risk, Government would maintain with
Gecamines clear financial relations, governed by the existing tax regime and a
suitable dividend policy. In order to provide an adequate base for assessment
of its financial needs, the company would revise its financial projections
annually and submit them to the Government and the Bank for review. The risk of
insufficient access to foreign exchange is low because of the right of Gecamines
to retain 45 percent of its sales revenues from metals in foreign currency to
service its debt and cover its foreign exchange requirements for operations and
investments. Lastly, the risk of inefficient purchasing activities would be
minimized through close monitoring of SONATRADTs performance and the provision
of technical assistance to Gecamines. With respect to copper prices, despite
the uncertain outcome for the next ten years, Gecaminest financial situation is
expected to remain sound because of decreasing unit production costs and
reductions in the costs of refining and marketing.
88.       Finally, the Project presents some managerial risk.  The success of
the rehabilitation program depends heavily on the management whose task is to
implement the Project successfully and correct past practices that had led to a
deteriorating situation. In order to assure effective management, the Bank
would be consulted before any changes in the organization is made. Moreover,
the training program should improve technical skills of local employees and thus
lay the basis for improvement, and for the successful introduction of cost
effective production methods. Finally, the Project's success depends heavily on
the Government's and Gecamines' commitment to transform the agreed upon long-
term objectives in a consistent action program. Gecamines would prepare during
the Project implementation period, and submit by December 1989 a draft of its
next Five-year investment program for the period 1991-95, including the
principal features of its program after 1995.



- 29 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed IBRD Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the recommended
IBRD Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
March 27, 1986



-30 -                  .ANNEX 
_A.t .                                            Pae1%
RAR                       OCIA  INOIAI   T 6
BArISSRPMIOOSP  (aOtUDK Avwass) ae
m10T                     (MIT UCCIuI  URAsT) .1
nebaolb     ,ok    n               LOU N trn  AnIC          HM&w InCUS
i      an n              soUTN3 of SAU         aXAn S. 0W mam
LEA (lEmMaD SQ. E)
TOTAL                             2345.4      2345.4     2345.4                 .
AGRICULTURAL                       146.4       151.2      156.3
an PMS  CPIta (51.                                  ..       170.0              234.6                   10*3.6
_E:T COUNPIOU  PR CArTrrA
(KILOGRAM OP OIL LQUIVALUS)         65.0       S0.0        32.0               62.3                    561.5
wovmttu an  TN. 6TATECs
POPUWAflON.MD-IEAR (UMUSAS)  17756.0    216319.         2967l.O
URBAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTL)        15.7       21.6        36.0               20.1                     32.0
POPUlATION PRJCTIIUNB
POULAflTION IN WAR 2000 (aLL)                            49.9
ITAIIOMNKI POPULATIJON (NLLL)                           145.0
POPUATILON I0WNu3IU
POPULATION DCNS1W
rem SQ. RI.                        7.6         9.2       12.7               33.2                     uS.1
mx SQ. KM. ACtY. WM              121.3      143.1       184.2              112.S                    124.6
POPULATION ACS STWCT"RK (K)
0-14 YRS                         44.1       ".2         45.4               46.0                     45.6
15-64 taS                         52.8       52.9        51.2               SO5                      51.5
65 AD ADo                          2.9         2.6        3.2                2.;                      2.7
POPULATION GRONTl RATE (R)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.0         2.4               2.F                      1.9
URl                                ..         5.2         7.6                6.4                      5.1
CPOC BIRTI IATE (SR THO055)         46.1       47.8        46.0               47.2                     47.0
CRUME DATH SATE tP  THOUS)          24.3       20.8        15.5               17.3                     15.0
GltOSS RCPROOrTION RATZ              2.9        3.0         3.1                3.3                      3.2
FAaILY PLUNING
ACCEPTORS, ANUAL (THOUs)           ..          ..         ..
USERS ( or ASED WN)                ..          ..         3.0                3.13                     6.
IoOD Ala Nunns
INKa or rooa Man. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      101.0      101.0        35.0               63.3                     62.9
PKR CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIES CZ OF UQUIREIENTS)       94.0       101.0      102.0               67.7                     9K5
PROTEINS (GRAM PZE DA)            34.0       38.0        35.0               51.9                     55.4
OF iuew W NAL AND PULSE          13.0        13.0       10.0              I1.?                      16.5
RtILD (AS 1-4) DnA   PATE           32.6       27.2        20.0               Z3.1                     16.6
-m-T
LIFE EXPECT. AT URTH (TEARS)        *2.9       45.3        50.7               47.6                     52.0
WANT WOWr. RATE (PU Tmoos)         150.0      132.0       106.0              119.5                    106.3
ACCESS TO SAFE VATlE (RPOP)
TOTAL                              ..         11.0       17.9               27.1                     42.4
URBAN                               .        33.0        40.0               63.5                     67.5
RURAL                              ..         4.0         5.0               19.3                     35.8
ACCES5 TO ZICRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         5.0         ..                26.5                     26.9
URANI                                         5.0          .                65.4                     57.7
RURAL                              ..         5.0         2. 20.8                                    20.7
POPUlATION PER PhYSICIAN        79620.0    30140.0    13940.0 Id          27903.7                   11791.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           3510.0     2290.0      1610.0 7i          3308.4                   2459.6
POP. PEM HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            230.0      320.0       33.0 Id           1273.                    S9l.I
URBAN                             60.0      100.0       150.0 7i           426.2                    368.6
RURAL                            770.0      1070.0     2530.0             3292.5                   4371.9
ADNtSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..        ...                  ..                      27.2
-mIN
AVERACE SUE OF NOUSEiOLD
TOTAL                              ..          44         ..
URBAN                              ..         6.1         ..
RURAL                              ..          ..         6.0                ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROG4
TOTAL                              ..          ..         ..                 ..
UR                                 ..          .          ..                 ..
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..                 ..
PERCENTAGE OF WMLLINCS WIT ELECT.
TOTAL                              ..         ..          ..                 ..
URBN                               ..         ..          ..                 ...
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..                 ..



:  -31 -                                           ANNEX I
A A L 9 3A                                 FPage  2  of  6
2*233                  - lXICAL INDZCA10RU DATA M IRU
minxR                               nay        mon (WiSMD  AVUOiS) Ig
MD ST                    (MSIT UCET IITMNAI) A
LOIN lCO  AFRIA          MUMSL &WHE
I 9601     1970M  :WrnM1AT1&        som  or 3*18          AFRICA    0? OF11*1*
*DJIJUE3b UROLTJNT tATZN
PIAff   TOAiL                     60.0       56.0        30.0 W            67.8                      95.7
MAL%                   88.0       110.0       104.00             77.6                    100.0
734*1.1                32.0        66.0        75.0              54.9                     a3.2
ONCONDART: TOTAL                   3.0        9.0        23.0 k            13.5                      17.3
MALI                    4.0        13.0       33.0 Z             17.9                     25.0
ViALZ                   1.0        4.0        13.0 f             9.1                      14.0
VUCATIORAL Ct or 3zwNDAR)           26.5        9.6        10.0 A            13.2                       5.
PIL-TIACIR RATIO
PRIJIAI                           40.0       43.0        3U.U              44 .9                     41.1
S33oNDAXI                         20.0       20.0        21.0 I            27.4                      25.5
-'_Io
PA iiai CR3S/13HOU3*D POP           2.5         3.0         ..                3.6                      20.3
solo RICSIVRS/lOUSAD POP             ..        29.1        36.9              55.8                     107.J
TV R      UR/TKOUIANDP               ..         0.3         0.4 /             2.f                      20.8
IIiWtm  ("DALY  0UAL
INTLEST) CIXaUFLON
PnT TOURmD PouATZON                 1.2        9.2         1.6               5.0                      18.4
CIIe  AMIUAL ATTUDAICE/CAPIA,       0.1         0.1         ..                0.5                      0.4
IAM YM
TOTAL LIUOR 103C (TiNOU)          3216.0     945.0    12616.0
14U*  tPYRCZIT)                   4.4        44.5        42.2              34.2                      36.2
AGRIOULT Cu:C")                   33.0       79.0        75.0              77.5                      545
DUTW   (mCdIIS)                   9.0        11.0        130                9.7                      18.3
PARTICIPATION lRAT (P3CRMT)
TOTAL                             46.3       43.7        39.9              39.3                      36.8
HAZR                              51.9       49.8        47.3              50.9                      *7.1
FULE                              41.2       36.0        33.4              28.1                      27.2
ECONONIC DRINDOZCT RATIO             1.0        1.1         1.2               1.3                       1.3
fiqujjn DI3Ill
rC  or 0I PRVATE IKOK
Rzc3zUD 11
nIEsr sI O ROUS..OLDS
IIIGUZST 2020O ..EO..OLD           ...
LWEST 2Z     IISIIOID              ..         ..H..S..O.
LOI1ET0          SOLDS             .. OF ......
mwruv uur c_O.
ESTIATZD AOUOI tOVETY INC1Z
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBA                               ..         ..          ..              165.5                     590.7
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..               95.0                    275.3
ZITMATED RElATIVE POVEALl IE
LEVEL CUSS PYR CAPITA)
UIA                               ..         ..          ..              113.1                     545.6
lURAL                              ..         ..         43.0 /c           67.6                     201.1
!STIIAT!D POP. BELO ABSOLUTE
POVERT! INCOH LmL CZ)
URBAM                              ..         ..          ..               3.6 
RURL                               ..         ..          ..               61.3
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N0 T Z S
/a  The group averags for sch inadicator are population-aightad aritiostic mans. (bverap of countries
an  the indicators depend. on availability of data aed Ls not unfara.
lb  Unless othowiso noted, "Data for 1960" refer to *r year bemen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' beWten
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Moat Recent  etinte" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1977; /d 1979; A  1978; /f 1990.
JUNE. 1965



- 32-                                          ANNEX I
Pal-tp T nf_6 __
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nots: Although the daga are drwn rom sources gneraly judged the most authortative and reliabk it should abo be noted thal they may not he mnternauonally
comparble bemuse of the lic of stndardized definitions and concept used by different countries in coillcting the data The dams sre, nonetheless, useful to
ducribe ordes of magntude. indicte trends. and charactize crtain major difference between counrine
The refieen  groups ae (II the same country group of the subect country and (23 a country group with somwwhat higher avernge hcome than the country
group ofthe subject eountry (excpt for - High lncemr Oil Exporter  group whee "Middle Income North Africa and Middlc Ea  istchosen beuse of stronaer
socio.cultura  linities). In the efeence group data the averae are population weighted arithrmeic means for each indicator and shown only when majority
of the countries in a group has data for that indicator. Since the coverae ofcountries mong the indicator depends on the availabihty oldata and is not uniform.
caution must beexcrcied in reating averages of one indicator to another. These averages are only useful in conmpring the value ofone indicator ala time among
the country and nefence groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Crde Birt Rate (per rhusand)-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crude Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths in the year
AgrkEhual- Estimate of agricultural area uscd temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reproducton Rate- -Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 19S2 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually fivc-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)NP per capita estimates at current            in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World       Faili Plansniag-Accepsors. Amal (thousands)-- Annual nun-
Rank Atlas ( 1981483 basis); 1983 data.                            ber of acceptors of ba rth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        Jkmily Plaiarg-Users (percent ofmnsarried vomen)-- Th percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception Women
1982 data                                                         orchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Toral'Popufaion, Mid-Year (thausauds-As ofJuly 1: 1960, 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Index ofFood Production PerCapita (1969-71?  loG)  Index of per
Urbat iPopirt;on (pdi eert of total)o   Ratio of urban to total   capita annual production of all food commedities. Production
population; di fferent dcfinitions of urban aeas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.        include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Popdati  Projetion                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
ftppulation in vear 2000- The projection of population for 200o.  excluded), they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is hased
intemational migration in the base year 1980. these parameters     on niational average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the bass of generalized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population became eationary.                 Per Capita Supply of Calis (percent ofreqirrnewars)- Comput-
Stationary population- Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes tn stock  Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirenients were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normnal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution orpopulation. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popularion Momentwna- Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capita Supply of Protein (gransm per day)  Protein content or
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day Net supply  ffood is defined
achieved: that is, cven aftcr the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for al! countnes established hb  USIDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from vear r onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protetn as an
Populto  Density                                                  average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.---Mid-year population per square kilometer 1100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita Protein Supply fom Aimdand Plse  Protein suppls
Per sq.km. agricultural land- -Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day. 196! -6e.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
PopFbaioa Age Structure (percentJ-- Children (0- 14 years). work-  Child (aes 1-4) Dea  Ratr per thousand   Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year. For most developing countnes data denved
Population Growth Rate (percrnr.-total--Annual growth rates of   From lifc tables. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Populaion Growth Rate (percent)-arhan-Annual growth rates          Life Expectancy at Birth (years)- Number of vears a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.        infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-33                                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Papd-teacher Ratio - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data,                                      roled in primary and secondary levels divided by number of
lfatw Merality Rate (per thousNad)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before eaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
Acces to Soe Water (pent of ppation)-tal mrba, ard              Passeger Cars (per thousand populuaim)-Passenger cars com-
rat-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
acess to safe water supply (inrcudes treated surface waers or   ances, hearses and military vehicks.
untreated but uncontaninated water such as that from protected  Radio Receivers (per thousaudpapudatlon)-All types of receivers
borehoks, springs and sanitary wels) as percentages of their rcspec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban are a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be onsiderd   registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent yeas may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparble since most countries abolished licensng.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
housclhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  rvaTeceiers (Per thousandPopoption)-T V receive. for broadcast
in fetching the family's water nceds.                           to general public per thousand population. excludes unliensed TV
Access to Excrera Disposal (percent of popidation)-tforal, mrb  receivers in countries and in years when regstration orTV seu was
and r,ur-Number of people (total urban, and rural) served by   in ffect.
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspaper Crcbltwon (per thoutandpo.pdation)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age crculation of "daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily" if it appears at least four times a weck.
Popuation per Physicu-Pbpulation divided by number of prac-     Cinma Awual Attendance per Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Popuation per Nusig Peoo-pulation divided by number of         drive-in cinenas and mobile units.
practicing male and remale graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
opdo per Hoesal red-e,o4 ura  and  ral-4bpulation               Totl Labor Force (thonsonds)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban, and nural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospital beds available in public and private general and specahmed  students. etc.. coveritg population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femalk (percent)-Fenalc labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodil care are not included. Rural hospitals.  fome.
however. includc hcalth and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricltue (percent)-Labor force in fanning. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medica! assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of mcdical facilties.                                          ludstay (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospital Bd--Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 19B0 data.
Participaton Rae (percext)-tosal, mck, audfensk-Plarticapation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total, male. and female labor force
Average %ze of Houseld  (persons per hoseliud)-total. urbo,    as perentages of total, male and female population of all ages
andvra-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970, and 1 9S3 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the populadion, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Avwage Number of Person per Reom--toral, urban, and rural-      Ecoonoic Depeneny Radi--Ratio of population under 15. and
Aveage number of perons per room in all urban. and rural       65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwellngs with Elearkity-4ot, urban, and rra-     Percenage of Total Disposabl Incoow (both i cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.        hold incomne.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjuted Enrogmext Ratios                                       The following estimates are very approximate measures of poveny
Prmary school - tolat male and femaie-Gross total, male and    levels and should be inierpreted with considerable caution.
ermale enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Euoated Absolute Poverty Income Level (USS per capt)-arban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 ycars, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estated Relatve Poery Income Levd (LES per ceypi)-tar)a_
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   and ral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, maLe and female-Comnputed as above   living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at lent four years of approved pri-  Estimated Populton Beow Absolute Poverty Incme Levd (per-
mary instruction. provides gneaL vocational, or teacher training  cent)-arban ad rura- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocatownal Enroibneni (percent of seconday)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industriaL or other progams which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departnents of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ZAIRE Economic Indlcators
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Annual Growth Rates (5)
US I Millions             An percent of CDP                  at 1980 prices
1984                          1994                  1988         1984          1985
CDP Market Prices                     4982.2                        148.6                 6.6           2.8           2.5
GDP Factor Cost                       4872.6                         97.8                 1.4           8.1           2.5
Agriculture                        16W.4                          82.0                 2.0           3.0          3.0
Industry                           1766.0                        86.o                  4.1          2.6           1.6
Other                              1667.1                         32.6                -0.9           3.6          1.1
Net Export  of CNFS                      6.2                          4.1
Import of CNFS                     2031.8                         86.9                  ..           8.9          2.0
Export of GNFS                     2040.0                         41.0                  ..          4.7          -1.3
Gross Fixed Investe'nt                 811.6                         16.2                               6.6          -3.8
Consumption                           4162.4                         77.6 5.o                                         4.8
Gross Domestic Savings                 819.8                         22.6                  ..           1.0          -0.9
Gross National  Savings                483.3                         12.0                  ..         -27.0           2.7
PUBLIC FINANCE (Central Government)
Zaire Millions                                 X of GDP
1983          1904          1985                1983          1984          198S
Current revenues                       10998          26994         41360                11.4          14.4          17.2
Current expenditures                   11469          26193         37654                11.9          14.6          16.7
Current deficit                         -461           -199          3696                -0.6          -0.1           1.6
Capital expenditures                     647           1019           960                -1.1          -0.7           1.1
Overall deficit                        -1168          -1218          2740                -1.1          -0.7           1.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                1980           1981          1982                1983          1984          1986
Money and Quasi-money                 3367.3         4644.9        8067.0               14002         18792        23926
Bank credit to public sector          2329.4         3783.6        7888.6               10262         13396         14847
Bank credit to private sect.          1651.1         1436.4        2866.0                3897          6947          9687
Money & Quasi-wnney (% CDP)             11.7           11.7          16.6                14.6          10.4          10.0
Consumer Price Index 197S=100         1313.3         1813.1       2487.9               4375.3       6664.8        9851.3
Annual percentage changes
Consumer Price Index                       ..          38.1          37.2                76.0          62.1         30.0
Bank credit to public sec.                 ..          62.4         108.6                30.0          30.7          10.8
Bank credit to private sec.                            38.8          85.7                46.2          62.6         82.9
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in t%is table are at the average exchange rate
provaling in the period covered.



-35-                                   ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
ZAIRE: Economic Indicators
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
US S MiU7ionna
1980         1981           1982           1983          2114           19W5
Exports of Goods & Services              2371.4        1772.8         1658.2         1776.6        200 80         2ee5.3
of which Msrchandiss(F0O)             2143.8         1499.8         1478.9         1597.3        1993.2         1889.6
Imports of Goods A Servicsa             2486.9         2278.1         2036.8         1941.3        1877.8         1886.9
of which Merchandise(FOS)              1761.0        1635.7         1486.3         1329.8        1321.2         1870.4
Private transfer. (net)                   -79.4          -3.5           -8.8            3.2         -91.2          -61.1
Current Account Balance
___________________________
(before rescheduling)                -291.6         -663.7         -960.6        -349.6         -349.6        -300.3
(after rescheduling)                 -291.6         -468.1         -647.8        -181.7         -188.6        -212.2
Official Grants   (net)                   288.8         247.6          160.1          173.2         174.3          169.2
Pubilc Capital    (net)                   -22.1        -168.6         -178.8         -196.7        -295.2         -298.3
Prlv.Capita (net),Err.L Omiss.             68.6          31.8           91.6          -16.0         102.6          174.2
SDR Allocation                             20.8          18.9           17.7            0.0           0.6            6.6
Increase (-)in Int. Reserves              -48.2         113.2           36.3           -8.6          33.8           -2.0
Reduction (-) in Arrears                -1347.1         129.7          380.9         -613.1         -76.9          -61.1
Other Financing                          1629.5         478.7          244.0         1082.9         684.3          477.6
of which Debt Rescheduling              1812.6         371.4          160.1          971.7         477.7          411.4
EXCHANGE RATE
Zsires/USS                  AVG. EXCH. RATATE (Z/USS)
Aug.24,1979-Feb. 22,1986                    2.1                1980                     2.8
Feb.22,1980-June 19,1981                    3.1                1991                     4.4
June.19,1981-S-ptem.12,1983                 6.6                1982                     6.8
September 12,1983 [1]                      26.9                1983                    12.9
February 24,1984                           33.0                1984                    36.1
1986                    47.0
EXTERNAL DEBT (outstanding Dec. 1985,Mill.USS)
Medium Long Term    : 5380.
1986          1981           1982           198           19841
Debt service ratio                         22.7          21.9           13.8           14.3          26.4           27.7
MERCHANDISE EXPORT (Mill.USS)              1986          1981          *1982           1983          1984         1956
Copper                                   1032.5         75S.8          796.7          781.k         875.5          897.0
Cobalt                                    377.3         168.3          182.8          121.4         225.6          249.0
Dimonds                                   113.6          77.2           76.2          138.9         220.4          222.6
Other Metals                              113.1         116.7           84.2          127.2         196.6           76.0
Coffee                                    163.1         111.9          106.0          116.6         212.2          188.6
Crude oil                                 226.1         273.6          274.3          236.6         3:i 9          309.0
Other                                     157.8         112.9          127.2          115.6         128.2          148.0
Marketing Cost & Adjustments              -38.9        -106.2         -163.6          -40.0           2.1            0.0
Total exports FOB                        2143.6        1499.8         1476.8         1597.3        1893.2         1889.0
(1] On September 12,1983 Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate regime
consisting of an official rate and a free market rate ,shown in parentheses above.
The two rates were unified on February 24,1984; henceforth the rote is fluctuating
and its market price determined in the interbank market were Commercial Banks
can buy and sell foreign exchange and the Bank of Zaire can intervene to
regulate the market.



36 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STAIW G' BANK GJUl OA11ON  3N ZAI
A. SA      eNr CF BAw iLaw  ANoD nx aI15 (As of SeM!gM  30, 1985)
lnM or                                                   hWit in US$ MIllon
Crdt    Year                                              (less c1cellons)
Nber  S~ d   Borrower                               Bank   d_          Undisbuaed/
Prior
to Jam   ango &    Transport               91.58 2/
1960     Otraco     Infrastucttre
One lan Fuly Disbrsed                               100.00
Sixte  Credits Fuly Dishburse                                 330.34
796     1978      ZAIRE     Oil Palm                          9.0D          5.67
902     1979      ZAIRE     Ralw.ays                         2D.00          4.87
998     1980      ZARE      Fifth Dev. Fixgnc                 18.50         2.81
1040     1980     ZAIR       Smal.1der Maize                  11.00          5.81
1089     1981     ZAIRE      Yallu Nngo Sgar                  26.40          2.80
1152     1981     ZAIRE      Ka,a-K b Techncal Assistance  2.90              0.67
1180     1982     ZAIRE      ONAiRA Modernization             26.00         14.35
24       1982     ZAE        Shaba Pwer System Phabilitation  19.00          8.89
1241     1982     ZAI        Water Supply 1I                  18.00          6.11
L44      1982     ZAIRE      Agriculture T.L                   5.00          2.64
1264     1982     ZAI        Secod Otton                      11.30         10.41
1273     1982     ZkIRE      Sixth IDFC                       21.50          7.90
1290     1982     ZAE        Higbway V                        43.50         13.77
1325     1983      ZAIRE     Nbrth East Rural Developmen       13.00        10.17
1335     1983     ZAIRE      Ports Rehabilitatim              25.00         20.62
1336     9m3      ZAIRE      Gecanes T.A.                      7.00          4.90
1409-    1983     ZAIRE      Petrolea Sector TA.               4.50          3.60
1421     1984     ZAI        Ruzizi II Hydroelectric          15.00         11.97
1475     1984     ZAIE       RPailays II                      26.00         26.00
1492     1984     ZAIRE      Seventh DFC               -      36.00         32.14
1519     1985     ZAIREE     Education Techncal Assistance     9.00         6.89
L540     1985     ZAI    -  ui]ua Agricultural Development    12.50         12.50
1609 3/  1985      ZAIRE     Seeds                            14.90         14.90
Total (leas lceilatIoio):                 191.58    594.82       251.23
- of which bas ben repaid                 140.12      2.85
Total nw outstanding;                      51.46   591.97
hAlout sold:                    54.47
of whtch bas been repaid      54.47
Total now held by Bank axn MY              51.46    591.97
T1Al Uod:sbursed:                           0       230.39       230.39
E dm olld  r uzxts for credits 1089-Z  and azds are camputed at the rate of Credit
date.
2,' Qauesby the Kingdom of BeIgIun
3 Sigm.d bu wt yet effective.



ANNEX 1T
-37_                              Page 2 of 2
B  Sl       sF IFC lMlllE .b of September 30, 1985)
FsCl                            Type of          hAmwt in I;$ llions
Year  migw              Busine            I      Edty  kotal
1950    Soci&  Fizanc&e de      EnC                 -     0.8     0.8
Dfieoppw  (.9DFME)
1984    Soclt&  Financiare de   DFC                 -     0.5     0.5
DOve1oppsun (SOFIDE)
1985    Sod&E Textile de        Textile Oaipy    6.3      0.6     6.9
de X}sargmrd
1985   Gkrds Hotels du Zare    Htel Canmy        15.0       -    15.0
1985    (Company In fornatlon)    C,tton Fanindg    -     0.1     0.1
Total gross cutnments                    21-.3    2.0    23.3
1ms: - repaymts                            -              -
- undisbursed                       18.3    0.7    19.0
Held by IPC                               3.0     1.3     4.3



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
- 38 -
SUPPLEMENTARY VZJECT DATA SHEET
Sectica I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                During supervision of the Gecamines
and Preparation:              Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1336-ZR)
(b)  Appraisal Mission:            May 1985
(c)  Cofinancing Meetings:          September 1985 and March 1986
(d)  Negotiations:                 March 1986
(e)  Planned Effectiveness Date:  August 1986
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
Signing of and adherence to a Marketing Agreement between Gecasines/
Exploitation and Gecamines/Commerciale (para. 46) and a Purchasing
agreement between Gecamines/Exploitation and SONATRAD (para. 49).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government would consult the Bank prior to any decision affecting the
organization of the Gecamines Group (para. 34) or Gecamines' tax
regime (para. 42);
(b) Government would allow Gecamines to retain 45 percent of its foreign
exchange earnings (para. 44);
(c) Government and Gecamines would submit to the Bank an appropriate
policy for dividends distribution by December 31, 1986 (para. 45);
their financial relations would be solely governed by the existing tax
regime and dividend policy; and no sale would take place without
prompt and proper compensation (para. 45);
(d) Gecamines would submit to the Bank: (i) by December 31, 1986, a
comprehensive training program for supervisory staff; and (ii) by
December 31, 1986, a policy for gradual wage increases and decreases
in fringe benefits (paras. 37, 38);



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 ot 2
(e) Gecanines would, by December 31, 1986, submit a plan to reorganize
its mine planning in all mining divisions, especially Kolwezi s open
pits (para. 4V);
Cf) Gecamines would by December 31, 1986 submit a program for cost
accounting, cost control, and cost reduction by production center
(para. 41)
(g)  Gecamines would:  (i) prepare every year (a) 5-year financial
projections, including its foreign exchange and local currency
requirements, and (b) foreign exchange and local currency budgets on
an annual basis; (ii) in any given year during the Project's period,
not make capital investment in addition to the already approved
Investment Program, exceeding in aggregate US$15 million, without
prior Bank approval; and (iii) maintain a current ratio of at least
1.3 and a ratio of debt (excluding short-term maturities thereof) to
equity of not more than 40:60 (para. 78);
(h) Gecamines would, at all times, maintain a Marketing Agreement with
Gecamines/Commerciale giving the production company full ownership of
its mineral production up to the final sale, full control over its
sales receipts, and increased influence in defining the strategy for
marketing its production (paras. 31 and 46); and commercial operations
would be exteraally audited quarterly (para. 46);
(i) Gecamines would, at all times, maintain a Purchasing Agreement with
SONATRAD defining the companies' respective responsibilities this
agreement would not be modified without the Bank's prior approval
(para. 49); and purchasing operations would be externally audited
quarterly (para. 49); and
(j) Gecamines/Commerciale would market Gecamines's products in accordance
with regular commercial practice, on the basis of arm's length
arrangements, ensuring that, at no time, Gecamines/Exploitation will
receive less than full ex-works commercial price (subject to normal
trade discounts) for its products (para. 46); and marketing operations
would be externally audited half-yearly (para. 46).
Conditions of Efrectiveness
(a) Effectiveness of the loans of the co-financiers (EEC, EIB, African
Development Bank, and CCCE); and
(b) Effectiveness of satisfactory repayment arrangements (para. 71).



ANNEX IV
- 40 -
GCmu - SIMY of  IAnclal Mdoim   1978-
(in Z lIlling)
Year e lh&r 31,                         1978      1979     1930     1981     1962      1983      1984
E~~~~ (aod                                                             -
Production (000 baaw)
Gpper                                391.3    369.8    425.7    468.2    466.4    465.8       464.0
CoDblt                               13.1      14.0    14,5      11.1      5.6       5.4        9.1
ZIn                                  43.5      43.7     43.8     57.6     64.4      62.5       66.1
TI    Statemnt
Coppr Rewln                           n.e.      959    2,473    3,612    4,592    7,791      22,(21
Colt Reves                            n.a.   1,313    1,206    2,231       864    1,312       8,385
Other1 Rtalem                         n.e.      165      159      441      550       953      2,169
Other Revemes                          nea.     147      275      350      237       590      1,483
Total R   _mm                      77    2,5815   4,113              6,243   10,646     34,058
Cats Before Deprepedato* ad Taem      569       914    2,38D    3,790    6,22    5,898       21,259
Del=eciation                     59      137      231       137    1,355    4,128.     6,069
Total TaXts Paid                      204    1.321       811    1,167      50D    2 059 5192
Net DnK=  After Tom                    145      212      691    1,542   (1,834)  (1,429)      1,506
afw Statem
Internal Cash G- .r2tD4 201                     349      922    1,679     (479)   2,699       7,SD7
Capital Eiipem nres                    95       229      493      368      117      935       2,140
Balc Sheet
Asets
Ozref  Assets                       851    2,970    6,178    8,901    6,429   17,069       25,479
Ne.t Fix  Assets                     480      940    1,318    1,550   10,896   37,314      43,706
Otber Assets                           2       16       30       31        11      679        899
Total Assets                              3,93      7;3a   10,48    17,326 T55.W         70,CB5
LabLtlie  and Equity
Ozrezt LiabilitIes                  352    2,033    2,499    4,193    3,263    9,0.4        9,744
larg-Cerm Dbt ald Liablties         205       361      751    1,113    1,064    4,581       5,886
Defermd Revemies                     -        -      1,890    1,167       31        9         66
Pta isiam                            97       160      196      249      564    2,030      4,122
Net Capital                         679    1,372    2,190    3,760   12,404   39.30B       50,267
Total liabilities &  qtdty       1,333    3,926    7,526   10,482   17,326   55,062      70,05
EqcFW  Rate (Z/AIS)                  0.9        1.7     2.8      4.4      5.8     12.9        36.1
Qwzent Ratio                         2.4       3.5      2.5      2.1      2.0      1.9         2.6
Quidr Ratlo                          1.6       1.1      1.8      1.6      0.7      1.1         1.4
IX Debt/Equity Ratio                23:77    21:79    26:74    23:77      8:92    10:9D      10:90
Notes: (a) Startlxg in 1982, reene a=cwtung vu chmagpd, In aordane with the Geacimne-Socac Maketizg
(b) Staztirg in 1982, u.tal amis wre ccamted a inNniries (as veru recmivabla befDre), in
accordare with tes                Marketing Agremlt.
(c) Stating in 1982, special preffrmnecIi  rragaemI s wre gtaluatly ellmunmted.
(d) In 1982, Geain  revalued its grcoss msts ad deprecatimnn al1o0wnce.
Source: Gecamnes Animxl Reports until 1983; Fnanidal Statements 1981.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
TorFSI OF m   POLIC! ELIMI           IN 11 GCAaunu   UUBILITATION flAN
1   NUMENUff. MUSOL. AD OWANIZATIOU IIUoWMTs
Action Taken up to December 1985                        Actlon Planned                      Coumletian Data
(a)  Stability of present organization                             The Cecauinea Croup reorganized to a            Consultation with Bank before                 Continuous
Holding with three subsidlaries In              change In orgaalzational
November 1984                                   structure
(b)  Creation of Strategic Planuilg Unit                           None                                            Preparation of terms of refereace             January 1986
lecruitm_nt and organizatio, of Unit         S pteaer 1986
(c)  Maipower development and traintig                             Programs ezist but oeed improvau.nt             Deaign of  m-prehansive manpower              December 1936
developeat and training program
(d)  Chauge of balauce betweeu wages/salaries                      None                                            Preparstion of action plan to                December 1916
a*dd friage beaestits                                                                                        iacreeae vagee/ealaries and
reduce fringe benefits to eatabllsh
more effective incentive system
2. OIIATIOIS AND I^lU1MAhMM
(a) idaiug
Be-orgaaidatioa of m*dlua- and long-term mine planning  None                                                 srcparation of a decentralization             December 1986
Techaieal easisatnce hired in 1984 but          Introduction of oww truck dispatch            Jun  1987
results not yet satisfactory                    and com_unlcatioo  yastem;
coatinuation of equipme_nt                                        4-
matenee training
Studies under way                               Carrying out of projects vith high
prioritys
- preparation of investmeat                   Nrch 1966
schedule
None                                            Studies on mining optimizatioa in             December 1986
selected arem to be initiated
Started In 1984 as part of investment           Revision of initial plan in
program                                         accordance vith result of studies             June 1956
on nm uinnsg equipmnt
inimum inveetments carried out 1933/84         Review of current schedule for
Investments to make It conaletent            June  1936
with mine planning requirements
lavecteents to be contracted out  have         Review of investmeat program  in            - In     19J4
not been defined                                accordance with Implementation
capacity of GecaiGee feasibility
h4ch of necessary work on future develop-   and engineering studies for future
meot (e.g.o, eploration) cartied out but    orientation at Kipusbi mine and                  Kipushis December 1987
certain areas ned to be further emplated   develap_at of Tanbe deposit                       Tankes    Dcember 1969



ST5JS Or f   COLT siZmS in  CFNXRM                                                                  ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
3.  UhmMT MAD 1funJUIUG stm
(a)  Oefuitioan of procureenat reeponaibilittes                     SONATLAD, crested in  arcch 1951, does           Contractual reepooulbilitiea of SCOAThAD  Coutgimona
oat have clear reepoaeibilities                 and Cecaminee La ptocuresent defited in
agrqemeat acceptable to all, to be revieved
periodieally
(b)  ioprovement of requieitioniaagiorderiog esytem                 None                                             Stidy of present proeadure  ad                December 198
recomemdetti on  improvoemta
4.  FINANCIAL fSlST
(a)  ActountilX System                                              Technical easeitaace hired to 194                Complete reorgasvlation to iSprove            Deceber 19 
reliability of acecoating data
(b)  Coat coarrol                                                   ltroduced 1982/13 with  eawlteate'            k1ea4d nog of  ystem over whole                December 196
aesieteoce                                      Ceaay a   linking to revtsed
aceewatieg systen
Cc)  Treinlig of accounting staff                                   Technical *esietAce hiroed i  IUS                Treimlig eeata&rs and  o-tbe-Job              Cootiaoms
rlaIeieg tfr aCCouAting eteff
Imbed to vleised accounting
(d)  PIl,anc il foreeestlug                                         Financial foreeaticng elae&  deelgued            Pteriher refine4Mnt of aptaig MA              Continuome
d Am mangemet tool and for
preareteis 5-yea fin ancial
Ce)  Tex regime                                                     New tax regime  Introduced In INS                Itabilili ef tas regim                         Contmeo.       S
(f)  Forelgn exchange alaoLatlo,                                    CII ellocatton etfective elsae 182               Stability of flreilt  exchange
alloeaett.                                    Coatimoun       t
(g)  Divideud policy                                                Hone                                             slga ef diwideed policy to be                 Deesber 19N
S.  OWAM    aSsr USCIIOU
Sociol services                                                     Sot& social Services  usfetrtled to             Clariflaetio  et Ceceminee' role In            Deembr I8
eubsidiaries a   coete for aon  other           socigl mertvice  troughb comprebea-
services beiAg t.labursed by Gevernmt          Give gview  of their exte"t  nd
e"to
b. 0tSCIAL ACTI WITBS
(a)  Deftilttoo of comercial responsibilties                       CeCLadnee/S0ZACN Ihrhetug Agreesaet of    lrktinlag Agreement to continue to                  Continuous
August LI92 lives Ceae esls|Sxsploitttion    stvern relaslesa between  oempeles
better control over comrcial scretegy          of tee meidise
(b)  Fluanciel Autonn.ey                                             arikettag Agreaeeet #IV"a  C.talnsx/           NGIAz4naCIe Of CcAlneeS' fineantil            Coett4nuos
tEploitation full coetril over sales           maiedey teinluua  Controllere eNd
receipts                                       Tea"uneg' re actisas; limitation
Of Paymetse te affiliate cmpantese
t* elealy deflied levele; monttoring
thbreou regllart Aditt of financial
ttezCtl
Cc)  Co_rciel practices                                              garter ed uncompensted melese  topped          Strict edhelence to normal                    Coatinuo
to June 184                                   Commlcil practices mittered
through resguis eomreiel sedits
(d)  WJrebsre * nd cobalt earkets                                   Optious under review                            Frepareatin of Action Plas  for               Joao 19e7
Whetted of wlrsr  and their
proahemea"    repIfeceemt; davelopeet
of marketieg etcrtegy for cobalt



- 43 -
Annex VI
page 1 of 1
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
Allocation of IBRD Loan
(US* million)
The proposed loan would finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for all categories.
Loan Allocation
Categories                                  Amount       percent
1. Pit crushing and
conveying facilities                   60.0         55
2. Metallurgical Plant                     10.0          9
3. Equipment and spare parts
(a) Mining                             12.5         11
(b) Mobile and rail equipment           1.0          1
(c) Data processing and
communications                  12.0        11
(d) Training equipment                  0.2         -
4. Training                                 2.5          2
5. Pre-investment and technical
studies                               0.9          1
6. Studies on marketing wire-bars
and cobalt*                           0.1         -
7. Consultants and experts' services        0.8          1
8. Unallocated                             10.0          9
Total                      110.0        100
* To be carried out by Gecamines/Commerciale under financing
arrangements with Gecamines/Exploitation satisfactory to the
Bank.



la -bo,                                    o tbQdr7   4217eb                                     28   e4 r-wo                     Is                       .
ICAME,OO,d..l     c 
KASITVA                  a'          -         ~      4g
r Dlul Lu lto etond o  ., f ......c                                                                                                                 ~ J ',M
f                 f    CS                                                                                                                                     ___   : .
r                                                                          :,ILzjumV              1  r                      U.       ,-               J
\                                     '->4  L       >  /E;I                      o           \                                                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANOL  '
_._2 . roSaXe6               9                                                       . .........
-12-    _    <:    FM    12-
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z AI| R E                                           4C iApIA-
GECAMINES REHABILITATION P',OJECT                                               B9 /                    snox                             
S1RATIFORM  TYPE D)EPOSITS                                                                                                                                                     I  ,lJ.I   N 
*         SHA3A Cu.- Co                                                         1bo 5:>' an   \_        '   . .....
SlRATtFORM  TYPE OEPOSITS  J;!
*   ZAMBIA Cu.ICoB                                                                                                                    Z         A    M              A
*AVEIN  TYPE DEPOSIT   S
*@@@@*-w- COPPER CONCESSION  LIMITS                                                                   \            trT E         '         \
LIMIT OF THE SHABA COPPERAELT
*         LIMIT OF THE ZAMBIAN COPPfRBELT
0       CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                    NioN
.13               -            MAIN ROADS                                                                                            \3--
i-4-4-1---4    RAILWAYS                                                                              Bm
-.  -     RIVERS                                                                                                                   Ml ooa
>                    _  .-         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Gi                       A                                                                               20      40      60 l0                     \ A 0    81  W"
Fwo CCWMb rM ft    t  lW r4 f t ba41.  ~ 0 M Nh   uoo d,_t. ;W                      ,_
,   "11~~~ "7 d ItW6                                              11 **  $ _ _, , _' 



NIGER  )A           R            ) CENTRAL  AFRICAN   REPUBLIC                                               TRANSPORT   CONNE CTIONS
<Wz C~~~~I'                                                                                                 A    -S   u pO  5g.  
AMEROON                                                                 TRANSPORT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    4-- CONNECTION
flondo uele F                radwu. i
\. >  !       ,                                                                         U;  _  Maroberat  i.  \   "   tAre lIcifc pow" pbis
,{*    -     -~0<          V        {       Zaire     ibo                                                   -      International b0ndatnis
EQUATORIAL  '        (        -.                                                                                                              I
GLUINEA                                                                                           UGA
4-Iv                       .Madk                       U.Sangamn                8eJ               .             E  N  Y  A
>   PEOPLE'S  *                                OKsioqo
G A  B O  N         REPUBLIC/
OF THE!
. OP THE /                                     / ~~~~~      ~     ~    ~~RWAN4DA    
5    CONGO /                                            d    ">uek)*
L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Id
Pc;e oiedS     ISHASA      tiobo
CABINAt
(ANGOLA  J  Bon       _                        Kononco                Trneo,t,e
ATIA    NT/C_.]              X      SJ                          rA N Z A N I A
O         ArN r I                                             c tvr           *  c
A   N    G  OL    A o I      f         w a  ,.
.jbumtw Ah.
~~~ | R n ~~~~~~~~~~~~\it,                        1  3 ~     ( W&Mdw
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A    m                                             I    A M<iw0 
ZIMBABWE                                     N  D /A  N
O                               WW                            I  K1!       
0' hSN A M I B I A            !B   T S W A N A
C   t.a MM  -  h  bDM *lf B b ue ft VW t-  rf t. Cn - .' d  
r  Ot ft  ws UJbA Cl 0'Y U?Yla P*-il   aof Wft.  a r. AI I, t ' ,Id   i .
*c fG, >kao WMWMNA t VxIirwe n or <W0reW of r k0l bar.U



