                                             Documentof

                                        TheWorld Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                   PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                                ZAIRE


                               GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                          (LOAN 2682-ZR)




        Industry and Energy Operations Division
        South Central and Indian Ocean Department
        Africa region
I                                                                                                     i
  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
  their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                       MEASUREMENT

                 One metric ton = 2205 pounds




             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB         African Development Bank
BEF          Belgian Franc
CA           Credit Agreement
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French aid agency)
EIB          European Investment Bank
GA           Guarantee Agreement
Gdcamines    GBnCral des Carrikres et des Mines (Copper mining company)
IRR          Internal Rate of Return
PCR          Project Completion Report
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SNCZ         Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
             (Railways company)
Sysmin       Mining Systems Unit, European Community
$            United States Dollar (USD)
TA           Technical Assistance
             tons per annum



                         FISCAL YEAR

                    January 1 - December 31

                                                                                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                        THE WORLD BANK
                                                     Waahlngton, D.C. 20433
                                                               U.S.A.

Office of Director-Oeneral
 Operations Evaluation


                                                                                                                           June 29, 1993


              MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDEm


SUBJECT:               Project Completion Report on Zaire
                       Gthmines Rehabilitation Proiect (Loan 2682-ZR)

       Attached is the Project CompletionReport on Zaire GBcarninesRehabilitationProject (Loan 2682-ZR)
                                                                      -
prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part I1 provided by the Borrower.

       The PCR is of very good quality. It gives a candid and sobering account of implementationexperience
and of the factors that led to the dismal results. Beyond the macroeconomic problems and the civil strife
prevailing in Zaire, the PCR traces the failure of the project to the weak institutional context and the rent-
seeking culture entrenched in many Zairian institutions and states: "a company cannot be shielded
simultaneouslyagainst its public shareholder, its supervisory and regulatory agencies, its sister public entities
and fiscal authorities". In essence, Gkamines was unable to act with sufficient autonomy and to establish
arms' length relationship with the State. Project implementation and the performance of GBcamines were
seriously affected by confiscatory taxation and diversion of production as well as diversion of funds through
purchasing contracts.

       The disastrous decline in the Company's production has been due to many factors: most importantly
the neglect of overburden removal and depletion of ore and concentrates stockpiles; neglect of maintenance
and low availability of mining equipment; delayed installationof new mining equipment at Kov (the largest
mine); collapse of the central section of the underground Kamoto mine in September 1990; and, lately, civil
disturbances.

       One of the most troubling aspect of this failed project is that experience with the previous Expansion
Project (Loan 1090-ZR)and the Gkamines Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1336-ZR)does not appear
to have been internalized by the Bank. The PCR for the Expansion Project in 1985had already stressed that
Ghmines lacked an independent, outward-lookingmanagement and the support of a shareholder committed
to maintaining the competitiveness of the Company. The Bank, nonetheless, tried to maintain an intimate
involvement with GQamines in order to protect the Company against predatory rent extraction and other
disruptive interferences. This goal proved unrealistic because no set of covenants can bring about a change
in entrenched attitudes unless there is a firm government commitment and a will to reform.

       The outcome is rated as unsatisfactorywith negligibleinstitutionalimpact. Its sustainabilityis unlikely.
The future of GQamines may well lie in privatization which might help to insulate it from undue government
pressure.

       No audit is planned.




Attachment

   This documenthas a restricted distributionand may be used by recipientsonly in the performance of their official dutiea. Ita contentr
   may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                                      ZAIRE

                            GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                               (LOAN2682-ZR)


                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                         PAGE NO.

PREFACE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         i
EVALUATION SUMMARY              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     iii

PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . .

           Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Setting    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Profile of the Borrower        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Preparation and Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Implementation Experience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Bank Performance       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Borrower Performance         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Sustainabilityand Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . .

PART 111: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

           Related Bank Loans and Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Timetable      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Implementation Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Costs     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Financing      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Status of Project Covenants         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
           Use of Bank Resources        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .




  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
  of their official duties
                         .Itscontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                            - i -

                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                          ZAIRE

                      GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                    (LOAN2682-ZR)




                                       PREFACE

1.      This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the G6camines Rehabilitation Project, for
which Loan 2682-ZR in the sum of $1LO1million was approved on March 27, 1986. This project
was cofinanced by the African Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Mining
Systems unit of the European Community, and the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1991, one year behind schedule, and was fully disbursed
except for $67,000.

2.      The Industry and Energy Division of the South Central and Indian Ocean Department, and
the Mining Unit of the Technical Department, Africa Region prepared this report (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III) jointly with Gdcarnines, the Borrower (Part 11).

3.      The Bank prepared its sections of the report based, inter alia, on the following sources:
President's Report and Recommendation to the Executive Directors; Staff Appraisal Report; Loan
Agreement; Guarantee Agreement; supervision reports; back-to+ffice reports for meetings with
cofinanciers; audit reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank
memoranda, Project Completion Reports for the Gecamines Expansion Loan (Ln. 1090-ZR), the
Gkamines Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1336-ZR), and the Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr.
1831-ZR); correspondence from the African Development Bank, the European Investment Bank,
and the European Community's Mining Systems unit; and discussions with staff involved in the
Project.




                                                 -

'~hrou~hout report,$ refersto United Statesdollars (USD).
            this


                                               ...
                                              -Ill-
                             PROJECT COMPLFIlON REPORT

                                            ZAIRE

                        GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                       (LOAN 2682-ZR)


             >
                                 EVALUATION SUMMARY

'1.     Copper and cobalt mining are the cornerstone of Zaire's economy.            Gkamines, the
national mining company, has unparalleled copper ore deposits associated with cobalt, for which it
is the world's leading producer. Gecamines generates over half of the nation's foreign exchange
and provides basic public services such as housing, medical care, schooling and food, thus
substituting the Zairian administration in the Shaba region, where the copper is located. Because
of its central role in the economy, Gecamines has been a core element of the Bank's assistance to
Zaire. Since the mid 1970s. Gecamines has received two Bank Loans and the proceeds of two
IDA Credits totaling $237 million. The first two operations, an Expansion Loan (1975) and a
Technical Assistance Credit (1983). have been completed. This PCR reviews the third of these
operations, the $110 million Gicamines Rehabilitcm'onLoan (Ln. 2682-ZR), approved in March
1986. This project was cofinanced with the African Development Bank, the European Investment
Bank, the Mining Systems unit of the Eu~opeanCommunity and the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique. A fourth operation, a second Technical Assistance Credit (1989), is still
under implementation.


Project setting

2.      Following a period of relative stability and growth averaging 4.4 percent p.a. in 1967-
1974, Zaire experienced protracted economic deterioration due to ill-conceived policies, whose
effect was compounded by the precipitous decline of copper prices in the mid 1970s. In 1983,
Zaire undertook a stabilization program supported by the IMF, which was suspended in 1986,
shortly after the Rehabilitation Loan was approved. Another reform program, supported by Bank
Structural Adjustment lending, was adopted in 1987. The Government again discontinued its
adjustment efforts in 1990. During most of the 1980s, nondevelopmental expenditures crowded
out public expenditures on social and physical infrastructure, causing the economic, social and
political situation of Zaire to worsen dramatically. Overall economic and social conditions have
reached unprecedented lows over the last two years.

3.      Since the mid 1970s, the Bank, in cooperation with other international donors, has
financed four G6camine-soperations with a total cost of $1.2 billion. The first of these operations,
the Gkcamines Expansion Loan (Ln. 1090-ZR) approved in 1975 sought to increase metal
production by 20-25 percent, and involved the constructionof an electrolytic refinery. The project
was thwarted by intense interference and rent extraction by the Govenunent and inadequate
implementation arrangements and capabilities, and was disrupted by various external events such as
the closing of the Benguela rail line in 1975, and the Shaba invasions in 1977 and 1978. In 1979,
the project was transformed into an emergency rehabilitation program. The Loan was closed in
June 1981, 30 months behind schedule. The PCR for this project stressed that Gecamines lacked
an independent, outward-looking management and the support of a shareholder committed to
maintaining the competitivenessof the company. -

4.      In 1983, the Bank approved a $7 million Gecamines Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
1336-ZR) designed to strengthen management in production, accounting and finance, and to
control operating costs. New fiscal arrangements and Government commitment to maintain arms
length relations with Ghmhes were expected to stop predatory rent extraction. The project

improved financial management and accounting, but failed to arrest the decline in productive
efficiency. In order to maintain metal output, GBcamines had to run down its considerable ore and
concentrate stockpiles. The PCR emphasized the difficulty of reforming large, inward-looking
organizations, and suggested an increased role for expatriate expertise. It also pointed out that
public authorities lacked the technical and administrative capacity to oversee the company, and
noted the conflictbetween the objectivesof rent extraction and corporate efficiency.


5.       In 1989, three years after the @carnines Rehabilitation Project reviewed in this PCR, the
Bank approved a Second @carnines Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 2051-ZR). Building on the
lessons learned under the first technical assistance operation, its objective was to address
Gkamines' management, cost control, and manpower problems in a comprehensivemanner, and to
facilitatethe implementation of critical investments under the Rehabilitation project. This attempt
was frustrated by a sharp deterioration in the institutional and economic environment since 1990
and thereafter.


Project ObjectivesandResults

6.       The objectives of the Rehabilitation project were to (i) prevent a decline in output below
the nominal capacity of 470,000 tpa copper; (ii) increase metal recovery in processing plants to
reduce the quantities of ore needed; (iii) reduce operating costs and contain mining costs; (iv)
increase the production of copper cathodes; (v) improve management and efficiency of operation;
and (vi) prepare a long-term corporate strategy. The project had three main components designed
to meet these objectives: (a) investment in mining and processing facilities, including an in-pit
crusher and an anode preparation plant financed by the Bank; (b) training; and (c) studies and
technical assistance. Total project cost was estimated at $703 million.

7.      The project objectives were not achieved. Given implementation delays, the collapse of
the transport and power infrastructure and the general deterioration of the situation in Zaire, the
project could not prevent a steep fall in copper output, from 470,000 tons in 1985 to 221,000 tons
in 1991. Copper output is projected to plummet further, below 150,000 tons in 1992. Cobalt
production fell by a third. Although output declined, cash operating costs soared from $893
million in 1988 to $1094 million in 1990. After 1989, Gkamines' competitive position was
further eroded by the overvaluation of the domestic currency, which inflated local currency costs.
Unit copper cost increased 145 percent from $0.67/lb. in 1986 to $1.64/lb. in 1991 (with an
average sales price of $1-04nb.)

8.      The actual cost of the project is estimated at $822 million against $703 million projected at
appraisal. Gecamines reports a total cost of S 1150 million, but this figure includes investments
not connected with the project objectives (e-g. planes and office buildings), as well as unrealized
investment commitments and normal maintenance capital expenditure. Furthermore, Gkamines'
figure is for the 1984-1990 period, while the appraisal estimate was for the 1986-1990 period.
Major budget overruns were nevertheless incurred for purchases of mining, pumping, and
transport equipment.

                           G raDh 1     .- Gecamines C o ~ ~ O ur t ~ u t
                                                                        e



                                                                       ...-................................... .-.-.-.-........

                                                                                                               .-.- -.-.......... .




            1986          1987             1988           1989                  1990                                       1991




                                  Graph 2: Gecsminea Unit Cooper Costa




                                   - -
         1988            1987              1988           1989                         1990                                      1991


                                            Coppar Coat      Sslaa Prica




Design and Implementation

9.     Although at appraisal Gecamines appeared to be able to finance the project through self-
generated funds and export credits, it seemed essential for the Bank, given the central role of
Gecamines in the Zairian economy, to take a financial participation in the rehabilitation project
and maintain a close dialogue with the company. The Loan was also a net addition to the
concessional financing provided by IDA to Zaire. By financing Gbcamines' overdue investments,
the Bank in effect allowed Gecamines to increase financial transfers to the economy at a crucial
point of Zaire's adjustment program.       Whatever the wisdom (in retrospect) of the Bank's
constructive engagement in Zaire, it is hard to conceive how it could have been meaningful without
a presence in Gecamines.

 10.     While Gdcamines' rehabilitation program had been extensively reviewed by Bank staff and
consultants during appraisal, some specific investments to be financed by the Bank were redefined
during loan negotiation.     These investments seemed technically sound and fitted in the broad
rehabilitation program as evaluated at appraisal but were not specifically discussed in the SAR. In
retrospect, a substantial part of these investments (the in-pit crusher) was technically justified and
might have had a high return in different economic and institutional circumstances.

11.      The Loan became effective in April 1987, about eight months behind schedule, due to
delays in the effectiveness of the loans from the AfDB and the EIB. Further delays occurred
because Gdcamines found it difficult to adhere to Bank guidelines on competitive bidding. This
caused the Bank to postpone the closing date of the loan by one year to December 31, 1991.
Eventually, the physical components financed by the Bank were assembled by December 1991, and
the loan was fully disbursed in May 1992. The riots of 1991 further delayed the start-up of the
main installations financed by the Bank and other donors, which are now expected to become
operational in 1993. However, completion of the Kolwezi concentrator rehabilitation has been
delayed indefinitely following a suspension of disbursements by EIB in February 1991. The
training program was implemented although the training facilities were destroyed during the civil
disturbances in 1991. The technical studies were completed, albeit with some delays, but many of
their recommendations have yet not been implemented.

12.     A number of covenants were breached, particularly with respect to sound commercial and
administrative practice, audits, and the establishment of a planning and strategy unit. The Bank
hesitated in taking remedies because, as concerns the first aspect, it lacked a hard proof of
wrongdoing by Zairian authorities. There was also concern about the severe impact that a
suspension of disbursements would have had on the Zairian economy and on the country dialogue,
particularly while there were still prospects of reaching an understanding on macro-economic
management. Thereafter, it became more difficult for the Bank to wield leverage once the major
procurement contracts had been approved.


Sustainability

13.     Unsustainable rent extraction has been a recurring problem for Gdcamines since the 1970s,
and in fact led to the physical deterioration which the Rehabilitation Project aimed to reverse.
Until recently, the strategy of the Bank was to help Gkamines enhance its efficiency through
investment and technical assistance projects, while attempting to improve Zaire's institutional
framework, and shielding the company against disruptive interferenceby Zairian authorities. This,
in retrospect, was not a tenable strategy, as the Bank could not simultaneously protect Gdcamines
against its shareholder, its supervisory and regulatory agencies, its sister public entities, and the
fiscal authorities.

14.     Beyond Zaire's adverse institutional environment, studies carried out by the World Bank
have shown that state-owned mining enterprises have generally been less successful than their
privately owned competitors. In the late 1970s, the decline in copper prices prompted international
mining companies to undertake large-scale technology investments to increase productivity and
trim costs. Meanwhile Gdcamines, could barely maintain its productive capacity by undertaking
rehabilitation programs financed by international donors.         The technical assistance projects
undertaken in the 1980s such as the two G&amines Technicd Assistance Projects curbed technical

inefficiencies and established basic management instruments such as accounting systems, but failed
to address the issue of maintaining global competitiveness.

15.     The case of GBcamines is a particularly striking example of the structural problems faced
by state-owned mining companies in Africa and other parts of the world. The confusion of roles
between the shareholder and fiscal authorities caused conflicts between short term cash generation,
preferred by fiscal authorities, and the corporate objective of long term growth and profitability.
GBcamines, like many other state-owned companies, could not resist the pressing demands of the
Treasury and had to provide social and infrastructure services well beyond its role as a mining
company. Nor was the company allowed to reduce the size of its workforce as required by cost
and efficiency considerations. In order to step up cash generation to meet the pressing demands of
the Government, GBcamines had to defer essential investments and engage in unsustainable
operating practices at the expense of long-term competitiveness and viability. In addition, the state
could not fund the investments required, particularly after 1990, to complete the rehabilitation
project, maintain production, and regain competitiveness.

16.     Another problem shared by GBcamines and other state-owned mining companies is uneven
management and technical competence. Board directors are appointed on political merit and often
lack the clout to fire incompetent or corrupt managers. Managers are assessed on fiscal targets and
social goals such as employment generation, rather than on strict corporate performance. Finally,
Gkamines' supervisory authority has a narrow domestic focus as well as a political agenda, and
lacks exposure to international trends and technology.


LessonsLearned

17.     The project reviewed in this PCR was part of an overall Bank strategy in Zaire and should
not be seen in isolation. The overall Zaire program was based on the judgment that governance
and economic management in the country could be improved with a combination of adjustment
operations and investments in key sectors. Although this strategy did not succeed, it seemed a
reasonable risk at that time.

18.     There are however several important lessons to learn from this project.         As a slow
disbursing vehicle designed to finance complex, lumpy investments, the Loan did not provide the
Bank with the necessary leverage and proved an inappropriate instrument to achieve its assigned
macroeconomic objective of regulating the outflow of funds from GBcamines. The experience of
this project also confirms the conclusion drawn in the PCR for the earlier Expansion project that
audits, covenants and supervision cannot make up for the absence of firm Government commitment
and responsiveness to the objectives and requirements of a large mining operation. Eventually, the
Bank could not shield the company from its institutional environment. An investment project
aimed at supporting international competitiveness, however well designed, has a limited chance to
succeed if the enterprise involved is severely constrained in its business decisions and is saddled
with excessive fiscal, infrastructure, procurement, and social costs.

19.     With respect to covenants, the Bank hesitated in sanctioning violations given the negative
impact of a suspension on the Zairian economy and on the country dialogue. In retrospect, the
dialogue was not successful, and more emphasis should have been placed on project grounds when
considering the option of suspending disbursements. After 1989, audit reports failed to single out

                                          - viii -


notorious cash diversion schemes. In future operations, the Bank should adopt a stricter audit
policy, including: legal arrangements whereby auditors copy directly to the Bank all relevant
communications and reports without going through the project entity; and suspension of
disbursementsfor failure to submit an appropriate audit report on time.

20.    In sum, the Bank has attempted to help transform Gbcamines, an inward-looking state-
owned entity under intense political supervision, into an internationally competitive company
through four successive operations.    While the equipment, consultants, training and studies
financed by the Bank helped reduce operating inefficiencies, no outsider could reasonably be
expected to provide the key ingredients required to establish international competitiveness: a
committed and experienced management sanctioned on its operating and financial performance, a
motivated labor force, a conducive corporate culture and a favorable political, institutional,
economic and social environment. It is now difficult to envisage a future for Gdcamines without
the presence of a private sector partnerioperator in charge of key business decisions, without
government interference.

                               PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                               ZAIRE

                          GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                         (LOAN2682-ZR)


                PART I: PROJECT REVEIW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE



Loan No.                :2682-ZR

Project Name            : GecaminesRehabilitationProject

Sector                  : Mining

Department              :SouthCentralAfricaandIndianOceanDepartment




                                   1. INTRODUCTION

1.1.    Copper and cobalt mining are the cornerstone of Zaire's economy.                 Gkamines
Exploitation (Gecamines), the national copper and cobalt company, historically generated over half
of the nation's foreign exchange and 25 percent of the government' s fiscal revenue. It also played
a major social role as an industrial employer, and as a provider of basic public services such as
housing, medical care, schooling, and food, particularly in the Shaba region, where the copper belt
is located. The company is also the major customer for infrastructure services such as electricity
production and rail transport. Because of its central role in the economy, Gkamines has been a
core element of the Bank's assistance to Zaire. Since the mid 1970s, Gkamines has received
financial assistance from international donors supporting projects worth $1.2 billion, including two
Bank Loans and the proceeds of two IDA Credits. The third of these operations, the G2cumines
Rehabiliturion Loan, approved in March 1986 for an amount of $110 million, aimed to help the
company consolidate its productive capacity and competitiveness. This objective was not achieved.
From 476,000 tons in 1986, copper output collapsed to 221,000 tons in 1991, and is expected to
plummet further in 1992. Since 1990, G6carnines has incurred heavy losses, casting serious doubts
on its futureviability.

1.2.    Compared with its international competitors, Gkamines has the exceptional advantage of
rich copper ore associated with cobalt, a high-value metal for which Gkarnines is the world
leading producer and can greatly influence international prices. Gkamines also had the benefit of
considerable stockpiles of ore and concentrates, which had been accumulated in part before its
nationalization in 1967.     Because of these advantages, Gkamines until 1986 enjoyed good
profitability and ranked among the lowest cost producers in the world. This instilled a false sense
of security, prompting the Government to place high cash demands on the company, and lulled
management into complacency. Increasingly, Gkamines' organization, management and corporate
culturebecame geared towards rent extraction rather than efficiency and competitiveness.

1.3.    Copper is a global industry in which the viability and profitability of individual companies
is determined by their international competitiveness. When copper prices collapsed in the mid
1970s, Gecamines' international competitors undertook ambitious programs to trim operating costs,
increase productivity, and upgrade their technologies.       Like many other state*wned       mining
companies, Gkamines and its only shareholder (the Government) failed to grasp these trends.
Gecamines continued to function as a source of funds for Zairian authorities rather than a
productive asset whose performance would be measured against international competition. Its
cash-flow was preempted on a large scale, over and above normal taxes and duties, through
irregular practices, including questionable procurement and outright diversion of sales. In order to
meet the excessive financial requirements of Zairian authorities, GBcamines resorted to
unsustainable operating practices such as the depletion of ore and concentrates stockpiles, the
skimming of the richest and most easily accessible ore sources, neglect of maintenance and
replacement investments, etc.

1.4.    Although precipitated by the disintegration of infrastructure and public order in Zaire since
1991, the crisis faced by Gecamines has deeper roots which can be traced to the institutional
framework of the company. First, Gkamines' management and its shareholder focused on short-
term rent extraction, preempting funds required for essential repairs, replacement, and capital
investment.    Second, key management positions were held by political appointees whose
performance was not measured against economic criteria. Loose management allowed costs to rise
sharply. Also, top management was not able to resist large-scale diversion of funds by Zairian
authorities through supply contracts at inflated prices and other irregular schemes. Third, in
keeping with the paternalistic attitudes inherited from colonial times, Gecarnines continued to
provide social services and infrastructure well beyond its role as a mining company. The inability
of the government to fund and provide basic public services reinforced this practice. Finally, there
were major delays in the completion of the rehabilitation project, mostly due to procurement
problems, and civil disturbances in 1991.

1.5.    Most of these factors are related to Government interference in the management of
GBcamines, and it appears in retrospect that no amount of technical assistance or investment
lending such as the Rehabilitation Project under review could turn around GBcamines without a
radical break with the prevailing institutional framework. Given the magnitude of the crisis, this
Project Completion Report extends beyond the usual scope of evaluating the performance of the
project itself. It was also prepared with the objective of helping the Zairian authorities and
Gkamines consider appropriate actions for the revival of a much-needed engine for Zaire's
economy.

1.6     The report first provides a retrospectiveof Bank involvement with Gtkamines. Subsequent
sections are devoted to project design, objectives, implementation and results and Bank/Borrower
performance. The last two sections focus on sustainability issues and on lessons drawn from the
projects with Gkamines, which should be taken into account in the design of new mining
operations in Zaire and other countries.       A Bank mission discussed the analysis and main
conclusions of this report with Gecamines' management in December 1992.

                                 2. PROJECTSETTING

Macr+economic background

2.1.    Following a phase of growth and relative stability in 1967-1974, Zaire suffered a period of
protracted economic decline and severe structural imbalances brought about by ill-conceived
policies, starting with the zairianization and nationalization measures of 1973. The effect of these
policies was compounded by the oil crisis in 1973, and the precipitous decline of international
copper prices in 1975. During the 1970s and early 1980s, Zaire started several short-lived
stabilizationprograms. The most substantial of these programs was undertaken between 1983 and
1986, with the assistance of the IMF and the World Bank. This program was relatively successful
in controlling the monetization of the budget deficit and in bringing about a realistic exchange rate.
However, it was eventually suspended in 1986, shortly after the Gkamines Rehabilitation Loan
was approved. A far-reaching reform program was adopted during the implementation of the
project in 1987-1989, but was again interrupted in 1990 for lack of fiscal discipline. According to
the PCR for the Structural Adjustment Credit, this program was not able to prevent the growth of
nondevelopmental expenditures or the erosion of public expenditures on human resources, basic
social services, and infrastructure.     After 1989, the overvaluation of the local currency also
undermined Gkamines' competitiveness by inflating domestic currency costs.             Since the civil
disturbances of 1991, the economy has deteriorated dramatically. By December 1991, when the
Loan was closed, fiscal mobilization had declined by an estimated 85 percent, and the economy
had sunk into fourdigit inflation, with a sharp decline in real output.


Retrospective of World Bank involvement with Ghmines

2.2.    GtkarnEnes Expansion Project. Since the mid 1970s, GBcamines has received financing
from international donors supporting projects costing over $1.2 billion, including two Bank Loans
and the proceeds of two IDA Credits totaling $237 million. The first of these operations, the
Gkcamines Expansion Project @,n. 1090-ZR), was approved in 1975 with cofinancing from the
Libyan Government and the European Investment Bank (EIB). This ambitious project, which was
to be implemented between 1975 and 1979, aimed at (i) increasing production by 25 percent to
590,000 tpa copper and 20,000 tpa cobalt; and (ii) integration into higher value-added downstream
activities, involving the construction of an electrolytic refinery. The project was also expected to
provide a training ground for local capabilities in the context of the zairianization of company staff
through direct project execution by GBcamines.          Appraisal determined that GBcamines had
considerable operating and planning expertise and was well qualified to implement and supervise
the project.

2.3.    After a late start, implementation of the project was thwarted by Government interference
and preemption of cash-flow and by various external events, such as the closure of the Benguela
railway line in Angola (which GBcamines used for most of its exports) and the collapse of copper
prices in 1975, and the Shaba hostilities in 1978. In 1979, the project was scaled down and
transformed into an emergency rehabilitation program. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1981, 30
months behind schedule. According to the PCR for this project, it did not achieve its objectives:
the missing ingredient was an independent, outward-looking management supported by a
shareholder fully committed to take all the necessary steps to enhance the competitiveness of the

company. The PCR also warned that the World Bank's traditional implementation instruments -
covenants and supervision - were no substitute for an adequate institutional and managerial
framework, which did not exist in Zaire.

2.4.    -mines      Technical Assistance Project. Although copper prices had fallen by half after
the first oil shock, Zairian authorities continued to treat Gkamines as a cash cow, seriously
undermining its competitiveness. Excessive taxation and large-scale diversion of sales caused
Gkamines to experience severe cash-flow problems, thus precluding urgent maintenance work and
investments. Both management quality and technical skills also deteriorated substantially. In
1983, the Bank attempted to reverse this deterioration through a G4camines Technical Assistance
Project ($7 million funded by Credit 1336-ZR), whose objectives were to (i) strengthen
management in production, accounting, and finance; and (ii) control operating costs. Predatory
rent extraction was to be prevented through a new fiscal framework and various covenants whereby
the Government committed to maintain arms length relations with Gkamines. In addition, the
project was to prepare for the follow-up rehabilitation project.

2.5.    The Technical Assistance project improved financial management and accounting, but
failed to arrest the decline in productive efficiency that had become apparent in the 1970s.
Operating costs, although still below world average, were rising, metal recovery in the processing
plants was below the level of the 1970s, and operations were plagued by shortages of spare parts
and supplies, lack of maintenance, poor mine planning and other management shortcomings. It
also became clear that Gkamines operations were no longer sustainable: in order to maintain metal
output at 470,000 tpa, Gdcamines was forced to run down its stockpiles of copper ore and
concentrate which had been accumulated before the nationalization. The PCR for that project,
completed in December 1990, emphasized the difficulty of reforming large, inward-looking
organizations in LDCs, and suggested an increased role for expatriate expertise. The PCR also
pointed out two negative aspects of public control: (i) Zairian authorities lacked the technical and
administrative capacity to oversee the company; and (ii) rent extraction considerations conflicted
with the objectiveof corporate efficiency.

2.6.    Ghmines Rehabilitation Project.          Increased efforts to restore the sustainability of
Gkamines operations led to the $110 million #camines Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2682-ZR)
reviewed in this PCR, which was approved in March 1986. This project was cofinanced by the
African Development Bank (AfDB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the Mining Systems unit
of the European Community (Sysmin) and bilateral agencies including the French bilateral aid
agency, Caisse Centrale de CoopQation Economique (CCCE). Its key objectives were to stabilize
output at 470,000 tpa, contain costs, strengthen management and technical skills, and ensure
transparency of the relations with the Government and other parties. Its design was similar to that
of the Expansion Loan, except that it contained strongly worded covenants aimed at guaranteeing
arms length relations between Gkamines and Zairian authorities.

2.7.    Second Wrnines Technical Assistance Project. After 1986, Gkamines' output started
to decline and operating costs rose significantly in a context of continued Government interference
and sharp macro-economic deterioration. Urgent investments planned under the Rehabilitation
Project were also delayed. A Second Gi!camines Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 2051-ZR), was
approved in 1989, with the objective of improving purchasing and materials control, maintenance,
personnel management, cost accounting, information technology, and corporate planning. Despite

slow disbursements on this Credit, 'due in part to the difficult environment in which GCcamines
operates, the Bank has kept this Credit open to help with a much needed restructuring and
privatization of Gecamines, whenever possible.


                         3. PROFILE OF THE BORROWER

Organizational Structure

3.1.    Gecamines was formed in 1967 when Union Minibre du Haut Katanga, the original Belgian
operator, was nationalized. After the nationalization, Societd Gendrale des Minerais, an affiliate of
Union Minibre, continued to provide technical assistance and marketing services. In 1974, the
marketing function was transferred to Sozacom, a Zairian company established and controlled by
the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Sozacom was dissolved in 1984. Although Gecamines underwent
several major reorganizations, its official corporate structure remained unchanged after 1984, with
Gecamines Exploitation in charge of metal production, Gecamines Cornrnerciale, the independent
metal trading arm, and Gecamines Developpement in charge of non-mining activities, mostly
agricultural supplies to the company workforce and their dependents. The three companies are
formally supervised by Gecamines Holding, whose Board of directors reports to the Ministers of
Mines and Energy, Finance, Portfolio, and the Governor of the Central Bank. In practice, the
Chairman of Gecamines Exploitation answers directly to the Head of State.


Operations

3.2.    Production. Gecamines has copper ore deposits of unparalleled quality associated with
cobalt, a high-value metal for which the company is the world's leading producer. The company
operates a complex production system spread over 300 krn in a 18,000 krn2 concession in the
Shaba copper belt in southern Zaire. Operations are grouped in three geographical divisions: west
(Kolwezi), center (Likasi) and south (Lubumbashi). About 75 percent of the copper ore is mined
in the western group, largely in open pit mines, the most important of which is Kov. The ore is
first processed in concentrators in the area where it is produced, increasing metal content to about
30 percent. Copper concentrates are then fed into smelters. Due to the scattered location of
downstream processing facilities and the specific processes required by the different types of ores
found in Shaba (oxides, sulfides, mixed), there are large-scale rail movements of semi-processed
products, especially concentrates.

3.3     Cobalt is mined with the copper ore and is extracted in hydrometallurgical plants in the
western and central groups. Zinc is produced in the southern group, roasted in the central group,
and refined in the western group. In 1984, Gecamines metallurgical plants operated close to full
capacity, rated at 470,000 tpa. Copper production for that year amounted to 223,000 tons of
wirebars (for which Gdcamines is one of the major world producer), 85,000 tons of cathode
copper, and 156,000 tons of blister copper. The blister copper was exported for further refining in
Europe, principally to Belgium at a plant of Societt? Generale des Minerais.           In addition,
Gdcamines produced 9,100 tons of cobalt and 66,000tons of zinc.

3.4.     Transport. Copper and zinc are exported through the Voie Nationale (a multimodal route
involving first rail transport to the Kasai river, then barges to Kinshasa, and again rail to Matadi,
Zaire's main seaport), or by train along the southern route through Zambia and Zimbabwe to
South African ports, and in small quantities by truck to Dar Es Salaam in Tanzania. Cobalt
exports normally take the southern route through South Africa. All these routes have limited
capacity, and their reliability had been deteriorating since the 1960s, especially in Zaire. At the
time of appraisal, the Bank was assisting in the rehabilitation of the Voie Nationale through three
simultaneous projects (Onatra Modernization, Ports Rehabilitation, and Second SNCZ projects).
The average transit time in 1984 was 57 days for the southern route and 70 days through the Voie
Nationale.

3.5.     Marketing. Between 1974and 1984, GBcamines metal exports were handled by Sozacom,
an entity under the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Sozacom charged high commissions, diverted sales
for the benefit of third parties (uncompensated sales reached $85 million in 1984 alone), and its ill-
conceived pricing strategy led to the collapse of the world cobalt market in 1980-1982. In 1984,
Gbcamines formally established control over its marketing and receivables through Gbcamines
Commerciale. The marketing agreement between the two companies provides that Gbcamines
Commerciale must market the products of Gdcamines Exploitation in accordance with regular
commercial practice, particularly with respect to sales prices.

3.6.    Procurement. Appraisal identified procurement as an area with major cost reduction
potential. Materials and consumables represented about $300 million, per year or 35 percent of
production costs, and there was considerable scope for improvement in t e r n of price conditions,
delivery periods, and cash management. Virtually all procurement was done through restricted
consultation of suppliers, with no effective audit. GBcamines staff had limited ability to prepare
specifications, and.did not know alternative suppliers. In 1985, the Government created Sonatrad,
a central procurement agency, to serve all large public enterprises, including Gbcamines. While it
was clear that there was ample room for improving procurement in parastatals, the Bank had
serious doubts as to the efficiency of the proposed arrangements. After extensive consultations
with GBcamines and Sonatrad, however, a Purchasing Agreement satisfactory to the Bank was
signed in 1986between the two companies, which restricted the role of Sonatradto contracts above
$3 million. In retrospect, the Bank should have been less accommodating on this issue.


Financial Condition

3.7.    Although its accounts had shown profits until 1981, GBcamines had suffered chronic cash-
flow problems due to slow collection of receivables, weak cash management, high sales
prefinancing charges, preemption of foreign exchange by the Government, and until 1983,
insufficient allowance for the depreciation of fixed assets. After incurring losses in 1982 and 1983
due to the collapse of the cobalt market and uncompensated sales, Gdcamines had, by the time of
project appraisal, returned to profitability, with limited indebtedness. The Government repaid
Gdcamines for the uncompensated sales between 1983 and 1987, and agreed to let Gecamines
retain at least 45 percent of its foreign exchange earnings.

Management Strategy

3.8.    The objective of Gecamines at the time of project appraisal was to halt the decline in
output and improve its cost-competitiveness so as to remain in the lower quartile of the world
production cost curve. Costs were to be reduced by improving management and containing general
costs, increasing the efficiency of existing facilities, further integrating mining and processing
operations in each of the geographical production groups, and diversifying into higher grade
products. In order to increase efficiency and finance the development of new deposits, the Bank
had recommended that the company strategy include the participation of foreign investors, but
Gecamines and the government adamantly opposed considering this option.


                   4. PROJECTPREPARATIONAND DESIGN

Maljor Issues

4.1     Output Decline. When the Bank appraised the Project in 1985, Gecamines faced severe
operational and managerial problems, which required prompt attention to preserve the viability of
the company. The most pressing issue was the decline in mining output and the low levels of
metal recovery from the concentrators, due to ineffective maintenance, poor management of spare
part inventories, and deferment of replacement investments for key equipment. Until then, the
impact on metal production had been limited since Gkamines could draw from the large ore and
concentrate stockpiles accumulated in the past to maintain output at capacity. However, the
depletion of these stockpiles threatened to expose Gecamines to a disruptive imbalance between
mining capacity and the processing capacity in both concentrating and smelting plants.

4.2.    Cash Flow. Gecamines also faced cash-flow problems due to excessive rent extraction by
the Government through fiscal and other transactions.          This issue was addressed under the
Gecamines Technical Assistance Project through various covenants in the Credit Agreement
whereby the Government agreed to reimburse Gtkamines for past uncompensated sales, pledged to
stop preemption of G6camines' cash flow through irregular commercial practices, and agreed to
amending the applicable fiscal framework. Cash-flow problems were compounded by the large
pipeline of products in transit on Zaire's ineffective rail network: 129,000 tons of copper in 1984,
worth $175 million. High costs were another area of major concern: despite its high-grade copper
ore, Gecamines would not have been profitable after 1979 without the associated cobalt sales,
which Gecamines could sell at several times the production cost.

4.3.    Management was another area of weakness, due in part to the rapid turnover of political
appointees at the head of Gecamines (three CEOs succeeded each other in 1984). This created
internal infighting and deprived management of the stability required to design long-term
strategies, and carry out the programs needed to improve company operations.            In addition,
expatriate staff were retiring from the company and there was no well-defined plan for their
orderly replacement with qualified Zairians. On the labor side, a combination of extensive benefits
and low wages reduced work incentives and encouraged a high degree of absenteeism. Gecamines'
general accounting system had improved with the TA project, but the company still lacked
comprehensive management information systems, including cost accounting by production center.

RehabilitationProgram

4.4.     The project was based on a five-year rehabilitation program prepared by GBcamines under
the first Technical Assistance Project. This program consisted mainly of overdue rehabilitation
and replacement investments required to maintain output, improve technical efficiency, and cut
costs. The project also included training, studies and technical assistance, particularly in the areas
of purchasing and inventory control and short-term mine planning, as well as pre-investment
studies for future mining operations. The total cost of the rehabilitation program was estimated at
$703 million, of which $436 million in foreign exchange.


Rationale for Bank Involvement

4.5.    The primary objectives of the Bank since the late 1970shad been:

(a)     to contain cash transfers from GBcamines to Zairian authorities to a level compatible with
        GBcamines' viability. In 1982, the Government rationalized the fiscal framework and
        GBcamines established an arm's length marketing agreement with its sales agent Sozacom;

(b)     to help the company achieve financial transparency, through the implementation of a
        reliable accounting system and financial controls; and

(c)     to expose GBcamines, a relatively inward-looking institution, to international trends and
        practices in the global copper industry; help develop a corporate planning capability;
        strengthen GBcamines' management and technical skills; and generally reduce operating
        and management inefficiencies.

4.6.    Two major considerationsjustified a substantial financial participation of the Bank in the
Rehabilitation Project. First, any national recovery program would of necessity involve an active
dialogue and assistance to GBcamines, given its central position in the Zairian economy. The
expert hired by the Bank to prepare the project assessed that the project "could be financed on self-
generated funds with the help of minor bridge.. .or.. .export financing" but a substantial loan by the
Bank was necessary, failing which "the loss of Bank influence on the company's policies and
principal decisions would have major undesirable consequences...Whether or not GBcamines really
needs such financing is not the issue". Second, the loan was a net addition to the concessional
financing provided by IDA to Zaire. By financing GBcamines' overdue investments, the Bank in
effect allowed Gecamines to increase its financial transfers to the Treasury, and the economy in
general at a crucial point of Zaire's adjustment program.


Covenants and Guarantees

4.6.    Covenants. Because the siphoning of funds and interference by Zairian authorities had
been the principal source of disruption for Gkamines' operations and could frustrate the successful
implementation of the project, it was essential to ensure that transparent, arm's length relations
would exist between GBcamines and Zairian authorities. Accordingly, the key covenants agreed in
the Guarantee Agreement purported to (i) limit the fiscal and dividend demands placed on
Gecamines to a reasonable level; (ii) ensure that diversion of sales would not reoccur; and (iii)
prevent irregular procurement transactions between GBcamines and Sonatrad.

4.7.    Guarantees. Given the large amount of foreign exchange generated by Gkamines, the
company was selected as the direct Borrower of the Loan, with the Government acting as the
Guarantor. In addition, special trust account arrangements were made by Gkarnines under which
G&amines would maintain at all times in the trustee account an advance deposit equivalent to 50
percent of the next loan repayment installment. The World Bank, the AfDB and the EIB arepan
passu beneficiaries of this facility, which is managed by a commercial bank in London.


                 5.PROJECTOBJECTIVESAND DESCRIPTION

Project Objectives

5.1.    The Gkamines Rehabilitation Project was to help Gkamines achieve a series of objectives
related to production, costs and management. Specifically these objectives were to:

        (a)      Maintain metals production at the company's nominal capacity to make
                 optimal use of existing installations;

        (b)      Increase metal recoveries of concentrators and metallurgical plants to
                 reduce quantities of ore to be produced at the mines;

        (c)      Reduce operating costs of the concentrators and metallurgical plants, and
                 contain overall mining costs;

        (d)      Diversify and increase the company's production of copper cathodes;

        (e)      Improve the company's management and efficiency of operations; and

        (f)      Prepare a long-term strategy based on preinvestment research and studies.


Project Design

5.2     Overview.      The rehabilitation program had three major components: (a) physical
investments; (b) training; and (c) studies and technical assistance.    The SAR provided only a
general description of the mining and plant rehabilitation component, which was to absorb 94
percent of the project funds. Also, the report did not explain how the new installations built under
the project would fit with Gkamines' existing operations or with its development strategy. This
level of generality was adopted to prevent Gbcamines' international competitors from acquiring
information on its operations, which are generally not available. By contrast, the SAR provides
comprehensive background information and details on the personnel development and training
component.

5.3     Mining and Plant Rehabilitation.         The rehabilitation investment component had five
major sub-components: (i) mining equipment; (ii) concentrators; (iii) metallurgical plants; (iv)
transport and workshops; and (v) data processing, telecommunications and other equipment for
central services. The mining sub-component, designed to assure a mining capacity of 470,000 tpa
of copper equivalent, included the procurement of an in-pit crushing and belt-conveyor system for

the newly developed Kov mine, and mining equipment such as drills, loaders, bulldozers, shovels,
etc. as well as spare parts. For concentrators and metallurgical plants, the project was to replace
worn equipment and rehabilitate sections of certain plant facilities to improve metal recovery and
reduce costs.    The metallurgical sub-component included the completion of two downstream
installations at Luilu, near Kolwezi: an anode preparation plant and an electrorefinery producing
copper cathodes. These metallurgical plant. would allow GBcamines to produce high-grade copper
products without having to use toll-processing services abroad.

5.4      Training. The training component had the following sub-components: (a) creation of
training units; (b) a program to train trainers outside Zaire; (c) review and modernization of
existing training methods and courses; and (d) on-the-job training for open-pit mining supervisors.

5.5.    Preinvestment Work, Technical Studies and Technical Assistance. The preinvestment
work and technical studies were a continuation of the work undertaken under the previous TA
project to prepare a long-term strategy and analysis of activities with cost reduction potential. The
studies included in this component were to (a) review the inventory system; (b) evaluate purchasing
practices and improve the bidding and bid evaluation processes; (c) optimize open-pit mining
operations; (d) conduct exploration within the GBcamines concession; (e) examine the feasibility
and engineering of new deposits for future mining operations and (0 prepare a comprehensive
review of the company's social benefits. The loan was to also finance the assistance of three
specialistsfor inventory management, purchasing and procurement.


Costs and Financing

5.6     The total estimated cost of the project amounted to $703 million of which $436 million (62
percent) was to be procured in foreign exchange. Gkamines was to provide $417 million, or 59
percent of total project costs. The Bank, the European Community (through its Mineral Systems
unit, Sysmin), AfDB, EIB, and CCCE were to provide the remaining $286 million, or 41 percent.


Project Benefits

5.7.    The incremental financial rate of return (IRR) was estimated at 16 percent for the project,
on the assumption that the project would prevent an annual decline in production of 1.5 percent.
The SAR warned that an incremental analysis was of limited validity for a project of this nature,
and pointed out that the IRR was most sensitive to the production decline assumption: the IRR
would be only 12 percent if the project prevented a decline of 1.0 percent in annual production
instead of 1.5 percent. The incremental economic rate of return for the project as a whole was
calculated at 24 percent. The SAR did not provide a separate economic analysis for major
investments such as the in-pit crusher at Kov or the anode preparation plant and the electrorefinery
at Luilu.


Reducing Risks

5.8.    Preemption of Ghmines' cash-flow. Given the negative experience of the Bank in the
two previous projects, with Zairian authorities siphoning funds out of GBcamines without regard
for the company's cash needs for operations and investment financing, agreement was reached with

the Government to maintain transparent financial relations, not to change the tax regime without
prior approval by the Bank and develop a suitable dividend policy. In a related covenant, the
Government was to allow GBcamines to retain at least 45 percent of its net sales revenues to cover
foreign currency requirements for operations and investment.      To prevent the reoccurrence of
irregular purchasing transactions, the Project provided for technical assistance to GBcamines and
called for close supervision of Sonatrad, the national procurement agency.

5.9.    Weak management.         The success of the project also hinged on the capability of
Gecamines' management to manage a complex, large-scale project. GBcamines had not managed a
project of this magnitude since the Expansion project in the late 1970s, whose implementation had
been disappointing. This issue was addressed through specific technical assistance and training.
The related issue of management stability was addressed through a covenant requiring consultation
with the Bank before any substantial modification in GBcamines' organization.


Safety and Environment

5.10    Safety. The SAR found that health and safety conditions were satisfactory in underground
and open-pit mines but left something to be desired in the surface plants. This issue was to be
addressed in the training component of the project.

5.11. Pollution. At the time of appraisal, GBcamines operations did not meet international
environment standards for water effluents and air emissions. In addition, mined areas were not
reclaimed. Although GBcamines had a monitoring program for water and air pollution in place,
the company did not regularly take corrective measures on the basis of this program. A a result of
discussions with Bank staff during supervision missions, it was agreed that under the Second
Technical Assistance Project, Gkamines would undertake a thorough environmental impact
assessment and prepare a mitigation plan.


               6. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONEXPERlENCE

Overview

6.1     The project was to be implemented in four years, between 1986 and 1990. The Loan
became effective in April 1987, about eight months after the original date of August 1986, due to
delays in the effectivenessof the loans from the AfDB and the EIB. This delay caused the Bank to
postpone the closing date by one year from December 31, 1990 to December 31, 1991. Further
delays occurred as a result of difficulties in procuring major equipment, and the riots that took
place in Shaba in 1991. Despite these problems, most of the physical components financed by the
Bank were installed by December 1991, and the Loan was fully disbursed in May 1992. However,
the major installations financed by the Bank and other donors have not yet become operational.
Also, the rehabilitation of the Kolwezi concentrator was intermpted due to a suspension of
disbursements by EIB in February 1991. The training program was implemented as foreseen
although the training facilities were destroyed during the riots.     The technical studies were
completed, albeit with some delays, but many of their recommendations have not yet been
implemented.

6.2.     Due to the security situation in Zaire since 1991, the Bank has not been able to conduct
supervision missions to collect data for this PCR. If possible, a mission will visit Zaire in the last
quarter of 1992 to review the completion of the project with Gkamines, and to supervise the
technical assistance project. The following sections review the status of (a) the main components
of the project; (b) project costs and financing; (c) the allocation of the proceeds of the Bank loan;
and (d) adherenceof Gkamines and the Government of Zaire to the major covenants of the Loan
and GuaranteeAgreements.


Review of Project Components

6.3.     Mining and Plant Rehabilitation. There was considerabledelay in the implementation of
the four major physical components of the project: in-pit crusher and belt conveyor, concentrator
rehabilitation, anode preparation plant, and electrorefinery at Luilu. Installation of the in-pit.
crusher in the Kov mine was delayed due to difficulties in procurement and in adhering to Bank
guidelines for competitive bidding and because Gecamines did not prepare the earth works on time.
Completion of the Kolwezi concentrator rehabilitation was interrupted because the EIB suspended
disbursements (motivated by the failure of the state to take suggested actions to stem the
deterioration of Gbcamines' financial situation). The anode preparation plant and the cathode
refinery were installed by the end of 1991, but testing and commissioning were delayed by the civil
disturbances of 1991, during which key parts were stolen. The anode and cathode plants are
scheduled to start commercial production early 1993, while the in-pit crusher is expected to come
on-stream later that year.

6.4.    Training.     A review in March 1989 indicated that about 13,000 staff had received
technical training during 1987 and 1988 and about 1,400 staff had received management training
through 1988. This compares to the 15,000 staff to receive on-the-job training, as estimated at
project appraisal. The new training facilities were destroyed during the riots in Shaba in 1991.

6.5.    Preinvestment work.         Gkamines, with financing from the Bank, was to prepare
feasibility studies, including exploration work if required, to define a program for the development
of the Tenke deposit and the transformation of the Kipushi mine from copper to zinc production.
During appraisal, and subsequently during supervision, the Bank recommended that Gbcamines
seek joint-venture partners for the development of these projects.             Gecamines presented
preliminary results of these studies to the Bank, which so far have not been implemented.


6.6.    Studies and Technical Assistance.           The activities under the technical assistance
component were completed, some of which under the Second Technical Assistance Project, except
for the market survey for copper wirebars, which the Bank and Gecamines eventually considered
unnecessary. Table 6.1 briefly indicates the status and findings of these studies.

                        Table 6.1: Findings of Studies under Loan 2682-ZR




                          included: reclassificationof stock items, decentralizedstock control, more
                                                                       ment, etc. Recommendations




                          recommended a complete revamping of the personnel structure and salary




Project Costs and Financing


6.7. Project Cost. While the overall wst of the component financed by the World Bank was
within the contingency determined at appraisal, total project costs are estimated at $822 million,
higher than the $703 million (including contingencies) projected at appraisal, as shown in Part III,
Table 5. Gdcarnines reports a total cost of $1150 million but this figure includes unspecified
investment costs in administration and social facilities and operations, investments not connected
with the project (such as two jet planes and an office building in Brussels), normal maintenance
capital expenditure, and unrealized investment commitments. In addition, GBcamines' figures refer
to the 1984-1990period, while the appraisal figures cover the 1986-1990period only.


6.8     Factors which have contributed to this higher than projected level of investment include:

(a)     unexpected investment in temporary mining equipment due to the delay in the
        implementation of the rehabilitation project;

(b)     unforeseen investment in transport facilities (roads, vehicles, locomotives, wagons) due to
        the deterioration of the road and rail infrastructure;

(c)     The effect of the depreciation of the dollar vis-a-vis major European currencies which
        increased the cost of a number of contracts with German, Belgian, French and Italian
        supplies. (the US dollar depreciated from BEF 52 in 1984185to BEF 34 in 1992);

(d)     The difference between the official and parallel market exchange rates as Gecamines'
        receipts were valued at the official exchange rate while its purchases reflected the much
        higher market rate; and

(e)     expenditures not included in the investment program such as two jet planes for $31.1
        million and a building in Brussels for $7.6 million.

6.9 Project Financing, According to Bank staff estimates based on data provided by Gtkamines
(see Part In, Table 6), the company financed $451 million (55 percent of project cost) on its own
resources, against $417 million projected at appraisal. The Bank disbursed $109.9 million out of a
total of $110 million, leaving an undisbursed balance of $67,000.           A breakdown of total
disbursements by category is provided in Table 6.3.       Disbursements for the anode preparation
plant exceeded original estimatesby about $22 million since the Bank, at the request of Gkamines,
agreed to finance the total turn-key project including Gkarnines' share of the plant cost. This was
financed by reallocating funds from other categories. More information on project financing by
other cofinanciers is provided in Part III, Table 5.




Compliance with covenants

6.10.   Compliancewith the covenants of the Loan Agreement (LA) and the Guarantee Agreement
(GA) was deemed satisfactory by supervision missions until 1988, but it deteriorated sharply
thereafter. Full details are provided in Part III, Table 7a. The covenants breached are related to
obligations in respect of audits, marketing arrangements, the setting up of a planning and strategy
unit, and financial ratios, as outlined below.

(a)     Audit requirements. Despite repeated requests by the Bank, the quarterly audit reports
        required from Sonatrad were not received (LA 4.06 and 5.01). No semi-annual audits

         were obtained from Gecamines Commerciale after 1988 (LA 4.06 and 5.01). In FY 1991,
        the audit reports provided by Gecamines Exploitation did not cover the Special Account
         and did not include a memorandum on internal control (LA 5.01).

(b)      Arms lengthmarketing. Althoughthis has not been officially established,various sources
        have pointed to diversions of G6camines' cobalt production since 1991 (GA 3.02 and LA
        4.01). The magnitude of this diversion is estimated to be in the range of 100-150 tons per
         month, or $40-60 million p.a. at current market prices.

(c)      Sound commercial and administrative practice. A number of Gkamines' procurement
         contracts do not observe sound commercial and administrative practices (LA 4.01).
         Although some high-cost contracts have been discontinued, indications exist that funds
        continue to be diverted out of Gecamines through procurement at inflated prices.

(d)     Sound industrial and engineering practice. Due to the excessive cash-flow demands
        placed on Gecamines, the company was not able to operate and maintain its mines and
        installations in keeping with sound industrial and engineering practice (GA 4.02). This
        could explain for instance the collapse of the underground mine at Kamoto in 1990. Other
        examples of unsound industrial practice include ineffective pumping operations and the
        considerablebacklog in overburden removal in the open pit mines.

(e)     Planning and strategy unit. Gkamines failed to set up a planning and strategy unit (LA
        4.04).

(f)     Financial Ratios. Due to a deteriorating position, the 1.3 current ratio required by the
        Loan Agreement was not met in 1991 (LA 5.05).

6.11.   Covenants in this project proved difficult to enforce.      Given the central role of
Gecamines, the Bank hesitated in suspending the Loan, when Zaire was still in the adjustment
mode, considering the severe impact that such an action could have on the rehabilitation of
G6camines, the Zairian economy and the country dialogue. Thereafter, it became particularly
difficult for the Bank to wield substantial leverage since the major procurement contracts had
been approved and signed.

                                7. PROJECT RESULTS

Production

7.1.   Output. The principal objective of the project was to sustain copper production at its
nominal processing capacity of 470,000 tpa. Ore production was to be maintained by (i) replacing
worn out mining equipment such as trucks, shovels, drills, etc.; (ii) installing an in-pit crusher and
belt conveyor in the newly developed open-pit mine at Kov; and (iii) improving short-term mine
planning. In addition, copper and cobalt recovery were to increase with the rehabilitation of the
concentratorsand other processing plants.

7.2.   However, during the implementation of the project, copper production fell by half from
476,000 tons in 1986 to 221,000 tons in 1991, and is expected to plummet below 150,000 tons in
1992. Cobalt production also fell, from 13,300 tons in 1986 to 8,900 tons in 1991. The collapse
of metal production mainly resulted from:

(a)    Depletion of Gecamines' ore and concentrate stockpiles, which in the past had cushioned
       the company against the decline of its mining operations;

(b)    Neglect of maintenance and deficient short term mine planning, resulting in a low
       availability of mining equipment;

(c)    Collapse of the central section of the underground Kamoto mine in September 1990; and
       closure of the Kambove mine in 1988 due to ore depletion;

(d)    Neglect of stripping work (overburden removal), resulting in excessively steep slopes in
       the pits, as well as water inflow problems which Gkamines was unable to tackle
       effectively;

(e)    Delayed installation and non-availability of the Bank-financed in-pit crusher at Kov,
       Gdcamines largest mine; delays in the rehabilitation of concentrators and processing plants;

(0     Civil disturbances in 1991and 1992.


                         Table 7.1 Production Obiectivesvs, ResulQ

7.3.    Costs. The second key objective of the project was to contain mining and processing costs
to maintain G6camines' competitive position in the lower quartile of the world cost curve. This
objective was not achieved. Between 1986 and 1989, Gecamines' unit copper costs increased 42
percent from 67 to 95 ctsllb., placing the company in the top third of the world production cost
curve. Due to the collapse of production and the disorganization of the company, unit costs further
increased to $1.65Ab. in 1991, compared to an average sales price of $1.05flb. Although output
declined, cash operating costs increased from $893 million in 1988to $1094 million in 1990.

7.4.    One of the elements of the cost reduction program was the rationalization of the
procurement and inventory control systems. These two areas were analyzed in a study on
integrated logistics carried out under the Second Gkamines Technical Assistance Project, which
identified a one time gain potential of $120 million and annual cost savings of $75 million.
Although in 1990 expatriate consultants were hired to implement the recommendations of the
study, the program did not achieve the expected results due to continued interference by top
management in the area of procurement. This program was effective in centralizing the ordering
of strategic items, which reduced both inventory levels and stock-out occurrences. Unfortunately,
this program was not able to arrest the practice of high cost, single-source supply contracts. For
example, Sonatrad   -  a key actor in this type of practices   - was dissolved early 1991, but its
contracts were taken over by private traders at similar conditions.


Impact of Management Actions Relatedto the Project

7.5.    Gecarnines was to take a series of actions to improve its overall management and
operations, assisted by Bank-financed studies. Table 7.2 outlines these actions and their results.


                  T      c     a     m      e     n      t Actions and ResulQ

                              8. BANX PERFORMANCE

Project Design

8.2.    The design of the project as outlined in the SAR had a number of shortcomings. However,
as explained in the following paragraph, it is unlikely that a different design could have changed
the outcome of the project given the existing institutional framework.

8.3.    Description of the Investment Component. The investment component was essentially
presented in the SAR as a list of equipment to be purchased by Gbcamines. The largest component
of the project -- the Kov in-pit crushing and conveyor system - was not part of the project as
appraised. It was first brought up by Gbcamines during negotiations, and Bank staff had no
opportunity to carry out an indepth economic analysis of this major investment. The project also
included a product diversification component comprising the completion of an anode preparation
plant, financed by the Bank, tied with an electrorefinery for the production of copper cathodes to
be financed by the AfDB. The anode preparation plant is not specifically discussed in the SAR.
Since this component seems less central to the company's basic problems, it might have been
useful to establish clearly the order of priority between the rehabilitation and the diversification
objectives. In retrospect, the in-pit crusher was technically justified and might have had a high
return in different economic and institutional circumstances. With hindsight however, it might
have been useful for the general project design to emphasize not only the extraction and processing
of primary ore, but also the processing of Gbcamines' considerable cobalt and copper tailings.

8.4.    Although there was considerable consultation during project preparation, cofinancing
arrangements were finalized shortly before the completion of the SAR, the components financed by
other donors are therefore mentioned in general terms, without specifying how they are linked with
the Bank-financed component.

8.5.    Implementation Arrangements. The SAR acknowledged that "the project is relatively
ambitious and exceeds past implementation levels achieved by GBcarnines". Indeed implementation
was a stumbling block in the previous GBcamines Expansion Project, an undertaking of similar
scope. However, it was not clear how Gbcamines was to coordinate the implementation of such as
complex project. The SAR only states that:

        "the Company will have to rely more heavily than in the past on outside contractors for
        construction and installation. In order to assure implementation of the project according to
        schedule Gbcamines bas reviewed the impact of outside contractors on the basis of its own
        implementation capacity with particular emphasis on manpower requirements, and has
        submitted a proposal for allocation of implementation responsibilities to different
        departments of the Company and to contractors."

Concerning the implementation schedule, the SAR only provides a general diagram with target
dates for broad categories of items: "concentrators", "mine development", "mine equipment", etc.
In view of the complexity of the project and the acknowledged weakness of Gkamines in
procurement and project management, more attention should have been paid to implementation
arrangements.

8.6.      Delays in critical investments. Implementation delays were considered a major risk.
According to the SAR, "any significant additional delays in either the Kolwezi overburden removal
program or the implementation of critical components of the Rehabilitation Program would have a
deep and permanent impact on the Company".                  In retrospect, given the disappointing
implementation experience of the previous Expansion Project, the SAR should have identified the
critical path for project implementation, and should have specified a core of priority components.
As it turned out, project implementation staff in Gkamines were thinly spread over many tasks,
and might have been more effective had they concentrated on components of the highest priority.

8.7.     Mitigation of the Management Risk. The SAR correctly assessed that the success of the
project "depends heavily on the management whose task is to implement the Project successfully
and correct past practices that have led to a deterioration of the situation". The Bank addressed the
management issue through: (i) a covenant requiring consultation with the Bank before any
organizational change in Gecamines; and (ii) a training program to improve the technical skills of
local staff. In retrospect, it was unrealistic to expect the training program to produce substantial
management improvements early enough to ensure the successful implementation of the
rehabilitation program. Also, it was unlikely that a training program, however well focused,
would be enough by itself to transfer fully the managerial and technical skills required for
Gecamines to match its competitors in a global industry, who had undertaken large-scale programs
to upgrade technology and increase productivity. Furthermore, these measures did not address the
issue of GBcamines' institutional framework and management structure, which caused the company
to focus more on short-term cash generation than on efficiency and long-term growth.

8.8.     Mitigation of the Rent Extraction Risk.           The Bank fully assessed the risk that
Government would continue the siphoning of funds out of Gecamines and sought to mitigate it
through covenants on the tax regime, on the dividend policy, and on retention of foreign exchange.
Periodic audits of Gkamines Exploitation, Gkamines Commerciale and Sonatrad were to ensure
that commercial and procurement operations would be carried out on arms length basis. However,
it was not clear how the rent-seeking culture pervasive in Zairian institutions was to be reformed.
The PCR of the previous Expansion Project and general experiencewith other projects in Zaire has
shown that audits and covenants, even enforced strictly, afford limited protection against political
interference and diversion of funds. As it turned out, Sonatrad's audit reports were not provided,
and audit reports for GBcamines Exploitation after 1988 did not question high-cost procurement
contracts and other such practices.

8.9.     Deterioration of the Transport System. The SAR noted that transport infrastructure and
equipment had been deteriorating since the 1960s, particularly the railway system, which was
essential for the viability of Gecamines production and export operations, and acknowledged that
only continued support from external donors could ensure satisfactory performance. The SAR
notes that "...much work is currently going on along these lines under three Bank-assisted projects,
the Onatra modernization, Ports Rehabilitation and Second SNCZ project.. .",but does not provide
further analysis.


Supervision

8.10.    In the early phases of project supervision (1986-1988), Bank staff devoted considerable
attention to procurement issues, which were delaying the implementation of individual project

components. These specific procurement issues were solved in 1989, clearing the way for the
implementation of urgently needed works. Good progress was made on the institutional side: fiscal
arrangements were deemed appropriate, a satisfactory dividend policy was designed,
uncompensated sales of Gkamines copper by the Government were repaid by 1987, and
Gkamines Comrnerciale provided regular audit report. indicating that metal sales took place on
arms length basis. However, one major concern was management's failure to bring production
costs under control, develop a comprehensive manpower development program, and establish a
full-fledged corporateplanning function.

8.11.   In order to address G&amines8management, cost control, purchasing, and manpower
problems in a comprehensive manner, the Bank prepared a Second Technical Assistance Project,
which was approved in June 1989. It was also thought that technical assistance would facilitatethe
implementation of critical investments under the Rehabilitation project.        This attempt was
frustrated by the sharp degradation in the institutional and macro-economic environment which
occurred after the Government abandoned the on-going adjustment program late 1989. From that
time, the focus of Bank supervision shifted from a close follow-up of project implementation to the
broader goal of preserving the overall viability of Gkamines. Between 1989 and 1991, the Bank
repeatedly urged Gkamines management and the Government to take a series of emergency
measures to avert a collapse. In October 1991, the Bank indicated that the Technical Assistance
Project might be used to prepare a complete restructuring and the privatization of the company.
This proposal was last reiterated during a supervision mission in December 1992. To date, neither
Gkamines nor Zairian authorities have responded to this proposal.

8.12.   Bank supervision had a reasonable record on this project, although perhaps more staff
resources should have been allocated to follow Gt5camines8 complex operations and financial
transactions in sufficient detail. The reorganization of the Bank in 1987 seemed to affect the
continuity and intensity of the supervision effort. This may explain why the issue of funds
diversion through Sonatrad was not tackled more forcefully by the Bank. Two shortcomings can
be noted in Bank supervision reports: After 1988, the format of supervision reports changed and
no longer included a detailed table reviewing compliance with project covenants. However, since
1989, Bank staff reviewed G&amines8monthly treasury reports to identify financial problems and
have them corrected. Also, the overall internal rating of the project of "2" in 1990 was too
generous in view of the sharp deteriorationof the situation of Gecamines and in Zaire.


                         9. BORROWER PERFORMANCE

9.1.    The performance of Gkamines was weaker than expected at appraisal with respect to
procurement, implementation capacity, cost control, and corporate planning. More fundamentally,
Gecamines as a state4wned entity was unable to resist interference by Zairian officials and
establish arms'length relationship with its institutional environment.

9.2.    Procurement and Implementation.           The physical components of the project were
considerably delayed because Gecamines failed to establish an adequately staffed project
implementation group to ensure the timely acquisition, installation and start-up of crucial project
components, such as the in-pit facilities at Kov.       The centralized organizational structure of
Gecamines required the clearance of top management for each step of the bidding and procurement

process, causing considerable procurement delays. Experience of the Bank with GBcamines and
other projects in Zaire has shown that centralization of the procurement process results in
unnecessary bureaucratic delays but does not prevent high-cost procurement practices.

9.3.     Cost control. Throughout the project, Gkamines management was unable to control
operating costs. Although the consultants financed by the Bank identified a large cost-reduction
potential, only some of this potential could be realized because top management was unwilling and
unable to implement the recommendations.

9.4.     Corporate Planning. GBcamines management also failed to establish a corporate planning
unit, ignoring strategic issues such as sustainability and international competitiveness, focusing
instead on short-term cash generation. Also, in the absence of a comprehensive business plan
integrating all relevant technical, financial, marketing and manpower factors, Gbcamines'
management and shareholder failed to grasp the severity of the situation. In 1991, GBcamines was
unable to prepare and present a coherent emergency recovery program requested by the donors to
prevent the impending collapse. Early 1992, Gkamines management targeted an annual copper
output of 230,000 tons, even though on the basis of recent trends and in the absence of a decisive
action plan, it seemed unlikely that the company would be able to achieve this level of production.

9.5      Government Performance.          As in the earlier GBcamines Expansion Project, the
performance of Gkamines under the Project was severely undermined by continued diversion of
funds and interference by Zairian authorities, particularly in the area of procurement. Institutional
problems related to the Zairian Government are summarized in Table 9.1 below.


                       Table 9.1 Institutional ~roblernsfaced bv G6camine

                                             Action

Confiscatory taxation.          Fiscal system reformed in 1982.  Fiscal burden is excessivegiven
                                                                 losses sustainedby Gkmines
Diversion of productionlsales.  - Arms length contract between   - Someunexplained differences
                                GCM Commerciale and GCM          between sales price and market price.
                                Exploitation.                    - GCM Commercialefailed to
                                - Gecamines Commerciale to       provide audits since 1989.
                                provide semi-annual audit        - Diversion of cobalt production
                                reports.                         reported since 1991.
Possibility of excessive        Satisfactorydividend policy      No dividends are paid given the
dividends payments              adopted in 1987.                 losses sustained by Ghmines.
Diversion of funds through      Arms' length purchasing          Sonatrad provided no audit reports
purchasing contracts.           agreement with Sonatrad.         and was dissolved in 1991.
                                Sonatrad to provide quarterly    Diversion of funds through
                                audit reports.                   purchasing contracts continues.
Preemption of foreign exchange  Government agreed to let GCM     GCM keeps about 704% of its foreign
by the Central Bank.            keep 454% of its foreign         exchangebut continue8 to obtain
                                exchange.                        local currency from the Central Bank
                                                                 at the unfavorable official exchange
                                                                 rate while contracts with local
                                                                 entrepreneurs are indexed on the
                                                                 much-higher market rate.

Possibilityof Government          Early 1992, the Bank urged      Negotiationswith potential
pledging metal production over    Zairian Governmentnot to        beneficiariesof security reported to
next few years as a real          follow this course.             be suspended.
guarantee for furtherborrowing.
Public shareholderunable to       Invwtmentsfinancedby World      Public shareholderunable to provide
financeessential investments.     Bank and other donors.          funds. Companyhas exhausted its
                                                                 borrowing capacity.


                10. SUSTAINABILITY AND LESSONS LEARNED

10.1.    Sustaining the competitiveness of Gkamines' operations was the key objective of the
project under review and had been a primary concern of the Bank since the late 1970s. Until
recently, the strategy followed by the Bank was to (i) help Gecamines improve its efficiency
through investment and technical assistance projects, while (ii) attempting to improve Zaire's
institutional framework, or at least (iii) shielding the company against the most deleterious effects
of this framework. This, in retrospect, was not a viable strategy not only because of the particular
institutional and cultural context of Zaire, but also due to the global and competitive nature of the
copper mining industry.       For Gecamines to have a future in this industry, private sector
participation is necessary.

10.2.    Institutional context in Zaire. In the mid 1980s, Gkamines had access to export credit
and commercial financing, and could probably have financed the project on its own resources
without the support of the Bank. However, the Bank considered it essential to maintain an intimate
involvement with Gkamines in order to protect the company against predatory rent extraction and
other disruptive interference by Zairian authorities. It was believed that only a large Bank loan
could provide the appropriate vehicle for such an involvement. In effect, the Bank sought to
insulate Gkamines from its institutional environment.         In retrospect, the Bank succeeded in
deflecting a number of direct institutional threats to Gkamines' viability, overall this strategy was
not tenable. The goal pursued by the Bank proved unrealistic, not only in the context of the
entrenched rent-seeking culture prevailing in many Zairian institutions. but also because a company
cannot be shielded simultaneously against its public shareholder, its supervisory and regulatory
agencies, its sister public entities, and fiscal authorities. Experience in Zaire and other countries
has shown that a committed and responsive Government is a prerequisite for any successful reform
of the mining sector. By providing a loan without firm Government commitment to reform, the
Bank may have delayed the ultimate collapse of the company, but could not prevent it.

10.3.    International competitiveness. Beyond the adverse institutional environment prevailing in
Zaire, studies carried out by the World Bank over the last few years have shown that state-owned
mining enterprises have often been less successful than their privately owned competitors. This is
particularly true since the last oil shock. After the mid 1970s, lower copper prices prompted
international mining companies to undertake large-scale technology investments to increase
productivity and cut costs.      Meanwhile, most state-owned mining companies like Gecamines
undertook rehabilitation programs financed by international donors. These rehabilitation programs
at best allowed state-owned companies to maintain their productive capacity, but were unable to
provide them with the competitive edge required to prosper in a global industry. The technical
assistance projects undertaken in the 1980s such as the two GBcamines Technical Assistance
Projects also helped reduce technical inefficiencies and establishing basic management instruments

such as accounting systems, but likewise failed to address the issue of maintaining global
competitiveness.

10.4.   Conflict between fiscal and corporate objectives.              Compared with their private
counterparts, state-owned mining enterprises suffer a number of structural disadvantages. First,
the confusion of identity between the shareholder and fiscal authorities results in structural conflict
between the objective of short term cash generation preferred by fiscal authorities, and the
corporate objective of long term growth and profitability. Particularly in Africa, state-owned
companies prove unable to resist the pressing demands of the Treasury.            A perverse effect of
excessive fiscal pressure in countries like Zaire is that in order to step up short-term cash
generation, state-owned companies defer the investment in state-of-the-art technology, and engage
in unsound operating practices which undermine their competitivenessand viability.

10.5    Management.        Another problem with state-owned mining companies is uneven
management and technical competence. Top management and Board directors are appointed based
on political merit and the are assessed on their ability to achieve fiscal targets and social objectives
such as employment generation, rather than on strict corporate performance. In addition, the
supervisory authority of state-owned companies usually has a narrow domestic focus as well as a
political agenda, and lacks exposure to international trends and technology.


Lessons Learned

10.6.   A number of important lessons can be learnt from this project. These relate to (i) the
importance of Government commitment; (ii) the institutional environment; (iii) the enforcement of
covenants; and (iv) the role of the Bank in industrial sectors exposed to international competition.

(a)     Government commitment.          Unsustainable rent extraction and continued Government
        interference had been a major destabilizing factor for Gecamines since the 1970s, creating
        the need for the Rehabilitation Project under review. The Bank's strategy on Zaire, of
        which the loan under review was an important element, was based on the premise that the
        poor governance and economic mismanagement in the country could be remedied with a
        combination of adjustment operations and investments in key sectors. The Bank sought to
        secure the Government's commitment to discontinue past practices through strict covenant
        and audit requirements. Ultimately, this approach was not successful, and the experience
        of this project confirms the conclusion drawn in the PCR for the earlier Expansion project,
        namely that audits and covenants are not adequate guarantees in the absence of firm
        Government commitment and responsiveness to the requirements of a large mining
        operation.

(b)     Institutional environment. This project has confirmed that it is not realistic for the Bank
        to expect that it can create and maintain a suitable framework within which a state-owned
        company can remain competitive without support from the government in its role as tax
        collector, regulator, owner, central banker, and provider of infrastructure.

(c)     Covenants. Two important lessons can be drawn with respect to covenants. First, even
        when they were formally adhered to, covenants were unable to prevent large scale
        diversion of funds out of Gkamines. Over time, cash diversion schemes became more

     ingenious and, from 1989, were no longer identified in the audit reports made available to
     the Bank. Because Gecarnines and Zairian authorities denied any malfeasance, the Bank
     hesitated to take action based on the judgment of staff, in the absence of a hard proof.
     Second, given the central role of Gecamines in the Zairian economy, the Bank lacked the
     flexibility to calibrate a response to covenant violations. As a slow disbursing vehicle
     designed to finance complex, lumpy investments, the loan did not provide the Bank with
     the necessary leverage and proved an inappropriate instrument to achieve its assigned
     macroeconomic objective of regulating the outflow of funds from G6camines. In general,
    the Bank should determine in advance which covenant. it is resolved to enforce, even at
    the cost of damaging the country dialogue.

(d) Audits. The audit reports provided to the Bank under this project did not prove an
     efficient and reliable monitoring instrument. For future operations in Zaire, the Bank
    should adopt a stricter audit policy, including legal arrangements whereby auditors copy
    directly to the Bank relevant communications and reports, without going through the
    project entity; and suspend disbursements for failure to submit an appropriate audit report
    on time.

(e) International competitiveness.       Since 1975, the Bank has attempted to transform
    G6camines, an inward-looking state-owned entity under intense political supervision, into
    an internationally competitive company through four successive investment and technical
    assistance operations. While the equipment, consultants, training and studies financed by
    the Bank can help reduce operating inefficiencies, the Bank as a lender is not equipped to
    provide some of the key ingredients required to establish international competitiveness: a
    committed and experienced management sanctioned on its economic performance, a
    motivated labor force, a conducive corporate culture and an enabling political, institutional,
    economic and social environment. It is now difficult to envisage a future for Gecamines
    without the presence of a private sector partnerloperator in charge of key business
    decisions, without government interference.

                                PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                                ZAIRE

                          GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                          (LOAN 2682-ZR)


           PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE


1.      THE COMPANY

1.1     BACKGROUND

        GBnBrale des CarriBres et des Mines, or GECAMINES/EXPLOlTATION (GCM), a state-
owned company, was established on January 2, 1967,following nationalizationof the former Societe
Union Minike du Haut-Katanga (UMHK), which had been operating since 1906.

        The statutes of GECAMINES/EXPLOITATIONwere approved by Order No. 84-222, dated
November 2, 1984, pursuant to Law No. 78-002 of January 6, 1978, which set forth general
provisions governing state-owned companies.

        The state holding company to which it belongs consists of the following affiliates:

        -         GBcamineslExploitation
        -         GBcamines/Commerciale
        -         GBcamines/D~veloppement

        The purpose of GBcamineslExploitationis to carry out research, exploit ore deposits, process
the ore obtained from such deposits, and market the output, in processed and unprocessed form.

1.2     Profile of kmines/Ex~loitation

GBcamines mines copper deposits in a concession of approximately 20,000 km2. This concession
which runs on both sides of the Lubumbashi-Likasi-Kolwezi axis, is about 60 km wide, and 300 km
long.

        It is estimated that the copper ore reserves could last from 30 to 50 years, at a production rate
of 460,000 tons per annum.

1.2.1- Imwrtance of the Reserves at the world level

        G6camines has the second largest copper reserves in the world after Chile. These reserves
account for 1 0 1 of the world copper reserves whereas Chile's reserves account for 30%.

        The company has also the world's largest reserves of cobalt, which account for 80%of total
world reserves.

        The share of Gkamines/Exploitation in world production of nonferrous metals       -i.e.,
                                                                                                 '
copper, cobalt and zinc -is     the following:

                copper                         5%
                cobalt                        50%
                zinc (African market)          1%

        The above figures are based on the 1987 production level, i.e. 472,000 tons of copper.

        The present share of GkaminesExploitation (1992) in world production is approximately:

                copper                     2.5%
                cobalt                      45%
                zinc (African market)      0.5%

        Under normal production conditions, the company's has a sales revenue which is
approximately one billion dollars.

1.2.2   1
        Im r                                  national level

        G6caminesExploitation is one of the major employers in the Republic of Zaire with some
35,000 workers, of whom 3,300 approximately are higher level staff and managers. Expatriates
account for less than 1% of G&arnines/Exploitation total labor force.

        Approximately 258,000 people     -employees         and their families   -depend          on
G6caminesExploitation, not including G&amines Brussels.

       The company accounts for 16% of the GDP and it contributes 66% of the government's
foreign exchange revenue.      About 15% of the government's fiscal resources comes from
GkaminesIExploitation.

1.2.3 Im~ortanceof Gecamines at the reeional level

        The company makes an important contribution to the development of small and medium-size
companies, as well as to the immediatesurrounding area thanks to its extensive social infrastructure.



        The company's production activities include the mining operations, ore concentration,
metallurgical extraction and metal refining. These activities are grouped in three geographical
divisions:

        *Southern Group, in the Lubumbashi area
        *Central Group, in the Likasi area
        *Western



        Gkamines has the following open-pit and underground mines:

               Western G r m (Kolwezi)

               Open-pit:         Kamoto-Olivera-Virgule (KOV), Dikuluwe, Mashamba, Mutoshi
               Underground: Kamoto

        These mines produce copper and cobalt sulfides and oxides .

        The Western Group usually accounts for about 12.9 million tons of ore, which yields 80%
of the company's total copper output.

               Central Grour, (Likasi)

               Open-pit:         Kakanda and surrounding area - Kamfundwa
               Underground: none

        These mines produce copper and cobalt oxides.    Their output is about 2.5 million tons of
ore, which represents 12% of the company's total copper output.

               SOuthem Group (Lubumbashi)


               Underground: Kipushi

        This mineproduces copper and zinc sulfides. They account for about 1.5 million tons of ore,
which yields 8%of the copper and all of the zinc outputs of the company.

                Concentrators

        Gkamines first increases the ore metal content in concentrators which are located in the
vicinity of the mines (Kamoto, Kolwezi and Mutoshi, Kambove, Kakanda and Kipushi). They
produce coppersulfide and oxideconcentrateswhich contain cobalt, preciousmetals (gold and silver),
and zinc sulfide concentrates.

        The capacity of the different concentrators is:

               Western Group:           Kamoto         8million tons
                                        Kolwezi        4 million tons
                                        Mutoshi        2.5 million tons

        a       Central Group:          Karnbove       1.5 million tons
                                        Kakanda        0.7 million tons

                Southern Group          Kipushi        1.5 million tons



        Metallurgical ~lanb

        Gkamines processes its concentrates at the following metallurgical plants:

        (i) copper and cobalt:

                 Western Group:         Luilu plants  -installed      capacities of 175,000 tons of
                                        copper and 9,000 tons of cobalt per year;

         a       Central Group:         Shituru plants -installed      capacities of 135,000 tons of
                                        copper and 8,000 tons of cobalt per year;

         a       Southern Group:        Lubumbashi plants   -installed      capacities of 160,000tons
                                        of copper per year;

         (ii)    zinc and cadmium:

                 Western Group:         Kolwezizincplants   -installed      capacity of 70,000 tons of
                                        zinc and 300 tons of cadmium per year

         The copper plants at Luilu and Shituru use a hydrometallurgical process that is suitablefor
oxide concentrates, and the plant at Lubumbashi uses the pyrometallurgical(thermal) process which
is suitable for sulfide concentrates.

         The Kolwezi zinc plant uses the hydrometallurgical process.



         Gecamines typically refines 45% of its copper ore through thermal processing at the Shituru
plant, whereas another 45% is sent to foreign refineries for toll processing and the remaining 10%
is sold as is.



        Gkamines exports its copper, cobalt and zincproductsthrough: Matadi (260,000tonslyear)
via the Voie Nationale; Dar-Es-Salaam (70,000tonslyear) via Kalemie and Kigoma; and through the
SouthAfrican ports of Durban and EastLondon (200,000 tonslyear) through Zambia and Zimbabwe.
The Lobito (Angola) and Beira (Mozambique) routes have notbeen used since 1978dueto insecurity
at the borders of those countries.



        Gkamines       assets   include  an    extensive   industrial    infrastructure (workshops,
telecommunications; geologic, mining and metallurgical research and development, etc.), an
administrativeinfrastructure (services, data processing) and a social infrastructure(13 hospitals and
clinics, with 3,000 beds which serve a population of roughly 650,000; schools for 60,000 pupils;
housing for 30,000 employees, etc.) which are all vital for an efficient functioningof its operations.

1.6     PERSONNEL

        Gkamines employs approximately 36,000 persons, including 33,000 workers and 3,000
higher level staff, of which 250 civil engineers, 180 technical engineers and 760 other university
graduates. Higher level staffinclude280 expatriates. Thepercentage of Africans among higherlevel
staff has increased from 24% in 1967to 90% in 1992.

        Gkamines copper productioncapacity      -which     was at 300,000 to 320,000 tonsof copper
per year in 1967when the company was legally established    -rose      to 370,000 tons of copper by
the end of 1968 as a result of earlier projects.

        THE FIR= FIVE-YEAR PLAN

        In 1970, the company launched its first five-year plan which aimed at increasing the mining
capacity by 100,000 tons, to 470,000 tons of copper per year in 1974. The plan consisted of the
following components:

        -       an underground crushing and extracting unit at the underground Karnoto mine;

        -       a new concentrator with an annual processing capacity of 1,800,000 tons of sulfides
                from the Kamoto mine;

        -       two additional electrolysis halls with an overall capacity of 60,000 tonslyear of
                copper at the Luilu plants;

        -       installation of a unit for nodulizingthe concentrates and an oxygen producing plant
                at Lubumbashi that would increase copper output by some 30,000 tons;

        -       various improvements in the Kipushi and Kambove mines and concentrators;

        -       commissioning of the Panda Electrical Foundry with an annual capacity of 10,000
                tons of copper.

                The production figure of 470,000 tons of copper per year was reached in 1974.

                This first five-year plan was completely self-financed.



        THE SECOND FIVE-YEARPLAN

        A second Five-Year Development Plan was drawn up for the period from 1975through 1979.
Its objective was to further increase the mining capacity by 100,000 tons of copper per year, to
570,000 tons.

        This plan was financed in part (up to US$220 million) by IBRD, LAFB and EIB       -and
included the following components:

        -       two new open-pit mines, Dikuluwe and Mashamba, located a few kilometers
                southwest of the Kamoto underground mine;

        -       a new concentrator, with an annual processing capacity of 4,000,000 tons of sulfides,
                near the present Karnoto concentrator;

                 a metallurgical extractionplant that uses a flash smelting thermal process within the
                 existing plants at Luilu. This plant has an annual production capacity of 125,000
                 tons of copper is designed to work in close coordination with a cobalt plant and an
                 acid plant, producing 100,000 tons of sulfuric acid a year;

        -        an electrorefineryto refine raw copper by flash smelting, with a production capacity
                 of 100,000 tons per year of high-grade copper.

        The project also included the provision of social infrastructure components for the benefit of
the workers assigned to the new production components.

        Execution of this five-year plan started in 1975but came to a halt in May 1978 as a result
of the events at Kolwezi. Someof the components were nevertheless completed in 1980(the two new
open-pit mines, the concentrator at Dima and the third lime oven at Kakontwe), thus making it
possible to keep production capacity at 470,000 tons of copper per year, in spite of delays in
investment for equipment maintenance since 1975.



                 Period from 1978to 1981, The main events were as follows:

                 -       a sharp decline in copper production, which dropped to 370,000 tons in
                         1979;

                 -      the persistence of a depressed market for copper. Market prices were over
                        50% less than the prices paid in the early 1970s;

                 -      the loss of skilled personnel;

                 -      an increase in operating costs due to oil price hikes;

                 -      the difficulty of obtaining supplies of gas-oil, coke and coal, which resulted
                         in reduced mining and metallurgical output;

                 -      a rise in short-term external debt (export financing).

        Because of the above factors, the company's financial resources were not suficient to allow
it to make the necessary investments to maintain the production level.

        -        Period from 1982to 1983, The increasinglydepressed cobalt market, together with
the chronic weakness of copper prices, triggered a prolonged shrinkage in the Gecamines financial
resources, which were no longer sufficient to ensure routine replenishment of its supplies and
production equipment.

        As a result, the ratio of net to gross fixed assets fell from 46% in 1982 to 38% in 1983,
which indicates a high level of fully depreciated assets that should have been decommissioned. The
average age of those assetswas 37 years, as compared with 12years for those which had not yet been
fully depreciated. The average age of all assets was 20 years, and 50%of all the assetshad been put
into service prior to 1969.

       While the execution   -at     least in part  -of      the different rehabilitationplans since 1978
was not enough to reverse this trend, it did succeed in limiting its effects and in keeping effective
production at the level of nominal capacity since 1981, albeit with difficulty.

        The refusal of donors and creditors to grant supplementaryloans, plus the obligationto repay
US$150 million to the same lenders without benefiting from the cash flow that was to have been
generated by the Second Five-Year Plan (1975-1979) placed a considerable handicap on GBcamines'
operations.

        In order to assist the company, the government agreed to reduce its tax burden.

        The efforts deployed by the company, either to finance its own operations or to obtain other'
external funding, were thus directed toward survival projects designed to maintain its production
capacity to the best of its ability.

        The importanceof the SYSMIN intervention, amounting to US$30 million            -i.e.6296     of
the foreign exchange share of 1982-1983 investments       -should       be emphasized. Those efforts,
however, were hampered by the shortage of financing, which led to serious delays in investments.

3.      THE 1984-1988 FIVEYEAR PLAN

        In view of the deteriorated production instmments, a plan to rehabilitate the company was
drawn up for the 1984-1988period.

3.1     PLAN OBJECTIVES

        The new Five-Year Plan focussed on:

        -       the company's profitability;
                the diversification of its activities; and
        -       the integration of its activities in the national economy.

        Given the medium-term outlook in the copper market of prices depressed by weak demand
growth depressedprices, and in view of its accumulated investment backlog, GBcarninesbelieved that
should it should not attempt, at least in the near future, to increase its production capacity and
concentrate its strategy on building up its profitability.



        From the standpoint of profitability, GECAMINESIEXPLOITATION, while keeping its
production at the current level, wanted to keep its pre-tax return on equity above 1196, and its profit
margin above 9%. To do so, the company had to adopt a policy with the following goals:

        -       improve its net income through prudent diversification of its copper market;
                intelligent control of prices and its share of the cobalt market; by trimming its
                inventories and reducing the cost of refining of copper and cobalt abroad; seeking
                competitive rail and sea transport rates; and by cutting its marketing expenses;

        -       reducing production costs, on the one hand by increasing metal recoveries and
                lowering operating costs through moderate and high-yield investments; and, on the

                other, by exertinggeneralized pressure on the volume and cost of production factors,
                such as supplies, services (particularly transport and electricity, payroll, etc.);

        -       keeping the long-term debtlequity ratio below 25%.

3.1.2   Diversification of activitiq

        In terms of diversification, the aims of GBcamines/Exploitationwere essentially:

        -       to widen the range of copper products refined and processed locally by launching a
                production of higher grade cathodes;

        -       to capitalize on its uranium and tin concessions, possibly by entering into joint
                ventures with Zairian and foreign partners with proven industrial expertise and solid
                financial standing.

3.1.3   Intwration

        From the standpointof vertical integration, the aims of GBcaminesExploitationwere:

                to rationalize the exploitation of all the Shaba copper and cobalt deposits, including
                those of TENKE-FUNGURUME (formerly SMTF) and MUSOSHI-KINSENDA
                (SODIMIZA); and

        -       to adopt a production and procurement policy which, with competitiverates, would
                be beneficial to the nation's industry and trade, thus enhancing its development
                prospects.

        From the standpoint of social integration, GBcaminesExploitation sought to introduce a
regional social policy, particularly in regard to the wages and benefits, housing and medical care,
education and sociocultural activities for its staff, with a view to harmonizing and reducing its own
expenses.



        GBcamines planned to invest the equivalent of US$748 million in constant 1984dollars over
the five-year period from 1984through 1988to offset the cumulative 1980-1983delays in develo~ing
&e minine sectox and in rehabilitating its production equipment. More specifically it planned to
improve its mining, metallurgical and logistic technologies and to broaden the range, and raise the
quality and quantity of its refined products.

        Proiects to Im~roveGecamines' ProfitabiliSy H (300):

                Investments to boost productivity

        These investments, which were to boost copper recovery in the concentrators from 77% in
1984 to 82% in 1988, and from 91% in 1984 to 93% in 1988 in the metallurgical plants, are
summarized below:

       - rehabilitation of the Kolwezi concentrator             US$28 million
       - rehabilitation of the Kamoto concentrator              US$8.7 million
       - rehabilitation of the Kipushi concentrator             US$8.6 million
       - rehabilitation of the Luilu plant                      US$13.9 million
       - rehabilitation of the Shituru plant                    US$3.8 million
       - rehabilitation of the Lubumbashi plant                 US$7.8 million
       - studies (mining, metallurgy and engineering)           US$=      million
                                                                US$93.6 million

               Investments to reduce operating costs

       These investmentswere mainly for the replacement of large, obsolete mining equipment, for
which the operating costs had become prohibitive:

       - replacement of mining machinery                                US$120.3 million
       - rehabilitation of metallurgical equipment                      US$8.5 million
       - various company projects                                       US$=     million
                                                                        US$179.6 million
       - Luilu electrolytic refinery                                    U S $ U million
                                        Total                           US$315 million

       Proiects to maintain the ~roductionlevel H(450)

       These projects called for routine replacement of outdated equipment so that the company
could continue to operate and to meet its internal and external obligations:

       - Mines                                                                           US$
                (preparatory works, pumping facilities, general                       122.0million
         infrastructure, maintenance and drilling)
       - Concentrators (replacement of obsolete machinery)                              8.5 million

       - Metallurgical extraction plants
                (replacement of obsolete equipment)                                    31.5 million

       - Transportation (replacement of equipment and supplies in the
                rail, air and highway transport sectors)                              100.2million

       - Workshops (adaptation of the production and maintenance
                units to operating needs)                                              30.8 million

       - Reconstitutionof geological reserves
               (exploration)                                                          28.1 million

       - Social (medical care, schools and housing)                                    14.1 million

       - Data processing and telecommunications                                        15.5 million

       - Administration                                                                 1.3 million

        -  Centralized operation projects
                 (subassembliesfor engines, power, stocks)                             81.0 millio~
                                                                TOTAL             US$433.0 million

The items listed above included, on the one hand, projects to maintain the technical level of
production, involving an estimated outlay of US$206 million; and, on the other, those designed to
hold operating costs to the level of 1984, an estimated total of US$227 million. The minimum
investment required for the company to meet its internal and external obligations was thus US$206
million.

                 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PLAN

Based on the objectives of the Five-Year Plan, a Technical Assistance Plan was formulated and
projects submitted for World Bank financing. The projects essentially involved a continuationof the
company's reorganization begun in 1982and short-term assistanceby expatriatespecialists. By sector
of activity, the main projects were as follows:

        Production Sector

        -        Technical assistance at the Kolwezi open-pit mines;

        -        Audit and introduction of a maintenance and production policy for the Central
                 Workshops.

                 Financial Sector

        -        Fundingof certain contractsfor experts working on developinggeneral and industrial
                 accounting;

        -        Formulation of a dividend policy.

                 m l v Sector

        -        Introductionof a master reorganization plan for the "supplies" function.

                 Commercial Sector

        -        Study of the cobalt market.

                 Personnel Sector

        -        Formulation of a personnel management policy.

                 Strateev Sector

        -        Continued implementationof the data processing master plan with supportby systems
                 personnel;

        -       Determination of structures for long-term planning;

        -       Recruitment of technical trainers;

        -       Purchase of teaching materials;

        -       Overseas training.

                fivironment Sector

        -       Review of problems associated with pollution and the environment.

        Foreign technical assistance had been envisaged in conjunction with active participation in
all projects by Zairian G6camines/Exploitationpersonnel, in order to ensure the transfer of expertise
and the eventual takeover by Zairians of day-today management functions.

3.4             FINANCING PLM

        Financing was ensured by the following loans from Zaire's main donors. The loans are split
into two categories, those from multilateral agencies and those fiom bilateral agencies:


                                  Millions of       US$ million value           US$ million value a
      Multilateral anencia                               &a!afi                      u
 African Development Bank               SDR 60                      74.7                        83.2
 (ADB)

 Caisse de CoopQation                   FF 200
 Fran~aise(CCCE)

 European Economic                     ECU 30                       31.1                        36.7
 Community (EEC)

 European Investment Bank              ECU 50
 (EIB)

 World Bank (IBRD)                      US$110                     11_D.Q                      uu!

                      Subtotal                                     298.0                       327.9

 Bilateral agencies

 COFACE (France)

 DUCROIRE (Belgium)                   FB 1,000

 SACE (Italy)                         ECU 9.5

 EKN (Sweden)                            US$15

                      Subtotal

          The bilateral financing that had not been originally planned was to be used to cover overruns
in the investment allocations.

3.5       COMMITMENTANDDISBURSEMENTTIMETABLES



          The original 1984-1988investment commitment timetable was as follows:


                                                       leas       read        m                    ~
 In millions of US$                          190        237        136         103         82       748
 (base 1984)
         Giventhe accumulated delays in the effectivenessof externalfinancing(about two years) and
a desire to merge the rehabilitation plan with that formulated by the Planning Department for the
country as a whole (PIP), it was decided in 1986to extend the rehabilitationplan through 1990.
The new commitment timetable revised in 1986was as follows:


 I n millions of USS          -
                              1984     1985     1986    1987     1988   1989       -
                                                                                   1990    Total    Total
                                                                                           86-90    84-90

 I n itie1 timtable            190      237      136     103       82                        321      748
 (1984-88) 1984 values

 Timetable r e v I s d I n     110      144      113     181      179     144       75       690      944
 1986 i n 1984 values

 Timetable revised in          110      151      125     207      214     179       94       819    1,080
 1986 in current values




         The disbursement timetable as revised in 1986 was as follows:


 Jn millione of US$                          1987 1988 1989                 1990 1991 Total

 Timetable revised in                  49      189       233       187       117        44       819
 1986 in current
 values




         The Rehabilitation Plan was to be completed by the end of 1990.                            In
December 1992, i.e. two years later, the plan has not yet been completed. In particular, certain
componentsrelated to the rehabilitationand constructionof complex facilitiesare in difficulty (KOV-
conveyor    -rehabilitationof      the Kolwezi concentrator).

4.1      JWIANCIALPERFORMANCE

         In December 1992, commitments and disbursementswere as follows:

 InmillionsofUSS       1984 1985 1986          1987 1988    1989   1990   1991 1992        1993    Totel

 Initial Timetable      110    151      125     207  214     179    94                        -    1,080
 Revised in 1986
 (current values)


 Current Timetable      110    145      108     195  178    250    274
                                                                     *      280
                                                                             *       87      44    1,571
 (current values)                *                                                   **    **.
 *   Actual

 **  Extrapolated (actual at S e p t h r 30, 1992)

 *** Projected




 US$ millions      1984 198$ 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 W
 * Annual            66      103       120      96  202     209    282     218     151     124    1,571
 disbursements         *       *          *       *   *       *      *       *      **     ***

4.1.3   Analvsis of deviations from the initial Plan

        The main causesof the significantslippagefrom 1986to 1992 (differential of US453 million
in terms of commitments = US$1,272 million - US$819 million) are as follows:

        (a)     FalloftheU.S.dollar

        Depreciation of the U.S. dollar on the externally financed portion (multilateral and bilateral
agencies) accounted for US$49 million. The self-financed portion experiencedthe same phenomenon.

        (b)     Purchase of eauipment not initially ~lanned

       The need to purchase, using self-financing, certain equipment not initially planned due to
delays in the acquisition of equipment planned under external financing entailed the following
additional costs:

 11 150-ton dump trucks at SKM
 6 loaders for sub-assemblies
 7 loaders
 10 3-4-ton forklift trucks
 10 18-20-ton automotive cranes
 1 drill truck
 1 lathe
 6 underground dump trucks at KT0
 Rehabilitationof 15 locomotives




 a building in Brussels
 a Falcon airplane
 15 tank wagons
 5 GE UIOR locomotives
 data processing and telecommunications equipment
 miscellaneous vehicles for road transport
 11 locomotives and 130tremie cars
 1 super jetstream airplane
 ACP foundry expansion, machine tools and equipment
 Kamoto, SKM and Kakanda mining machinery
 miscellaneous studies/EC
 prospecting/sounding
 principal slope + concrete  at Kipushi
 preparatory works at Kamoto
 warehouse works




        Import duties increased by the equivalent of US$49.8 million,as Gecamines had initially
assumed several major projects would be tax-exempt.

        The total impact of these four factors is evaluated at US$387 million.  The balance, i.e.
US$453 U~$387-= US$66 million, is due to the joint effect of the delays in the projects and the
         -
impact of inflation on their cost, as well as the impact of the exchange rate on the self-financed
portion.

        Lastly, initial estimates for certain components of the rehabilitation project were not
sufficiently accurate.

        The most important incompleteprojects involve:

-       the rehabilitation of the Kolwezi concentrator, where physical progress is limited at present
        to the purchase of equipment. If the project is to be completed, financing of US$44.64
         million as a bridge for the frozen EIB loan must be secured;

-       the conveyor-belt for ore and waste from the KOV (Kolwezi) mine, of which only part can
        be commissioned in mid-1993. If the project is to be completed, financing of US$14 million
        to supplementthe now depleted World Bank loan would have to be secured;

-       the copper blister electrorefinery, the commissioning of which is scheduled for the fourth
         quarter of 1992. The amounts due on this project represent DM 6 million and BF 6 million.
        They will be gradually paid through self-financing, despite acute cash-flow difficulties.

4.1.4 IBRD loan

        Disbursementsbegan only in 1987owingto the slownessof loan effectivenessprocedures and
analysis of the bids received.      At present, cumulative actual disbursements are as follows, as
compared with initial estimates.


 In millions of US$

 Initial estimate

 Actual disbursements

 96 actuallinitial


4.1.5 BIB loan

         The particularly difficult relations with this donor, which for various reasons has refused up
to this point to disburse the loan in full, need to be mentioned. To date, the EIB has stopped
disbursementsat ECU 11.04 mil,lion,i.e. only 22% of the loan amount.

         The funds were used primarily for the KTC tailing reprocessing project (commissioned in
1991) and payments to subcontractorsfor rehabilitation works on the KZC concentrator. The EIB
is refusing to honor invoices for works carried out since the end of 1990.

         This situation has:

-       jeopardized the rehabilitation projects that were to be carried out with EIB financing. All
         contractors have in effect suspended their contracts owing to accumulated arrears;

-        obligated GBcamineslExploitationto self-finance these high arrears despite the very difficult
         cash-flow situation it is experiencing.

4.2     mH Y I                                              TS

        Three general comments:
        -       Projects not associated with external financing were virtually all physically carried out
                on schedule.
        -       Complex, large-scale projects that planned to use external financinghave in general (with
                the exception of KTC rehabilitation and the electrified trucks) not been completed.

        -       Delays in the mobilization of external resources to finance the large-scale projects made
                it necessary to purchase equipment that had not been planned but became vital as
                operations progressed, particularly in mining activities to maintain the level of
                production.

4.2.1   Mining

KOV Proiea (in pit crusher and conveyors)

        Phase 1 (conveyors and upper-level crusher) is nearing completion and should be operational in
July 1993. For the second phase (lower-level crusher), some US$14 million must be budgeted. If the
funds are released, phase 2 can be completed by December 1993.



        All mining machinery has been received.

Extension of electrified trucks

        The project is operational, although the expected performance has not been achieved owing to
a lack of expertise.




        The project is operational and expected performance has been achieved.

Rehabilitation of the Kolwezi concentrator

        Works are suspended (problems with EIB financing). The dry-grinding component, estimated
to cost US$6 million, is frozen because of payment delays (some US$3 million). As soon as the sums
due are paid, assembly can resume; the balance of the works should take two months.

        The capacity of the concentrator, which is now limited to 2,500 tons of ore per day, could rise
to 8,000 tons per day as soon as the dry grinder is put into service.

        Assembly on the flotation, decantation and filtration equipment, which were part of a turnkey
contract, are not suspended. However, the turnkey contract has just been converted into a supply
contract, by mutual agreement with the contracting firm. As soon as the Gtkamines has the means, it
can resume the assembly works; the equipment acquired thus far corresponds to the value already paid
in contract execution (close to the total).



        The anode preparation shop is operational. The electrolytical processing chamber will begin
operations in December 1992 and the contractual tests will be done in January 1993.

Lubumbashi Converter H O D DPlants EIB)
                                    ~ ~

        Only expenditures related to the studies have been paid. The project has now been suspended.

Im~rovementof cathode auality

        Thisproject, which was to be financed by the EIB, will be self-financed or funded by loans from
bilateral agencies.

4.2.3   Other secton

        Most of the planned equipment has been received.



        In telecommunications:

        -        the internal GBcamines network originally planned is operational;

        -        the satellite linkageproject still requires an investmentof US$7.5 million, of which US$3
                 million could be financed externally.

        In data processing, the planned equipment has been received.

        Overall, the projects already implementedhave significantlyboosted the qualityof data processing
within G6carnines.



        The    program      was    fully  implemented       and    achieved  the  social  objectives  that
G6camines/Exploitation had set under the Septennat de Social. However, the total cost was US$7.2
million, as compared with initial estimates of US$3.8 million in 1984.



        In December 1992, i.e. two years after the initially scheduled completion date for the
rehabilitation project, the project has not been completed.

        The subcomponents not yet completed are as follows:

-       KOV grinder and conveyors
        Rehabilitationof the Kolwezi concentrator
-       Electrorefinery,

External financinghas been totally depleted (with the exception of the EIB loan). Gecamines is now in
a critical situation as it must repay the external loans, although the projects that generate cash flow are
not yet operational.

                  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

*       Certain technical assistanceactivitiessuspended followingthe departure of the consultantsduring
        the civil disturbances of September and October 1991 need to be resumed.

        This would include in particular:

        -         the training of specialists in:

           boiler works
           industrial electronics
           hydro-pneumatics.

        -         advanced training for professionals at the higher-level and technical training center.

         *        However, the poor performance of the firm responsiblefor providing technical assistance
                  at the Kolwezi open-pit mines must be cited, following:

        -         poor mission preparation;
        -         poor psychological approach;
        -         the incompetence of certain members of the mission sent by the firm.

        *         In the area of finance, technical assistance for the development of general and industrial
                  accountingis at a standstill, and technical assistancefor procurement (operation Phenix)
                  is hampered by a lack of funds.

        *         Lastly, efforts to formulate a personnel management policy are in their final stages.

        *         Other work needs to begin in maintenance and production at the central workshops.

        *         The study on the cobalt market has been done. The monitoring unit still needs to be
                  established.

        The recommendations in the study on the formulation of long-term planning structures were not
accepted by Gecarnines.

4.5     COMMENTS

        -        Burden of self-financing

        As planned in 1984, external financing was to cover about 50% of the total cost of the
rehabilitation project; as it now stands, that figure is about 30%. The resulting high proportion of self-
financing has prevented the company from devoting sufficient financial resources to ensure proper
maintenance of production units.



        From 1984 to 1990, management was poor. In particular, large sums were allocated to non-
priority projects in production and administration, particularly the building in Brussels, the Falcon and
Jetstream BA airplanes, railway equipment, mining machinery, etc.

        Moreover, the unbridled focus on production (476,000 tons of copper in 1986) caused major
imbalances between mining production and the consumption of ore (draw down of ore and concentrate
inventories), which ultimately led to a huge delay in overburden removal at the open-pit mines and even
an imbalance between extraction and fill operations at the Karnoto mine.

        -        Situation in December 1992

        *        At the end of 1992, Gecamines' situation is particularly disturbing:

        *        production has fallen to only one third of the normal level;

        *        working capital for spares and consumables is virtually nonexistent;

        *
                 staff are demoralized and their purchasingpower has fallen steeply in an unstablepolitical
                 and economic environment;

        *        production costs are above cts 1001lbof copper.

        *        In order to remedy the situation, GBcamines has formulated a recovery and survival
                 program, the major thrusts of which are as follows:

        *        complete the major rehabilitation projects;

        *
                 make several high-yield investments to decrease pressure on the mines;

        *        gradually reduce personnel;

        *        withdraw from the social sector.

        -        Ureent investment needs

                                                 - 44 -

      Minimum financial requirements are as follows:



        * Completion of major projects with financing =

                KOV conveyors
                KZC rehabilitation
                Electrorefinery
                High-voltage lines


       * Completionof major projects initiallyplanned for self-
          fmancing =

                KHI shaft lc
                SKM pumping
                SKM electric installations


       * Other projects =

                overburden removal at SKM
                grading equipment
                transportation (vehicles and rail equipment)
                flotation sections
                metallurgical plant rehabilitation
                central workshops
                working capital for spares



                                                         Grand Total


      If these investments are made promptly, in the next five years it will be possible to produce some
350,000 tons of copper per year at a competitivecost of less than cts 8011b.

5.    RECOMMENDATIONS

      For the future, G6camines/Exploitation recommends:

      -        More flexible Bank ~rocedura

       *       Bank procedures are lengthy and rigid.       Initially, GecamineslExploitation was not
               sufficiently aware of this fact, which inevitably caused significant delays in project
               implementation. The greatest delay was with the KOV conveyor component. Despite
               the specialized requirements of the installation, international competitive bidding
               including prequalification was required by the Bank. It now is evident that bidding

                restricted to firms specialized in the area would have sufficed. This would have saved
                six months.

        *       The Bank's guidelines on procurement had to be respected to the letter.                The
                specificationsbased on the EEC SYSMIN 1guidelines,as the Bank's were provided only
                 after the fact, were not accepted by the World Bank. It took nearly six months to
                reconcile the viewpoints of the Bank and G6camines/Exploitation.

        -       Revision of the "trust deed" ~rinci~le

        Gecamines had always strivedto comply with the trust deed agreement until the maturity of May
15, 1992. However, current cash-flow difficulties make it impossibleto comply with that covenant. For
this reason, the account provision following payment of the amounts due on November 15, 1992did not
reach the required level of 50%. GBcamines would like IBRD to approach the other donors, especially
the EIB, with a view to eliminating this covenant and lowering the amount of the provision required to
the amount of the installment. This would have the advantage of avoiding a six-month freeze on funds
that the Gtkamines so urgently needs to meet its current expenditures for operations.

        -       The debt rescheduling ~rinci~lg

        In case of financial difficulty, Gkarnines would liketo be ableto negotiatedebt reschedulingwith
its donors. Such rescheduling would make possible a rapid release of funds for self-supporting projects.

        -       The ~rinci~leof sup~lementarvloam

        In the event that project implementation falls far behind schedule, Gdcamines would like to be
able to negotiate a supplementary loan with its donors with a view to completingthe major components
and those that generate cash-flow and which are nearing completion.

        -       Refocusing of technical assistance

        Insteadof thrustingexperts into the company's structures, which historicallyhas led to ill feelings
(salary gaps, compentence level often insufficient, frustration of GBcamines staff, lack of cooperation,
etc.), GBcamines would like in the future to focus on assistancethat generates know-how. To that end,
it would have to invest in teaching materials and specialized on-site or overseas training.

        -       Pole of the World Ban4

        G6carnines considers that the World Bank justifiably required of the Zairian State shareholder a
disciplinethat ensured a reasonable level of remittance of foreign exchangeto the State and leading to
more appropriate tax systems, while also enabling it to keep the internal resources needed for its
development.

                                     GECMIINES REHABILITATION PROJECT

                                   FINANCING 1986-1991 (in US$ million)




1 TOTALBASE COSTS    1109.89 1 28.24 1  80.17 1   32.89 1   13.42 1  28.71 1 3.71 ( 18.201  7.40 1 48.40 1 371.031

GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT

   SELF-FINANCING 1986-1991
       (in US$ millions)


                                        - 49 -

                        PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                        ZAIRE

                   GECAMINES REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                  (LOAN2862-ZR)


                    PART 111: !STATI!3TICAL INFORMATION




                    Table 1. R e l m -




Gecamines
Technical
Assistance Project
($7 M)

Credit 2051-ZR     Reduction in operating  1989        Disbursementsto date
                   costs                               amount to $2.1 million
Second Gecamines
Technical
Assistance Project
($20 MI


                                          - 51-


         Table 3: Cumulative Estimatededd     Actual Disbursements ($ million)




                       Table 4: Proiect Im~lementationIndicators




                                                              1987-present. Most of the key
 d Processing Facilities


                             Initiation in 1986              Begun in 1986 and completed


Preinvestment and

        - 52 -

Table 5:A Proiect Corn

NOTES

d The $93.5 budget overrrun in mining equipment is essentially explained by higher than
expected purchases of pumping equipment ($41 million overrrun) and of dozers, dumpers, etc.
($43 million overrrun), due in part to inadequate use and maintenance of this equipment.

h/ The difference is mostly due to the suspension.of disbursements by EIB, who was to
finance the rehabilitation of the Kolwezi concentrator.

d The deterioration of the financial and operational situation of the railway company caused
Gecamines to undertake investments in railroad equipment in a much larger scale than
anticipated at appraisal.

NR = Not Reported.

NA = Not Applicable

Source: Bank Staff Estimates based on data provided by.Gecamines.



                            Table 5.B: Project Financing ($ million)

                                   b ~ r a i s aProi,
                                                l          Estimated Actual a/

Gecamines                                417                    451

World Bank                                110                   110

AfDB, Sysmin, EIB, CCCE                   169                   155

Other Cofinanciers d                        7                    58

Commercial Banks                           -                    4

Total                                    703                    822

   KfW,Italian, Swedish, Belgian governernnts..

In addition to the World Bank, the original project co-financiers were the African Development
Bank (SDR 60 million), the European Investment Bank (ECU 50 million), the European
Community (ECU 30 million), and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (FRF 200
million). All these loans were fully disbursed, with the exception of EIB, which had only
disbursed ECU 11 million when it suspended its loan to Gkamines in 1991. Budget overruns
were financed by Gkamines, by bilateral agencies such as KFW, and by commercial banks.

                              STATUS OF PROJECTCOVENANTS




                                            Section 3.04

Subiect: Borrower to furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1989, for review and comment, the
draft 1991-95 investmentprogram.
L$a:    Compliance. ~eeamlnrs*




                                           Section 3.06

Subiect: G6carnines and Sonatrad to exchangeviews with the Bank on their respective
operations and participation in the project. They shall also permit the Bank to examine related
accounts and records.

a:compliance.
        Non                    Sonatrad has not submitted audit reports as specifiedin Section
4.06 of the Loan Agreement, hence the Bank has been unableto examine the accounts.




                                         Sections 4.01-4.03

Subieq: General provisions for adherence to sound management and engineeringpractices.

Status: Non compliance. *mines           has not maintained its mining and processing

                                           Section 4.04

Sub-iea: Borrower to put into operation by September 30, 1989, a service in its organization for
planning and strategy, reporting directly to the Prdsident-Deldgue Gdndral and operating on
terms acceptableto the Bank.

     : Noncompliance. Gecamineshas preparedterms of referencefor theservicebut has




                    A. Covenants in the Loan Agreement (continued)



                                           Section 4.05

       : By December31, 1986, The Borrower shall furnish, to the Bank, (a) a plan to increase
  ages and reduce employee fringe benefits, (b) a comprehensivemanpower development and
 aining program for supervisory staff; (c) a plan to reorganize its mine planning in all divisions,
 ncluding open-pit mining at Kolwezi and (d) a proposed program of cost accounting and control.

        Delayed Compliance. There was a delay in submitting the plan to increasewages




                                           Section 3.03

&bbiect: Maintenance of a purchase agreement at all times with Sonatrad.

I                                            Section 4.08

  -:       The Borrower and GBcaminesCommercialeto maintain the Marketing Agreement in
  force at all times and not deviate from the terms without prior approval of the Bank. Agreement
  to provide for the sales of the Borrower's products only on the basis of arms-length transactions
  includingsuch provisions as necessary to ensure compliance with sections 3.02-3.05 of the
  Guarantee Agreement.

Iw:        Compliance. Marketing Agreement maintained throughout the implementation of
  the project. Status of compliance not known since 1989because the audits for the
      -   -
( mmmerdalization operations were not made available to the Bank.


I                                            Section 5.06

  &&jgg: The Borrower shall make and maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, the
 European Investment Bank and the African Development Bank for setting aside, in an
  independent commercial bank, portions of the proceeds of its export sales for the repayment of
  loans from the African Development Bank and the European Investment Bank.
Im:Partial         compliance. Trust account established with a commercialbank and the
 World Bank became party to this arrangement. However, Gecamines was unable to comply

I following
 with one of the requirements of the Trust Deed (advancedeposit equivalent to 50%of the
            semi-annual installment) due to severecash flow proble&

  I. GENERAL M ANAGEMENT.ORGANIZATION AND PLANNING (Continued)

                                  B. GuaranteeAmeement



                                           Section3.01

Subject: The Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposal which could have a
substantial effect on any of the Gecamines companies prior to taking action on such proposal.
Also, the Guarantor would, at the request of the Bank, allow any other interested party to join
 e discussion. Furthermore, the Guarantor shall permit the Borrower to retain, in foreign
 xchange, for its operations, at least 45%of its revenue from metal sales, net of marketing




                                           Section 3.02

Subiect: The Guarantor shall ensure that the products of the Borrower be commercialized only
    gh arms-length transactions and normal marketing channels and that clearing, barter,
     ity or other transactions take place according to the stipulations in paras. (a)-(c).

      :Compliancethrough 1989. Thereafter not known due to failureof Gecaminesto




                                           Section3.03

         The Guarantor shall take all measures necessary to ensure that (a) amountsdue from
         of the Borrower's products are credited to the account of the Borrower, (b)the
  rrower exercises full and effective control over the marketing operationsfor its products and
  the Borrower participates in the establishmentand implementation of the marketing policy for

                                           Section 3.04

          The Guarantor shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the Borrower, Sonatrad
        arnines Commerciale, fulfill their respective obligations under the Purchasing Agreement
    Marketing Agreement, promptly respond to any proposal of the Borrower regarding
    ndments and exchange views with the Bank before taking any action.

      : Partial compliance. Dissolutionof Sonatradwas not discussedwith theBank.




                                           Section 3.05

        : TheGuarantorshall,fromtimetotime, exchangeviews, and shallcausetheBorrower
        ange views with the Bank on planning for future expansion of the Borrower's operations




                                           Section 3.07

Subiea: The Guarantor shall take steps to help the Borrower fulfill its obligations under
sections 5.03-5.06 of the Loan Agreement.




                                          Section 3.08

-:       The Guarantor shall ensure that neither the Purchasing Agreement referred to in
Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement nor the Marketing Agreement referred to in Section 4.09 of
the Loan Agreement be amended or deviated from without the prior approval of the Bank.

 tatug: Compliance.

                    n. FINANCIAL INDICATORS AND INVESTMENT

                               A. Covenants in the Loan Agreement


I
                                               Section3.05

                                                                                              I
 Subiect: Any funds to finance increased project costs will not cause the debt-equity ratio to
 exceed 5050.




                                               Section 5.03

 -:        Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall not make any capital investment
 greater than $15 million without prior approval of the Bank.




I
I                                              Section 5.04

ISubiect: Except at the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt it
 would lead to a debt-equity ratio greater than 40:60.




                                               Section 5.05

 S a : Except as otherwise agreed with Bank, the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current
 assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.3.

                                    . Non compliancethereafter due to the deterioration of




                            B. Covenants in the Guarantee Ayreement

                                              (None)

                               111. FINANCIAL REPORTING



                           A. Covenants in the Loan Aereement



                                           Section 4.06

         Gkamines Comrnerciale and Sonatrad to have external audits of their commercial
        ns, respectively, on a semi-annual and quarterly basis and furnish them promptly to the


      : Noncompliance. Thereareno external audit reports for Gthmines Commerciale




Subiect: (a) The Borrower, Gecamines Commerciale and Sonatrad to maintain records and


       (ti) The Borrower, Gecamines Commerciale and Sonatrad to have audits of their
respective accounts and ,in the case of the Borrower, the Special Account, and furnish copies of
these audits to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, and, from time
to time, any other financial information required by the Bank.

        (c) For all expenditures related to withdrawals from the Loan Account or payments out
 f the Special Account made on the basis of expenditure statements, the Borrower shall maintain
 parate records and accounts related to the expenditures, retain the records as specified in para.
  ,allow Bank representativesto examinethe records and ensurethat the separate accountsbe
ncluded in the annual audit.




                                           Section 5.02

       : TheBorrower shall furnish to theBank, prior to November 1,of each year, financial
       ons for the coming five years and the proposed budget for the coming year.

                           B. Covenants in the Guarantee Ameement

                                            (None)

                           IV.BNVIRONMENTALMANAGEMENT



                              A. Covenants in the Loan Agreement
-
                                             Section 4.07

  m:Borrower          to furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1986, it program for pollution
   control and effluent dischargemonitoring, and thereafter exchangeviews with the Bank on the
   program and any correctivemeasures required.

1 m:Partial        Compliance. A consultant prepared an environmental report on G&aminest
-ns           but there-isno evidence that &mines      has implemented its recommendations.   I


                           B. Covenants in the Guarantee Agreement

                                            Wonel

                                      IV. STUDIES



                           A. Covenants in the Loan Agreement



                                          Section3.07

-t:       The Borrower shall cooperate with the Guarantor, furnishing to the Bank and
implementing the recommendations from the study on dividend policy, as outlined in Section
3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement.

                                    pleted. Recommendations not applicable due to




                         B. Uvenants in the Guarantee Ameement



                                          Section 3.06

Subia: The Guarantor, jointly with the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by December 31,
1986, the results and recommendations of a study carried out to determinean appropriatepolicy
for the distributionof dividends by the Borrower, shall exchangeviews thereon with the Bank
and shall promptly thereafter cause such recommendations as shall have been approved by the
Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower to be put into effect.

      : Not Applicable. Due to Ghmines' poor financialsituation,no dividendswere

                              Table 7: PROJECT RESULTS



                                    A. Direct BenefiN



                                   Metals Production

A~praisalObiective: Metals production at nominal production capacity and improved
metal recovery from the concentrators and metallurgical plants.




                                     Mining Costs

Ap~raisalObiective: Stable mining costs and the reduction of operating costs for the
concentrators and metallurgical plants.




                                      Management

A ~ ~ r a i Obiective: Establishment of an effective long-term planning capability and
            s d
development of a long-term corporate strategy.




                                 Product Diversification




Actual Result: The plant for the preparation of anodes, an intermediate step in cathode
production, is expected to start commercial operations in January 1993. The

                               Foreign Exchange Earnings

                                                                                      I
A~~raisalObiectivg: Gross foreign exchange earnings of $5.8 billion over a five-year
period, and a net foreign inflow of $ 3.2 billion.

Actual Result: G&amines achieved this objective over the period of the project, but
foreign exchange earningshave been much lower than this objective since 1991.



                                     B. Economic I m ~ a q



ERR at A D D ~ ~24%~ :S

Actual ERR:Because the major investments in the project have not yet come on stream,
it is not meaningful to calculate an actual ERR at this time. The rate of return, as
calculated at appraisal was very sensitive to preventing declines in production in the
order of 1-1.5 1.Given an actual average annual decline in production of 7.5% over the
 eriod 1985-1991, it is clear that the project has fallen considerably short of its




                                     C. Financial Im~acq



FRR at ADD&& 21% before taxes and 16 % aftertaxes.

Actual FRR: Not calculated for the reasons cited in section B.

                    Study completed in 1990. Recommendations included reclassification




Wirebar Market Study                     rable market conditions for the continued

   Table 8: Use of Bank Resources

A. Staff In~utsbv Stage of Pro-iectCvcla

            (In Staff weeks)

                             Table 8: Use of Bank Resourc~

                                B. Maior Proiect Mission$




Data for the PCR were updated during a mission to Shaba between November 30 and
December 4, 1992.

1. Activity Codes: APP=appraisal; ENV=Environmental Evaluation; SPVN=supervision;
PROC=procurement; COF= cofinanciers' meeting;

2. Staff Codes: DC= Division Chief; EC= Economist, ENG = Engineer; FA = Financial
Analyst.

3. Proiect Rating Codes: 1 = problem free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems;
3=major problem; NA =not applicable; NR=not recorded.




     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                               0.G.0.

                                                                    '93 AUG      3 Pfl 1 32




                                                                      SecH93-527

FROM: Vice President and Secretary                                    July 30, 1993



                                       PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                      MOROCCO: Electrical and Mechanical Industries

                                              (Loan 2487-MOR)




      Attached is a copy of a memorandum from Mr. Picciotto with its accompanying

report entitled "Project Completion Report:                    Morocco     -  Electrical and Mechanical

Industries Project (Loan 2487-MOR)" dated June 28, 1993 (Report 12107) prepared

by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office, Part I1 was prepared by the

Borrower.




Distribution

      Executive Directors and Alternates
      Office of the President
      Executive Vice Presidents, IFC and MIGA
     Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
      Directors and Department Heads, Bank




    r
     This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
     of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                                                                                             4


