FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 180-CM
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CAMEROON
June 11, 1973
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Gtoup authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accutacy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit     =  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =  CFAF 230
CFAF 1 million    =  US$4,340.
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
System ofi Weights and Measures:  Metric
MEtric                        British/US
1 meter (m)                   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2  =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)               2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)          2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DR          - Department of Roads
FAC         - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
lED         - Fonds Européen de D4veloppement
Regifercam  - R6gie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun
vpd         - vehicles per day



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY .........      ............................    i - ii
i .   INTRODUCTION .......      .........................     1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .....        ...................    2
A.   Background ......       .......................     2
B.   The Transport System ..................    .        3
C.   Transport Policy, Planning, and
Coordination ..................                  5
3.   HIGHWAYS .....     ...........................*...       7
A.   The Network ...........................             7
B.   Characteristics of Road Transport
Industry and of Road Traffic       .........     7
C.   Administration ...................-..               8
D. Planning and Financing .              .               9
E.   Engineering and Construction                        9
F. M intenance.                                         10
4. THE PROJECT......    10
A. Description   .                 .10
B.   Reconstruction of Roads    .        .il
C.   Consulting Services for Technical
Assistance and Studies  . .13
D. Cost Estimates   .                .15
E. Execution   . .18
F.   Financing and Disbursements   .        .18
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION   .                .19
A. General  . .19
B.  Reconstruction of Roads  . .20
C. Sensitivity Analysis   .             .21
D. Other Project Elements   .            .22
6.   AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATION                    22
This report has been prepared by Messrs. M. Melegari (Engineer) and A. Byl
and P. Gyamfi (Economists). The project was appraised in January/February
1973.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Tables
1.   Motor Vehicle Registration, 1965-71
2.   Consumption of Motor Fuel, 1965-71
3.   Design Standards for the Project Roads
4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX
Summary of Economic Analysis
MA?
Cameroon - Second Highway Project - IBRD 10404



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Two principal axes form the backbone of Cameroones transport system:
the Transcameroon rail/road route (about 1,700 km), and the Douala-Bafoussam-
Foumban road (about 330 km). These routes connect the country's major socio-
economic centers with Douala, the principal port, and they also provide an out-
let to the sea for parts of neighboring landlocked Chad. The Government there-
fore attaches highest priority in the sector to improving these axes in order
to reduce transport costs and stimulate economic growth.  Transport investments
over the period 1966-76 have accordingly been geared towards attaining this
goal, and the three previous Bank Group operations in the sector were all des-
igned to assist the Government achieve its objective.
ii.       The proposed project is designed primarily to assist the Government
improve the Transcameroon route and the Douala-Foumban road. It provides for
the reconstruction of: (i) the Garoua-Maroua-Mora road (260 km), the last
low-standard road link on the Transcameroon route, and (ii) two important
sections of the axis Douala-Foumban, namely the roads Douala-Pont du N'kam
(Kekem) (175 km) and Pont du Noun (Bafoussam)-Foumban (50 km).
iii.      Roads constitute the predominant mode for domestic transport.  The
density of the main road network is generally adequate to serve the country's
present needs, although many sections built almost 20 years ago have deterio-
rated, mainly due to increased traffic and inadequate maintenance. The network
of feeder roads needs to be improved and expanded, especially in the vast
tropical forest area of southeast Cameroon and the cocoa areas in the center
of the country. The organization and execution of maintenance on both the
main and the feeder road networks requires improvement.  The proposed project
therefore provides consulting services for: (i) a feasibility study of for-
estry feeder roads, to be combined with assistance for formulation of forestry
development policies; and (ii) a road maintenance study which would also con-
sider requirements for betterment of feeder roads.
iv.       The Ministry of Transport was created in 1970 and given overall
responsibility for administration of the transport sector, including coordi-
nation of investments in the different modes. The Ministry is however not
yet adequately set up nor sufficiently staffed to handle this responsibility.
In addition, several important issues in the sector need more in-depth study
than is now being done, in order to provide the basis for sound policy formu-
lation. The proposed project includes technical assistance to strengthen the
staff of the Ministry, and consulting services to study specific transport
problems.



- ii -
v.        The proposed project is estimated to cost about US$71 million equiva-
lent: about US$65 million of this would be for road construction, and about
US$6 million for consulting services and technical assistance. The foreign
cost of the project would be about US$48 million, and local costs about US$23
million equivalent (excluding import duties, but including about US$7 million
in taxes). A Bank Loan and an IDA Credit of US$24 million each are proposed
to cover the entire foreign exchange cost. The Governnent of Cameroon would
meet the local costs of the project.
vi.       The Ministry of Planning will have overall responsibility for çxe-
cution of the project. However, it will appoint as executing agencies the
Ministry of Equipment (in particular the Department of Roads) for road con-
struction, the maintenance study, and the forestry feeder road study; the
Ministry of Transport for transport planning and coordination; and the
Ministry of Agriculture for forestry policies. The project is expected to
be completed by mid-1977. The Governnent will be assisted by consultants
for construction supervision, and for feasibility and road maintenance studies.
Procurement of services and of civil works will be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines.
vii.      The combined economic return on construction of the three roads
would be about 20% based on estimates of vehicle operating cost savings alone.
Time savings and reduction in accidents, not included in the calculation of
benefits, would also be substantial. The project fits well into the Govern-
ment's strategy of improving the inadequate land transport network and open-
ing up new areas in order to facilitate economic exploitation of the country's
resources. The road sections to be constructed under the project serve densely
populated and economically important areas of Cameroon where the investment
would stimulate growth in economic activity. The technical assistance ip-
cluded in the project would improve the administration's performance in high-
way maintenance, and in transport planning and coordination.
viii.     The proposed project is suitable for Bank/IDA lending to the Gov-
ernment of Cameroon in the form of a Loan of US$24 million and a Credit of
US$24 million. An appropriate Loan term would be 25 years with a five-year
period of grace. The Credit would be made on the usual terms.



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed Second Righway Project will be the sixth Bank Croup
operation in the transport sector of Cameroon. Previous projects have been
designed to help the country achieve its principal objective in the sector,
namely improvement and completion of the system which serves import/export
traffic. The proposed project will contribute further to this objective by
reconstructing the last low-standard road section of the Transcameroon route
(Garoua-Mora, about 260 km) and about 225 km cf two important sections of
the axis Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban. In addition, consulting and expert services
to be provided under the project will lay the foundation for future projects
in high priority areas in the transport sector as follows: (a) improvement
and development of forestry roads, combined with assistance for formulaton
of forestry development policies; (b) improvement of road maintenance, in-
cluding road betterment; and (c) strengthening the Ministry of Transport to
better carry out its responsibilities of planning and coordination.
1.02      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$71 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost of about US$48 million. Bank/IDA
lending is proposed in the form of a Loan and a Credit of US$24 million
each to finance the entire foreign exchange cost.
1.03      Bank Group involvement in the transport sector of Cameroon began
in 1964 with a technical assistance grant of US$200,000 which helped finance
a feasibility study of the road N'gaoundere-Garoua (285 km); detailed engineer-
ing of this road and of Tiko-Victoria (24 km) was financed in 1968 under
Credit S-3 CM (US$550,000). These studies provided the basis for a (First)
Highway Construction Project (Loan 663-CM/Credit 180-CM, US$19 million, 1970)
which consisted of improvement of the two roads abovementioned, and consult-
ing services for feasibility studies and detailed engineering for improvement
of Garoua-Mora and Douala-Pont du N'kam, works which are now proposed for
financing under the present project (para. 1.01). Some initial delays were
encountered in awarding contracts under the first project, but implementation
following a revised schedule is now satisfactory. Construction work is ex-
pected to be completed by the end of 1974.
1.04      A 1970 Loan for railway development in Cameroon (687-CM, US$5.2 mil-
lion) helped finance: (a) relaying of about 55 km of track; (b) reconstruc-
tion of the Japoma bridge; (c) purchase of about 190 freight cars and trailers;
and (d) feasibility studies for improvement of the Douala-Yaounde line.
Except for the Japoma bridge, the project is complete and implementation has
been satisfactory. Consultants' detailed engineering of the bridge revealed
extremely poor sub-soil conditions which made further technical studies necessary
in order to determine the optimum bridge location and design. Those studies
are now complete, and tenders will be called in September 1973. It is antic-
ipated that additional funds will be needed for the construction.



-2-
1.05      The most recent operation in the transport sector is a Credit for
ports (229-CM, US$1.5 million, January 1971). The project includes: (a)
construction of a deep-water quay at Bonaberi (port of Douala) primarily for
handling industrial raw materials; (b) improvement of log-handling facilities;
(c) provision of a small cutter suction dredger; and (d) services of a port
costing adviser. Execution is about nine months behind schedule following
an initial delay in obtaining Government approval and signature of several
contracts, but completion of the project is expected by September 1973.
1.06      This report is based on feasibility studies and detailed engineir-
ing carried out by consultants IngeroutelLamarre-Valois (France/Canada) and
by H.P. Gauff (Germany), as well as on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. M. Melegari (Engineer), and A. Byl and P. Gyamfi (Econo-
mists), whlch visited Cameroon in January/February 1973.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Background
2.01      Cameroon became a United Republic in 1972 following a union of the
former East and West federated states. The country's location on the Gulf
of Guinea at the junction of West and Equatorial Africa miakes it an important
transit point for its landlocked neighbors, Chad and to a lesser extent, the
Central African Republic (C.A.R.).  Because of Cameroon's peculiar elongated
shape and the variety of its terrain, climate, and vegetation, the problems
of transport development vary considerably within the country. In the south
of the country, dense forest and heavy rainfall make road construction and
maintenance expensive, and in southwestern Cameroon, the north-south mountain
range hampers transport there.  In the north-central part of the country,
topography and vegetation present no major problems; however, in the far
north, excessive flooding and poor road-making soils make road construction
and upkeep difficult and costly.
2.02      The economy is primarily rural, with about 75% of the country's
6 million inhabitants engaged in agriculture. The important areas of sotio-
economic activity are centered around four main poles: (i) the coastal te-
gion near the ports of Douala and Tiko-Victoria where most of the country's
industrial activity is concentrated; (ii) the densely populated, rich agri-
cultural western region around N'kongsamba and Bafoussam; (iii) the cocoa-
producing region near Yaounde, the capital; and (iv) the densely populatêd
cotton- and rice-producing areas in the north, around Maroua. The long
distances between the three agricultural centers abovementioned and the
port of Douala, their import/export gate, make the provision of low-cost
transportation critical to the economic growth of the country.



- 3 -
2.03      There is a lack of transport infrastructure in the vast tropical
forest area of southeast Cameroon, at present only sparsely populated but
with good logging potential.  The Government intends to commence large scale
exploitation of this vast timber resource, and has over the past years com-
missioned several studies directed at formulating a rational exploitation and
taxation policy. The recommendations from these studies have not yet been
synthesized into a clear forestry policy. Technical assistance under the
project for forestry policy formulation is aimed at effecting this synthesis
(para. 4.12). To allow the economic exploitation of forest resources,
improvement and extension of feeder roads will be required in these regions,
and the project provides for the feasibility study of about 400 km of feeder
roads (para. 4.13). The timing for constructing these roads will be based
on the findings of this feasibility study, and on the Government's schedule
for implementing a forestry policy satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   The Transport System
2.04      The transport infrastructure is generally adequate in terms of
accessibility to vital economic areas. The system consists of 23,000 km of
roads of which about 1,500 km are paved, 840 km of railways, three ports,
one navigable waterway, and five airports, two of which provide international
services (see Map). The export-import oriented system is centered around the
commercial center of Douala which has both a deep-water port and an inter-
national airport; links to the rest of the country are provided along two
principal corridors -- the Transcameroon railfroad route, and the north-south
Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis.
2.05      On its completion, the Transcameroon route will run the entire length
of the country (about 1,700 km). At present, it consists of a 600 km rail-
road from Douala to Yaounde and Belabo, and a road from N'gaoundere through
Maroua to the Chadian border.  An extension of the railroad from Belabo to
N'gaoundere (330 km) is under construction with financing from the European
Development Fund (FED), the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), the
European Investment Bank (EIB), and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). Completion of this extension in 1974 will provide the
missing rail link in the route. The Transcameroon route serves the productive
southern region of the country, especially the Yaounde area and logging traf-
fic from near Belabo, and the cotton, rice, and groundnut areas in the north.
When completed, the route will provide an economic outlet to the sea for most
parts of land-locked Chad. At present about 25% of Chad's import/export
traffic (40,000 tons annually) goes through Cameroon, and this is expected to
double upon completion of the route, if the road link between Moundou and
N'gaoundere is constructed as planned. The Government of Cameroon recognizes
the present and future importance of the route, and has accorded it high pri-
ority in its development strategy. In addition to the railway extension
abovementioned, the improvement of different sections of the road portion of
the route are at various stages of advancement: the Maltam-Waza-Mora section
has been paved with financial aid from the Federal Republic of Germanv;   e
First Highway Project includes improvement to paved standard of the N'gaoundere-
Garoua section; and the Garoua-Mora section (260 km) will be reconstructed
under the present project.



-4-
2.06      The axis Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban consists of about 330 km of
road, with a parallel railway between Douala and N'kongsamba (about 172 km).
The highway is the most heavily trafficked road in the country (about 2,000
vehicles per day (vpd)), and carries a considerable amount of the country's
production of cocoa, coffee, and bananas. The proposed project includes
reconstruction of two road sections on the axis: the Douala-Pont du N'kam
(Kekem) road (175 km), and the Pont du Noun (Bafoussam)-Foumban road (50 km).
The road section between Pont du N'kam and Pont du Noun is paved, but to a
lower standard than the reconstructed project roads will be; the section will
require improvement in a few years.
Railways
2.07      The railway network consists of two main lines:  the central line
between Douala and Belabo (600 km), and the northern line between Douala and
N'kongsamba (172 km). The central line is the more important, and in 1971
carried about 950,000 tons of freight (290 million ton-km) and 1.2 million
passengers (170 million pass-km). Freight traffic on the line is expected
to develop rapidly due to the forecast increase in logging activities in
the southeast forest area, and to the northward extension of the line;
passenger traffic is expected to remain stable, or to increase at only a low
rate. Railways are operated by the Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du
Cameroun (Regifercam). On the central line, this operation is now being im-
proved with Bank assistance under Loan 687-CM (para. 1.04). The Bank is con-
sidering providing further assistance to Regifercam for relaying of tracks,
purchase of bogies and small equipment, and additional financing for recon-
struction of the Japoma bridge (para. 1.04).
2.08      After completion of the railway extension to N'gaoundere in 1974,
traffic is expected to build up rapidly, and the capacity of the existing
Douala-Yaounde section is likely to become insufficient towards the end of
the decade. Detailed engineering to realign the section in order to bring
it to the standards of the northern extension has been completed by the
Government, and the economic feasibility of the project is being studied by
consultants financed under Loan 687-CM. The Government attaches high priority
to this project, and is expected to ask the Bank and other potential lenders
for financîal assistance in implementing it.
2.09      Operations on the northern line are rather marginal; in 1971,
123,000 tons of freight (15 million ton-km) and 720,000 passengers (52 mil-
lion pass-km) were transported. Regifercam operates this line at such
tariff levels that receipts just exceed marginal costs. No major invest-
ments are foreseen.
Highways
2.10      Roads, in combination with railways, constitute the main transport
modes; they carry approximately equal shares of total freight. Highway in-
frastructure and administration, as well as the characteristics of road
transport, are discussed in Chapter 3.



- 5 -
Ports and Waterways
2.11      Douala, the principal port of Cameroon, handled about 1.9 million
tons of cargo in 1972, and a sharp growth rate of about 9% annually is ex-
pected, mainly from increased logging activity. Also in 1972, the lesser
ports of Tiko-Victoria and Kribi together handled about 250,000 tons. The
Douala port is already congested, and will eventually constitute a serious
bottleneck if forestry exploitation commences on the scale envisaged. The
first port project financed under Credit 229-CM (para. 1.05) assisted the
Government in improving log-handling at Douala, and in building a berth
for industrial raw materials; a request from the Government for further Bank
Group assistance in expanding the Douala port facilities and improving its
management is now under consideration.
2.12      The Benue River provides an outlet for northern Cameroon, through
Nigeria, to the sea. However, since navigation is slow and is possible for
only three months a year, annual traffic carried totals less than 66,00U tons.
After completion of the Transcameroon route, the importance of river naviga-
tion is expected to decrease even further.
C.   Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination
Institutional Responsibility
2.13      The Ministry of Transport created in 1970 has overall responsi-
bility for the determination of policy, planning, and coordination in the
sector. This policy-making role covers transport agencies such as Regifercam,
the National Ports and Waterways Authority, and Cameroon Airlines, including
review of their investment proposals and approval of tariffs.  The Ministry
of Transport is also responsible for screening transport projects prepared
by other Ministries. The basic organization of the Ministry is appropriate,
but due to the shortage of qualified personnel, many of the divisions which
should be responsible for the functions abovementioned have either not yet
been established, or are not fully staffed to handle their tasks effectively.
As a result, several transport problems remain to be solved (paras. 2.14,
2.15 and 3.05). The proposed project will help the Ministry in tackling
pressing transport problems, and in training of staff (para. 4.18).
Transport Policy and Planning
2.14      The Government's present transport policy aims at: (i) developing
and improving the Douala port, the Transcameroon route, and the Douala-
Foumban axis, all of which serve export-import traffic; and (ii) improving
road links that specifically contribute to socio-economic integration of the
two former states which now form Cameroon. The transport investments in the
Third Five-Year Plan (1971/72-1975/76) are well designed to achieve these
desired goals. After the planned investments are completed (around 1981)
these two major policy objectives should have been attained, and the immediate



-6-
needs in ports and railways satisfied.  Government emphasis in the sector
should then be directed towards improvement and development of feeder roads,
and improvement of road maintenance.  To lay the groundwork for the next
policy phase, the proposed project includes consulting services to study the
development of feeder roads and of road maintenance (paras. 4.13 and 4.14).
2.15      Transport planning has been carried out by several agencies and
Government departments, with the Ministry of Planning providing overall co-
ordination.  In the past, this task was relatively simple, since needs in the
sector were easily identified; in the future, however, after the primary
transport infrastructure is built, more careful planning will be required in
evaluating projects and establishing priorities. Cameroon's capability to-
perform this function needs strengthening, and the proposed project provid-s
assistance to the Ministry of Transport in setting up a permanent organization
for sectoral planning (paras. 2.13 and 4.18).
Transport Coordination and Regulation
2.16      On the Transcameroon route, the railway is paralleled by a road
f rom Douala to Yaounde (about 300 km); the road is paved between Douala aid
Edea (90 km) and on the last 10 km to Yaounde, but the middle section (abqut
200 km) is a poor gravel road. The Government influences the allocation of
freight traffic in favor of the railway by restricting to a maximum of 4 tons
the single-axle load of trucks travelling on the competing road. However,
the truckers are pressing the Government to modify its policy and to permit
heavier vehicles. Such action would cause the road to deteriorate unless
substantial investments are made to improve it. Consultants' preliminary
studies done in 1972/73 by OCCR/Sofrerail (France) with financing under
Loan 687-CM indicate, however, that given the existence of the railroad apd
the fact that considerable investments have recently been made to relay por-
tions of its track and to extend it to N'gaoundere (330 km), major invest-
ments in the near future on the parallel road from Douala to Yaounde appear
to be uneconomical. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that it will consult with the Bank/IDA before making any policy change on
this issue.
2.17      On the axis Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban where the railway parallels
the paved road from Douala to N'kongsamba (172 km), the railway is viable
only because it can operate at low cost without any major new capital invest-
ments, and with retired locomotives and wagons, i.e. sunk investments frqm
the central line. Marginal cost on the line is therefore less than on the
road alternative, even after reconstruction of the latter. Service provided
by the railway is, however, poor and unreliable, a result of the obsoletf
equipment being used. To make the railway competitive with the road vou4d
involve major capital investments in the replacement of existing track sec-
tions with heavier rail, and the purchase of considerable amounts of new
rolling stock; but in view of the short length of the average haul (130 km)
and the nature of traffic on the railway, these investments would most likely
not be justified. No change of policy in operating the line or closing It
down is planned at this point, and the Government does not intend to make
any major capital investments on the line, except needed renewal of tracks
and rolling stock, without prior consultation with the Bank/IDA.



-7-
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      The road network in Cameroon totals about 23,000 km, of which about
1,500 km are paved and 6,000 km are all-weather gravel or laterite roads;
the remainder are dry-weather roads.
3.02      The density of the network varies considerably within the country;
it is greatest in densely populated areas of high economic activity, namely
the coastal regions, the southwest region, the north, and around Yaounde.
The extent and distribution of trunk roads is adequate for the country's
present requirements, although traffic increases have led to the obsolescence
and deterioration of many sections, some of which were built almost 20 years
ago.  The feeder road system needs to be improved and expanded, especiaL
in the forest and cocoa areas of southeast and central Cameroon.
3.03      There is no uniform system of road classification.  In what was
formerly West Cameroon, such classification consisted simply of principal or
major roads, and secondary roads.  In the former East Cameroon, there were
separate classification systems for administrative and for maintenance pur-
poses. The administrative classification distinguished between national,
provincial, departmental, and secondary roads, and tracks. For maintenance
purposes, the roads were classified into several categories according to pre-
scribed technical characteristics; bituminous roads were one category, laterite
roads were graded in categories A through D depending on the quality of their
surface, and tracks came under category E. The road maintenance study included
in the proposed project (paras. 4.14 and 4.15) will establish a road inventory
and prepare a proposal for uniform road classification.
B.   Characteristics of Road Transport Industry and of Road Traffic
3.04      Government's policy in general does not hamper the development of
the road transport industry; there are no restrictions on vehicle imports or
on entry into the trucking business. About 80% of this latter, including
all of Chad's transit traffic, is handled by the "Syndicat des Transporteurs"
which consists of two large foreign firms and several Cameroonian truckers.
The balance is handled by small owner-operators, mostly concentrated in the
Bafoussam area. Inter-city road passenger transport is mostly by taxis and
buses, often owner-operated.
3.05      The Syndicat des Transporteurs regulates its members in terms of
traffic distribution, route licensing, and tariffs. The Syndicat's predominance
enables it to operate at the maximum tariff tolerable to the Government. In
addition, it is seeking the Government's legislation to: (i) regulate entry
into the trucking business, and (ii) make membership in the Syndicat mandatory
to all truckers.  Passage of these laws would reduce competition subsëi;-ally.
Cartelization of trucking is likely to shift benefits derived from road îm-
provements away from their intended beneficiaries (the producers and consumers)
to the truckers; in addition, it could block opportunities for Cameroonians
to enter what has proved to be a useful avenue for the start of African



- 8 -
entrepreneurship. A careful review of the policy of the road transport indus-
try is therefore essential. Such a study would provide a basis for the Gov-
ernment to determine: (i> the extent of regulation, if any, required in
the industry, and (ii) the ways in which Cameroonians could be encouraged to
participate more fully in the road transport industry. The UNDP has provided
financing for an expert to conduct such a study. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to review with the Bank/IDA the Terms of Reference of this
expert. The Goverrment also agreed to the following: (i) that no new laws
regulating the transport industry would be passed prior to consultation vith
the Bank/IDA, and (ii) that it will establish a road transport policy after
considering recommendations of the above study and in agreement with the
Bank/IDA.
3.06      The motor vehicle fleet has grown at an average of about 10% annually
over the past five years to about 50,000 units; of these, about 52% are
cars, 36% trucks and vans, 9% motorcycles, and 3% special purpose vehicles
(Table 1). Fuel consumption increased at about 8% yearly during the sawe
period (Table 2). There are no restrictions on the importation of vehicles.
3.07      Road traffic volumes are highest on the Douala-Kekem-Bafoussa#
stretch, various sections of which carry from 2,000 to 4,000 vpd in the
coastal zone. Traffic counts have been taken regularly on the main road
since 1968, but because of a lack of trained personnel, results are not
very reliable. Based on the increase in the vehicle fleet and in motor
fuel consumption, and also on recent consultants' studies, the annual
traffic growth rate is estimated to average about 6-7%.
3.08      There is a Road Code which regulates, inter alia, vehicle weights
and dimensions, but these regulations are generally not effectively enfqrced.
Although the permissible 13-ton single axle load is high, there is frequent
overloading of trucks. The Government would now like to improve enforcement
of regulations, and particularly to reduce overloading; it has therefore re-
quested financing for weighing stations to be located on the project roads.
Under the maintenance study proposed in the present project (para. 4.15),
consultants will determine further needs for weighing equipment, and will
propose measures to strengthen enforcement of traffic regulations.
C.   Administration
3.09      The Department of Roads (DR) within the Ministry of Equipment has
overall responsibility for the road network.  The Department has two central
sub-departments, one each for road engineering and construction, and for road
maintenance; it also has 8 regional divisions, which are further divided into
18 subdivisions spread throughout the country. Services for soil and mate-
rial testing are provided by the Public Works Laboratory, a semi-autonomous
public agency.



- 9 -
3.10      In the past, the DR relied heavily on French technical assistance
to fill its management positions. During recent years, Cameroonian engineers
have taken over most of these positions; some of these local officials are
however at the early stage of their professional career, and could benefit
from on-the-job training.  To help achieve this training, the Government in-
tends to assign Cameroonians as consultants' counterparts to render various
services under the project. This matter was discussed with the Government
during appraisal, and the Government agreed during negotiations to prepare,
in consultation with the Bank/IDA, a detailed plan for counterpart training.
D.   Planning and Financing
3.11      In the past, highway investments were planned on the basis of ob-
servations of traffic and road conditions, but without benefit of detailed
economic analysis. This method was largely satisfactory since road invest-
ment needs were obvious at the time. In the future, however, investmen,
decisions will require evaluation that is more broadly based, as well as co-
ordination with the various transport modes and development in other segments
of the economy. This approach to planning has already been initiated under
the previous Bank/IDA projects, and to meet this requirement further, the
planning capability of the Governtnent will be strengthened under the present
project (para. 4.18).
3.12      Highway expenditures are financed from general budgetary revenues
and from foreign loans and grants. The Third Five-Year Plan (1971/72-1975/76)
shows a proposed investment for highways of CFAF 24.5 billion (about US$111
million), of which about 54% is expected to be financed from external sources.
By the end of 1972, about 19% of the proposed investment had been implemented,
almost three-quarters with external aid.
3.13      Revenues from road users derive from import duties on vehicles,
fuel taxes, and licensing fees. In 1971/72, these revenues amounted to about
CFAF 4.3 billion (US$19 million), of which 13% was contributed by fuel taxes.
Capital and recurrent expenditures on highways in that year were about CFAF
4 billion (US$18 million), so that users paid more than the amount spent
for recurrent expenditures on road maintenance and, in the order of magnitude,
about as much as the total amount expended on roads.
E.   Engineering and Construction
3.14      The DR is responsible for engineering and construction of roads;
design and supervision of small projects is carried out directly by the Depart-
ment, and consultants are employed for work on major projects. Practically
all construction is carried out by contract on the basis of competitive bid-
ding. Force account is used only for minor works and for improvement of
earth roads; some roads are built by the Army Corps of Engineers. There are
few local contractors, and they undertake only building construction; none
is equipped for or experienced in road works. All road construction has
therefore been carried out by foreign firms, some of which have established



- 10 -
local subsidiaries in Cameroon. Promotion of the local construction industry
is now a development objective in Cameroon, and the Bank/IDA has initi-
ated a dialogue with the authorities on the role it can play in this respect.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that the consultants' study of
road maintenance and betterment will give consideration to promotion of the
local road construction industry. Additional measures to be taken would be
discussed with the Bank/IDA through its regular supervision operations.
F.   Maintenance
3.15      The DR is responsible for maintenance of bituminous roads and of
roads in Categories A, B, C and part of D (para. 3.03); local authorities
maintain the other roads in the system. In an attempt to optimize the use of
road maintenance equipment, a Central Equipment Pool was created in 1968, with
technical and financial assistance from FAC, as a semi-autonomous agency under
the Ministry of Equipment. The Central Pool rents equipment to the DR, to
local authorities, and to the private sector, and is responsible for the main-
tenance, repair, and renewal of such equipment. However, the existing fleet
appears insufficient, and the local authorities are therefore hard put to get
equipment when required. Moreover, the recent and projected rapid expansion
of the paved network will create a demand for additional maintenance equip-
ment. The exact equipment needs can be adequately defined only after a com-
prehensive inventory of the road network and establishment of a maintenance
program, both of which will be studied under the proposed project (paras.
4.14 and 4.15). In the meantime, however, no immediate purchases of equipment
are deemed necessary.
3.16      Budget allocations for road maintenance are made on a per-km basis
depending on the various classes of roads and traffic volumes carried. The
amounts allocated for roads in the bituminous and A and B categories are
fairly adequate; however, maintenance on these roads is poor because funds
are not used efficiently. This situation, combined with rapid increases in
traffic volumes, has been responsible for the rapid deterioration of some trunk
road sections, of which Douala-Kekem is an example. Funds allocated to roads
in categories C, D, and E, on the other hand, are less than would be required
for proper maintenance, even if equipment were readily available. The result
is that maintenance is frequently neglected, and some road sections are
deteriorating.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(a) road reconstruction of:
(i) Garoua-Maroua-Mora (260 km);



- il -
(ii) Douala-Pont du N'kam (Kekem) (175 km); and
(iii) Pont du Noun (Bafoussam)-Foumban (50 km).
(b) consulting services for:
(i)  supervision of the above works;
(ii) technical assistance to formulate forestry policies;
(iii) a feasibility study of about 400 km of
forestry feeder roads;
(iv) a study to improve highway maintenance and to define a
betterment program for feeder roads; and
(v) technical assistance for improving transport planning
and coordination, and studies of special problems in
that area.
B.   Reconstruction of Roads
4.02      The project roads will be reconstructed in accordance with detailed
engineering prepared by consultants as follows:
(a)  by Ingeroute/Lamarre-Valois (France/Canada) for the roads Garoua-
Mora and Douala-Pont du N'kam with financing provided under the
First Highway Project; and
(b)  by Gauff (Germany) for the road Pont du Noun-Foumban.  These
consulting services were financed out of the Government's own
funds.
4.03      The design standards applied to the roads are consistent with traf-
fic requirements.  Design speeds range from 60-100 km per hour; the pavement
will be 6 m wide on the Garoua-Mora and Pont du Noun-Foumban roads, and 7 m
on the Douala-Pont du N'kam road; shoulders will be generally 1.5 m wide on
all roads. Details on design standards are given in Table 3.
Description of Project Roads to be Reconstructed
Garoua-Maroua-Mora Road (260 km)
4.04      This road is part of the Transcameroon route, and runs north-south
across a generally flat region in northern Cameroon; between Maroua and Mora,
the road winds along the foot of a mountain range, skirting the adjacent
plain. The road is the only unimproved section of the Transcameroon route
(para. 2.05).



- 12 -
4.05      The existing road is paved for the first 90 km, and gravelled over
the remainder. The horizontal alignment of some sections is poor, and the
roadway is often only 6 m wide. Both the bituminous and gravel surfacings
have deteriorated to the extent that the road is sometimes impassable during
the rainy season. The existing road will be improved over about 220 km. A
new alignaent over about 40 km will shorten the road by about 26 km (or 9%).
Almost all of the 40 km new alignment represents an alternative through the
plain to the existing winding mountain road between Maroua and Mora.
Douala-Pont du N'kam (Kekem) Road (175 km)
4.06      This section is part of the axis Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban, and
stretches from south to north across a hilly region. The road links the
port of Douala with one of the most productive and densely populated agri-
cultural regions; it is the most heavily travelled road in Cameroon, carrying
about 2,000 vpd.
4.07      The, axiCing road was paved 20 years ago and has not been improved
since then, although traffic on it has been increasing continuously. The
road has therefore reached the end of its economic life. The pavement has
deteriorated considerably; most of the roadway is now only 6 m wide, since
most shoulders have disappeared; drainage is insufficient, and the alignment
of some sections is inadequate for present traffic requirements.
4.08      Under the project, the road will cross the rivers Wouri at Bonaberi,
and N'kam at Kekem. The two-lane bridge over the Wouri and the one-lane
bridge over the N'kam are both in good condition and do not need strength-
ening; in a few years, however, when the road section Pont du N'kam-Bafoussam
will require improvement, a new two-lane bridge across the N'kam river
should be considered. Improvement of the existing alignment over 118 km,
and of new alignment over 43 km, will shorten the road by about 13 km (or
7%). The new road will bypass the towns of Bonaberi and N'kongsamba, and
the existing sections through those towns, totalling about 14 km in length,
will be strengthened.
Pont du Noun (Bafoussam)-Foumban (50 km)
4.09      This section is also part of the Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis,
and extends from west to northeast across rolling highland. The road links
Bafoussam, capital of the most productive and populated region of Cameroon,
wieh the town of Foumban, and carries traffic of about 400 vpd. The road is
aiso part of the route selected for the Transafrican Highway which would con-
nect Kenya with Nigeria through Uganda, Zaire, C.A.R., and Cameroon.



- 13 -
4.10      The present road has a laterite surface course which has been re-
duced to a thin layer as a result of increasing traffic. The horizontal
alignment of same sections is poor; drainage is insufficient, and the road
surface is often below the level of the surrounding terrain. Also, erosion
has caused the roadway to be only about 6 m wide on some sections. The road
has been deteriorating so much that it will very soon not allow all-weather
service.
4.11      Under the project, the road will be reconstructed between the Noun
river and the entry to the town of Foumban.  Improvements to the alignment
will make the new road shorter by almost 3 km (or 6%). The one-lane bridge
over the Noun is in good condition, and does not need strengthening.
C.   Consulting Services for Technical Assistance and Studies
Technical Assistance to Formulate Forestry Policies
4.12      As explained previously (para. 2.03), the Government commissioned a
series of studies and surveys in the forest sector. These studies were financed
by various international agencies, and they each dealt with a specific set of
forestry management and policy issues. Their several recommendations have not
yet been synthesized into a clear forestry policy, as the capacity to perform
such a task does not presently exist in Cameroon. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it requires assistance in formulating and imple-
menting detailed policy, including new forest legislation and development of
a forest service capable of efficiently implementing Government policies.
The proposed project therefore includes financing for two experts over eight
months to provide such assistance.  Draft Terns of Reference for these experts
were agreed at negotiations, and the Government provided assurances that it
will give prompt consideration to the experts' recommendations.
Feasibility Study of Forestry Feeder Roads
4.13      A 1969 Bank Group mission identified the need for improvements of
access to the forestry area in the south-eastern part of Cameroon. A September
1972 mission provided further details of the requirements, and attached high
priority to those improvements. The proposed project includes consiilting
services to prepare feasibility studies for about 400 km of the principal
road connections between the forest area and the rail/road trunk system. Dur-
ing negotiations, and in the light of its development policy, the Government
confirmed the priority of improving road access to that area in general, and
suggested that selection of the individual roads to be studied be based on
recommendations to be made by the consultants for forestry policy matters
(para. 4.12). The Bank/IDA has agreed to this procedure.



- 14 -
Road Maintenance Study
4.14      Improvement of road maintenance has high priority for reasons
previously detailed (paras. 3.15 and 3.16). Also, the unsatisfactory main-
tenance situation is aggravated by a major deficiency in the present organi-
zation. The Department of Roads does not control all the facilities required
for road maintenance, and lack of coordination among the other contributing
agencies is a key difficulty in programming of maintenance work and in
executing it efficiently.  In particular, inadequate provision of equipment
affects maintenance operations. The proposed study, to be carried out lan L*
phases, will include all aspects which substantially influence the quality of
road maintenance.  The main points to be investigated, and for which recom-
mendations for improvement will be made under the first phase (expected to
be completed within six months) are as follows:
(i)  the organizational relationship of participating agencies;
(ii)  work practices i(i'         work programs;
(iii) condction of the road network (road inventory) and the need for
road betterment;
.1v)  the system of road classification; and
(v)  adequacy of recurrent budgets for maintenance.
4.15      After agreement has been reached between the Government and the
Bank/IDA on the most pertinent recommendations, the second phase of the study
will be completed after a further six months and will include:
(i)  a detailed road inventory and recommendations for a system of
road classification;
(iî)  a detailed maintenance program for the next five years, and a
general program for the five years following;
(iii) a detailed program for betterment of secondary and feeder roads;
iv'  a schedule for procurement of equipment over the next five years;
ïvN  a training program for maintenance personnel of the Department of
coads, taking into account also the need for advice and assist-
ance to be provided to local authorities for maintenance and
betterment work on roads under their jurisdiction;
(vi)  a schedule for procurement of equipment for traffic counting
and controlling, and proposals on strengthening enforcement of
traffic regulatîons;



- 15 -
(vii)  a proposai for technical assistance, if this is found necessary to
implement a five-year maintenance program; and
(viii)  an itemized draft budget for capital and recurrent expenditures
on road maintenance and betterment over the next five years.
4.16      The proposed project provides financing for consultants to carry
out the road maintenance study. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on an outline of the Terns of Reference for the study, and the Government
provided assurances that it will consult promptly with the Bank/IDA concerning
implementation of the consultants' recommendations.
Technical Assistance for Improving Transport Planning and Coordination
4.17      As detailed in para. 2.13, the Ministry of Transport will, if it
is to perform its assigned functions effectively, require the assistau_i! of
outside experts to help set up some of its divisions and to strengthen its
staff. In addition, several sectoral issues need to be investigated to per-
mit formulation of sound policies. These issues include inter alia: (i)
definition of priorities in the sector following the present planning phase
to end in mid-1977; (ii) tarification on the Transcameroon rail/road route;
and (iii) reveiw of the road transport industry (para. 3.05).
4.18      Technical assistance of about 60 man-months will be provided by
experts under the project to assist the Ministry of Transport in setting up
its divisions and in its day-to-day operations, and to assure on-the-job
training for Cameroonian counterparts. Consultants to be provided under the
project, and the UNDP - financed expert mentioned previously (para. 3.05),
will study the special problems in the sector (para. 4.17), and will make
recomendations which will form the basis for policy formulation and decision-
making. During negotiations, the Government agreed to the principal objectives
of the services to be provided.
D.   Cost Estimates
4.19      The project is estimated to cost about US$71 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange cost of about US$48 million. Details of cost estimates
(in late-1973 prices) are shown below:



CFAF Million                   US$ Thousand Equivalent
Foreign
Exchange
Local    Foreig       Total         Local      Foreign     Total      Compo ent
Reconstruction of Roads
a) Garoua-Mora                 1,537       3,237      4,774         6,987      14,711     21,698
b) Douala-Pont du N'lkam       1,653       3,482      5,135          7,516     15,824     23,340
c) Pont du Noun-Foumban                      737      1.088   1. 594 3,354                 4.948
Subtotal I                3,Ml-       7,1456    10,997         16,097     33,889     49,986         67.8
Consulting Services
a) Supervision of
constru c:ion                 261         609        870         1,187       2,768      3,955         70
b) Technical assistance to
formulate forestry policy       6          16         22            25          75        100         75
c) Feasibility study of
forestry feeder roads          19          58         77            87         263        350         75
d) Road maintenance study         17          49         66             75        225        300         75
e) Techiical assistance
and studies on trans-
port planning and
coordination                  325          149                     112           8        h5o         75
Subtotal II                 328                  1131         1,486       35,15                    71
I. Contingencies
a) Physical overrun on
Category I                    437         920      1,357         1J,987      4,181      6,168         67.8
b) Prices variation on
Categories I, II and
III(a) (15%)                  646       1.377      2 023         2 935      6,261           6        68.1
Subtotal III              1,083       2,297      3,380         4,922     l0442       1
TOTAL             4.952     10.559      15.511        22,505     48ooo       705-05        68.1
(rounded)                                             23,000     48,000     '1,ooo



- 17 -
4.20      Cost estimates for construction work have been prepared by consult-
ants on the basis of detailed design. Unit prices have been obtained by
analyzing prices of recent similar works in Cameroon, adjusted to reflect
costs in late 1973 when bids will be due. Estimated costs of consulting
services for construction supervision and for forestry road feasibility studies
are based on experience with previous Bank/IDA-financed contracts for similar
work in Cameroon and neighboring countries in West Africa; cost estimates for
services to be provided by the other consultants and the experts were prepared
on the basis of man-month requirements and recent rates for similar expertise.
Cost estimates include a contingency allowance for increases in physical quan-
tities; it amounts to 10% for the construction work, except for Douala-Pont
du N'kam for which a figure of 15% was found appropriate due to unforeseeable
costs in relocating utility lines, diverting traffic, and rock excavation in
mountainous terrain.  A further 15% contingency allowance has been added for
price escalation; this is intended to cover costs arising from the application
of price fluctuation clauses in the proposed construction and consultants'
contracts over the next three to four years.  It has been assumed that price
levels in Cameroon would change at about the same rate as on the world market.
4.21      The Government stated at negotiations that imported materials to be
incorporated into the works, and equipment used for construction would be ex-
empted from import duties. On this basis, and assuming execution by foreign
contractors, the foreign exchange component of construction costs is estimated
by consultants at about 68%; this is considered reasonable. The foreign ex-
change component of consulting services averages about 71%. Taxes in construc-
tion costs have been estimated at about 9.6%. The relevant breakdown of costs
is indicated below:
US$ Thousands Equivalent
Project
Categories                             Local Cost               Tax Component as %
Including        Total    Foreign    Without                       of Total
Contingencies    Cost       Cost        Taxes         Taxes           Cost
1. Reconstruction
of roads     64,600    43,800    14,600          6,200           9.6%
2. Consulting
services      5,900      4,200      1,100           600         10%
Total in
amounts    70,500    48,000    15,700           6,800          9.6%
Total in %    100       68.1       22.3           9.6



- 18 -
E.   Execution
4.22      The Ministry of Planning will have overall responsibility for execu-
tion of the project. However, it vill appoint other Ministries to be execut-
ing agencies for separate components of the project as follows: (i) the
Ministry of Equipment (in particular the Department of Roads) for road con-
struction, the highway maintenance study, and the forestry feeder road study;
(ii) the Ministry of Transport for transport planning and coordination; and
(iii) the Ministrf of Agriculture for forestry policies.  The Government will
employ consultante agreed with and under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank/IDA, to supervise the construction work, provide technical assist-
ance, and carry oût the studies.
4.23      To stimulate competition between contractors of various capacities
within the region, contracts for road construction work will be divided
and awarded as foilows: three for Garoua-Mora (260 km), two for Douala-Pont
du N'kam (175 km), and one for Pont du Noun-Foumban (50 km). Contractors
will be allowed to bid for one or for any combination of contracts. Contracts
will be based on uhit prices, and awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding ih accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. The construction
period is estimatéd at about 36 months. All construction work is expected
to be completed by mid-1977. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that services and civil works will be procured as stipulated.
The works will create direct employment for about 1,000 laborers over the
three-year construction period.
F.   Financing and Dîsbursements
4.24      The prop>osed Loan/Credit of US$48 million would meet the entire
foreign exchange cost of the project, or about 75% of the total cost wîthout
taxes. During negbtiations, the Government provided assurances that it would
meet the local costs of the project, amounting to about CFAF 5 billion (about
US$23 million).
4.25      Disbursements from the Loan/Credit account will be made on the
following basis:
(i)  68% of the total cost of construction work, representing the
entire fbreign exchange cost; and
(ii)  the acttml foreign cost of consulting services for supervision
of construction, technical assistance, and studies.
4.26      An estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 4.



- 19 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The project fits well into the Government's present strategy of
improving the most important transport corridors in the country: the Trans-
cameroon rail/road route, and the road Douala-Kekem-Foumban on the north-
south route in the west. The project also lays the foundation for tackling
problems in the transport sector which will be of high priority in the fu-
ture, namely (i) provision of forest roads in the southeast, (ii) improvement
of road maintenance, and (iii) rehabilitation of feeder roads. Additionally,
the project will help the Government strengthen the Ministry of Transport,
thus enabling it to perform more effectively its functions of transport
planning, coordination, and regulation.
5.02      Road improvements under the project are expected toiesult in re-
duced vehicle operating costs, and to ensure greater reliability of trans-
port even during the rainy seasons. Provided the Government does not curtail
competition in the road transport industry, the road improvements will also
result in lower transport costs for both producers and consumers. The pro-
ject roads traverse areas of high population density and agricultural activity;
since most of the farms in these areas are smallholdings rather than large
plantations, production is very sensitive to transport costs, and the road
improvements will therefore stimulate growth in agricultural production. The
proposed project will also have a positive impact on the social development
and the standard of living in these areas.
5.03      Inputs of present and future traffic, vehicle operating costs,
capital investments, and annual road maintenance costs, are all based on
feasibility studies carried out by consultants (Ingeroute and Lamarre/Valois
for the Garoua-Mora and Douala-Kekem roads, and Gauff for Pont du Noun-Foumban
road), and modified on the basis of findings of the appraisal mission. Traf-
fic forecasts on all roads take into consideration the effect of completion
of the Transcameroon route on north-south traffic patterns. Completion of
the route will result in about 20% additional increase in truck traffic on
the Garoua-Mora road (mostly Chad transit traffic), and about 25% decrease
in truck traffic on the Pont du Noun-Foumban road due to the diversion of
Chad and North Cameroon traffic to the Transcameroon railway. The effect on
the Douala-Kekem road traffic volume will be insignificant. The traffic
forecast on Douala-Kekem takes into account the existence of the railroad
which runs parallel to the road from Douala to N'kongsamba.
5.04      Reconstruction of the project roads is economically justified, since
the expected economic returns (ER) from individual roads to be constructed range
from 15% to 25%, with a combined ER of about 20%. The first year returns for
the individual road section range from 9% to 33%, indicating that the timing
of the reconstruction is appropriate. Detailed information on existing roads
and the economic analysis for their improvement are presented in the Annex.
The following paragraphs summarize the more salient aspects of the analysis.



- 20 -
B.   Reconstruction of Roads
Garoua-Mora Road
5.05      This road is the northern extension of the N'gaoundere-Garoua road
financed under the First Highway Project (para. 1.03).  It is the last unim-
proved road section of the important Transcameroon rail/road route which pro-
vides an economic access to the sea for the densely populated cotton-producing
areas of northern Cameroon and southwestern Chad (about 1.5 million people
each).  Present traffic on the road ranges from about 650 vpd near Garoua to
about 100 vpd at the Mora end. International traffic to and from Chad (Fort
Lamy and Bongor areas) constitutes about 25% (40,000 tons per year) of freight
traffic on the road.  It is expected that with the completion of this road
section, Chad's annual transit traffic along it will increase by about 20,000
tons, resulting in lower transport costs for that country.
5.06      Vehicle operating costs are high on the Maroua-Mora section, an all-
weather facility winding through the mountains, while transport reliability
is low on the alternative route through the plains which is often flooded
(about three months of the year). Reconstruction of this road to two paved
lanes across the plain, as compared to through the mountains, was found to
be the better technical and economic solution. The road improvement would
reduce vehicle operating costs, encourage a shift in settlement from the
mountains to the more productive land on the plain, and stimulate further
agricultural production and socio-economic integration of the mountain dwellers
who now participate only marginally in the political and social life of
Cameroon.
5.07      Considering only vehicle operating cost savings, the proposed
reconstruction yields a First-Year Return of about 11%, arnd an ER of 17%
over the 20-year economic life of the road. A sensitivity analysis (para.
5.11) indicates that under the most unfavorable assumptions of project
benefits and costs, the ER still exceeds 12%.
Douala-Pont du N'kam (Kekem) Road
5.08      This road links Douala, the main port and commercial capital of
Cameroon, with one of the most important and densely populated agricultural
regions in the country. The area served by the road contains about half of
the country's population. Products from local industries in Douala, and
imports and exports (mainly agricultural produce) which are transported along
the existing highway, totalled about 400,000 tons in 1971.  The road also
varries about 70,000 tons annually of the import and export traffic of northern
Cameroon and southern Chad, although this role will diminish after 1974 when
the Transcameroon railway is completed.



- 21 -
5.09      The project road is the most heavily trafficked in the country;
present traffic averages about 2,000 vpd, with recent annual growth rates
of between 6-8%. The existing road is inadequate for present and projected
traffic; there are long sections which have very narrow pavements (sometimes
less than 6 m) and considerable surface deterioration. The proposed road
improvements would result in savings in vehicle operating costs, as well as
in time savings and reduced accident levels due to better operating conditions.
This will in turn lead to reduced transport costs, and thus release consider-
able foreign exchange which can then be invested in other segments of the
economy. Based on savings in vehicle operating costs alone, the proposed
road investment yields a First-Year Return of about 17%, and an ER of 25%
over the 20-year economic life of the project.  A sensitivity analysis (para.
5.11) indicates that for the worst possible combination of benefits and cost
estimates, the ER is about 20%.
Pont du Noun-Foumban Road
5.10      This section is a continuation of the road from Douala to Pont
du Noun, and links Bafoussam, the distribution center of a prosperous
and agriculturally productive region, with northern Cameroon. The road
carries a large proportion of the country's cocoa and coffee exports, and
a considerable amount of its imports. Present traffic on the existing gravel
road, which in some parts has poor alignment, averages about 400 vpd, with
an expected growth rate of over 7%. Vehicle operating costs on the road are
high. Upgrading the road would result in: (i) lower vehicle operating costs,
and consequently, given the free trucking competition, lower transport costs
to producers and consumers; (ii) reduced accident rates; and (iii) better
transport reliability. On the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs
alone, improving the road yields a First-Year Return of about 10% and an ER
of about 15% over the 20-year economic life of the road. Under the most
unfavorable assumptions of project benefits and costs, the ER still exceeds 9%.
C.  Sensitivity Analysis
5.11      The consultants' estimates of vehicle operating cost savings range
from 25% for paved roads to 60% for earth tracks, which conforms with Bank
experience on similar road improvements. The sensitive inputs are consultants'
estimates of traffic growth in view of uncertainties about traffic patterns
when the Transcameroon route is completed, and construction costs. The sensi-
tivity of ERs obtained have been tested by excluding time savings, and admit-
ting possible variations of between 25-50% in traffic growth and 20% in con-
struction costs. The results presented below show that in the most pessimis-
tic case (increased construction cost combined with reduced benefits), the
ERs for Garoua-Mora and Douala-Pont du N'kam still exceed 12%. There is
little likelihood of the ER for Pont du Noun-Foumban being as low as 9%.



- 22 -
Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Returns Under Various Assumptions
Best      Traffic        Contruction   Combination
Estimate  Growth            Cost        of (2) and (3)
(less         (20% more
than in (1)*) than in (1) )
Roads                       (1)         (2)            (3)            (4)
Garoua-Maroua-Mora          17       (25%e 15           14            12
Douala-Pont du N'kam        25       (25%C  23          22            20
Pont du Noun-Foumban        15       (50%C il           12             9
D.   Other Project Elements
5.12      Benefits from the study of forestry roads and policy, the road
maintenance study, and the review of transport organization and coordina-
tion are not quantifiable at this point. The consulting services provided
by the forestry experts will help the Government determine the most eco-
nomical way to exploit its forest resources, and to formulate and imple-
ment a taxation policy. The forestry roads' study would lead to the pro-
vîsion of infrastructure needed to tap the country's most important natural
resource. The maintenance study will help the Government improve its present
maintenance practices, in particular by extending them to cover the feeder
road network. The road rehabilitation component of this study will lead to
the imprbvement of feeder roada serving areas of important agricultural
activity, for example, in the cocoa-producing areas. Benefits from these will
accrue mostly to producers and consumers in the often neglected rural parts of
the country. The technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport will enable
the Government to organize that Ministry to better serve Cameroon's needs, as
well as provide the basis for formulating a sound plan for transport policy
and investment.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During Loan/Credit negotiations, the following principal items were
discussed and agreed vith the Government:
(i) that it will consuit with the Bank/IDA before making any
policy change on the issue of distribution of freight
traffic between road and rail on the Douala-Yaounde
transport corridor (para. 2.16);



- 23 -
(ii)  that it will give prompt consideration to the recommendations
of experts recruited to formulate forestry policies
(para. 4.12);
(iii)  that it will consult promptly with the Bank/IDA concerning
implementation of the recommendations of consultants
executing the highway maintenance study (para. 4.16); and
(iv)  an outline of the scope of services to be provided by
consultants and individual experts for improving transport
planning and coordination under the project (para. 4.18);
6.04      The project is suitable for Bank/IDA lending to the Government of
Cameroon in the form of a Loan of US$24 million and a Credit of US$24 million.
An appropriate Loan term would be 25 years with a 5-year period of grace.
The Credit vould be made on the usual terms.
June 11, 1973.






Table 1
CAMEROON
SECOND HIGIEAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration, 1965-71
Special
Passenger    Delivery             Trucks, Tractors    Purpose
Year      Cars         Vans         Buses    and Trailers        Vehicles    TOTAL FIETr
1965       2,835        1,126        285           877              1h           27,540
1966       2,892          940        219           843              73           29,300
1967       3,704        1,053        214         1.,422             31           30,810
1968       3,681        1,286        306         1,300              49           33,730
1969       3,619        1,102        310         1,198              n.a.         36,500
1970       3,889        1,092       335          1,113              22           42,160
1971       3,697        1,352        406         1,211              60           46,800
1972        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.              n.a.         49,750
Âverage Annual Growth Rate (1967-72): 10%
n.a. = not available
1/  The estimated total fleet differs from the number of vehicles because only
imports are registered, and retirement of vehicles from service i8 not
recorded.
Source: Ministry of Planning (for number of vehicles registered).
Ministry of Transport (for estimates of total fleet).
March 1973.



Table 2
CAMEROON
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consumption of Motor Fuel, 1965-71
Year               Gasoline              Diesel               TOTAL
1965                87,090               6o,580              147,670
1966                88,670               65,450              154,120
1967                93,690               75,070              168,760
1968               100,570               85,500              186,070
1969               107,890               85,500              193,390
1970               114,380               94,900              209,280
1971              127,1470               99,300              226,770
Average Armual Growth Rate (1966-71):  8%
Sourc?: Petroleum companies, Douala.
March 1973.



Table 3
CAMEROON
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Project Roade
Douala-Pont        Pont du
Garoua-Mora      du N'kam      Noun-Foumban
Design speed (km/h)I/           60-100         60-100           60-80
Minimum radius on
horizontal curves (m)       120-425         120-425         120-240
Maximum grade (%)
normal                         5-7            5-7             6-7
exceptional                     -              -               8
Pavement width (n)               6               7               6
Shoulder width (m)
new road                      1.5             1. 5E7          1 
existing road               1.0-1.5           1.5
Pavement design axle
load (t)                       13              13              13
Bridge loading                Cameroonian standards
for trunk road
1/  Design æpeed varies in the range indicated for individual road
sections according to terrain.
2/  In built-up areas, shoulders will be bituminous surfaced and, on the
Douala-Pont du Nkam road, constructed 2.5 m wide.
2/ Based on Circulaire 65 du 19 août 1960 du Ministere de l'Equipement
et du Logement of France.
June 1973



Table 4
CAMEROON
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Eatimated Schedule of Diabursements
Bank/IDA Fiscal Year                      Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                        at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)
FY 74
September 30, 1973                                  100
December 31, 1973                                   200
March 31, 1974                                      300
June 30, 1974                                       500
FZ75
September 30, 1974                                1,000
December 31, 1974                                 3,000
March 31, 1975                                    5,500
June 30, 1975                                     8,500
FT 76
September 30, 1975                               12,000
December 31, 1975                                15,500
March 31, 1976                                   19,000
June 30, 1976                                    23,500
FY 77
September 30, 1976                               27,500
December 31, 1976                                31,500
March 31, 1977                                   35,500
June 30, 1977                                    39,500
FY 78
September 30, 1977                               42,O00
December 31, 1977                                44h°°°
March 31, 1978                                   46,000
June 30, 1978                                    48,000
Source: Mission estimates.
June 1973.



CAMEROON                                   ANNEX
Page 1
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Economic Analysis
I. General
For the calculation of economic returns of the project roads, each
road has been divided into sections on the basis of (i) the characteristics
of the existing section, (ii) the type of improvements and their unit costs,
and (iii) variations in traffic on the roads. The maintenance equations used
are based on consultants studies and include cost of periodic maintenance once
every five years for all paved roads. The results are summarized below.
II. inputs
For Ail- Project Roads
A. Vehicle Operatirg Costs (without taxes)
(US *veh km)
Vehicle Type                       Asphalt Road       Gravel Road      Earth Road
Good   Average  Poor  Good  Poor
Semi-trailers                    22       25      28    47    60           69
Tractor-trailers                 20       23      26    47    5h           63
Trucks and Buses                 14       15      18    25    32           43
Light Trucks and Mini-Buses       6         7      8    10    14           18
Passenger cars                    5         6      7     8   12            17
B. Traffic Composition and Growth Rate (%)
Garoua-Mora  Douala-Pont du N'Kam  Port du Noum-Foumbar
Vehicle Type                      Road                Road                Road
Semi-trailers                      0- 1 (7,51      0- 1 (7,6)             0- 1 (6,5)
Tractors Trailers                  0- 2 (7,5)      O- 1 (7,6)             O- 1 (6,5)
Trucks and Buses                 10-13 (8,6)      16-18 (8,6)            1  '-P (6,5)
Light Trucks and Mini-Buses       10-19 (7,5)      8-16 (8,6)            12-15 (8,6)
Passenger cars                   66-68 (7,5)      64-7h (8,6)            65-71 (8,6)
/ Figures in parentheses show annual growth for 1975-85 and 1985-95 respectively.



Garoua - Maroua - Mora Road
Section      Lejgw4.   Type of          Economic         Base       Annual         Weighted        First Year  Firet  Rate
Name         (km)   Improvement    Cost of Works   Traff ic       Savings in      Vehicle          Benefits    Year      of
Tus$'ooo)       TvT       Maintenance    Operating           (US$'000)  Returns Returrs
_iest      Cost Savinas
US$    yr      0/veh-km) I
Poor Paved       1,404.9         870       (0.02T-705>          5.0            284.3    20.2      28
1. Caroua-Pitoa   18,6    to
Good Paved
Gravel
2. Pitoa-Figuil 75.9       to            6,609.7          290       (0.5T-195)          8.7           616.3      9.3       14
Good Paved
Gravel/Poor Paved
3. Figuil-Salak 97.0       to            5,749.6         196        (0.5T-195)         8.7           591.3     10.3       15
Good Paved
Earth/Gravel
4. Salak-Maroua 17.3       to           1,543.5          348        (0,26T-450)         8.7         221.2    14.4          20
Good Paved
Earth
5. Maroua-Mora  56.0       to          6,783.4          214        (0.5T-195)        14.2          611.0      9.0        13
Good Paved
1/   Traffic growth is estimated at 7%o for the first 10 years and 5% thereafter
Z/   T le traffic in vehlcles per day.
Summary
Garoua - Maroua - Mora (265 km)
Total First Year Benefits                    a US$ 2,324,lOO
Total Economic Cost                          = US$ 22,082,000
First Year Returns                           -  10.7 (percent)
Growth of Benefits                           -   7% for flrst 10 years and 5% thereafter.
Construction Cost Distribution is as followss
Year                 1974                       199,
Cost (                                                                                    2$'°°°)
Economic Return over 20-year life               17%
à ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Douala - Pont du N'kam (KeKem) Road
Section Name      Length      Type of         Economic Cost    Base         Annual          Weighted    F'irst    First   Rate
(km)    Improvement        of works      'Traffic     Savings in         Vehicle    Year       Year     of
Maintenance       Operating   Benefits Returns Returns
(Us$'000)     (vpd)                            Cost      (US$'00o) Percent (20yrs)
(US¢/veh-
km)
a) 3.7   a) Rehabilitation   a) 1002.7               a)(0.02T-700)
1. Douala-Bonaberi                                                 5775                           3.1         259.1    20.7       28
b) 4.5   b) New Roed -        b)  246.3              b)  (1000)
1,249.0
2. Bonaberi-Bekoko      10.0      Rehabilitation      2028.3      2670         (0.02T.700)       3.2          305.1     15.0      20
3. Bekoko-Mbanga       43.6       Rehabilitation      5691.2      1885         (0.02T,700)       3.1         907.7      15.9      22
4. Mbanga-Loum          35,0      Rehabilitation      4056.5      1885         (0.02T.700)       3.1          723.8     17.8      24
5. Loum-Manjo           21.1      Rehabilitation      2488.1      1860         (0.02T.700)       3.2         444.6      18.8      24
6. Manjo-Nkonsamba      18.7      Rehabilitation      2709.2      3100         (0.02T,700)      3.2          667.6     24.6      32
a) 3.3   a) New Road          a) 790.3
7. Nkongsamba-Bare                                                2815         (0.02T-700)       3,8          363.6     25.0      33
b) 9.4   b)Rehabilitation    b) 659.3
1,449,6
8. Bare-Pont du Nkam  24.3       Rehabilitation      5,159.5      1915         (0.02T-700)       3.1          509.6      9.8    14
Doula-Pont du N'Kam (KeKem) Road
Total First Year Benefits                                     - US$ 4,179,100
Total Economic Cost of Works                                  - US$24,831,000
First Year Returns                                                 16.8 Percent
Rate of Return over 20-year life                              - 25 percent                                                    orf
Benefit/Cost Rates at 10 discount rate                        - 2.5 percent                                                   IDX



ANNEX
Page 4
1V Pont du Noun-Foumban Road
General
The homogenous nature of the existing road and the distribution of rtraffic
on it is such that it can be analysed as a single road section.  The analysis is
summarised below.
Type of works              =  Reconstruction of the moderate
gravel road to a paved road
'Economic Cost             =  US$ 5,035,500
Period of Construction    =  1 year (Jan. 1975 - Jan. 1976)
Traffic in 1976            =  492 vehicles per day.
Average traffic growth    =  7 (percent) per year for first 10 years
5% thereafter
Economic life of Road         20 years
Traffic Composition and Operating
Saving in
Vehicle Type                Perc,ent in Flet                Ope:r*ting Costs
(US ¢/veh-km)
Passenger cars                      65                             3
Light Trucks and Mini-Buses         15                             5
Trucks and Buses                    18                            13
Special Vehicles (heavy)             2                            19
Average vehicle operating cost savinge   (US  5.6/veh-km.
Maintenance Costs Savings
Annual Maintenance Cost Saviygs =US$ (0.5T-195)/km including allowance
for periodic maintenance once every 5 years.
First Year Benefits = (492 x   6  x 50 x365) - (0.5 x 492- 195)50
= US$ 502,500
First Year Returns   = 10,0
Economic Return(20yrs)=15%
Benefit/Cost Rates (discounted at 10 percent) - 1.4



CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
/0  D
-S    I-- -                                                                                                            1 0   E , S    
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D                                                  I~~~~~~ 
o~~~~o
z z ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     D 
o.   o,~~~~~~~~~~0o
W W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
z
or~



