CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 429 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 26, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 429 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 26, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 1973, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule I to the Loan Agreement by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to twenty-four million dollars ($24,000,000) (hereinafter called
the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):


﻿4
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9. The term 'Project' means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Loan Agreement
and as the description thereof shall be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower, the Bank and the Association."
(d)   Section 6.02(b) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation
under the Loan Agreement, the Bonds or the Development Credit Agreement
(as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement)."
(e)   Section 7.01(c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, the Bonds or the
Development Credit Agreement (as such term is defined in the Loan
Agreement), and such default shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank or the Association to the
Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   the term  "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   the term "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(c)   the term "Loan Account" means the account established pursuant to
Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement; and


﻿5
(d)   the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million dollars
($24,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Proj_ct and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing


﻿6
October 15, 1983, and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 3.01. Articles III and V and Sections 4.02 through 4.09 inclusively
of the Loan Agreement and Schedules 1, 3 and 4 thereto are hereby incorporated
into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein; provided, however, that (i) all references to the Bank in such Articles,
Sections or Schedules or in any of them shall be deemed to be references to the
Association, and (ii) all references to the Loan in such Articles, Sections and
Schedules or in any of them shall be deemed to be references to the Credit.
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement or the Bonds shall remain outstanding and unpaid, all action taken,
including approvals given, by the Bank pursuant to the Articles of the Loan
Agreement enumerated in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, or of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on
behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and all information furnished by
the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of such Articles, shall be
deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 4.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿7
Section 4.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all the conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled
subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date December 27, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 through
4.09 of the Loan Agreement incorporated by reference in Article III of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Plan et de 1' Amenagement du Territoire
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿8
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre du Plan et de l'Amdnagement
du Territoire
Yaoundd
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
MINPAT
Yaound6, Cameroon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s / Franqois-Xavier Tchoungui
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Director, Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Civil Works in-              34,000,000         68% of total ex-
cluded in Part                                 penditures (rep-
A(1) of the                                    resenting the
Project                                        estimated for-
eign expenditure
component)
II.  Consultants'                  3,700,000         100% of foreign
Services in-                                   expenditures
cluded in Part
A(2), B, C, D
and E of the
Project
III.  Unallocated                 10,300,000
TOTAL        48,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures;


﻿10
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
pvocurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the
Bank, by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association and by the Bank
or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the proceeds


﻿11
of the Credit and of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expenditures; and
(c)  if the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and of the Loan
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Association and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association and the Bank
under the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as in the
Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of
the proceeds of the Loan.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category
I shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association and the Bank or, after full withdrawal
of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust
the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿01^ A1                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
WORLD BANK       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
911                                                       l.1, IDA '
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
1818 H STREET, N W             WASHINGTON D.C. 20433             TELEPHONE EXECUTIVE 3-6360
Bank Press Release No. 73/50                   Subject: $24.0 million loan and
IDA Press Release No. 73/65                              $24.0 million credit to the
July 5, 1973.                                            United Republic of Cameroon
for a highway project.
The World Bank and its affiliate, the International Development Association (IDA),
are together providing $48 million to help finance a second highway project in the
United Republic of Cameroon.
The country's location on the Gulf of Guinea, at the junction of West and Equa-
torial Africa, makes it an important gateway for its landlocked neighbors; Chad,
and to a lesser extent, the Central African Republic. The distances between Cameroon's
principal agricultural areas and the sea are great.
Given these distances and the country's dependence on exports and imports, low-
cost transportation is a prerequisite to economic growth. During the last ten years
major investments have been made in transportation, all designed to reduce transport
costs, open up new areas for development especially in the remote North, improve tran-
sit services for its landlocked neighbors, and integrate the country.
In 1970, in order to assist the Government in meeting these objectives, the World
Bank and IDA helped finance the improvement of the N'Gaoundere-Garoua road section of
the Transcameroon route, a major interregional and international link about 1,240
miles long which connects the heavily populated and potentially productive northern
provinces with the rest of the country and the sea, particularly with Yaounde, the
capital, and Douala, the main port. It also serves the southwestern part of land-
locked Chad. To complete the Transcameroon route system involves expanding the
port of Douala, increasing the capacity of the railway link from Douala to Yaounde,
extending this railway to N'Gaoundere, and providing a better road from Garoua to
Mora.
The present project will contribute to meeting this objective by reconstructing
the last low-standard road section of the Transcameroon route. Two sections of the
heavily traveled Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis will also be reconstructed. Feasi-
bility and detailed engineering studies were partly financed through the first
project. The present project also includes financing of a feasibility study of
forestry feeder roads and studies and technical assistance for the improvement of
the highway maintenance system, improvement of transport planning and coordination
and formulation of forestry policy and legislation. The United Nations Develop-
ment Programme is providing technical assistance.
The Bank loan and IDA credit, of $24 million each, will be made to the United
Republic of Cameroon. The Bank loan will be for a term of 25 years, including a
five-year grace period, with interest at 714. The IDA credit will be for a term
of 50 years, including 10 years of grace; it will be interest free but a service
charge of 3/4 of 1% will be made to cover administrative costs.
-0-


﻿July 5, 1973
TECHNICAL DATA
PROJECT            Second highway project
COUNTRY            United Republic of Cameroon
TOTAL COST:        $71.0 million equivalent
BANK FINANCING:    $24.0 million, 25 years, 5 years of grace, annual interest
of 7k%.
IDA FINANCING:     $24.0 million, 50 years, 10 years of grace, interest free
except for 3/4 of 1% service charge to meet IDA's administra-
tive expenses.
OTHER FINANCING:   Government of Cameroon; United Nations Development Programme.
IMPLEMENTING ORGANIZATION:   Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire,
Yaounde. Republique Unie du Cameroun, Cable Address: MINPAT, Yaounde".
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:   Reconstruction of three road sections, totaling about 300
miles: Garoua-Mora --160 miles; Douala-Pont du N'kam (Kekem) -- 110 miles;
and Pont du Noun (Bafoussam) - Foumban -- 30 miles. Consulting services
for: supervision of the above works; a study to improve highway maintenance
and to define a betterment program for secondary and feeder roads; feasi-
bility study for forestry feeder roads; technical assistance for torestry
policies' formulation and for improving transport planning and coordination,
and studies of special problems in that area.
PROCUREMENT:   Construction contracts to be awarded on basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
CONSULTANTS:   To be selected.
ESTIMATED COMPLETION DATE: June 1977.
- 0-


