Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3994 RW 
GRANT NUMBER H130 RW 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Financing I) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated                                                    , 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3994 RW 
GRANT NUMBER H130 RW 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated                                  , 2004 between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has issued a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), 
dated July 2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
rapid and sustainable development to reduce poverty in its territory; 
(B) 
 
pursuant to the PRSP, the Borrower has issued a letter, dated 
September 16, 2004 (the Letter of Development Policy (LDP)), describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies consistent with, and designed to give effect to, the PRSP (the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;  
(C) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; 
(D) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit and the Grant 
in single tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Budget Execution Report” means the Borrower’s report, prepared by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (as hereinafter defined), on 
implementation of the Borrower’s Budget; 
(b) “Budget Framework Paper” means the Borrower’s document, prepared by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, outlining the Borrower’s budget 
policy for the subsequent medium-term and intended budget allocations for the subsequent 
year; 
(c) “Citizen’s Report Card” means the household survey of the Borrower’s citizens’ 
views on the relevance and quality of the Borrower’s public service delivery; 
(d) “CNPE” means the Borrower’s 
Centre National pour le Petit Elevage
 (National 
Center for Small Livestock); 
(e) “Country Procurement Issues Paper” or “CPIP” means the draft document, 
dated June 29, 2004, prepared by the Association and discussed with the Borrower,
 
analyzing 
the Borrower’s public procurement policies, organization, and procedures and setting out an 
action plan aimed at improving the Borrower’s public procurement system; 
(f) “Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(g)  “Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning on January 1 in 
any one calendar year and ending on December 31 in the same calendar year; 
(h) “Health Management Information System” means the Borrower’s system for the 
collection, analysis, and dissemination of information relating to health service delivery activities 
in the territory of the Borrower; 
(i)  “Mediator” means the person elected in each Sector (as hereinafter defined) under the 
Borrower’s Constitution of June 4, 2003, for purposes of dispute settlement; 
(j) “Medium-Term Expenditure Framework” or “MTEF” means the transparent 
planning and budget formulation process within which the Cabinet and central agencies 
establish credible contracts for allocating public resources to their strategic priorities while 
ensuring overall fiscal discipline; and 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning” or “MINECOFIN” means the 
Borrower’s ministry responsible for finance and economic planning; 
(l)  “Sector” means an administrative area of the Borrower, established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 17/01 of July 9, 2004, representing a designated area and population 
within the territory of the Borrower; and 
(m) “Universal Primary Education Completion” means the completion of primary 
education – defined as encompassing the period from the first to the sixth grades 
 
–
by 100% of 
Rwandan children of an age cohort to be determined by the Borrower and set out in the sector 
strategy referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,300,000) (the Credit); and 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-four million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,300,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Financing from the Financing 
Accounts in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Accounts, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
Deposit Account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All 
withdrawals from the Financing Accounts shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Financing shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Page  5
-
4
-
Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Financing Accounts for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Grant not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, 
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or Grant Account (as the case may be) or 
canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual 
date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The respective rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and 
October 15, commencing April 15, 2015 and ending October 15, 2044.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on October 15, 2024 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), 
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years 
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of 
principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into effect. 
(b) 
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower:
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P. O. Box 158 
 
Kigali 
 
Republic of Rwanda 
 
Facsimile: 
(250) 577 581 
 
For the Association: 
International Development Association  
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Kigali, 
Republic of Rwanda, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Financing shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, 
if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
Page  13
-
12
-
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit or Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
Private Sector-Led Growth 
1. 
The Borrower has brought Pfunda Tea Factory to the point of sale to qualified buyers, 
in accordance with paragraph 3 of the LDP. 
2. 
The Borrower has brought CNPE Kabuye to the point of sale to qualified buyers, in 
accordance with paragraph 3 of the LDP. 
3. 
For the purposes of the preceding two paragraphs, the phrase “brought . . . to the point 
of sale” means: (i) carried out an evaluation of the stocks of the concerned enterprise, on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
an evaluation of its assets and liabilities; (ii) prepared a prospectus for 
distribution to prospective buyers; (iii) solicited offers for the purchase of share capital; 
(iv) evaluated any such offers and selected successful bidders; and (v) invited the successful 
bidders to enter into good faith negotiations. 
Education 
4. 
The Borrower has prepared a sector strategy reflecting the Borrower’s preferred 
scenario for achievement of Universal Primary Education Completion by 2015 and including 
discussion of the fiscal sustainability of the implementation of such strategy.  
5. 
The Borrower has reflected in its FY 2005 Budget and 2005-07 MTEF such strategy as 
described in the preceding paragraph, in accordance with paragraph 4 of the LDP. 
Health Services 
6. 
The Borrower has implemented performance-based remuneration schemes for high-
impact services, including immunization, assisted deliveries, and antenatal care,
 
in Butare and 
Cyangugu provinces, as evidenced by publication by the Borrower of the evaluation report on 
such schemes, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the LDP. 
7. 
The Borrower has made provisions in its FY 2005 Budget Framework Paper to transfer 
at least 50% of the recurrent costs of such remuneration schemes as described in the preceding 
paragraph (Spending Area 3 in Budget Framework Paper: Health Center Performance/Results-
Based Approach) from donor funding to its FY 2005 Budget, in accordance with paragraph 5 of 
the LDP.  
Page  15
-
14
-
8. 
The Borrower has increased Diphteria Pertussis Tetanus third dose (DPT3) coverage to 
at least 80% of children having reached their first birthday between January 1 and 
June 30, 
2004,
as evidenced by data collected through the Borrower’s Health Management 
Information System, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the LDP.
 
Public Expenditure Management 
9. 
The Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the 
Association. 
10. 
The Borrower has prepared its FY 2005 Budget Framework Paper, consistent with its 
macroeconomic policy framework, 2005-07 MTEF, and PRSP priorities, in accordance with 
paragraph 8 of the LDP. 
11. 
The Borrower has prepared detailed output-oriented MTEFs for its education and 
health sectors, in accordance with paragraph 7 of the LDP.   
12. 
The Borrower’s Parliament has been submitted, through the Borrower’s Auditor 
General and along with his opinion thereon, the Borrower’s FY 2003 Budget Execution Report, 
in accordance with paragraph 7 of the LDP. 
Transparency and Accountability 
13. 
The Borrower’s Parliament has been submitted the draft Organic Budget Law, in 
accordance with paragraph 7 of the LDP.
 
14. 
The Borrower’s Cabinet has approved the draft Public Procurement Law and 
recommendations of the CPIP, in accordance with paragraph 7 of the LDP.
 
15. 
The Borrower has published in its Official Gazette the legislation establishing the 
Office of the Ombudsman, in accordance with paragraph 7 of the LDP.  
16. 
The Borrower has elected Mediators in all Sectors of its territory, in accordance with 
paragraph 7 of the LDP.
 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
17. 
The Borrower has prepared the PRSP Progress Report covering the second year  
(2003-2004) of PRSP implementation, in accordance with paragraph 8 of the LDP. 
Page  16
-
15
-
18. 
The Borrower has prepared draft survey questionnaires, including in relation to the 
quality of education and health services, on Citizen’s Report Cards, in accordance with 
paragraph 8 of the LDP. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions 
generally applicable to development financing granted by the Association as a 
development credit and development grant to its members.  They apply to any 
development financing agreement providing for any such development finance to 
the extent and subject to any modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
“8. “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular Development 
Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions apply, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time.  Development Financing Agreement includes 
these General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Development Financing Agreement.” 
3. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read: 
“12. 
“Project” means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Financing Agreement, in support of which the Financing is made.” 
4. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
“15. 
  “Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement;” 
“16.  
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on 
its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;” 
“17.  
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant;” and 
Page  18
-
17
-
“18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the Credit Account or 
the Grant Account).” 
5. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”: Sections 2.01 (3), 
2.01 (12), 4.01, Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01 (d), 
Article VIII and Article IX. 
6. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”: Section 2.01 (6), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI and Section 12.03. 
7. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
8. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
“Section 3.01. Financing Accounts
.
The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in 
these General Conditions.  The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant 
Account and may be withdrawn from the Grant Account by the Borrower as 
provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General 
Conditions.” 
9. 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Financing Accounts shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Financing 
Agreement.” 
10. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Financing from the Financing Accounts in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Financing Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
Page  19
-
18
-
11. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
12. The 
phrase
 “Development Financing Agreement or Development Grant 
Agreement” is added to Section 6.02 (a) (ii) after the words “any other Development 
Credit Agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, to 
Section 6.02 (c ) (i) after the words “any Development Credit Agreement” and before the 
words “with the Association”, and to Section 7.01 (b) (i) after the words “any other 
Development Credit Agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the 
Association.” 
13. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several 
installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.”
 
14. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Financing Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Financing Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
15. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are 
renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
 
