Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1076 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit 1 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (25%);General education sector (25%);Water supply 
(25%);Power (25%) 
Project ID 
P085192 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA 
Implementing Agency 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA 
Environment Assessment 
OD 4.01 applies?  [x ] Yes  [ ] No 
Date PID Prepared 
August 26, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 29, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
October 21, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Rwanda is a poor country facing severe structural constraints.  Its GNI per capita is US$230 and its 
population of 8.2 million is growing annually at the rapid rate of 3.6 percent. It is still addressing the 
legacy of the 1994 genocide in which close to one million people were killed, two million people were 
driven into exile, over a hundred thousand people were put in prison, and thousands of people were 
handicapped physically and mentally. The destruction of capital that ensued, along with declining 
investment and low productivity, reduced government income and revenue and increased poverty. 
Over the last 10 years, Rwanda has made a remarkable transition from genocide to peace and 
development. The GoR has worked to lead the country out of conflict and into rehabilitation, 
reconstruction, and recovery. Many refugees have returned and the reconciliation process has progressed 
significantly.  Between 1995 and 2002, the average annual GDP growth rate was 7 percent.  Financed 
largely by donor funds, reconstruction efforts have been strong. Public investment, mostly for 
reconstruction, has picked up and is currently estimated at 6.8 percent of GDP.  Private investment 
increased to 12 percent of GDP by 2002, and was estimated at 12.8 percent in 2003.  Rwanda has taken 
huge strides toward improving social services, reducing gender disparities, and initiating a serious effort 
to attack HIV/AIDS.  Health indicators have improved steadily and are reaching pre-genocide levels.  At 
all levels of education enrollment rates have increased, with net and gross enrollments surpassing pre-
genocide levels and primary school enrollment of girls on par with that of boys. 
 
In addition to economic rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts, the GoR has invested significantly in 
addressing the causes of genocide, including mainstreaming dialogue and creating institutions that 
promote national reconciliation and build social capital and local capacity for governance.  Since 1998, 
Rwandans have discussed their peace and development challenges most prominently through the Village 
Urugwiro (traditional public meetings), consultations of the National Unity and Reconciliation 
Commission (UJRC), and most recently the PRSP. National dialogue, resettlement and reintegration of 
genocide victims (including refugees and internally displaced persons), adjudication of the cases of the 
genocide suspects, poverty reduction, and good governance have been recognized as prerequisites for 
national reconciliation.  Dialogue under the UJRC and the PRSP process helped to sharpen the linkages 
between the different challenges faced by the country, build consensus on strategies and actions, and 
monitor and evaluate results.  To foster citizens’ empowerment, the National Assembly adopted 
decentralization laws in late 2000 and early 2001, and elections for offices in new district 
Page  2
administrations were held in March 2001.  Decentralized entities came into being thereafter, and in May 
2003 a new Constitution was approved in a national referendum. This paved the way for national 
elections in August 2003, which the international community judged as free and fair.
 
While impressive progress has been made, significant challenges remain.  Regional instability remains a 
threat to peace and development. Rwanda is also likely to have serious difficulty in attaining the MDGs. 
Access to safe sources of water in rural areas remains low. Primary school participation rates are high, 
but the completion rate is low by international standards and Rwanda’s repetition rate is among the 
highest in the world. High fertility rates combined with poor nutrition contribute to placing poor children 
and women at great risk of disability and early death.  Current estimates of under-five mortality and 
maternal mortality rates are among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).  Additionally, Rwanda is 
heavily affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic.     
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed operation is designed to help the Government of Rwanda implement key policy actions 
outlined in its July 2002 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which focuses on (a) creating a 
favorable private sector investment climate that would promote macroeconomic stability and sustained 
economic growth; (b) improving quality, coverage, and equity of basic service delivery through 
improved expenditure efficiency; and (c) supporting overall improvement of  public expenditure 
management and governance, with an emphasis on transparency and accountability to citizens’ voice 
and participation. In line with this agenda, the proposed PRSC I supports the Government’s efforts to (a) 
stabilize the macroeconomic framework, develop export promotion and financial sector strategies, and 
advance the privatization program; (b) develop a result-oriented Medium-Term Expenditure Framework 
(MTEF) approach to budgeting, including the development of sectoral MTEFs, particularly in education, 
health, water, and energy, and to pilot performance-based contracting agreements for provision of 
services in these sectors; and (c) strengthen governance and transparency, particularly through an 
improved fiduciary framework and establishment of the Office of the Ombudsman, along with 
associated election of local mediators.    
 
This programmatic operation would support the implementation of a PRSP that has been prepared in a 
participatory manner, with strong country ownership. Benefits would accrue to the population overall, 
with a particular focus on poor people in rural and urban areas. By supporting Government efforts to 
foster a favorable private sector investment climate to foster growth and efforts to improve the fiduciary 
framework and transparency and accountability, the proposed PRSC aims to strengthen the ability of 
central and local governments to improve delivery and increase equitable access to basic services with a 
view to achieving MDGs, particularly in human development. PRSC preparation has also accelerated 
donor harmonization efforts; all donor partners have been involved in preparation, and the AfDB and 
SIDA are closely aligning their budget support to it. In addition, the Partnership Framework for 
Harmonization and Alignment of Budget Support, signed by budget support donors and the 
Government, aims to ensure predictable and timely support at reduced transaction costs.   
 
The prior actions for Board presentation include:  
 
1. Negotiation on the sale & purchase agreement for privatization of Pfunda Tea Factory 
completed & bid launched for CNPE Kabuye.  
Page  3
2. Complete document on a fiscally sustainable sector strategy that indicates Go
R’s preferred 
scenario for achieving Universal Primary Completion and agree process by which the 2005 
Budget & 2005 – 2007 MTEF will reflect this decision.  
3. Carry out performance based payment schemes for high impact services in Butare & Cyangugu  
with donor funding; make provisions for transferring at least 50% of the cost  to 2005 budget;  
increase DPT3 coverage to 80%. 
4. Maintain adequate macroeconomic framework. 
5. 2005 Budget Framework Paper Ready, consistent with macro-framework, 2005-2007 medium 
term expenditures ceilings & PRSP priorities; & detailed output oriented medium term program-
budgets for  education  & health. 
6. 2003  budget  execution report submitted to Auditor General & presented to Parliament. 
7. Organic Budget Law submitted to Parliament. 
8. Draft Public Procurement Law complying with international standards and recommendations of 
the CPIP are adopted by Cabinet. 
9. Law establishing the Ombudsman office is published in the official Gazette & conciliators 
elected in all cellules & sectors. 
10. PRSP Progress Report (APR) reviewing 2
nd
 year of PRSP implementation completed 
11. Draft questionnaires of citizen report cards survey available. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Despite structural rigidities, continued improvement in security after the genocide and strong 
Government commitment to reforms led to strong economic growth until 2003. The period from 1995-
2002 was one of systematically high growth, ranging from an average annual growth rate of 11.8 percent 
between 1996 and 1998 to 7.4 percent between 2000 and 2002.  This, coupled with low and stable 
inflation, made Rwanda one of the best performers in SSA. Through improved tax policy and 
administration, revenue performance reached 13.5 percent of GDP in 2003, up from 9.7 percent in 2000. 
During this period, agriculture and construction were the main sources of growth.   
 
In 2003, GDP growth fell to 0.9 percent, while inflation rose to 7.4 percent. The poor level of growth 
was mainly due to drought conditions during late 2002 and early 2003, which were exacerbated by 
falling international commodity prices and unforeseen expenditures associated with national elections. 
Despite these setbacks, as of end-June 2003 policy performance under the IMF-supported Poverty 
Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) was broadly satisfactory.  During the June 2003 review of the 
PRGF, six quantitative performance criteria and all structural performance criteria were met.  As a result 
of this progress, on June 9, 2004 the IMF Board concluded the second and third reviews of the PRGF, 
and approved the disbursement of additional interim assistance under the HIPC Initiative. With 
continued satisfactory macroeconomic performance, it is expected that Rwanda will reach its HIPC 
Completion Point in December 2004. 
The GoR’s commitment to reform has proven consistently strong.  Over the past 10 years, the country 
has moved from the ruins of the genocide to the implementation of advanced macroeconomic 
management practices and public expenditure reform (see Box 1). 
 
Page  4
Box 1.  Overview of Reforms, 1995-2003
 
Revenue.
 
Fiscal measures, e.g., increase in turnover tax to 15 percent in 1998, increase in excise tax and subjecting public 
enterprises to income tax in 1999, were adopted and the autonomous RRA was established at end-1997, with technical and financial 
support from DFID.  
Expenditure Management.
 
Central Project and External Financing Bureau was established at end-1998 to improve the coordination 
of investment projects; the MTEF was initiated in 2000, and an expenditure monit
oring system (monthly “flash report” on actual 
and budgeted expenditures) was established in 2003. The SPPRMD was launched to monitor poverty outcomes and assure 
coherence between the budget and the PRSP and a pilot joint monitoring system was initiated in 2003. 
Social Sector Budget Allocations.
 
Budget allocations to the social sectors have increased significantly in real terms since 1998.  
These allocations are now protected from budget cuts. 
Economic Governance.
 
The National Tender Board was created to oversee procurement.  The independent Office of the Auditor 
General was established. The FARAP was adopted  and the action plan is under implementation. 
Civil Service Reform.
 
A
civil service census was carried out in late 1998 to provide the basis for civil service rationalization.  Over 
7,000 ghost workers and about 3,000 unqualified employees were removed, and the status of employees, largely returned refugee 
teachers, was regularized.  In early 1999, fringe benefits were monetized, and civil service salaries, which had dropped by over one-
half since 1993, were increased by over 40 percent on average. 
Public Enterprise Reform.
 
The law providing the legal framework for the privatization of public enterprises was passed in 1996.  
Between 1996 and 1999, 25 enterprises have been sold, 11 offered for sale, and five brought under liquidation. By 2003, 50 out of 
70 public enterprises had been sold.  The remainder includes 10 tea factories, two public enterprises, and one public utility.  
Central Bank and Monetary Policy.
 
A
revised central bank statute giving the NBR independence in conducting monetary policy 
was adopted in mid-1997.  Treasury bill auctions were introduced at end 1998, giving the NBR an indirect instrument for controlling 
monetary aggregates and influencing interest rates. 
Financial Sector Reform.
 
A
new banking law, promulgated in August 1999, provides for the effective, prudential regulation of 
commercial banks. Other regulations provided under the law were issued in 1999 and 2000.  Comprehensive audits of all five 
commercial banks were carried out in 1999, providing the basis for these banks to be restructured to comply with the new prudential 
regulations. 
Social Security System.
 
The Caisse Sociale du Rwanda (CSR) was audited and an actuarial study carried out.  A large part of the 
GoR’s debt to the CSR was consolidated. 
Regulatory Framework for Private Sector Development.
 
The National Assembly adopted the Rwanda Investment Promotion Act 
and a new labor code was submitted to the National Assembly in 1999.  In late 1999, an independent Private Sector Federation was 
established, paving the way for the abolition of the Government-controlled Chamber of Commerce. 
Gender.
 
An amendment to the civil code giving women the right to inherit and own property was promulgated in late 1999. Gender 
policy was adopted by Cabinet in 2003, and the Strategic Plan for the Ministry of Gender and Women in Development
 
was finalized 
and adopted along with the related action plan, which includes a Comprehensive Legal Action Plan to eliminate gender disparities. 
Trade Liberalization.
 
The maximum tariff rate was reduced in three steps, from 100 percent before 1995 to 25 percent from early 
1999, and the number of non-zero tariff bands was reduced from 40 to 3.  As a result, the trade restrictiveness index fell from 8 in 
1995–97 to 2 by mid-2000. The coffee export tax was eliminated in early 1999.  Rwanda joined COMESA in 2003. 
Exchange Rate Regime.
 
A
fully liberalized and market-determined exchange rate system has been adopted, foreign exchange 
bureaux were licensed, and current account restrictions were abolished.  Agreements under Article VIII of the IMF’s Articles of 
Agreement were accepted at end-1998. 
Domestic Prices and Marketing.
 
Price controls have been eliminated for all but a handful of commodities (cement, electricity, 
water, and telecommunications).  A flexible retail petroleum pricing mechanism was implemented in 1999.  Existing laws are being 
revised to reflect the policy of price liberalization and provide a transparent framework for government interventions where 
necessary. 
Demobilization.
 
Almost 10,000 soldiers have been demobilized by the government in two rounds, at end-1997 and end-1998.  In 
addition, about 15,000 ex-FAR (soldiers of the former government) have been incorporated into the national army since early 1998.
 
Rwanda moved to a second generation of reforms in 2000 by adopting the MTEF as a comprehensive 
framework to further public expenditure management reform.  The introduction of the MTEF was 
supported by DFID and the World Bank.  Introduced at the sectoral level with the 2001 budget process, 
all line ministries have now elaborated their respective MTEFs for 2002-2004, and priority expenditure 
programs have been identified and ceilings defined. In 2002, the presentation of the budget was changed 
in all ministries to reflect classification of expenditures according to programs and subprograms, 
expected outputs, and inputs. The chart of account was revised to reflect regional and international 
Page  5
standards. The effective implementation of the MTEF has been supported by ongoing PERs by the Bank 
and other partners, social sector expenditure reviews in 1999 and 2000, and reviews of the transport and 
agriculture sector in 2002.  The challenge now is to strengthen the predictability of the MTEF system 
(through improved revenue and expenditure forecasting), its coverage (in particular with respect to off-
budget projects), and its results focus (by improving performance monitoring).  
Significant reforms have also been adopted in the public financial management system.  The new 
Constitution adopted at end-May 2003 established a clear framework for public financial management. 
The Auditor General was vested with sole accounting authority to report directly to Parliament.  In 2003, 
the Auditor General audited 41 public entities, including nine ministries (among them the Ministries of 
Defense and Finance), and completed a report to Parliament in January 2004.  A new Organic Budget 
Law was submitted to Parliament in June 2004. The accompanying financial instructions were issued in 
May 2004. The GoR is also implementing an action plan for financial accountability, based on the 
recommendations of the FARAP.  A 2002 PETS concluded that the management of public funds was 
largely transparent with no systemic pattern of leakage. Salaries are paid regularly and budgeted public 
funds reach rural schools and health centers, provided cash flow allows it. 
 
Rwanda’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), published as a PRSP in July 2002, elaborates the GoR’s 
vision for achieving the MDGs, including reducing poverty by half by 2015. It articulates a mid-term 
program (2002-2007) as a first step toward the GoR’s “Vision 2020,” which includes ambitious targets 
of increasing GDP per capita to US$900 (from US$230); reducing the number of poor people to 25 
percent of the population (from 60 percent); increasing life expectancy to 65 years (from 49 years); and 
increasing literacy to 90 percent of the population (from 48 percent).  Vision 2020 views national 
reconciliation, domestic and regional security, good governance, and economic transformation as 
overarching challenges to achieving these ambitious goals. 
In 2002, MINECOFIN established the Strategic Planning and Poverty Reduction Monitoring 
Department (SPPRMD) to coordinate the implementation of the PRSP’s core programs, including a 
monitoring and evaluation function.  In July 2003, the GoR produced a first PRSP Progress Report, 
covering the first year of PRSP implementation (August 2002-June 2003). The Progress Report took 
into account recommendations provided by development partners and the October 2002 mission of the 
Strategic Partnership for Africa. It also incorporated the results of a participatory survey undertaken to 
gauge the satisfaction of grassroots groups with public services and private initiatives targeted at poverty 
reduction. 
The Progress Report found substantial progress in education and health, governance, and infrastructure 
development
.
Enrollment rates in primary school improved and repetition rates 
decreased, 
although dropout rates remained high. The use of health services rose between 2001 and 2002.  In 
general, while it was too early to evaluate the full impact of the GoR’s sectoral initiatives, it appeared 
that implementation of programs outlined in the PRSP were having some positive effect.   
 
The PER showed that priority programs are increasingly funded.  Social spending increased to 6.2 
percent of GDP in 2003 from 3.9 percent in 1999. Expenditures to finance primary schools were higher, 
and enrollment of poor and rural children increased dramatically.  Health facilities have largely been 
rehabilitated and a decentralized health management system has been adopted. Key health programs 
such as immunization have been adequately funded and immunization coverage is one of the highest in 
SSA. Essential drugs are available in clinics. The rich/poor ratio in terms of health coverage with major 
service delivery is generally smaller than the average for SSA and low-income countries, although richer 
groups benefit more from public spending on health than do poorer groups.   
Page  6
The Progress Report also highlighted that achieving poverty reduction targets would only be possible if 
strategies and programs affecting production, productivity, trade, and governance were articulated and 
implemented to complement traditional human development programs.  The Progress Report took note 
of the need for action in the areas of capacity building and the environment. Finally, the Progress Report 
noted that achieving macroeconomic stability, through increased agricultural productivity, export 
promotion, and articulation of a medium-term fiscal stance, relies on obtaining additional external 
borrowing. Development assistance from the the international community, including the Bank, in 
support of PRSP implementation was seen as essential for poverty reduction, thus strengthening the 
foundation for sustained peace in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region. 
 
The Bank-Fund Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) of the Progress Report largely concurred with these 
conclusions.  It also indicated 
that Rwanda’s implementation of macroeconomic policies during 2002 
and 2003 was broadly satisfactory; that substantial progress had been made in establishing a political 
structure that can effectively strengthen social justice and stability; that a new Constitution and a new 
president and legislators had been democratically elected; that advances toward achieving peace in the 
Great Lakes region will contribute to PRSP implementation and the attainment of its objectives; that 
progress on structural and policy reforms had been broadly successful; that the authorities had shown 
continued commitment to privatization of public enterprises; and that financial management reform was 
on track and there had been progress toward social sector targets, particularly in education. The GoR is 
finalizing its second Progress Report, reviewing experience during the second year of PRSP 
implementation (July 2003-July 2004). It will be circulated to the Bank and Fund Boards in due course.  
The GoR plans to update its PRSP in 2005. 
 
The GoR’s Medium-Term Policy Outlook (2005-2007) is based on relatively steady rates of growth, 
forecasted at 6 percent of GDP.  Inflation is programmed to be reduced to 5 percent by end-2004 (this 
increase over the previously planned level of 3 percent reflects continued exchange rate depreciation) 
then declining to around 4 percent. These targets are achievable provided planned measures, supported 
by the proposed PRSC, to improve productivity are successfully implemented.  Additional donor 
funding, particularly in the form of grants, will also be necessary. Revenues are projected to remain at 
around 14 percent of GDP given reforms already in place. On the expenditure side, the budget contains 
substantial funding increases for the education, health, and road sectors as well as financing to promote 
increased economic growth.  Total budgetary expenditure is planned to increase to 28.3 percent of GDP 
in 2004, compared to 24.1 percent in 2003, and the overall fiscal deficit to 14.8 percent of GDP.
 
Priority expenditure allocations for 2004 have increased by 69 percent as compared to 2003, with most 
concentrated in the social sectors. Total education spending has increased by 55 percent and accounts for 
42 percent of priority expenditures in 2004. The largest increase is for secondary education (197 
percent), following the GoR’s decision to increase dramatically the enrollment rate of grades 7, 8, and 9.  
The share of tertiary education priority programs, mainly scholarships inside and outside the country, 
remains high.  
Following education, administrative and political services, which includes internal affairs, public 
service, and local government, receives the second highest budget allocation in 2004, as was the case in 
2003 and 2002.  Priority programs in this category represent 18.7 percent of the total in 2004, against 
16.8 percent in 2003. The most important program in this category is the development of the national 
police service, which receives 6.4 percent of the total priority programs budget allocation in 2004. This 
has been consistent with the GoR’s policy to reinforce internal security. Allocations for health priority 
programs have also increased, from RwF 6.5 billion in the 2003 to RwF 11.5 billion in 2004, reflecting 
Page  7
increased allocations to provincial health facilities, increased pay for health workers, and allocations for 
anti-retroviral drugs. 
 
A
broad consensus has developed in the country to maintain sound fundamental macroeconomic and 
poverty reduction policies in the medium- and long-run. Several partners
—UNDP, WHO, UNICEF, 
USAID, Belgian Aid, French Cooperation, Dutch Aid, German Aid, SIDA, the EU, and DFID—have 
participated in the preparation of the proposed operation.  The GoR and donor partners have agreed that 
the comprehensive PRSP policy matrix would be the basis for policy dialogue on both budget support 
and sector support operations, as is the case in the education sector, in practice a SWAp, and as is 
envisaged in the health sector. Development partners would select a subset of the PRS policy measures 
and milestones as basis for supporting the GoR’s budget. As such, the PRSC matrix is a subset of the 
PRSP matrix. Furthermore, CEPEX has proposed a timeline of key phases in the PRSP review cycle and 
the GoR’s budget cycle, and associated timing of donor disbursements and reviews, as a basis for 
furthering harmonization, alignment, and dialogue. 
 
Bank-Fund collaboration has focused on the area of macroeconomic monitoring, with the Bank 
participating in PRGF review missions and the Fund participating in PRSC missions. Fund staff have 
participated in the extensive consultations held with stakeholders to further define the PRSP policy 
matrix, to feed into the definition of the PRSC matrix, including prior actions and triggers. The Bank 
and Fund are also collaborating to produce the HIPC Assessment and Action Plan (AAP) exercise report 
and, in addition to producing JSAs of the PRSP and PRSP Progress Reports, the Bank and Fund have 
been in consultation on Rwanda’s financial and banking sector policies, fiscal decentralization, and 
financial management. 
 
Ensuring that Rwanda remains on a path of economic and social progress is key to sustaining 
achievements since the 1994 genocide and to increasing stability of the Great Lakes region.  Rwanda’s 
transition from conflict to peace and development and its ability to implement its PRSP require 
substantial development assistance. The proposed PRSC series would build on significant achievements 
in public expenditure management reform, fiduciary transparency, service delivery performance, and 
reconciliation and unity made by Rwanda between 1995 and 2004.  It would also assist Rwanda in 
sustaining an adequate macroeconomic framework. A blend of grant-credit support under the proposed 
PRSC is essential for Rwanda to sustain its economic and social recovery and transform its economy, 
including developing exports to address debt sustainability concerns and reduce dependence on foreign 
aid. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed PRSC I operation would provide a credit of  US$15 million equivalent and a grant of 
US$50 million equivalent to help cover Rwanda’s remaining FY04 financing gap and support Rwanda’s 
FY05 financing needs.   
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MINECOFIN) is responsible for implementing 
the proposed PRSC and for coordinating the completion of actions.  MINECOFIN would rely on the 
SPPRMD and CEPEX to assure that component sector spending plans are incorporated into the national 
MTEF and subsequent budget.  Progress in implementing the PRSP and the GoR’s expenditure program, 
as well as outcome objectives, will be assessed according to the PRSP monitoring cycle.  
 
Page  8
Bank staff will focus on the impact outcomes of the program and the adjustments that need to be made 
to the operation as it evolves, to take into account the latest country developments, stakeholder support, 
and feasible options for realizing the intended development goals. The review will be largely based on 
the monitoring indicators (prior actions and triggers ) and the goals of the program. Proposed PRSC 
program results would be monitored through key indicators associated with progress in poverty 
reduction, such as macroeconomic stability and growth, time-lag to open a business, primary school 
completion rates, immunization coverage, use of bed nets, number and rates of assisted deliveries, 
access to clean water, frequency of hand-washing, and reduction in electricity shortages.  Traditional 
statistical monitoring of progress would be complemented with beneficiary assessments and feedback 
from stakeholders through focus groups, consultations, and citizen report cards.  At the same time, the 
overall status of the
 Government’s program will be monitored to determine whether country conditions 
and the specific conditions of the proposed operation have been met. 
 
The proposed PRSC I would follow the Bank’s simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment 
operations. The untied balance of payments support would be disbursed against satisfactory 
implementation of the adjustment program and not tied to any specific purchases and no procurement 
requirements would be needed.  Once the Credit is approved by the Board and becomes effective, the 
Borrower would open and maintain a dedicated deposit account in US Dollars for the Borrower’s use. 
The proceeds of the Credit would be deposited by IDA in an account at the Banque Nationale du 
Rwanda  at the request of the Borrower.  If, after depositing in this account, the proceeds of the credit 
are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Credit Agreement, IDA would require the Borrower to 
either: (a) return the amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount 
directly to IDA.   
The administration of this credit would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Development.  The financial statements of the deposit account are to be produced in forms acceptable to 
IDA.  Although an audit of the deposit account would not be required, IDA reserves the right to require 
audits of the deposit account at any time by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.  In such a case, the 
audit report would be submitted no more than six months after the date of IDA’s request.  The audit 
would be conducted in line with international standards and would provide comfort that the Credit 
proceeds were recorded and passed on to the Treasury Single Account for authorized budget purposes. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits
.
This proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) is designed to help Rwanda 
implement the goals outlined in its July 2002 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and meet 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) related to PRSP objectives.
1
The framework for the PRSC 
series addresses growth and human development through a holistic, cross-sectoral approach, in line with 
the GoR’s PRSP. Each PRSC in the series would support implementation of key policy measures and 
expenditure programs aimed at (a) creating a favorable private sector investment climate that would 
promote macroeconomic stability and sustained economic growth; (b) improving the quality, coverage, 
and equity in the delivery of basic human development services, and increasing expenditure efficiency; 
and (c) enhancing public expenditure management and governance, with an emphasis on expanding the 
voice and participation of citizens.  
1
Rwanda’s PRSP and its implementation is fully owned and driven by the GoR.  Following publication of the PRSP in 2002, the GoR 
worked to develop a more action-oriented PRSP policy matrix during 2003 and into 2004.  This was done in close collaboration with 
development partners, including those providing assistance in the form of budget support (the United Kingdom’s Department for 
International Development (DFID), the European Union (EU), the African Development Bank (AfDB), Sweden (SIDA), and the 
World Bank), and partners providing support through sector investment/program approaches and projects (Belgium, Germany, 
USAID, UNICEF, WHO, UNFPA).   
Page  9
The proposed PRSC focuses on helping the GoR strengthen the macroeconomic situation to foster 
sustainable delivery of services and poverty reduction. To this end, the GoR, with support under the 
proposed PRSC, is developing and implementing a comprehensive export promotion strategy. In the 
near term, agriculture will play a key role, and the GoR is concentrating on agricultural transformation 
to feed into the strategy and to boost rural incomes to increase demand for non-farm products and 
services. Simultaneously, the GoR  is concentrating on creating the policy and regulatory environment to 
encourage development of private sector enterprises and, thus, private-sector led growth. This includes 
continuation of privatization of publicly-owned enterprises, improvements to the environment for doing 
business, and efforts to reform the financial and banking sector. 
 
The PRSC also focuses on sustaining and deepening the progress made by Rwanda on human 
development, because a healthy and educated population is one of the most promising resources for 
growth.  The proposed PRSC program would support the GoR’s efforts aimed at integrating better 
delivery of services in four sectors that are key to achieving MDGs—education, health, water, and 
energy—by addressing policy, regulatory, and capacity constraints in these sectors.
2
In each of these 
sectors, results-orientated budgeting, through the use of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework 
(MTEF), public expenditure management, and transparency and accountability would be addressed. 
Actions in the education and health sectors are fully integrated into the proposed PRSC I, while for the 
water and energy sectors the focus is on preparatory work (e.g., strategy development, costing of 
scenarios). PRSC II would be expected to engage fully in actions in all four sectors, and PRSC III would 
aim to scale up service delivery in these sectors.    
Support provided under the proposed PRSC and budget support from other development partners has 
been prepared and will be implemented as part of the GoR’s budget cycle, a process that is being 
institutionalized through the Partnership Framework for Harmonization and Alignment of Budget 
Support, a memorandum of understanding signed in November 2003 between the GoR and donors 
providing budget support. The Framework states that donors agree to harmonize their practices in regard 
to (a) methods and timing for the Government’s annual Poverty Reduction Strategy reviews; (b) criteria 
for evaluating macroeconomic performance; and (c) requirements for public financial management and 
governmental fiduciary arrangements. This approach is a major change from the way donor assistance 
has previously been provided to the GoR, and it should allow for improved predictability in aid flows 
and an increase in institutional resources directed toward substantive (rather than procedural) matters.  
In addition, the PRSP policy matrix—on which the PRSC matrix is based—will help the GoR and donor 
partners focus policy dialogue and prioritize actions for support. 
 
Risks.
 The Bank recognizes that risks in Rwanda are high. However, the GoR has continually 
demonstrated a strong commitment to pursing the goals outlined in its PRSP.  The Bank is equally 
committed to working with the GoR to support its efforts in this regard.  Major risks to achievement of 
PRSP goals fall into three main categories, which are outlined below. 
 
Country Risks.
 
Rwanda’s recent history and its location in the highly unstable central African region 
pose a potential threat to the GoR in achieving its development objectives. However, Rwanda’s internal 
security and political situation remain stable.  Though there has been an increase in the risk of re-
mobilization of ex-FAR and 
interahamwe
 elements in the DRC, there have also been positive actions 
taken by both parties to minimize risks, including enhancing the joint verification mechanism as 
previously agreed by the parties in November 2003, and multiplying political and security initiatives to 
mitigate current tensions. There is also an increasing willingness of the international community to put 
2
Investments in the water and energy sectors will be provided through investment operations, which are being implemented and/or 
prepared in tandem with the proposed PRSC. 
Page  10
in place the security framework necessary to preserve peace in Rwanda and neighboring countries, as 
shown by the international support offered to the Rwanda for elections held in 2004, strengthening of 
the United Nations Operation in the DRC, and deployment of the United Nations Operation in Burundi.  
Although there have been accusations and counter accusations of violation of the Pretoria Agreement 
between the Governments of Rwanda and the DRC, regional and international diplomatic efforts have 
been deployed to prop up the  agreement and restore mutual trust. The two heads of state met in Abuja, 
Nigeria in June 2004 and set up mechanisms to conduct orderly border surveillance, as well as resolve 
future conflicts through diplomatic means and discussions. Finally, with the support of the Government 
of Belgium, it was recently
 agreed to revive the defunct CPGL (Communauté des Pays des Grands 
Lacs), of which Rwanda and the DRC are both members. 
Following the peaceful presidential and parliamentary elections in 2003, the GoR continues to 
demonstrate its commitment to good governance. A minister in charge of good governance was 
appointed, the Office of the Ombudsman was established, and elections of mediators and national 
women councilors were successfully completed in July 2004. In addition, the relationship between the 
Governments of Rwanda and Uganda is back to normal following tensions in 2000, and the two 
countries are keeping regular diplomatic contact to examine various issues of mutual interest. Bilateral 
economic activities have resumed, especially in the field of transport and commerce. The repatriation of 
Rwandan refugees from Uganda has registered positive results and is ongoing. Rwanda is now a full 
member of COMESA, one of the most active sub-regional economic and trade organizations. 
 
Program Risk.
 
Risks to the program in Rwanda are related to predictability of donor funding, the 
GoR’s ability to mobilize further grant financing, and debt sustainability concerns. Without the leverage 
that all donors bring to the table, it will be difficult for the GoR to implement fully its program, 
including contingent expenditures that are only realized if all donors disburse on promised 
commitments. The November 2003 MOU signed between the GoR and donors providing budget support 
aims to increase the timeliness and predictability of funding and should help to mitigate this risk; a 
similar MOU is under preparation for donors providing sector investment/project support. The ability to 
mobilize further grant financing, due to debt sustainability concerns, will present a real challenge for the 
GoR. The Bank is prepared to be as responsive as possible (within the limits of IDA grant allocations), 
and to try to help the GoR in its appeals to the international community in this regard. However, the 
long-term goal of reducing dependence on foreign aid should also be pursued.  To this end, it will be 
crucial for the GoR to implement its growth strategy as quickly and efficiently as possible (the strategy 
itself is subject to exogenous shocks arising from weather conditions and international commodity prices 
for coffee and tea).  Though Rwanda is expected to reach its HIPC Completion Point by end 2004, debt 
sustainability is likely to remain a concern, and this area will require vigilance going forward.  
Operation Risk.
 
The main risks to the proposed operation include weak capacity for implementation of 
the GoR’s ambitious program and the need to strengthen the fiduciary framework.  The ambitious 
targets set by the GoR indicate its optimism and commitment.  However, under the proposed PRSC, 
additional funds are to be transferred to the district level, where weak capacity, particularly in local 
administration, is a recognized risk.  To mitigate it, the Bank and the GoR designed the recently 
approved PSCB.  The project aims specifically to build the capacity of ministries and local staff 
involved in PRSC implementation, primarily through targeted training. The recently approved DCDP 
also includes capacity building activities, at the local level.  Regarding the fiduciary framework, based 
on careful review of available diagnostics, the Bank finds it to be adequate for implementation of a 
PRSC.  However, there are several areas identified in the diagnostic studies that are in need of 
strengthening, and the GoR has shown its commitment to addressing them by beginning to implement 
the FARAP action plan. Similarly, the GoR is expected to implement an action plan following up on the 
Page  11
CPIP’s recommendations, to improve the country’s public procurement system and procurement 
capacity.
 
7.  Poverty Category and Environment Aspects 
Rwanda’s PRSP, and thus the PRSC, focuses on 
inter alia 
ensuring that poor people, particularly in 
rural areas, are not marginalized.  A main focus of the PRSC is ensuring increased—and increasingly 
equitable—access to basic services. 
Social Diversity and Ethnicity.
 
In the post-genocide climate, and with the support of donor partners, the 
GoR has pursued a policy of “national unity and reconciliation.”  Ethnic categories have been officially 
removed from legislation in favor of regulations promoting a unified Rwandese identity. Any discussion 
along ethnic lines is discouraged and data collected in the country are not disaggregated along such 
lines. However, ethnic distinctions remain in many people’s minds. To better understand this important 
social phenomenon, DFID has proposed a joint social and institutional analysis. The analysis and 
recommendations would inform PRSC II, and public sector capacity building activities to deal with this 
difficult social phenomenon.   
Gender.
 
In November 1999, the GoR adopted a revised civil code, giving women the right to inherit 
and own property and reserving seats for women in the National Assembly and elected local councils.  
Rwanda is now the country with the highest level of  parliamentary representation of women in the 
world: following the 2003 elections, 40 percent of elected members were women. The GoR also 
launched a Gender Budget Initiative, to facilitate the promotion of gender equality and improve the 
effectiveness of the budget process. The Ministry of Gender and Women in Development has forged a 
strong coalition with local women’s NGOs, to champion the integration of women into the development 
process and give them a strong voice in society.  The challenge ahead is to eliminate all gender 
disparities from existing laws and translate the legislation into tangible institutional and cultural changes 
that make the laws effective. In this regard, the GoR has adopted the National Gender Plan of Action 
(2000-2005), designed to meet obligations under international conventions on the rights of women, and 
the Comprehensive Legal Action Plan for the elimination of all gender disparities. These plans were 
prepared with the full participation of key stakeholders, and the revision of existing laws and drafting of 
new laws and regulations is also expected to follow a participatory approach. 
 
Environmental Aspects. 
The proposed PRSC was prepared under the Bank’s Operational Directive 8.60, 
Adjustment Lending Policy
,
under which it was considered a sector adjustment credit. As such, Operational Policy 
4.01, 
Environmental Assessment
,
applied.
3
For purposes of environmental assessment, the operation was 
designated category B.  During the preparation of the proposed operation, an Environmental Assessment and 
Social Analysis (see Annex 6) was carried out, to identify potential positive and negative linkages between 
actions under the proposed operation and environmental and social impacts.  The assessment undertook an 
analysis of the environmental and social issues associated with the four targeted sectors of the proposed PRSC. 
Based on this, and environmental and social analysis undertaken for other Bank operations, it examined the roles 
and responsibilities of public sector agencies (sectoral, central, national, and decentralized) to manage such issues.   
Since PRSC support will focus on policy actions, and because financing under the proposed PRSC will 
be in the form of budget support, it is not feasible to identify activities funded by the PRSC separately 
and distinguishable from other sources of budget financing.  As a consequence, it is also not feasible to 
identify adverse environmental and social impacts specifically associated with the PRSC. Thus, the 
broader purpose of the assessment is to assist the GoR in identifying and eventually establishing the 
regulatory, administrative, and technical capacity within Rwanda to ensure that for each development 
3
See OD 8.60, 
Adjustment Lending Policy
,
December 1992 (retired August 2004), and OP 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment,
 January 
1999, accessible through the World Bank’s Operational Manual: 
http://wbln0018.worldbank.org/ institutional/manuals/
opmanual.nsf/Text Definition1?OpenNavigator
.
Page  12
program or project undertaken in the country, environmental and social impacts are identified, mitigated, 
and monitored a
s
part of the sustainable use and management of Rwanda’s natural resources and the 
environment. The proposed PRSC supports this objective, particularly through building the capacity of 
the recently established Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA).   
 
The Rwandan National Environment Policy (October 2003) sets out overall and specific objectives as 
well as fundamental principles for improved management of the environment, both at the central and 
local levels, in accordance with the current policy of decentralization and good governance. The policy 
sets out institutional and legal reforms with a view to providing the country with a coherent and 
harmonious framework for coordination of sectoral and cross-cutting policies. It called for the 
establishment of REMA, as well as the provincial, district, and lower level committees responsible for 
environmental protection. The policy recognizes that environment as a sector is a new concept in 
Rwanda, requiring true awareness and coordination of actions at all levels. An Environment Bill has 
been formulated and is before Parliament; when passed, it will lay the legal framework for 
environmental management in Rwanda.  
The assessment identified Rwanda’s key environmental concerns as: land degradation, deforestation, 
water contamination, loss of biodiversity and habitats, and wetlands degradation. It identifies an 
indicative set of key measures to help guide the GoR in public sector management and monitoring in 
each of these areas, particularly in relation to PRSC targeted sectors. The assessment also examined the 
Bank’s safeguards definition of social impacts in regard to involuntary resettlement, indigenous 
peoples,
4
and cultural property. Though the potential for land acquisition, resettlement, and effects on 
cultural resources cannot be ruled out under the proposed PRSC, such effects are expected to be limited 
given that large-scale construction is not required to fulfill its objectives. Any potentially adverse 
environmental impacts are deemed to be sufficiently addressed by the safeguard measures incorporated 
as part of ongoing Bank investment operations, which Rwanda’s environmental management institutions 
(REMA and the Ministry of Lands, Environment, Forestry, Water and Natural Resources) are 
increasingly supporting.  
The following environmental management assessments, undertaken in the context of other Bank 
projects, are also helping to address potential environmental and social impact concerns under the 
proposed PRSC: 
 
·
A
detailed 
Environmental and Social Management Framework
 has been prepared in the context 
of the DCDP;  it will inform actions under the proposed PRSC aimed at expanding and ensuring 
equitable access to education and health services.   
·
As part of the HIV/AIDS MAP, the GoR developed an environmentally sustainable 
Medical Waste 
Management Plan
,
which is under implementation.  This will benefit support to the health sector 
under the proposed PRSC. 
·
The RSSP elaborated an 
Environmental Mitigation Plan
,
which takes into account potential 
environmental impacts in the area of rural development, Which will support actions under the 
proposed PRSC related to the implementation of the GoR’s export promotion strategy.  
4
Note that in context of Rwanda’s history, particularly in the aftermath of the 1994 genocide, the term ‘indigenous peoples’ is 
extremely ambiguous as it implies that some ethnic groups were established in Rwanda before others.  The basis of this assumption 
was widely used to justify the genocide is therefore extremely sensitive.  The Government’s current policy, as part of the national 
unity and reconciliation process, is based on equal rights for all without distinguishing between ethnic or regional affiliations in the 
country.  The new Constitution states that all persons are equal before the law and shall enjoy, without any discrimination, equal 
protection of the law.  In that context, the Government has made it clear to donors that it will  not accept funding that will directly or 
indirectly encourage Rwandans to identify themselves along ethnic lines
.
Page  13
·
An 
Environmental Assessment 
was carried out as part of the Emergency Reintegration and 
Demobilization  Project. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Agnes L. B. Soucat 
Title: Sr Economist (Health) 
Tel: (202) 473-4027 
Fax: (202) 473 8216 
Email: asoucat@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
