Page  1
b.  
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB994 
Project Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit 1 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (25%);Water supply (25%);General Education 
Sector (25%), Energy (25%) 
Project ID 
P085192 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 3, 2004 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 2004 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
October 7, 2004 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Rwanda, with a per capita GNI of USD230 and a population of 8.2 million growing annually at the 
rate of 6 percent, is a poor country facing severe structural constraints and the legacy of the 1994 
genocide. As a result of the genocide, almost one million people were killed, two million people were 
driven into exile, over 100,000 were put in prison, and thousands were handicapped physically and 
mentally.  Yet, over the last 10 years the country has been steadily moving out of the post conflict 
phase. Many refugees have returned and the reconciliation process has made significant progress. 
Between 1995 and 2002, the annual GDP growth rate averaged 7 percent. Rwanda has taken huge 
strides toward improving social services, reducing gender disparities, and initiating a serious effort to 
attack HIV/AIDS.  Health indicators have improved steadily after the genocide and are reaching 
close to the pre-genocide level. School enrollment has increased at all levels, with net and gross 
enrollments surpassing pre-genocide levels, and enrollment of girls on par with that of boys.  
 
Rwanda’s remarkable transition from genocide to peace and development has been achieved through 
dialogue, consultation, and participation. Similarly, Rwanda’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 
(PRSP), through its intensive consultation process, provides a comprehensive diagnosis of poverty 
and outlines a sound strategy and actions for attacking it. This strategy is complemented by the 
development of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). A decentralized process 
supporting participatory planning of both the general budget and local community funds underpins 
PRSP implementation. Development assistance by the World Bank and other development partners 
in support of PRSP implementation is essential for poverty reduction, strengthening the foundation 
for sustained peace, and mitigating risks of conflict in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region. 
Even in light of progress, significant challenges remain. Deteriorating export performance is a major 
concern.
 
At 3.5 percent, the GDP growth rate in 2003 was significantly lower than in previous years.  
Provisional figures indicate that agricultural production—the main source of growth—declined 
significantly in 2003, resulting in an average annual growth rate of 0.7 percent as compared to 
roughly 15 percent in 2002. This trend was affected by poor export performance resulting from poor 
input use, but also exogenous shocks such as adverse weather conditions and declining prices of 
coffee and tea, Rwanda’s main exports. Low export performance is also aggravated by low levels of 
rural electrification and access to water for industrial use. 
Page  2
b.  
Rwanda is also considered ‘seriously off track’ in terms of attainment of its PRSP objectives linked 
to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Access to safe water in rural areas remains low, at 
about 40 percent. With a school participation rate estimated at 74 percent, about 320,000 school-age 
children still did not attend primary school in 2002. Current estimates of under-five mortality and 
maternal mortality rates are still among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa.  Additionally, Rwanda is 
among the ten most heavily affected African countries by the HIV/AIDS epidemic. High fertility 
rates combined with poor nutrition contribute to placing poor children and women at great risk of 
disability and early deaths.   
 
Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed PRSC I will support the Government of Rwanda’s (GoR) policies for poverty 
reduction, as outlined in its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) published in 2002. The  
PRSP’s four key pillars are: (i) rural development and growth; (ii) human development; 
infrastructure development; and (iv) economic management, governance, and public sector 
management. This proposed first PRSC aims to help the government meet PRSP objectives by 
supporting government actions to improve efficiency and service delivery in the education, health, 
water, and energy sectors; develop policies in favor of rural development, including improvements in 
associated infrastructure; and supporting continued improvements in economic management, 
governance, and public sector management.  
Preliminary description 
 
The proposed PRSC 1 would be part of a three-year PRSC program. Over the course of the program, 
a
total of three PRSCs—each building on the previous operation—are expected, to support pro-poor 
public expenditures, particularly in education, health, water/sanitation, and energy, and improved 
quality, efficiency, and equity of service delivery in these sectors; development of policies leading to 
a
sustainable path of high economic growth, including support for increased productivity of rural 
populations through better access to social services, and support to export agriculture and export 
enterprises’ access to water and electricity; and continued improvements in governance, focused on 
increased effectiveness of transparent public expenditure management and public sector 
management. The proposed PRSC I aims to fully integrate support to the health and education 
sectors while supporting preparatory activities (e.g., legal and policy frameworks, identification of 
policy packages, and costing and development of strategies) in water and energy.  PRSC II would 
aim to fully engage all four sectors.  PRSC III would focus on scaling-up and deepening 
improvements in the quality of outputs in all four sectors.  
The proposed PRSC 1 would encompass the following components:  
1. 
Rural Development.
 The proposed PRSC 1 would aim to improve rural productivity and 
rebuilding of Rwanda’s export base, to ensure broad-based growth that will benefit the total 
population, and particularly the less well off in rural areas. The main issue for this sector is to find a 
way to redress, in a sustainable manner, the recent decline in growth in agricultural production.   
2. 
Human Development.
 
This component would encompass actions in two sectors—education 
and health—toward achieving PRSP objectives and Millennium Development Goals, particularly 
primary school completion rates, under-five and maternal morality rates, malnutrition rates, and the 
incidence of HIV/AIDS.  
·
Education.
 
The GoR’s focus in education is based on three pillars: (i) increasing access, 
Page  3
b.  
improving academic achievement levels, and strengthening quality of nine-year basic education; 
(ii) improving the operational policy for post-basic education; and (iii) strengthening management 
and improving efficiency in service delivery through decentralization. Proposed PRSC 1 support to 
these areas will complement the ongoing IDA investment project in the sector, with both operations 
taking into account the GoR’s focus on Education For All.   
·
Health.
 
The proposed PRSC 1 would support the GoR’s health sector in four main ways: (i) 
strengthen the demand of vulnerable groups for health care by reducing the financial burden on 
such households, and fostering broader participation in health care provision; (ii) broaden sources 
of health care financing and improve equity and efficiency in health spending; (iii) strengthen 
management of the health system in the context of decentralization; and (iv) improve access, 
availability, and quality of basic health services and respond effectively to major public health 
problems, such as HIV/AIDS. 
For both sectors, the proposed PRSC 1 will employ a three-pronged approach: (i) help the GoR to 
develop fiscally sustainable policy packages to be articulated in results-based budgets (see below); 
(ii) support the GoR’s promotion of performance-based management (for example, by contracting 
health services to private providers) and its development of incentives frameworks (more below); and 
(iii) helping the GoR to develop mechanisms of accountability that favor user participation. 
3. 
Infrastructure Development.
 
The proposed PRSC 1 will include preliminary measures aimed 
at expanding access to and/or improving the quality of  water and electricity supply in rural areas and 
poor urban neighborhoods; improving the quality of infrastructure services to the GoR’s operations 
in non-infrastructure ministries; and supporting broad-based non-farm income generation activities, 
including export-oriented small enterprises such as coffee washing plants. 
·
Energy.
 Given the critical role that energy plays in virtually all sectors of the economy, Rwandan 
development will be seriously constrained without an efficient, effective energy sector. To this end, 
the Bank seeks to support GoR’s efforts to establish competitive, efficient institutional structures 
enabling the use of multiple energy technologies and delivery modes, with transparent governance 
and performance accountability. This implies establishing and implementing sector reforms 
encompassing electricity, petroleum/gas, and traditional fuels, and promoting an effective public/ 
private partnership to realize the sector’s development impact. The GoR has identified three pillars 
for PRSC support, some areas of which are likely to be included in the proposed PRSC 1: (i) 
improve grid electric service quality and efficiency, including to the urban poor, via support of 
Electrogaz’s objectives (GoR has signed a private contract, with Lehmeyer International, for the 
management of Electrogaz) and network rehabilitation (and perhaps support for existing micro-
hydro independent grids); (ii) expand access to modern energy by supporting public-sector 
underpinnings (e.g., policy, legal, regulatory, and institutional structures) needed for demand-
driven, commercially-oriented electricity delivery and delivery of other energy services—focus 
would be on support for off-farm income generation in rural areas, and on social applications, such 
as use of solar PV for off-grid health and educational facilities; and (iii) strengthen energy sector 
management and oversight, with an emphasis on policy development and implementation cross-
sectorally, as well as establishment and effective functioning of a monitoring and evaluation 
program to assess and provide practical feedback on meeting sectoral goals.   
·
Water.
 The GoR intends to change progressively its management approach in the water sector from 
projects to broad-based sectoral programs, and to increase financial and technical support to 
Districts and communities. Existing policies and laws provide a comprehensive regulatory 
Page  4
b.  
framework to support this shift, however there is a need to review the existing framework to 
harmonize within a broad-based sector-wide approach. As such, the proposed PRSC 1 would likely 
support: (i) review of existing policies and incorporate reform proposals aimed at harmonizing laws 
and regulatory functions to a sector-wide approach; (ii) improvement in the delivery of services, 
including through private sector involvement; and (iii) allowance of greater participation of users 
and communities. The overall PRSC program will aim to support the water sector in the provision 
of sustainable, safe water supply and sanitation facilities based on management responsibility and 
ownership by users; promoting development of water supply for agricultural production, including 
use of pump and canal irrigation; promoting water supply development for power production in 
order to reduce the current deficit; and promoting coordinated, integrated, and sustainable water 
resources management to ensure water resource conservation and provision of water for social and 
economic activities. 
4. 
Governance, Economic Management, and Public Sector Management.
 
This component aims 
to strengthen the public sector underpinnings of the rural development, human development, and 
infrastructure components. The proposed PRSC 1 would aim to address key issues in this area via 
four crosscutting themes:  
·
Results-based Budgeting.
 This includes MTEF development and public expenditures monitoring. 
Each ministry responsible for respective sectors included in the proposed PRSC 1 is developing or 
aiming to develop a specific sectoral strategy, and to conduct a sectoral public expenditure review 
(PER) as a basis for revising current MTEFs. New MTEFs are to be based on sound evaluations of 
costs and benefits of alternative policies for a fiscally sustainable, long-term policy package. 
Monitoring frameworks are to be developed to complement short, annual, highly-focused sectoral 
PERs. 
·
Incentives Framework.
 
This includes contracting, performance-based payments, and public 
private partnerships.
 
Each sector ministry is developing or aiming to develop policies and strategies 
articulating an incentives framework that will be used to “purchase” specific sectoral outputs.  In 
education, this is likely to involve definition of the basis for private sector contracting for 
secondary education and defining objective criteria for resource allocation to both public and 
private schools.  In health, this implies translating lessons of the pilot phase of performance-based 
payments of providers into a national policy.  In energy and water, this is likely to involve a better 
definition of the roles and responsibilities of the local and national governments, para-statal 
agencies, management contractors, and users, in terms of financing, investment, and recurrent 
expenditures. All of these activities will be coordinated with the Ministry of  Public Service.   
·
Due Diligence
.
This includes financial management, procurement, and poverty and social sectors’ 
performance monitoring. 
·
Institutional Capacity Building and Human Resources Development.
 This is to be addressed in 
detail via the Multi Sector Capacity Building Project
 
that is currently under appraisal, but aspects 
of institutional and human resource capacity development as related to the sectors and associated 
reforms included in the proposed PRSC 1 will be included in the operation. 
Voice and Community Participation.
 
The crosscutting theme of voice and community 
participation will be pertinent throughout the proposed PRSC 1, and the entire PRSC program.  The 
aim is to increase the leverage of Rwandan citizens to provide feedback to the government on the 
quality and efficiency of service provision and on the impact of government policies. The GoR aims 
to initiate ‘Citizen’s Report Cards’, to be institutionalized as part of the regular activities of 
Poverty 
Page  5
b.  
Observatoire
 (the institution responsible for monitoring and reporting on PRSP implementation). The 
theme translates sectorally, e.g., in education, actions would relate to the establishment of Parent-
Teacher Associations; in health, actions would relate to the support of community-based micro-
insurance schemes, health management committees, and consumers’ organizations; in energy and 
water, actions would relate to the development of users’ groups and the increased involvement of 
users in governing utility bodies. 
Donor Harmonization.  
The proposed PRSC 1 (and PRSCs II and III) would be prepared in the 
context of Rwanda’s Harmonization and Alignment Initiative.
 
A
Partnership Framework for 
Harmonization and Alignment of Budget Support was signed by the AfDB, European Union, DFID, 
IMF, Sweden, and the World Bank in November 2003.  As such, the partners have agreed to align 
their support to the PRSP review process and to the GoR’s budget cycle, with the aim of reducing 
transactions costs (e.g., by using one Government policy matrix to track implementation, carrying out 
joint Government-donor reviews). The GoR’s other development partners are also participating in the 
development of the PRSC program.  
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Overall, the activities supported by the proposed  PRSC 1 are not expected to result in major adverse 
or irreversible environmental impacts.  However, because the proposed PRSC 1 focuses on several 
sectors, it adheres to the safeguard requirement set forth in OP 4.01, as recommended by the Bank’s 
PRSC safeguard working group. The PRSC 1 has been classified as a Category B. The government 
will carry out an environmental assessment in accordance with this classification. Two areas of 
safeguard concern include involuntary resettlement and indigenous peoples. Safeguard measures will 
ensure that potential adverse impacts will be screened and that provisions are in place to mitigate 
such impacts, if any.   
 
Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
80 
 
Total 
80 
 
Contact point 
 
Ms. Agnes L. B. Soucat 
Title: Sr Economist (Health) 
Tel: (202) 473-4027 
Fax: (202) 
Email: asoucat@worldbank.org
 
