Page  1
b.  
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC925 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 
June 22, 2004
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country:  Rwanda 
Project ID:
 
P085192 
Project Name:  
Poverty Reduction Support Credit 1 
Task Team Leader: 
Agnes L. B. Soucat 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
July 28, 2004 
Estimated Board Date:
 
October 7, 2004 
Managing Unit:  AFTH3 
Lending Instrument:
 
Poverty Reduction 
Support Credit 
Sector:  
Health (25%);Water supply (25%);General 
Education Sector (25%), Energy (25%) 
Theme:  
Other human development (P) 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team: 
Roxanne Hakim , Natasha Hayward,  Remi Kini 
(Environment)
 
Loan/Credit amount ($m.):
 
IDA: 80 (To be confirmed) 
Other financing amounts by source ($m): 
 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 3 of PCN] 
 
The proposed PRSC I will support the Government of Rwanda’s (GoR) policies for poverty reduction, as 
outlined in its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) published in 2002. The  PRSP’s four key pillars 
are: (i) rural development and growth; (ii) human development; infrastructure development; and (iv) 
economic management, governance, and public sector management. This proposed first PRSC aims to 
help the government meet PRSP objectives by supporting government actions to improve efficiency and 
service delivery in the education, health, water, and energy sectors; develop policies in favor of rural 
development, including improvements in associated infrastructure; and supporting continued 
improvements in economic management, governance, and public sector management.  
C.  Project Description [from section 4 of PCN] 
 
The proposed PRSC 1 would be part of a three-year PRSC program. Over the course of the program, a 
total of three PRSCs—each building on the previous operation—are expected, to support pro-poor public 
expenditures, particularly in education, health, water/sanitation, and energy, and improved quality, 
efficiency, and equity of service delivery in these sectors; development of policies leading to a sustainable 
path of high economic growth, including support for increased productivity of rural populations through 
better access to social services, and support to export agriculture and export enterprises’ access to water 
and electricity; and continued improvements in governance, focused on increased effectiveness of 
transparent public expenditure management and public sector management. The proposed PRSC I aims to 
fully integrate support to the health and education sectors while supporting preparatory activities (e.g., 
legal and policy frameworks, identification of policy packages, and costing and development of 
strategies) in water and energy.  PRSC II would aim to fully engage all four sectors.  PRSC III would 
focus on scaling-up and deepening improvements in the quality of outputs in all four sectors.  
Page  2
2
The proposed PRSC 1 would encompass the following components:  
1. 
Rural Development.
 The proposed PRSC 1 would aim to improve rural productivity and 
rebuilding of Rwanda’s export base, to ensure broad-based growth that will benefit the total 
population, and particularly the less well off in rural areas. The main issue for this sector is to find 
a
way to redress, in a sustainable manner, the recent decline in growth in agricultural production.   
2. 
Human Development.
 
This component would encompass actions in two sectors—education and 
health—toward achieving PRSP objectives and Millennium Development Goals, particularly 
primary school completion rates, under-five and maternal morality rates, malnutrition rates, and 
the incidence of HIV/AIDS.  
·
Education.
 
The GoR’s focus in education is based on three pillars: (i) increasing access, 
improving academic achievement levels, and strengthening quality of nine-year basic education; 
(ii) improving the operational policy for post-basic education; and (iii) strengthening management 
and improving efficiency in service delivery through decentralization. Proposed PRSC 1 support 
to these areas will complement the ongoing IDA investment project in the sector, with both 
operations taking into account the GoR’s focus on Education For All.   
·
Health.
 
The proposed PRSC 1 would support the GoR’s health sector in four main ways: (i) 
strengthen the demand of vulnerable groups for health care by reducing the financial burden on 
such households, and fostering broader participation in health care provision; (ii) broaden sources 
of health care financing and improve equity and efficiency in health spending; (iii) strengthen 
management of the health system in the context of decentralization; and (iv) improve access, 
availability, and quality of basic health services and respond effectively to major public health 
problems, such as HIV/AIDS. 
For both sectors, the proposed PRSC 1 will employ a three-pronged approach: (i) help the GoR to 
develop fiscally sustainable policy packages to be articulated in results-based budgets (see below); (ii) 
support the GoR’s promotion of performance-based management, e.g., by contracting health services to 
private providers, and its development of incentives frameworks (more below); and (iii) helping the GoR 
to develop mechanisms of accountability that favor user participation. 
3. 
Infrastructure Development.
 
The proposed PRSC 1 will include preliminary measures aimed at 
expanding access to and/or improving the quality of  water and electricity supply in rural areas 
and poor urban neighborhoods; improving the quality of infrastructure services to the GoR’s 
operations in non-infrastructure ministries; and supporting broad-based non-farm income 
generation activities, including export-oriented small enterprises such as coffee washing plants. 
·
Energy.
 Given the critical role that energy plays in virtually all sectors of the economy, Rwandan 
development will be seriously constrained without an efficient, effective energy sector. To this 
end, the Bank seeks to support GoR’s efforts to establish competitive, efficient institutional 
structures enabling the use of multiple energy technologies and delivery modes, with transparent 
governance and performance accountability. This implies establishing and implementing sector 
reforms encompassing electricity, petroleum/gas, and traditional fuels, and promoting an effective 
public/ private partnership to realize the sector’s development impact. The GoR has identified 
three pillars for PRSC support, some areas of which are likely to be included in the proposed 
PRSC 1: (i) improve grid electric service quality and efficiency, including to the urban poor, via 
support of Electrogaz’s objectives (GoR has signed a private contract, with Lehmeyer 
International, for the management of Electrogaz) and network rehabilitation (and perhaps support 
for existing micro-hydro independent grids); (ii) expand access to modern energy by supporting 
public-sector underpinnings (e.g., policy, legal, regulatory, and institutional structures) needed for 
demand-driven, commercially-oriented electricity delivery and delivery of other energy 
Page  3
3
services
—focus would be on support for off-farm income generation in rural areas, and on social 
applications, such as use of solar PV for off-grid health and educational facilities; and (iii) 
strengthen energy sector management and oversight, with an emphasis on policy development 
and implementation cross-sectorally, as well as establishment and effective functioning of a 
monitoring and evaluation program to assess and provide practical feedback on meeting sectoral 
goals.   
·
Water.
 The GoR intends to change progressively its management approach in the water sector 
from projects to broad-based sectoral programs, and to increase financial and technical support to 
Districts and communities. Existing policies and laws provide a comprehensive regulatory 
framework to support this shift, however there is a need to review the existing framework to 
harmonize within a broad-based sector-wide approach. As such, the proposed PRSC 1 would 
likely support: (i) review of existing policies and incorporate reform proposals aimed at 
harmonizing laws and regulatory functions to a sector-wide approach; (ii) improvement in the 
delivery of services, including through private sector involvement; and (iii) allowance of greater 
participation of users and communities. The overall PRSC program will aim to support the water 
sector in the provision of sustainable, safe water supply and sanitation facilities based on 
management responsibility and ownership by users; promoting development of water supply for 
agricultural production, including use of pump and canal irrigation; promoting water supply 
development for power production in order to reduce the current deficit; and promoting 
coordinated, integrated, and sustainable water resources management to ensure water resource 
conservation and provision of water for social and economic activities. 
4. 
Governance, Economic Management, and Public Sector Management.
 
This component aims 
to strengthen the public sector underpinnings of the rural development, human development, and 
infrastructure components. The proposed PRSC 1 would aim to address key issues in this area via 
four crosscutting themes:  
·
Results-based Budgeting.
 This includes Medium-term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) 
development and public expenditures monitoring. Each ministry responsible for respective 
sectors included in the proposed PRSC 1 is developing or aiming to develop a specific sectoral 
strategy, and to conduct a sectoral public expenditure review (PER) as a basis for revising current 
MTEFs. New MTEFs are to be based on sound evaluations of costs and benefits of alternative 
policies for a fiscally sustainable, long-term policy package. Monitoring frameworks are to be 
developed to complement short, annual, highly-focused sectoral PERs. 
·
Incentives Framework.
 
This includes contracting, performance-based payments, and public 
private partnerships.
 
Each sector ministry is developing or aiming to develop policies and 
strategies articulating an incentives framework that will be used to “purchase” specific sectoral 
outputs.  In education, this is likely to involve definition of the basis for private sector contracting 
for secondary education and defining objective criteria for resource allocation to both public and 
private schools.  In health, this implies translating lessons of the pilot phase of performance-based 
payments of providers into a national policy. In energy and water, this is likely to involve a better 
definition of the roles and responsibilities of the local and national governments, para-statal 
agencies, management contractors, and users, in terms of financing, investment, and recurrent 
expenditures. All of these activities will be coordinated with the Ministry of  Public Service.   
·
Due Diligence
.
This includes financial management, procurement, and poverty and social 
sectors’ performance monitoring. 
·
Institutional Capacity Building and Human Resources Development.
 This is to be addressed in 
detail via the Multi Sector Capacity Building Project
 
that is currently under appraisal, but aspects 
of institutional and human resource capacity development as related to the sectors and associated 
Page  4
4
reforms included in the proposed PRSC 1 will be included in the operation. 
Voice and Community Participation.
 
The crosscutting theme of voice and community participation 
will be pertinent throughout the proposed PRSC 1, and the entire PRSC program.  The aim is to increase 
the leverage of Rwandan citizens to provide feedback to the government on the quality and efficiency of 
service provision and on the impact of government policies. The GoR aims to initiate ‘Citizen’s Report 
Cards’, to be institutionalized as part of the regular activities of 
Poverty Observatoire
 (the institution 
responsible for monitoring and reporting on PRSP implementation). This theme translates sectorally, e.g., 
in education, actions would relate to the establishment of Parent-Teacher Associations; in health, actions 
would relate to the support of community-based micro-insurance schemes, health management 
committees, and consumers’ organizations; in energy and water, actions would relate to the development 
of users’ groups and the increased involvement of users in governing utility bodies. 
Donor Harmonization.  
The proposed PRSC 1 (and PRSCs II and III) would be prepared in the context 
of Rwanda’s Harmonization and Alignment Initiative.
 
A
Partnership Framework for Harmonization and 
Alignment of Budget Support was signed by the AfDB, European Union, DFID, IMF, Sweden, and the 
World Bank in November 2003.  As such, the partners have agreed to align their support to the PRSP 
review process and to the GoR’s budget cycle, with the aim of reducing transactions costs (e.g., by using 
one Government policy matrix to track implementation, carrying out joint Government-donor reviews). 
The GoR’s other development partners are also participating in the development of the PRSC program.  
D.  Project location (if known) 
Countrywide. 
 
E. Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
 
In line with its official mandate, the newly formed (2004) environment agency, Rwanda Environmental 
Management Agency (REMA) will be responsible for the sustainable management (through PHRD 
funding)  of environmental implications of PRSC1 with the view of harmonizing environmental 
assessment capacity building interventions and for making Environment ministry staff available to 
support sub-project technical evaluations.
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY
 
Applicable?
 
Safeguard Policy
 
[X ] 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
Proposed PRSC 1 has been classified as a SECAC, thus OP 4.01 applies. 
[
]
Natural Habitats
(
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[
]
Pest Management
(
OP 4.09
)
[X ] 
Involuntary Resettlement
(
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
Potential for land acquisition and/or resettlement cannot be ruled out under the PRSC. 
[X ] 
Indigenous Peoples
(
OD 4.20
)
The intention is to maximize benefits of the PRSC to indigenous communities. 
[
]
Forests
(
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[
]
Safety of Dams
(
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[
]
Cultural Property
(draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
)
[
]
Projects in Disputed Areas
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
Projects on International Waterways
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas.
 
Page  5
5
Environmental Assessment Category [w5
]:  Overall, the activities supported by the proposed  
PRSC 1 are not expected to result in major adverse or irreversible environmental impacts.  
However, based on the sector coverage of the operation and objectives therein, the Bank's PRSC 
Working Group, after a review at the end of February 2004, classified the PRSC as a sector 
adjustment credit.
1
As such, the Bank's Operational Directive 8.60, 
Adjustment Lending Policy
,
and Operational Policy 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment
,
apply.
2
The PRSC 1 has been 
classified as a Category B.  
[
]
A
[
X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD stage ISDS would be 
prepared. 
 
May 26
th
,
2004 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD stage ISDS 
 
Not Applicable 
 
C.  Time frame fro launching and completing the safeguard related studies that may be needed.  The 
specific studies and their timing
3
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
 
The government will carry out an environmental assessment in accordance with the category B 
classification. The EA will also cover critical social issues, in particular, arrangements to ensure 
women and vulnerable groups are not adversely affected by the project and participate in its 
benefits.
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Agnes L. B. Soucat 
Date June 22, 2004
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Thomas Walton 
Date  June 22, 2004 
 
Comments 
Sector Manager: 
Laura Frigenti 
Date June 22, 2004 
 
Comments 
1
See 
OpMemo: Interim Guidelines for Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs)
,
May 31, 2001, accessible through the 
World Bank Operational Manual: 
http://wbln0018.worldbank.org/ 
institutional/manuals/opmanual.nsf/TextDefinition1?OpenNavigator
.
2
See OD 8.60, 
Adjustment Lending Policy
,
December 1992, and OP 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment,
 January 1999, accessible 
through
 the World Bank’s Operational Manual: 
http://wbln0018.worldbank.org/ 
institutional/manuals/opmanual.nsf/TextDefinition1?OpenNavigator
.
3
Reminder:  The Bank’s Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially 
affected persons. 
Page  6
6
