E994
July 1, 2004
ANNEX 6
THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS
FOR THE PROPOSED POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT I
Introduction
The proposed PRSC I (see Project Information Document, Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet, and
forthcoming Program Document) will provide budget support to the Government of Rwanda (GoR) to
help the Government implement the goals outlined in its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of
July 2002, and meet Millennium Development Goal (MDG)-related PRSP objectives. PRSC I will be the
first in a planned series of three PRSCs through the period 2007.
This Environmental Assessment (EA)' analyzes the cross-cutting environmental and social issues facing
Rwanda in each of the four PRSC-targeted sectors, i.e., education, health, water, and energy, and
identifies ways in which the GoR can enhance its capacity, with support under the PRSC series, to
manage potential environmental and social impacts. The analysis takes into account EA and other
relevant assessments and ongoing or planned Bank activities in Rwanda. It also proposes key measures
that the GoR can take so that sector ministries, local governments, and other institutions develop the
capacity to manage environmental and social issues during the preparation and implementation of
development programs and projects, irrespective of the source of financing.
This EA is comprised of the following sections: Program Description, World Bank Environmental and
Social Compliance Requirements, Analyses of Environmental and Social Issues, and Environmental and
Social Management Capacity.
I. Program Description
A. Overview of PRSC Program
The objective of the proposed PRSC series is to support the GoR in its efforts to implement its Poverty
Reduction Strategy aimed at: (a) creating a favorable private sector investment climate that would
promote macroeconomic stability and sustained economic growth; (b) improving the quality, coverage,
and equity in the delivery of basic human development services, and increasing expenditure efficiency;
and (c) enhancing public expenditure management and governance, with an emphasis on expanding the
voice and participation of citizens.
Actions in the education and health sectors are fully integrated into the proposed PRSC I, while for the
water and energy sectors the focus is on preparatory work (e.g., strategy development, costing of
scenarios). PRSC II would be expected to engage fully in actions in all four sectors, and PRSC III would
aim to scale up service delivery in these sectors. In each of these sectors, results-orientated budgeting,
through the use of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), public expenditure management,
and transparency and accountability would be addressed. The proposed PRSC will be complemented by
several ongoing and/or planned World Bank projects in Rwanda (see Table 1).
See OD 8.60, Adjustment Lending Policy, December 1992, and OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, January 1999, accessible
through the World Bank's Operational Manual: http://wbln0) I 8.worldbank.ori-anstitutional/manuals/opmanual.nsft'Text
Definition I ?OpenNavipator.                                           Pam
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 1. Overview of World Bank Projects that Complement Proposed PRSC I
Program/Project Names     Program/Project Development Objectives                                                                   Bank Safeguard Policies
Triggered
Rural Sector Support      The development objective of Phase I of the program is to build capacities in the following areas: (i) management of  OP4.01, Environmental
Program                   farmed marshland and hill-side areas; (ii) access to credit and management of productivity and competitiveness in  Assessment
agricultural export sectors; (iii) generation and dissemination of improved technologies; (iv) preparation and supervision of  OP4.04, Natural Habitats
small-scale rural infrastructure by local communities; (v) construction and maintenance of post-harvest and water  OPN 11.03,
management infrastructure.                                                                               Cultural Property OP4. 12,
Involuntary Resettlement
Emergency Reintegration   To help consolidate peace in the Great Lakes Region and foster reconciliation within Rwanda. The four principal objectives  Environmental Assessment
and Demobilization Project  of the Program are: (i) demobilize an estimated 20,000 ex-combatants from the Rwanda Defense Force (RDF) and 25,000  OP4.01
members of the Rwandese armed groups, and support their transition to civilian life; (ii) in the spirit of the Arusha Accords,
support the reinsertion of ex-FAR; (iii) support the social and economic reintegration of all ex-combatants to be
demobilized in stage II and all RDRP stage I ex-combatants who remain socio-economically vulnerable; and (iv) facilitate
the reallocation of Government expenditure from defense to social and economic sectors.
Human Resource            The main objective of this project is to assist Rwanda in its efforts to develop and implement a sustained program of
Development Project       capacity building through education and skills development in order to redress human resources deficiencies and develop a
critical mass of trained human resources. Specific actions are geared towards: (i) increasing access to primary and
secondary education through the involvement of local communities in school rehabilitation and construction; (ii) improving
the quality of primary and secondary education; (iii) heightening awareness of HIV/AIDS and promoting behavioral change
prevention strategies among children and youth; (iv) building capacity within the education sector and the overall economy
including support for the provision of focused training in key areas; (v) undertaking analytical work and experimentation in
preparation for a Sector-Wide Investment Program.
Rural Water and Sanitation  To assist Rwanda; (i) increasing the availability and sustainability of water supply and sanitation (WSS) services in rural  OP 4.01, Environmental
Project                   areas;(ii) strengthening the capacity of (a) communities to plan water supply and sanitation investments and manage water  Assessment
supply and sanitation services and (b) agencies responsible for water supply services, communes, water users and the
private sector to carry out their respective responsibilities under the Borrower's water sector strategy; and (iii) mobilizing
community support for (a) the rehabilitation or expansion of the major regional water systems, and (b) the operation by the
private sector of the said systems.
Competitiveness and       To establish an enabling environment for private sector-led economic growth and poverty reduction in Rwanda. The project
Enterprise Development    will focus on promoting a competitive climate by (i) streamlining the business environment; (ii) reducing the costs and
Project                   increasing the efficiency of telecommunications, water and electricity utilities, and the tea industry; and (iii) improving
access to financial services and provide support services to local entrepreneurs.
Multi Sectoral HIV/AIDS   To; (i) strengthen prevention measures in order to slow down the spread of HIV/AIDS; and (ii) expand support and care for  OP 4.01, Environmental
Project                   those infected or affected by HIV/AIDS.                                                                  Assessment; GoR prepared
medical waste management
plan.
Decentralization and      To stabilize and expand the capacity of local government and communities to identify and finance their own development  OP4.01, Environmental
Community Development     priorities to engender economic growth and reduce poverty according to the Government's decentralization policy.  Assessment
Project.                  Whereas, the main development objective of the project is to strengthen and scale up the CRDP, through a CDD approach  ESMF prepared by GoR.
to development investment, using a transparent and sustainable mechanism that decentralizes planning, project cycle
management and financial management to Districts and Community Development Committees (CDCs).
Integrated Protection and  The conservation and sustainable use of natural resources through the development and implementation of community-  OP4.01, Environmental
Management of Critical    based integrated resource management plans for critical wetland ecosystems.                              Assessment
Ecosystems Project
2



B. Potential Environmental and Social Impacts of PRSC I
Because the proposed PRSC I will provide direct budget support to the GoR, it will not be feasible to
identify activities financed by PRSC funding, separately and distinguishable from other sources of budget
financing. Therefore, adverse environmental and social impacts specifically associated with the PRSC are
not distinguishable. Thus, the purpose of this EA is to assist the GoR in identifying and eventually
establishing the regulatory, administrative, and technical capacity within Rwanda to ensure that for each
development project undertaken in the country, environmental and social impacts are identified,
mitigated, and monitored as part of the sustainable use and management of Rwanda's natural resources
and the environment.
II. World Bank Environmental and Social Compliance Requirements
As PRSC I has been designated a Sectoral Adjustment Credit, in compliance with OD8.60, the
requirements of OP4.01 apply.2 Environmental and social issues are broadly defined according to the
scope of OP4.01, i.e., the natural environment (air, water, land), human health and safety, and social
aspects including, but not limited to, involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property.
The World Banks Safeguards Policies are:
1. Environmental Assessment (OP4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
2. Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)
3. Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)
4. Pest Management (OP 4.09)
5. Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
6. Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
7. Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
8. Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)
9. Projects on International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)
10. Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)
The EA Category assigned to PRSC I is Category B. Therefore, in this EA:
a) An analyses of the environmental and social issues potentially raised by PRSC I, associated with the
four targeted sectors of education, health, water and energy, has been undertaken.
b) Based on this analysis, the roles of public sector agencies (sectoral and central, national and
decentralized) to manage these issues is examined and responsibilities for monitoring and managing
these issues arising from proposed activities under PRSC I and other ongoing, Bank-supported
operations are assigned.
c) Also based on the above analysis, an indicative set of key measures has been identified to help guide
the GoR in public sector monitoring and management of the environmental and social issues
discussed.
The applicability of other safeguard policies listed above will be discussed in the context of sectoral
PRSC I activities and ongoing Bank-supported projects, and recommendations to manage relevant issues
will be harmonized with the b) and c) above. In compliance with the Bank's Disclosure Policy3, this EA
will be disclosed both in Rwanda and at the World Bank's InfoShop in Washington, DC and via the
World Bank's web site (www.worldbank.org).
2 See OD 8.60, Adjustment Lending Policy, December 1992, and OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, January 1999, accessible
through the World Bank's Operational Manual: http://wbln00 I S.worldbauk.ortt/institutional/rnuauals/oprnanual.nsfTcext
DcfinitionI ?OpcnNavigator.
3 See http://wwwl.worldbank.org/operations/disclosure/.
3



III. Analysis of Environmental and Social Issues
A. Brief Overview of Key Biophysical Environmental Features
Rwanda is a small, mountainous, landlocked country located in Central Africa, bordering Burundi,
Tanzania, Uganda, and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), with Kigali as its capital. Rwanda has
a total surface area of 26,338 square kilometers, of which the total land area is 24, 948 square kilometers,
and 1,390 square kilometers is water, with the lowest altitude of 950 meters at Rusizi River and the
highest altitude of 4,519 meters at Mount Karisimbi. The average altitude is 1,250 meters above sea level.
Rwanda can be divided into six topographical regions:
*  From west to east is the narrow Great Rift Valley, which slopes sharply to Lake Kivu.
*  The Volcanic Virunga Mountains, whose highest peak, the snow capped Mount Karisimbi, towers
over the high north western lava plains.
*  The steep north-south rise of the Congo - Nile Basins divide, whose width averages 25 kilometers.
*  The ridge of the Congo - Nile Basins divide, with an average elevation of 2,750 meters above sea
level.
*  The central plateaus east of the mountains, which are covered by rolling hills.
* The savannas and swamps of the eastern and south eastern border areas, which cover one-tenth of the
nation's land area and include the vast Kagera National Park.
Rwanda's hydrology is characterized by a dense hydrographic network of lakes, rivers, and wetlands. The
country is divided into two major drainage basins, the Nile to the east and the Congo to the west. The
Congo River Basin covers 25 percent of Rwanda and receives 10 percent of the total national rainfall. The
Nile River Basin covers an area of 75 percent of the territory and receives 90 percent of the national
rainfall. The waters of the Nile River basin flow out through the Akagera river system, which contributes
between 8 and 10 percent to the Nile drainage system. Rwanda's high altitude accounts for its tropical,
highland climate. Daily temperatures typically reach 25 degrees Celsius. There are two rainy seasons, one
from October/November to January and the other from mid-march to the end of May.
Rwanda has some 28 lakes of significant size. Six among the largest are entirely within the national
territory: Runhondo, Muhazi, Mugasera, Ihema, Rwanye, and Burera. Three others, Rugwero, Cyohoha,
and Kivu, are shared with neighboring countries. The largest is Lake Kivu which lies at 1,460 meters
above sea level and is 90 kilometers long (north-south) and 49 kilometers wide (east-west). From an
average depth of 220 meters, it plunges to a maximum depth of 475 meters. Lake Kivu has a rough,
jagged coast and contains numerous islands, the largest of which is Idjwi. Lake Kivu lies on the border
with Congo in Westem Rwanda at the foot of the Virunga Volcanoes. Kivu's shores are densely
populated and the principal town on the Rwandan side is Gisenyi. Although it is supplied with fish, the
lake is poor in fauna, but rich in volcanic substance. Great volumes of dissolved methane gases that may
be developed as an energy source exist in its deep waters. Lake Kivu drains to the south into lake
Tanganyika by the swiftly descending Ruzizi River. The Central Plains are drained by the Nyabugogo,
and Akanyaru rivers. Rwanda's eastern border is formed by the Akagera River on its way to Lake
Victoria. The rivers and lake cover some 135,000 hectares, or 5 percent of national territory.
The dense high altitude forests of Volcanoes National Park is home to about half (320) of the world's
remaining population (650) of Mountain Gorillas. Mountain. The gorillas eat large amounts of vegetation
from more than 70 different plant species and spend about 30 percent of each day foraging for food. They
consume roots, leaves, stems of herbs, vines from trees, shrub-sized plants, wild celery, gallium, vines,
berries, barks, and bamboo shoots. Among the 12 species of primates in the Nyungwe National Park, are
the black and white Colobus monkeys that wonder around in huge troupes, some of which are made up of
over 300 agile individuals. There are also known to be 275 species of birds in the Nyungwe. In the
Akagera National Park is the largest variety of wildlife species, which includes buffalo, zebra, antelope,
4



warthog, chimpanzee, lion, elephant, rhinoceros, and hippopotamus as well as rare species such as the
giant pangolin, or anteater. The main threat faced by these animals is the destruction of their habitats and
poaching.
B. Rwanda's Environmental Policy, Law, and Institutions
The Rwandan National Environment Policy (October 2003) sets out overall and specific objectives as
well as fundamental principles for improved management of the environment, both at the central and local
levels, in accordance with the current policy of decentralization and good governance in the country. The
policy sets out institutional and legal reforms with a view to providing the country with a coherent and
harmonious framework for coordination of sectoral and cross-cutting policies. It called for the
Establishment of the Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA) and the provincial, district,
and lower level committees responsible for environmental protection. The policy recognizes that
environment as a sector is a new concept in Rwanda, requiring true awareness and coordination of actions
at all levels.
An Environment Bill has been formulated and is currently (July 2004) before parliament; when passed, it
will lay the legal framework for environmental management in Rwanda. The main institutions with
responsibility for the environment in Rwanda are the Ministry of Lands, Environment, Forestry, Water
and Natural Resources (MINITERE) and the Rwanda Environmental Management Authority (REMA).
The latter was only recently established. Within the MINITERE is the Directorate of Environment, which
is broadly responsible for policy issues, monitoring policy implementation, and the budget, whereas
REMA is the technical arm of MINTERE responsible for implementing environmental policy. At the
local level, the District is an autonomous decentralized administrative structure with a legal status and
financial autonomy. It has two principal political bodies:
a) The District Council. This entity is responsible inter alia for enforcing the laws of Rwanda,
promoting governance based on democracy, preparing regulations goveming the District,
implementing Government decisions, adopting the District's development action plan, adopting the
District's budget, fixing the maximum amount to release from the District's funds, following up on
the activities of the Executive Committee (see below), coordinating activities of the sectors,
approving any grants, bequests, and credits that the District may receive.
b) The Executive Committee. This entity is responsible initer alia for administration of the District,
preparation of the District Development Action Plan, implementation of the district budget,
preparation of quarterly and yearly reports, and examination and resolution of problems not solved at
the Sector level.
C. Analysis of Environmental Issues
The key environmental concerns affecting Rwanda today are highlighted in the Table 2. Key measures to
guide the GoR to address these concerns include:
*  Directorate of Environment, MINITERE, to harmonize Sectoral Policies and Laws (e.g., forestry,
water, land, etc.) with the Environmental Policy and the new Environmental Law.
*  Enhance capacity of Department of Environment, MINTERE, through short- and medium-term
training and technical assistance in environmental law, policy formulation, budgeting and policy
implementation monitoring.
*  REMA to prepare Environmental Sectoral Guidelines.
*  REMA to prepare National Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Guidelines and Procedures.
*  Build capacity of REMA through short- and medium-term training and technical assistance in the
areas of EIA preparation, review, and monitoring, and in the conduct of Environmental Audits and
Inspection.
5



*    Enhance capacity of REMA to conduct environmental public awareness campaign.
*    Design and installation of information and ICT systems in REMA. Training of staff to use, update
and maintain these systems.
*    Track UNDP funded Decentralization and Environmental Management Project's Districts capacity
building plan to support and strengthen as appropriate.
Table 2. Rwanda's Environmental Challenges
Land Deeradation: From soil erosion, soil exhaustion and overgrazing. A problem throughout Rwanda.
Immediate Causes                        Root Causes                         Impacts                 Severity
*    Massive continued loss of vegetative  *  Population pressure and poverty  *  Loss of top soil and reduction  HIGH
cover due to deforestation and loss    leading to unsustainable land      of soil fertility leading to
of other land cover, deterioration of  use practices.                     decrease in agricultural
catchment buffer zones.           *    Topography (uneven relief, high    production and food security.
*    Inappropriate agricultural practices  stream flow velocities) and    .   Reduction of vegetative cover
leading to decreased soil quality and  rainfall patterns (floods,         and loss of habitats and
erosion, such as use of marginal       droughts, climate variability)     biodiversity.
lands, overgrazing and free grazing.  *  Lack of land use policies and  *  Water quality degradation
.    Lack of soil and water conservation   improper land use management;      from high sediment loads,
measures and/or abandonment and        weak extension service on soil    siltation of shallow lakes,
poor maintenance of anti-erosion       conservation often connected       wetlands, reservoirs, and
works.                                 with prevalent land tenure         valley bottoms and other low
.    Bush fires and slash and burn         system.                            lying lands downstream.
practices.                        *    High livestock density        .    Degradation of river beds and
.    Lack of awareness of land-         river bank erosion;
water interaction                  desertification and wind
*    Lack of EIA's or systematic        erosion (northern arid
implementation of EIA for          regions), sheet and rill erosion
infrastructure projects due to     and gully formation (after
lack of financial and human        heavy rainfall) in highlands.
resources.                    *    Landslides and flooding
leading to destruction of
infrastructure ( houses, means
of communication, communal
facilities, etc.)
Deforestation: For instance, a pre-war 1994 total forest area of 417, 000 ha has fallen to approximately 226,000 ha. Gishwati Forest has all
but disappeared, the Mutara hunting reserve has completely disappeared and the Akagera National Park is now less than one-third of its
original size. Nyungwe Forest is also threatened.
Immediate Causes                        Root Causes                         Impacts                 Severity
.    Land use conversion due to        .   Poverty and population pressure  *  Decreasing vegetation/forest  HIGH
increasing need for arable land and    leading to unsustainable          cover; loss of density and
grazing areas; burning practices for   pressure on resources; absence     diversity.
land clearing and shifting             of alternative livelihoods and  *  Deterioration of watershed:
cultivation.                           weak capacity to increase unit     high run-off associated with
*    Uncontrolled logging for fuelwood     agricultural production.           increased erosion leading to
and charcoal production for       *    Insufficient energy alternatives  loss of fertile soils and
domestic/household energy             to fuelwood.                        sedimentation and siltation
consumption, construction material  .  Insufficient awareness and         downstream.
and local industry fuel needs.         knowledge of sustainable land  .   Energy crisis associated with
*    Unsustainable and inefficient          use practices and effects of      price increases due to
resource use (e.g. overgrazing,        deforestation.                     decreased availability of
extensive cultivation on steep hill  .  Land tenure system leading to    fuelwood and charcoal.
slopes and uncontrolled logging).      allocation and use of marginal  .  Large scale habitat
.    Lack of local planting/replanting.    lands and lack of incentives for   destruction and loss of
.    Human migration and resettlement      sustainable land use practices.    wildlife in terms of numbers
due to increasing numbers of      .    Large numbers of refugees and      and biodiversity; progressive
retumees and other war affected        resettlements without basic        disappearance of National
groups, encroaching into forested      support and planning.              Parks.
areas.                                                               *    Variability in climate and
rainfall patterns.
6



Water Contamination: Sanitation Aspects
Immediate Causes                            Root Causes                         Impacts               Severity
*    Lack of water supply systems and/or   .    Lack of environmental regulations  *   Pollution of drinking   SEVERE
other reliable drinking water source;      and laws, monitoring and               water sources (ground
drinking water contamination with fecal    enforcement and general waste          and surface water) and
matter leading to spread of pathogens.     management strategies.                 high dissolved nutrient
*    Lack of or insufficient sewerage or   .    Rapid growth of urban centers and      loads resulting in
altemative sanitation systems ;leaks and   lack of financial resource base to     increasing eutrophication
insufficient maintenance of existing       build needed water supply and          and spread of infectious
facilities; lack of urban storm water      sanitation infrastructure, combined    diseases ( diarrhea,
sewers and solid waste disposal facilities.  with lack of planning for urban      malaria, bilharzias,
*    Insufficient sanitation and hygiene        expansion and required                 dysentery, and intestinal
training in conjunction with widespread    infrastructure.                        worms).
poor sanitary conditions.             *    High capital costs for investments;  .  Risks to public health
*    Increased breeding ground for mosquitoes   high operation and maintenance         due to poor sanitation
in water weed infested areas and           costs.                                 conditions, especially
irrigation canals.                    .    Previous low priority given to         during rainy season and
sanitation by govemment and            floods.
agencies, lack of awareness of    .    Increased absence from
connection between sanitation and      work due to sickness;
safe drinking water; need for better   increase in malnutrition
hygiene education.                     and death rates
*    Poverty and poor health condition of   especially among
large parts of the population.         vulnerable groups such
as small children, the
displaced and the
J______ ______ _______ ______ _______ ______ ______   _______________eld erly .
Water Contamination: Water Weed Infestation, Especially along Kagera and Nyabarongo rivers and Lakes Cyohoha and Rwero.
Immediate Causes                            Root Causes                         Impacts               Severity
*    High dissolved nutrient levels from   .    Introduction of hyacinth, insufficient  .  Continuing spread of  MODERATE
pollutant discharge from industrial        preventive measures against            weeds and infestation of     TO
discharge and domestic sources and         introduction of foreign species in     lakes and rivers,          SEVERE
agricultural run-off due to poor land use  general.                               eutrophication.
practices and lack of water treatment.  .  Lack of capacity in water resources  .  Interference with
*    Inadequate response mechanisms.            and environment ministry resulting     ecology and economy,
in inefficient enforcement of          e.g. mats on water
environmental regulations.             surface impair
.    Delay in mobilizing funds and          navigation and fishing
creating national/regional programs    activities and lead to
to combat infestaton.                  decrease in fish yields as
well as to eutrophication.
.    Decrease in diversity of
certain fish species.
*    Increase in occurrence of
waterbome diseases;
increased water
evaporation.
7



Loss of Biodiversity and Habitats.
Immediate Causes                             Root Causes                           Impacts                Severity
Species loss and decline of ecosystems and   .   Population pressure and poverty     Species loss and decline of     SEVERE
unique habitats.                                 combined with high reliance on      ecosystems and unique
primary natural resources and       habitats.
•    Poaching and illegal trade in valuable      income from agriculture.
species as well as intensive and        .    Low financial and staff capacity in  .  Disappearance of unique
unsustainable resource use and land         management of protected areas and        animal and plant species,
management, such as deforestation,           associated lack of control and          especially endemic ones;
wetlands conversion, expansion of           monitoring; poor enforcement of          decline of species
agriculture (crops and livestock farming,   laws protecting gazetted forests and     diversity.
overfishing, uncontrolled buming and        game sanctuaries; lack of financial  .   Decrease in numbers of
forest fires).                              resources for development and            large mammals with
*    Lack of altemative income sources           implementation of effective and          negative impact on
especially in areas or resettlement.        relevant programs.                      tourism and associated
*    Weak agricultural extension services.   decrease in revenue.
Loss of agrodiversity.                       .   Lack of awareness of biodiversity   .    Decrease in forest cover
concems and benefits from               constituting decrease in
*    Expansion of hybrid/high yielding crop      conservation.                            food, fuel timber and
and livestock varieties leading to decrease  .  Lack of regulations to prevent       shelter.
of genetic diversity of domestic/national   introduction of exotic species.
species.                                *    Inadequate and unregulated land use  Loss of agrodiversity.
.    Introduction of exotic species.             practices; insufficient integrated
programs for people living in       .    Loss of genetic base
protected areas.                        (cattle breeds, crops,
vegetables/fruits); loss of
benefits from local
variety qualities
(tolerance productivity,
resilience); dependency
on exotic seeds and
breeds/imported
varieties.
Wetlands Deeradation: e.g., Lake Cyohoha, Lake Bugesera area, Lake Rweru, and Lake Mugesera
.    Reclamation of wetlands to expand      *    Lack of wetland protection and      *    Decrease and             SEVERE
agricultural production.                    management regulations and               degradation of wetland
*    Deforestation, erosion and sedimentation.   measures and/or lack of                  areas (reclamation,
*    Overuse of natural resources                implementation .                         siltation, flood damage;
(overfishing/hunting/over-grazing,      .   Poverty and population pressures;        water weed infestation)
farming practices)                          shortage of land; inadequate land use  *  Decreased benefits from
*    Pollution from industrial, agricultural and  policies                               functioning wetlands,
domestic sources.                       *    Lack of awareness of wetlands           e.g. less groundwater re-
function and value, cultural habits.    charge, decreased
buffering of floods, loss
of filter function to
absorb and degrade
pollutants and associated
decrease in water
quality; decreasing
ability to act as sediment
trap; destruction of
habitats and loss of
biodiversity.
C.1. Analysis of Key Environmental Issues Concerning the Education Sector
On the hardware side, the construction and rehabilitation of school buildings and sanitary facilities under
the Human Resources Development Project and/or the Decentralization and Community Development
Project is not expected to cause significant adverse impacts. Most impacts are local and can be easily
mitigated. The funding of school construction under these operations is subject to comprehensive
8



screening (using standardized checklists), negative environmental impacts are identified and mitigated by
adjusting architectural designs and civil works contractual obligations, and implementation of mitigation
measures is monitored at the district level with support from the project.
On the software side, the absence of environmental awareness among Rwandese is among the root causes
of many environmental concerns affecting the country. The Govemment is cognizant of the need to
address this situation and is determined to introduce environmental education through the primary and
secondary school curricula, through study of the need to protect the natural environment for sustainable
economic income from suitable management of natural resources and for increased awareness on the
direct impact on public health. Key measures to guide the GoR to address these issues include:
*  MINEDUC (Ministry of Education) to develop environmental education curricula for primary and
secondary school education.
*  REMA to develop training manuals in environmental education for primary and secondary school
teachers.
*  Issue of standard design guidelines for primary and secondary school construction necessitating at a
minimum the inclusion of: (i) sanitary facilities with sewage systems and water provided from wells
or by water harvesting; (ii) canteen/school kitchens to have standpipes; and (iii) schools to have
energy-saving cooking stoves or ovens to ensure efficient use of biomass fuel.
C.2. Analysis of Key Environmental Issues Concerning the Health Sector
The construction and rehabilitation of health care facilities under Bank-finance operations is not expected
to cause significant adverse impacts. More serious environmental concerns are likely during the day to
day operations of these facilities. The greatest risk comes from the ineffective management of medical
and human waste. The Bank-funded Multi Sectoral H1V/AIDS Project (MAP) prepared a Waste
Management Plan. The challenge for the MAP project is in finding affordable and appropriate
technologies for incineration of medical solid waste. MAP is considering the use of locally constructed
clay ovens that can achieve the high temperature required and along with minimum operational (including
maintenance) costs. This Waste Management Plan forms the basis for addressing waste management
throughout the health sector in Rwanda. Regarding broader sector issues, the Ministry of Health has
developed, as part of its Health Sector Strategy Plan, an environmental public health plan. Key measures
to guide the GoR to address these issues include:
*  Directorate of Planning at the MINISANTE (Ministry of Health) to prepare Public Health Guidelines
for use by institutions with responsibility for public health (in water and food supply).
*  REMA to prepare manual for environmental public health awareness campaign.
*  Training of Public Health Inspectors for posting to Districts.
*  Training of Public Health Nurses for posting to Districts.
C.3. Analyses of Key Environmental Issues Concerning the Water Sector
Regarding water as a natural resource, and its cross cutting implications for the sustenance of all forms of
life, the main environmental issues are contamination and pollution of its sources and storage areas due
primarily to pollution from lack of suitable sanitation and drainage facilities, and also from water
weed/hyacinth infestation. These issues severely affect the quality of water available for human
consumption, agriculture, energy, and the maintenance of natural habitats and ecosystems in Rwanda. The
Government is committed to its Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy, with its main objective being to
provide a sustainable, safe water supply and sanitation facilities based on management, responsibility, and
ownership by users.
9



The national rural water supply strategy, implemented and tested under the Bank financed Rural Water
and Sanitation Project (RWSP), is based on the concept of a community demand driven approach and the
national decentralization policy. An EA was carried for this project to ensure proper environmental
management of the project. At the time the EA was conducted, REMA did not exist; Thus REMA will
now get involved in monitoring the RWSP. The Government has committed itself to finalize and publish
its Water Policy and to pass a new law to provide the legal and regulatory framework for the
implementation of this policy. Key measures to guide the GoR to address these issues include:
*  Directorate of Water, MINITERE, to incorporate integrated environmental management and
protection of water resources into the new policy and law.
*  Directorate of Water, MINITERE, to work closely with REMA, and the Ministries of Health and
Education, to ensure effective monitoring and public awareness of public health issues.
*  REMA to monitor implementation of RWSP.
*  Directorate of Water, MINITERE, to conduct a Sectoral Environmental and Social Assessment
(SESA) for the water sector based on the new policy and law.
C.4. Analyses of Key Environmental Issues Concerning the Energy Sector
At the present time, most of Rwanda's power needs are the responsibility of Electrogaz, the national
parastatal, whose main source of generation is hydro-power. Even though this is a renewable source, the
water reservoir levels are low, thereby affecting power output. To meet the current shortfall in demand,
plans are underway for thermal generation in the medium term and for purchasing power from
independent power producers (IPP's), particularly those using Lake Kivu methane. In addition, most rural
and many urban households depend on biomass fuels for domestic energy needs. This places great
pressure on forest resources. The sustainable management of Rwanda's natural resources lies at the centre
of its ability to provide energy for socio-economic development. Part of the Government's national
energy policy is to mitigate environmental, health, and safety impacts of energy production and use. Key
medium-term measures to guide the GoR to address these issues include:
*  REMA to prepare Environmental Guidelines for the Energy Sector.
*  MININFRA (Ministry responsible for Energy) to conduct a Sectoral Environmental and Social
Assessment (SESA) for the sector based on the energy policy and rural electrification policy so as to
inform the planning process as new electricity generation is brought into service.
*  Build capacity of Electrogaz through training and technical assistance and at the provincial levels for
environmental management of natural resources.
*  Conduct EIA for the Generation Master Plan and the Extension of Kibuye-Karongi transmission line
to connect to the methane plant.
*  MININFRA to review wood fuel related legislation and to draft new legislation to bring it into
compliance with new policy.
*  MININFRA and REMA to launch Public Awareness Campaign for energy efficient use of
wood/charcoal awareness.
*  Introduction by REMA and MININFRA of new technologies/design for energy saving cooking
stoves, using less firewood for more output.
D. Brief Overview of Key Social Issues Affecting Rwanda
Rwanda remains one of the poorest countries in the world. Its population of 8.2 million in 2000, made up
of Hutus, Tutsis, and Batwas, is growing at between 2.5 to 2.9 percent per annum. Its population density
of 337 per square kilometer in 1999 is in the top ten in the world, nearly 50 percent of the population is 16
years old or younger, and 90 percent live in rural areas. Agriculture is the primary economic activity for
this 90 percent. Rwanda ran out of new arable land almost 20 years ago and agricultural productivity has
10



been on the decline. The severe degradation of scarce land, forests, and water resources that support
agriculture has become a challenge to the revival of the rural economy.
The legacies of the genocide continue to weigh heavily on the social and economic recovery of Rwanda.
The genocide and the preceding civil conflicts impoverished Rwandese and increased their vulnerability,
particularly widows and orphans of the genocide, recently returned refugees, resettled internally displaced
persons (IDPs), and the families of the detained 120,000 (at the peak) suspects of crimes of genocide. In
2000, 40 percent of children between the ages of 7-14 were orphans (have lost at least one parent). Mental
health problems, largely the result of the horrors of the genocide and its aftermath, are widespread in a
society that is not well-equipped to deal with it. A 1995 UNICEF survey found that 96 percent witnessed
violence during the genocide, 88 percent saw dead bodies or parts of bodies, and 70 percent witnessed
someone being killed or injured.
A recent survey of the population found that poverty/economic hardship, security, health care, and lack of
trust/sincerity are the major social problems. The loss of social capital and community solidarity that help
to cope with poverty has increased social and economic vulnerability. The rebuilding of the social fabric
will take time; continued assistance to reintegrate the vulnerable populations and the rapid expansion of
economic opportunities will accelerate the process.
Despite these difficulties, over the last decade the country has been steadily moving out of the post
conflict phase. Many refugees have returned and the reconciliation process has significantly progressed.
Rwanda has taken huge strides toward pro-poor measures aimed at improving social services, reducing
gender disparities, and initiating a serious effort to fight HIV/AIDS. Health indicators have improved
steadily after the genocide and are reaching close to pre-genocide levels. Enrollment has increase at all
levels of education, with net and gross enrolments surpassing pre-genocide levels, and enrolment of girls
is at with that of boys.
D.1. Characteristics of Poverty
The PRSP benefited from a number of recent surveys (completed in 2000 and 2001) in this area,
including the Household Living Standards Survey (HLSS), the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
(CWIQ), and the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS). These confirmed that living conditions in
Rwanda, while slowly improving since 1994, continue to be very poor, particularly in the rural areas.
Rwanda's per capita income of US$230 is still much lower than the US$370 it was in 1990; in addition,
60 percent of households live below the poverty line, compared to about 40 percent in 1985. Ninety
percent of the population live rural areas and depend on agriculture for their livelihood. The HLSS
showed a significant change in income inequality, with urban populations doing much better than rural
ones. Based on these surveys and the results of the in-country consultations with local communities, local
and central governments and civil society members, during the preparation of this EA, the following
characteristics of poverty were derived:
Who are the Poor?
*  Rural households.
*  Female headed households, other households with less than two adult-members, elderly and
handicapped persons.
*  Large households.
* Recently resettled internally displaced people (IDP's) and returned and returning refugees.
*  The Batwa People.
*  The "assetless," i.e., landless, those with no livestock, etc.
These groups are not mutually exclusive.
11



Why are they poor?
* Rural Households
- low agricultural productivity, declining soil fertility and environmental degradation.
- lack of access to land, land fragmentation, insecurity of land tenure.
-  lack of access to markets, absence of rural commercial activity and altemative income eaming
opportunities.
- social and economic isolation due to high transport costs and insecurity.
-  poor health services and health standards and rise in HIV/AIDS incidence, impacting negatively on
productivity.
-  loss of capital stock ( livestock and other animals) in the genocide.
-  poor agricultural extension services, lack of access to and knowledge of the use of improved inputs.
-  lack of access to low cost capital or micro-credit or micro-grants.
-  lack of access to affordable and sustainable household energy sources.
* Female-headed households
- Shortage of household labor
- declining soil fertility
-  many women have to take care of husbands and sons in prison, dependant parents,  orphans,
handicapped husbands and children, retuming refugees, and other dependents.
- low education attainment, poor access to land, paid employment and credit
- poor social services, e.g. water, health, education etc.
* Recently returned refugees and resettled IDPs
- lack of permanent housing.
- access to social services, water, healthcare and education
- lack of land and other assets
- loss of capital stock- livestock, coffee bushes, banana plantations, farm implements and supplies.
- lack of social support due to disconnection with or dislocation from original/nuclear families as
resettlement was arbitrary and not to original home base.
* Urban Poor
- rapid increase in urban population.
- no employment opportunities particularly among poorly educated young people.
- poor basic social services and infrastructure.
- lack of housing.
- lack of land.
- high food prices due to low agricultural productivity, high transport costs and restrictions on petty
trade.
Where are the poor?
Poverty continues to be essentially a rural phenomenon in Rwanda. All the provinces suffered reductions
in household and individual incomes over the last two decades.
D.2. Analysis of Social Issues: Land and Involuntary Resettlement
Issues affecting land reform and administration remain a very emotive and sensitive issue and was seen as
one of the major sources of unrest in the past. Therefore, the Govemment has approached this issue
wisely, with sensitivity, and appropriate consultative and participatory processes. Key measures to guide
the GoR to address these issues include:
* Land Law Policy passed by Cabinet.
12



* Land Law submitted to parliament.
* Development of Land Registration System through the development of a Cadastre System.
*  Build capacity of new Land Center through training and technical assistance.
*  Train of Urban and Peri-Urban Land/Town Planners.
In general, development programs/projects in both the public and private sector that contain activities
which have an adverse impact on people or communities, as defined by the Bank's Involuntary
Resettlement OP 4.12, will be avoided. In such cases where this is not feasible, affected people and/or
communities will be identified, participate in relevant project/program activities, be fully compensated,
and have entitlements delivered before the activities causing the impact are started. Affected
persons/communities must also have the grievance mechanisms explained to them and assisted to use
these mechanisms when they believe they are grieved. Particular attention should be paid to identified
vulnerable groups, and their post resettlement condition must be monitored to ensure successful
mitigation.
In ongoing or planned Bank projects/programs where a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was
prepared by the GoR and publicly disclosed, affected persons would be treated in ways and manners
consistent with that RPF. For programs/projects that did not envisage involuntary resettlement and hence
an RPF was not prepared during project preparation, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for each case
would be prepared consistent with the laws of Rwanda and the World Bank's OP4.12. Additional key
measures to guide the GoR to address these issues include:
*  Prepare a country wide strategy to manage involuntary resettlement due to public and private funded
investments projects.
*  Build capacity at the central and local level to implement this strategy.
D.3. Analysis of Key Social Issues: Education Sector
Rwanda has achieved remarkable progress in reviving its education system that collapsed during the
genocide. The challenge now is for Rwanda to make the transition from recovery of the system to
sustained long-term development. To achieve this, higher quality of service must be provided as improved
access to post-primary education among those at risk of being left behind, particularly children from rural
areas and the lowest income groups, and among girls and orphans is increased.
Primary and Secondary Education. Progress has been uneven across socio-economic groups. Although
girls are as likely as boys to enroll in primary and secondary education, they make up only about a third
of the students in higher education. Gaps between urban and rural populations as well as across income
groups are modest in primary education, but they widen considerably in secondary education and
deteriorate even more in higher education. For example, in 2000 the secondary gross enrollment rate ratio
(GER) was only 6 percent in rural areas compared with 30 percent in urban areas; and the ratio among
children from the highest income quintile was 29 percent compared with 3 percent among those from the
lowest income quintile. While gross enrolment rates for primary education are impressive across the
gender, income and locality, the transition rate to secondary education is low. This is due in part to a
combination of higher than normal (34 percent in 2000-2001) primary school repetition rate, less access
to secondary school due to greater travel distances, and higher costs to parents of secondary school
students. Key measures to guide the GoR to address these issues include:
*  GoR implements its pledge to abolish school fees for lower secondary education (i.e., the tronc
commun cycle).
*  MINEDUC to closely monitor ("follow the money") Capitation Grants, valued at 300 RwF per pupil,
to Districts to ensure targeted areas are reached.
13



*  GoR to increase funding to District Education Funds and monitor them to ensure and intensify public
support to particularly needy students.
*  MINEDUC to increase access to secondary schools.
*  Improve quality of service at primary schools to reduce repetition rates.
Higher Education. Access to higher education is generally very low in Rwanda. In urban areas the gross
enrollment ratio is 8.3 percent, but only 0.5 percent in rural areas. The Government's strategy includes
encouraging financially independent private institutions to grow, and promoting greater financial and
managerial autonomy and accountability in publicly-subsidized institutions (e.g., through the proposed
creation of the National Council for Higher Education and the Student Finance Agency of Rwanda. Key
measures to guide the GoR to address these issues include:
* Set up National Council for Higher Education.
* Establish Student Finance Agency for Rwanda.
D.3. Analyses of Key Social Issues: Health Sector
Health indicators have improved steadily after the genocide and are reaching close to pre-genocide levels,
which, while impressive, are still low in comparison to Sub-Saharan Africa. There are also large gaps
between the poor and higher income groups in terms of health outcomes and coverage. Benefits
distribution is biased in favor of urban areas: urban dwellers capture twice as much public spending on
hospitals as rural inhabitants. With regard to HIV/AIDS, the Bank-funded MAP is providing assistance
for public awareness campaigns and community sensitization, testing, anti-retroviral drugs, and health
and vocational care for those living AIDS. Key measures to guide the GoR to address these issues
include:
*  Increase access to and participation in micro-insurance schemed "mutuelles" in rural areas.
*  Improving and broadening participation of civil society in health committees at the grassroots level,
ensuring gender balance in the composition of these groups.
*  Expanding use of Community Development Fund (CDF) mechanism for financing cost effective
health care interventions (e.g., community outreach, social marketing, safe and simple water systems,
nutrition activities).
*  Ensuring a gradual and sustained increase in public sector financing of health care both relative total
government expenditures and on a per capita basis.
*  Supporting the transfer of block grants in the context of the decentralization process to introduce
mechanisms that target areas of the greatest need with a view to improving equity in coverage and
health outcomes.
*  Standardizing user fee policies and revising fee structures to ensure that basic services are affordable
to the poor while monitoring the financial impact of fees on households.
D.4. Analysis of Key Social Issues: Water and Sanitation Sector
Collecting water in rural Rwanda is a time consuming, energy demanding, and expensive daily task for
most people. According to the last national inventory of the water supply infrastructure carried out in
2001 by the Directorate of Water and Sanitation, the coverage rate for safe drinking water was estimated
at 57 percent in rural areas and at 60 percent in urban areas. However, it is estimated that 30-35 percent of
the existing rural water systems are non-functional, which puts the effective access to safe water in rural
areas at about 40 percent across the country. The access rate to traditional household sanitation facilities
is about 85 percent. The country's objective is to provide sustainable safe water supply and sanitation
facilities. Most of the responsibilities to provide water supply and sanitation services to rural areas are
14



being devolved to the District level with technical support from the provincial level. Key measures to
guide the GoR to address these issues include:
*  Expand water production capacity in the City of Kigali.
*  Construct hygiene facilities in a certain percentage of schools.
*  Finalize urban Water and Sanitation Strategy, along with the corresponding investment plan.
*  Ensure all I 1 provinces and provincial support units (to advise districts) to be fully staffed with
trained personnel.
*  Increase percentage of water supply systems managed by local private operators.
D.5. Analyses of Key Social Issues: Energy Sector
Rwanda has among the lowest per capita electricity consumption in the world, with only 6-8 percent of
households having grid access, almost entirely in the main cities (with Kigali alone accounting for nearly
two-thirds of total electricity consumption). Power and energy supply for rural households is almost
entirely biomass for cooking and heating whereas petroleum (paraffin/kerosene) is mostly used for
lighting. Reliable power supply is also a significant constraint faced by district hospitals and most
primary and secondary schools do not have access to any form of power. Key measures to guide the GoR
to address these issues include:
*  Implement strategy to address capacity generation constraints in the short-term.
*  Develop and implement strategy to address capacity generation over the medium- and long-term.
*  Intensify energy conservation campaign.
*  Adopt low costs standards.
*  REMA to review and clear EA's prepared for the Lake Kivu Methane Gas exploration project.
IV.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
Rwanda's primary institutions responsible for management of environmental issues are:
* The Directorate for Environment in the Ministry Lands, Environment, Forestry, Water and Natural
Resources (MINTERE).
* Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA).
The responsibility of the Directorate for Environment has changed following approval of the new
Environmental Policy and the establishment of REMA. The Directorate for Environment is responsible
primarily for formulation of policies relating to the environment, the budget for the sector, and for
monitoring policy implementation.  REMA is the technical arm  of MINITERE responsible for
implementing environmental policy.
The sector ministries involved in preparation of the proposed PRSC I, i.e., education, health, water, and
energy, have cross-cutting responsibility with MINITERE, as does the decentralized administration at the
Provincial and District levels. Under decentralization, the Provincial and District administrations have
primary responsibility for the provision of public services. Therefore, as the decentralization process rolls
out, the District and Provincial govemments will need to assume more responsibility for environmental
management of natural resources and investments within their jurisdictions. For this to be successful,
decentralized local govemments must enhance capacity and draw on technical support from the center,
via adequate policies, legislation, and qualified personnel. Thus, the linkages between the center and local
govemments must be strengthened. To this end, the capacity of the central institutions (Directorate for
Environment, REMA) must be built, and the linkages between the local and national entities
strengthened.
15



Synergies and complementarity between the PRSC and the UNDP co-financed Decentralization and
Environmental Management Project (DEMP) should be pursued to ensure effective coordination of all
environmental capacity building efforts in Rwanda.
The Directorate for Environment has been successful is getting its environmental policy approved by
cabinet and has the supporting legislation before the national parliament. The efforts to build capacity
gaps at the Directorate for Environment are therefore minimal at this time. However, REMA is a new
institution facing restrictive budgetary constraints that have rendered it unable to recruit required
personnel (the only staff in place is the Director General). Support provided under the proposed PRSC
will be used to help staff REMA and build its capacity to carry out its mandate.
Figure 1. The Management Structure of REMA
Board of Directors
MINITERE
REMA
Director General
Finance and             EIA and              Institutions         Research-            Plannine,
Admin Unit              Inspection Unit      Support Unit         Development,         Proiect
Technology and       Development
-Public relations       -EIA                 - Education and      Information          and
Communication.                               Sensitization for    Systems Unit.        Management
- Monitoring,        environmental                             Unit
-Central Secretariat    Evaluation and       protection.          - Research &
Inspection.          - Mainstreaming      Development.        - Planning
-Human Resources.                            environment into     -Information,        and resource
- Legal Affairs      development          Communication and    mobilization.
-Accounts                                    programmes.          Technology
- Promotion of local  (ICT)Systems.       - Project
-Finance.                                    community            - Database           Development
initiatives in       Development and      and
-Logistics                                   environmental        Management           Management
protection.          -Documentation
16



