Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15787
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2716-PH)
JUNE 18, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:    Philippine Peso (P)
USS 1.00    = P 18.70 (at appraisal in 1986)
P 26.50 (at completion in 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Januar) 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -     Asian Development Bank
DILG        -     Department of Interior and Local Government (former
Ministry of Local Government and Community Development)
DPWH        -     Department of Public Works and Highways (former Ministry
of Public Works)
GOP         -     Government of the Philippines
ICR         -     Implementation Completion Report
SRRIP       -     Second Rural Roads Improvement Project
RRIP        -     (first) Rural Roads Improvement Project
DAR         -     Department of Agrarian Reform
PMO         -     Project Management Office
PEO         -     Provincial Engineer's Office
LGU         -     Local Government Unit
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
NEDA        -     National Economic and Development Authority
RMMM        -     Road Maintenance Management Manual
GEMS        -     Guide to Equipment Management Systems
LBM         -     Labor-Based Methods
EIRR        -     Economic Internal Rate of Return
WAADT    -        Weighted Annual Average Daily Traffic



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ....................................................i
Evaluation Summary ...................................................                                                                     ii
Part I: Second Rural Roads Improvement Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ....................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ...................................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................6
D.  Project Sustainability ...................................................7
E.  Bank Performance ...................................................7
F. Borrower Performance ....................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................9
H. Future Operation ...................................................                                                                     10
I. Key Lessons Learned ...................................................                                                                  II
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table  1:   Summary of Assessments ................................................... 13
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ...................................................                                                            14
Table 3:   Project Timetable ...................................................                                                            14
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..............................................   15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................                                    15
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................                                         17
Table 7:   Studies Included in the Project ...................................................                                              18
Table 8:  Project Costs ...................................................                                                                 19
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................                                                  19
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants ................................................... 20
Table I 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................................................   21
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ...................................................                                                21
Table  13: Bank Resources:  Missions ...................................................                                                   22
Appendices
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire ...................................................                                          24
Appendix B: Economic Impact Data from  a Sample of DILG  Roads ........................................... 28
Appendix C: Economic Impact Data from  a Sample of DPWH  Roads ......................................... 38
Appendix Dl:  DPWH  Contribution to the ICR ...................................................                                            41
Appendix D2:  DILG  Contribution to the ICR  ................................................... 48
Map IBRD 19287R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not othcr-ise bc disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (Loan 2716-PH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Rural Roads
Improvement Project in the Republic of the Philippines, for which Loan 2716-PH in the
amount of US$ 82 million was approved on June 10, 1986 and made effective on October
23, 1986.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1995, compared with the original closing
date of June 30, 1992. Final disbursement was made on May 6, 1996 and a balance of
US$114,099.85 has been canceled as of that date.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Marcelo J. Minc, Transport SpecialistlEconomist
Consultant of EAI AE and reviewed by Mr. Jeffrey Gutman, Agriculture and
Environment Division Chief and Mr. Walter Schwermer, Project Adviser. The borrower
provided comments that are included as Appendix D to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission in
February 1996. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's ICR,
preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution, and commenting on the draft
ICR.






. jj .
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (Loan 2716-PH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    Before the 1 970s the Bank had financed rural roads in the Philippines as transport
components of irrigation, multipurpose and rural development projects. Central
government agencies had been responsible for executing these road components. During
the late 1 970s there was a shift in government policy towards rural development and
decentralization of development responsibilities. The Government of the Philippines
(GOP) planned to strengthen local government capabilities to plan, construct and
maintain rural roads, and to significantly increase its investments in farm-to-market and
feeder roads. To implement this plan, the GOP requested World Bank assistance in
financing a rural roads project.
ii.   That project, the (first) Rural Roads Improvement Project (RRIP), was supported
by Loan 1860-PH. Its long-term objectives were to provide improved transport services
to the rural population in order to stimulate agricultural production and increase rural
incomes. The RRIP experienced problems and delays, mainly due to the difficult fiscal
situation and political climate prevailing in the Philippines during most of the 1 980s.
Also, some of the problems were due to expectations, that the provincial governments,
with largely inexperienced and inadequately trained staff, would become capable of
assuming major responsibility for the rural road subsector in a relatively brief time. As a
result, transport services in the rural areas were improved but not to the extent expected,
and the institutional goals were only partly achieved.
iii.   The Second Rural Roads Improvement Project (SRRIP) originated under the
RRIP, in which consultants undertook feasibility studies for rural road improvements in
22 provinces. Based on these studies, which were completed in 1982, the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) agreed in 1983 to finance rural road improvements in nine of
the provinces. The GOP requested the Bank to finance rural road improvements in the
remaining thirteen provinces. During negotiations the GOP requested the inclusion of an
additional province. In addition the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (presently Department
of Agrarian Reform (DAR)) had undertaken feasibility studies for a land settlement
project in 1981 and updated them in 1985. Since the rural roads component enjoyed the
highest priority in the GOP's regional planning, the Bank agreed to also include related
rural roads in the SRRIP.
iv.   One aspect of the project which requires clarification is the title which indicates
that the roads to be constructed are "rural roads". The term rural roads is not precisely
defined anywhere in the Bank, but is generally taken to mean the lowest level of roads in
the network, essentially roads connecting villages to the secondary road system, or
connecting farm to markets. It does not normally include major roads in rural areas. The



- iii -
roads proposed for construction under the Department of Interior and Local Government
(former Ministry of Local Government and Community Development) (DILG)
component of this project were virtually all classified as provincial roads. The need was
accurately defined, as these provincial roads needed upgrading and improvement before
any connecting farm-to-market roads were constructed, but they were generally of a
higher classification than normally considered under rural road projects. The Department
of Public Works and Highways (former Ministry of Public Works) (DPWH) roads were
designed for the purposes of land settlement and as such were accurately described in the
SAR as national and barangay roads, instead of the Bank's traditional "rural roads". In
fact some of the DPWH barangay roads (e.g. Wao-Banisilan) appear to be candidates for
reclassification to provincial or national highways.
Project Objectives and Description
v.    The SRRIP continued the Bank's efforts, which began with the first RRIP. The
objectives were to: (a) alleviate poverty in rural areas by providing farmers with access
to markets, thereby stimulating food production and employment opportunities; (b)
provide the infrastructure required to support land settlement efforts; (c) facilitate
provision of health care and other services to the rural population; and (d) further
strengthen institution-building efforts in DILG and the provincial governments started
under the RRIP. Conceptually the project had timely and appropriate goals: (1) rural
development and (2) decentralization through capacity building. Objectives (a), (b) and
(c), which dealt with the first aspect, were transparent and project components
specifically responded to them. Performance indicators for objective (d) to strengthen
institution building efforts in DILG and provincial governments were not clearly
specified at appraisal, making it difficult to evaluate the success of this objective.
vi.   To accomplish those objectives, the project consisted of two separate components:
(a) rehabilitation, upgrading and improvement of about 750 km of high priority provincial
roads, including bridges in the following 14 provinces: Abra, Agusan del Norte, Agusan
del Sur, Bohol, Cagayan, Catanduanes, Davao del Sur, Ilocos Norte, Marinduque,
Misamis Oriental Southern Leyte, Surigao del Sur, Surigao del Norte, and Samar. This
project component was implemented by DILG and the provincial governments; and (b)
improvement of about 580 km of rural roads (national, provincial and barangay through
labor-based methods (LBM)) including bridges in the following three settlement areas:
Kabankalan, Sultan Kudarat-South Cotabato and Wao-Banisilan. This project component
was implemented by DPWH.
Implementation Experience and Results
vii.   There were various factors that adversely affected the SRRIP, delaying its
implementation. These delays caused the loan to be closed three and half years later than
planned at appraisal time, i.e., December 31, 1995 instead of June 30, 1992. The main
factors were: (a) unusual typhoon and bad weather conditions in the project areas; (b)
numerous peace and order problems in the project areas, especially in the land settlement
areas under the DPWH component; (c) the 1986 revolution which caused major
institutional changes in implementation agencies; and (d) the 1991 economic crisis,
following the middle east crisis of 1990-1991, which caused excessive cost increases in



- Iv -
construction materials. All of these factors made contractors reduce or completely stop
construction activities for several months at a time.
viii.  Despite the numerous difficulties, SRRIP achieved most of the original
objectives. Roads built/rehabilitated in rural areas: (a) provided farmers access to
markets, stimulating food production and employment opportunities; (b) provided the
infrastructure required to support land settlement efforts; (c) facilitated the provision of
health care, education and other services to the rural population. Recording the objective
to strengthen institution-building efforts in DILG and the provincial governments there
were no specific targets and it was difficult to evaluate the success of this objective.
However, provincial engineers' offices were strengthened by the provision of
maintenance equipment, workshops, office equipment, and training.
ix.    Total cost of the project was estimated to be US$ 127.5 million, or about 4.3%
higher than the US$ 122.2 million estimated at appraisal. In order to assess the economic
impact of the roads built/rehabilitated, DILG carried out impact studies in five provinces:
Agusan del Norte, Davao del Sur, Marinduque, Surigao del Norte and Surigao del Sur.
Economic internal rates of return (EIRR) were re-estimated in four of the studies, ranging
from 1 1% to 29% as compared with 17% to 18%, estimated at appraisal for the same
roads. For all of the 5 roads where the impact study was conducted, the study showed
that: (a) agricultural production increased, also due to the increase of visits to the areas of
influence by agricultural extension workers (DAR staff, provision of fertilizer and banks);
(b) travel times to the provincial connectors were substantially reduced; (c) access to the
areas of influence increased to year-round; (d) traffic substantially increased; and (e)
transportation costs to the main road were reduced.
x.    The Bank's performance at appraisal was partially satisfactory. From the positive
side, there was: (a) commitment of the GOP, the implementing agencies, and the
beneficiaries to the project; and (b) incentives for stakeholders to sustain the project.
Since the appraisal mission took place in July 1985, and negotiations shortly after the
1986 revolution, it is surprising that the Bank did not revisit the institutional aspects of
the SRRIP, and did not include it as a risk for project performnance. Bank's performance
during supervision was also partially satisfactory, even when considering the difficult
project launching period. Project implementation progress, and the lack of it, were
adequately reported, and problems were identified and assessed. Proper advice was given
to DILG and DPWH, but still delays kept occurring. The working relationship between
the Bank, GOP, and implementing agencies was very good. However, the DILG and
DPWH noted that the Bank was slow giving clearances, and that more Bank field
supervision during the SRRIP's initial implementation phase, would have helped to avoid
delays.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
xi.    Because of the nature of the civil works component of the SRRIP, sustainability
depends mainly on the maintenance that will be performed to the roads and bridges
built/rehabilitated. The Bank's completion mission verified the commitment of the
Provincial Engineer's Offices (PEOs) to conduct adequate maintenance activities, and the
existence of sufficient funds to do them. Experience in other countries and from previous



- v -
projects in Philippines, however, raise concerns about maintenance and sustainability
without specific project follow-up activities. Regarding the institutional capacity
building, the PEOs were the main beneficiaries of the project and are ready to assume
expanded responsibilities. The only drawback is that the DILG SRRIP PMO, which was
also trained during the project, is a temporary office and will be dismantled shortly after
the project is completed. Also, on the successfully executed DPWH LBM sub-
component, there seem to be no institutional vestiges of it, four years after completion.
xii.   Regarding future operations, the Bank together with NEDA, DPWH and DILG is
reviewing its strategy towards rural infrastructure, in order to support the GOP policy of
devolving from the national government to the Local Government Units (LGUs), the
provision for the delivery of basic services and facilities, such as rural roads, water
supply, etc. Issues under discussion are: (a) institutional responsibilities for the provision
of rural infrastructure including roles of central versus local governments; (b) appropriate
cost recovery policy for investment and for operation and maintenance; (c) strategies for
community participation; (d) application of appropriate technology and quality control
procurement methods; (e) responsibilities for maintenance; (f) methods of planning,
decision-making and appraisal of locally proposed projects; and (g) multisectoral versus
sectoral project design.
xiii. The lessons learned from SRRIP's preparation and appraisal experience, include
the need to: (a) designate a nucleus within the implementing agency with highly qualified
staff to be responsible for planning and managing the implementation of the project. This
could substantially minimize the institutional risks to a project; (b) establish clear and
realistic capacity building goals for the implementing agencies; (c) assure up-front the
commitment of the implementing agencies to dedicate funds to maintenance of the
built/rehabilitated roads; and (d) encourage local communities to participate in the design
of the project.
xiv.  Summarizing, among the lessons learned that could be drawn from SRRIP's
implementation, there is a need to: (a) improve the pre-qualification process by making it
more rigorous and transparent. This would reduce contract terminations and recisions,
unnecessary delays and project costs; (b) speed up clearances by the Bank and
disbursements by the borrower; (c) improve Bank supervision during the implementation
stage; (d) engage the services of an independent technical consultant to assure quality
control in project performance; (e) develop more specific interventions to ensure adequate
maintenance and project sustainability; and (f) avoid including projects in remote areas of
the country where security risks limit adequate supervision.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (Loan 2716-PH)
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Prior Bank Involvement. Before the 1 970s the Bank had financed rural roads in
the Philippines as transport components of irrigation, multipurpose and rural development
projects. Central government agencies had been responsible for executing these road
components. During the late 1 970s there was a shift in government policy towards rural
development and decentralization of development responsibilities. The Government of
the Philippines (GOP) planned to strengthen local government capabilities to plan,
construct and maintain rural roads, and to significantly increase its investments in farm-
to-market and feeder roads. To implement this plan, the GOP requested World Bank
assistance in financing a rural roads project.
2.    That project became loan 1 860-PH: (first) Rural Roads Improvement Project
(RRIP). Its long-term objectives were to provide improved transport services to the rural
population in order to stimulate agricultural production and increase rural incomes. The
short-term objectives were: (a) to reconstruct, rehabilitate and maintain priority rural
roads, and (b) to strengthen the capacity of provincial highway authorities to plan, design,
administer, and execute rural roads programs and to maintain their rural road network
under the overall direction of the Department of Local Government (DLG), (currently
Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG)). The RRIP had three
components: (a) construction and maintenance of rural roads, (b) construction and
improvement of a national road, and (c) technical assistance to the Department of
Transportation and Communications (DOTC) and to the National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA) for transport planning.
3.    The RRIP experienced numerous problems and delays, mainly due to the difficult
fiscal situation and political climate prevailing in the Philippines during most of the
1980s. Also, some of the problems were due to the project expectations, that the
provincial governments, with largely inexperienced and inadequately trained staff, would
become capable of assuming major responsibility for the rural road subsector in a
relatively brief time. As a result, transport services in the rural areas were improved but
not to the extent expected, and the institutional goals were also only partly achieved.
4.    The Second Rural Roads Improvement Project (SRRIP) originated under the
RRIP, in which consultants undertook feasibility studies for rural road improvements in
22 provinces. Based on these studies, which were completed in 1982, the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) agreed in 1983 to finance rural road improvements in nine of
the provinces. The GOP requested the Bank to finance rural road improvements in the



-2-
remaining thirteen provinces. During negotiations the GOP requested the inclusion of an
additional province. In addition the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (presently Department
of Agrarian Reform (DAR)) had undertaken feasibility studies for a land settlement
project in 1981 and updated them in 1985. Since the rural roads component enjoyed the
highest priority in the GOP's regional planning, the Bank agreed to also include related
rural roads in the SRRIP.
5.    One aspect of the project which causes some confusion is the title which indicates
that the roads to be constructed are "rural roads". The term rural roads is not precisely
defined anywhere in the Bank, but is generally taken to mean the lowest level of roads in
the network, essentially roads connecting villages to the secondary road system, or
connecting farm to markets. It does not normally include major roads in rural areas. The
roads proposed for construction under the DILG component of this project were virtually
all classified as provincial roads. The need was accurately defined, as these provincial
roads needed upgrading and improvement before any connecting farm to market roads
were constructed, but were generally of a higher classification than normally considered
under rural road projects. The DPWH roads were for the purposes of land settlement and
such were accurately described in the SAR as national and barangay road, again not
normal Bank "rural road". In fact some of the DPWH barangay roads (e.g. Wao-
Banisilan) appear to be candidates for reclassification to provincial or national highways.
6.    Statement of Objectives. The SRRIP continued the Bank's efforts, which began
with the first RRIP. The objectives were to: (a) alleviate poverty in rural areas by
providing farmers with easy access to markets, thereby stimulating food production and
employment opportunities; (b) provide the infrastructure required to support land
settlement efforts; (c) facilitate provision of health care and other services to the rural
population; and (d) further strengthen institution-building efforts in DILG and the
provincial governments started under the RRIP.
7.    To accomplish those objectives, the project consisted of two separate components:
(a) rehabilitation, upgrading and improvement of about 750 km of high priority provincial
roads, including bridges in the following 14 provinces: Abra, Agusan del Norte, Agusan
del Sur, Bohol, Cagayan, Catanduanes, Davao del Sur, Ilocos Norte, Marinduque,
Misamis Oriental Southern Leyte, Surigao del Sur, Surigao del Norte, and Samar. This
project component was implemented by DILG and the provincial governments; and (b)
improvement of about 580 km of rural roads (national, provincial and barangay through
LBM) including bridges in the settlement areas of Kabankalan, Sultan Kudarat-South
Cotabato and Wao-Banisilan. This project component was implemented by DPWH.
8.    Specifically, the DILG project component covering 14 provinces comprised: (a)
rehabilitation, upgrading and spot improvement of about 750 km of high priority
provincial roads; (b) provision of road maintenance equipment, construction of
mechanical workshops and quality control laboratories, and procurement of workshop,
laboratories, and office equipment and tools; (c) consultant services for detailed
engineering and road construction supervision of the above roads; (d) technical assistance



- 3 -
to DILG and the provincial road authorities to improve their capability to implement the
project, to prepare feasibility studies for an additional 10 provinces and to train local
staff; and (e) overseas training and special courses and seminars for senior staff selected
from DILG and the 14 project provinces.
9.    The DPWH project component covered the three settlement areas and consisted
of: (a) improvement of about 80 km of national roads, 220 km of provincial roads and
about 280 km of barangay roads; (b) provision of road maintenance equipment to enable
DPWH and provincial governments to maintain the above roads; (c) consultant services
for detailed engineering and road construction supervision of the above roads; and (d)
technical assistance to DPWH to assist in implementing road construction by labor
intensive methods and to provide on-the-job training for local supervisory staff and
overseas study tours for senior staff. The barangay roads sub-component was executed
through Labor Based Methods (LBM). This approach was selected because: (a) it
provides greater employment opportunities than would machine intensive methods; (b) it
directly involves the targeted communities; and (c) it enhances the capacity of local
communities to carry on maintenance of the roads after the life of the project.
10.   Evaluation of Objectives. Conceptually the SRRIP had timely and appropriate
goals: (i) rural development and (ii) decentralization through capacity building.
Objectives (a), (b) and (c) (para. 4), which dealt with the first aspect, were transparent and
project components specifically responded to them. Objective (d) (para. 4) to strengthen
institution building efforts in DILG and provincial governments was not clearly specified
at appraisal, making it difficult to evaluate the success of this component.
11.   Attendance at training and overseas seminars are necessary but not sufficient
condition to strengthen institution building efforts. It is important that those courses and
seminars be part of a plan to create or improve the ability of an agency to plan and
manage the implementation of projects. Therefore, there should be a commitment from
the agency to designate the staff to be part of this effort. This recommendation does not
mean that the agency should massively hire technical staff to become an "engineering
firm or contractor". The idea is that there should be an in-house, highly qualified nucleus
that could plan and control the tasks to be given to consultants, designers, construction
supervisors, etc., who will be the ones that will actually implement the projects. Also,
this would ensure the sustainability of the technical assistance programs
B. Achievement of Objectives
12.   Despite the numerous difficulties (paras. 16, 17, 18), SRRIP achieved most of the
original objectives satisfactorily. A significant amount of rural roads were built, although
in the case of the DILG program, a much lower total length was built than planned at
appraisal. These roads (a) provided farmners access to markets, stimulating food
production and employment opportunities; (b) provided the infrastructure required to
support land settlement efforts; and (c) facilitated the provision of health care, education
and other services to the rural population. The objective to strengthen institution-building



-4 -
efforts in DILG and the provincial governments was not clearly specified at appraisal. As
there were no specific targets, it was difficult to evaluate the success of this component.
However, provincial engineers' offices were strengthened by the provision of
maintenance equipment, workshops, office equipment, and training.
13.   Under the DILG part, civil works component, 773 kms of provincial roads were
designed by local consultants and Provincial Engineering Offices (PEOs), in four
different stages. Biading of 36 contracts was done in 1990, of which only 27 were
successfully awarded in 1991. The remaining 9 contracts were not awarded due to design
problems and/or bidding failures. At project completion, 463 kms of roads and 54
bridges with combined length 1,968 linear meters were built. There are still two
remaining contracts in Samar Province which were delayed due to inclement weather, but
these will be completed by June 1996. Five workshops and quality laboratories in
different provinces were completed. Thirty school-type buildings which served as the
engineer's offices, were turned over to the local authorities.
14.   There appear to have been two main reasons for the reduction of the DILG road
construction program from the 773 kms planned at appraisal to the 463 completed. They
are the unit cost per km and the change in disbursement percentage by the Bank.
Regarding the unit cost per km, at appraisal it was planned to construct the 773 km for
US$ 51,500 base plus 42% contingencies, or an average of US$ 73,300 per km. In fact
the 463 km cost US$ 53.4 million or US$ 114,000/km. The difference was not primarily
due to overruns on the quantities in the contracts, but to low cost estimates at the
feasibility study stage. Bank policy usually requires that detailed engineering for "major"
road works be substantially completed at appraisal, but for this project as is standard
practice with "rural" roads, detailed engineering was carried out as part of project
execution, and the targets do not appear to have been formally revised as a result of the
later more precise cost estimates.
15.   The higher cost per km was affected by the conditions of peace and order under
which the construction of many of the roads took place. Such problems do not lend
themselves to solutions by the normal process of competitive bidding and contracting
assumed for Bank procurement. Several contractors found themselves unable to carry on
under theses dangerous conditions (some experienced harassment and equipment was
burned), and the rate of contract terminations by mutual consent was high. Rebidding
inevitably delayed project progress, and gave rise to higher prices to cover such risks as
well as the normal inflation of prices. The completion mission would suggest that if the
government cannot assure the safety and freedom of contractors from harassment, that the
Bank consider whether its normal procurement guidelines are appropriate for construction
in such areas.
16.   The Middle East oil crisis occurred during execution of the project. This
significantly increased costs of all civil works, and the government did not encourage
contractors to apply price variation formulae. At the same time the government shortage
of funds, reduced funding available to pay contractors (who were paying about 24%



-5-
annual interest) faced severe financial difficulties and were unable to carry on. To
partially alleviate this, the implementing agencies and the Bank agreed to use the system
of direct payment to the contractors, rather than the reimbursement method which had
been the rule in the Philippines before then. At the same time, the Bank agreed to raise
the percentage of civil works contracts financed under the loan from 64% to 75%
following the oil crisis. This assisted the cash flow situation but the higher percentage
resulted in a reduced number of kms which could be constructed for the available Bank
funding.
17.   Under the equipment component, 270 units of various maintenance equipment
were procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), and workshop tools,
surveying and office equipment were procured for the PEOs. Under the consultancy
component, seven local firms were hired to provide detailed engineering services. Also
the PEOs of fourteen provinces were commissioned to undertake detailed engineering of
192 kms of roads. Nine local firms were contracted by DILG to provide construction
supervision services from 1991 to 1995. Three local firms were hired to perform
feasibility studies in 22 provinces, of which 950 kms found feasible were packaged and
submitted to NEDA in 1994, for consideration for future Bank financing. Also the DILG
SRRIP PMO contracted an expatriate coordinating consultant (in joint venture with a
local firm), which proved to be essential for the successful completion of the project.
18.   Under the technical assistance component, the coordinating consultant assisted
not only in the management and implementation supervision of the civil works
component, but also in improving different guidelines developed during the RRIP,
including the Road Maintenance Management Manual (RMMM) and the Guide to
Equipment and Management Systems (GEMS). Additionally, a training program was
developed and carried out including overseas seminars, local road maintenance and
equipment management courses and hands-on training. However the DILG SRRIP PMO,
which was also trained during the project, is a temporary office and will be dismantled
shortly after the project is completed.
19.   The fourth stage of detailed engineering was commissioned to be undertaken by
the PEOs of the 14 provinces included under the project, in 1991. With the assistance of
the DILG SRRIP PMO and the coordinating consultant, the PEOs were able to complete
designs and draft tender documents for 17 contracts covering 192 kms of road. However,
they could not be implemented under SRRIP due to limited loan funds and the inability
of the GOP to wholly finance the projects. DILG is hoping to implement these deferred
civil works projects under a future Bank loan.
20.   The DPWH component for national and provincial roads was 98% built at project
completion. Kabankalan-Tapi national road, Bantayan-Tabugon-Inapoy provincial road
and Tabugon-Tapy provincial road, all in the Kabankalan settlement area, Negros
Occidental were all completed, after long delays, in August 1995, five years after the
construction contract was first awarded. Those delays were caused by bad weather,
financial, and peace and order problems. This situation was typical of the project



-6 -
components in the land settlement areas. Projects in the Sultan Kudarat area were
completed and turned over to the authorities in 1993. In this case delays were a result of
design deficiencies in estimating the quantities of materials. Projects in the Wao-
Banisilan settlement area were 96% completed at the time when this completion report
was prepared. The road Libungan-Wao-Maramag is of regional importance because it
provides a shorter alternative to the existing links between cities in Southern Mindanao
(Davao, General Santos and Cotabato City) and Cagayan de Oro in the North. There
were also delays in this project area due to the problems mentioned above.
21.   The DPWH sub-components for barangay roads executed through LBM were
successfully completed in 1991. The positive results of the LBM component include: (a)
the actual average cost per kilometer was about $13,800, lower than $15,700/km
estimated at appraisal;' (b) 450,000 workdays were created by the LBM units with many
unskilled workers benefiting from transfer of skills in such fields as surveying,
concreting, masonry, repair of vehicles, bookkeeping, etc.; and (c) others benefited
indirectly including small traders, store keepers, blacksmiths and transport operators.
Among the aspects that could have been improved, the appraisal report called for
maintenance after the LBM roads were completed, but there were no identified amounts
for this operation, neither was provision made under budget releases for individual road
construction. Furthermore, while national and provincial roads were provided with a
twelve-month warranty, no such consideration was afforded for LBM barangay roads.
22.   Total cost of the project was estimated to be US$ 127.5 million, or about 4.3%
higher than the US$ 122.2 million estimated at appraisal. Average actual cost per km for
the DILG component was US$ 114,000 as compared to US$ 73,300 planned at appraisal.
For the DPWH component, average actual cost was US$ 79,000/km as compared to US$
48,000/km estimated at appraisal. But, as mentioned in para. 19, the Bank agreed to
eliminate the fourth-year program of the DILG component, for implementation under the
SRRIP, in order to keep costs within the amount established at appraisal.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.   There were various factors that adversely affected the SRRIP, delaying the
implementation of it. These delays caused the loan to be closed three and half years later
than planned at appraisal time, December 31, 1995 instead of June 30, 1992. The main
factors were: (a) unusual typhoon and bad weather conditions in the project areas; (b)
numerous peace and order problems in the project areas, especially in the land settlement
areas under the DPWVvH component; (c) the 1986 EDSA revolution caused major
institutional changes in implementation agencies; and (d) the 1991 economic crisis,
following the Middle East crisis of 1990-1991, which caused excessive cost increases in
construction materials and limited budget outlays to pay contractors. All of these factors
made contractors reduce or completely stop construction activities for several months at
a time.
1 These costs are not directly comparable with those in para 22, because the standards are different.



- 7 -
24.   There were alsofactors subject to implementing agency control including: (a)
numerous management changes in the implementing agencies SRRIP PMOs, seven PMO
Directors for DPWH and five for DILG; (b) cumbersome and non-transparent pre-
qualification and bidding practices; and (b) slow procurement procedures and
disbursements.
25.   A number of factors particularly affected the DPWH land settlement program: (a)
the remote and hostile locations of projects made them unattractive to bidders to
participate; (b) the size of contracts were insufficient to attract major companies, even
with the prospect of being awarded more than one; (c) inadequate competition admitted
less competent contractors who ordinarily would not have pre-qualified; (d) the Gulf war
after-effects on the economy bankrupted some of the smaller contractors; and (e) poor bid
presentation by some contractors, e.g. failure to fully assess prevailing field conditions
resulted in under-pricing of general items such as mobilization and camp establishment,
which in turn initiated claims for bad weather, poor accessibility, intimidation, etc.
Unfortunately, the difficult access to the land settlement areas reflected negatively on the
credibility of the successfully completed LBM barangay roads sub-component. As an
example, in Kabankalan 60 kms of reconstructed LBM barangay roads were handed over
to the authorities in 1991, but remained in isolation until 1995 when the provincial roads
connecting them to the network were completed.
D. Project Sustainability
26.   Because of the nature of the civil works component of the SRRIP, sustainability
depends mainly on the maintenance that will be performed to the roads and bridges
built/rehabilitated. The Bank's completion mission verified the commitment of the PEOs
to conduct adequate maintenance activities, and the existence of sufficient funds to do
them. Experience in other countries and from previous projects in Philippines, however,
raise concerns about maintenance and sustainability without specific project follow-up
activities. Regarding the institutional capacity building, the PEOs were the main
beneficiaries of the project and are ready to assume expanded responsibilities. The only
drawback is that the DILG SRRIP PMO, which was also trained during the project, is a
temporary office and will be dismantled shortly after the project is completed. Also, on
the successfully executed DPWH LBM sub-component, there seem to be no institutional
vestiges of it, four years after completion.
E. Bank Performance
27.   Identification and Preparation. The Bank's performance during the
identification and preparation phases was partially satisfactory. SRRIP's goals were
consistent with the GOP's priorities of rural development and decentralization through
capacity building, and a follow-on operation to an existing one. SRRIP was prepared
under the RRIP. Some of the major relevant aspects of project preparation (technical,
economic, financial, environmental, and sociological) were covered adequately.
However, the institutional aspect was too optimistic considering the difficult political



- 8 -
prevailing situation in the mid 1980s. Strangely, it seems to be that some of the bad
experiences occurring in the on-going RRIP were not taken into account when designing
the SRRIP. For example, ambitious expectations that projects in remote and hostile areas
could be carried out by inexperienced entities, without dedicated supervision.
28.   Appraisal. In general, it could be said that Bank's performance at appraisal was
also only partially satisfactory. From the positive side, there was: (a) commitment of the
GOP, the implementing agencies, and the beneficiaries to the project; and (b) incentives
for stakeholders to sustain the project. The only project risks assessed during appraisal
were: (a) possible cost overruns for the civil works component; and (b) the lack of
adequate maintenance after construction. Risk (b) was appropriately identified but there
were neither remedies nor maintenance funds in place to avoid the lack of maintenance
after project completion. This was totally left to the individual PEOs.
29.   Since the appraisal mission took place in July 1985, and negotiations shortly after
the 1986 EDSA revolution, it is surprising that the Bank did not revisit the institutional
aspects of the SRRIP, and did not include it as a risk for project performance. As a result
of the institutional changes occurring at that time, it took DILG three years to launch its
project component. Other risks that should have been assessed at appraisal were related
to the project performance in the land settlement areas due to: (a) prevailing peace and
order problems; and (b) remote project location made it unattractive for bidders to
participate .
30.   Supervision. Bank's performance during supervision was partially satisfactory,
even when considering the difficult project launching period. Project implementation
progress, and the lack of it, were adequately reported, and problems were identified and
assessed. Proper advice was given to DILG and DPWH, but still delays kept occurring.
Bank staff showed flexibility in approving a modification to the project in 1989. Since
the DILG component was three years behind schedule, and costs had increased 23% by
that time, the GOP requested the Bank to defer the implementation of the fourth stage of
that component to keep costs close to the original loan allocation level. The Bank
accepted that request. The working relationship between the Bank, GOP, and
implementing agencies was very good. However, the DILG and DPWH noted that the
Bank was slow giving clearances, and that more Bank field supervision during the
SRRIP's initial implementation phase, would have helped to avoid delays.
F. Borrower Performance
31.   Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. They worked hand-
in-hand with the Bank staff to prepare the project showing a great level of stakeholder
commitment (para. 20). Borrower performance during implementation was partially
satisfactory notwithstanding the number of serious events that occurred (paras. 16, 17,
18). During the first years of the SRRIP, implementing agencies were not staffed
properly, and not prepared to handle the large amount of contracts specified. As a
consequence, the project had enornous delays in the launching phase (three years for the



-9-
DILG and DPWH national and provincial roads components). Additionally, there were
numerous management changes in the implementing agencies SRRIP PMOs, seven PMO
Directors for DPWH and five for DILG. This situation was slowly overcome, and the
project was back on track, especially after the DILG SRRIP PMO retained the services of
a coordinating consultant in 1991, who provided quality control in the management of the
civil works component, and was also instrumental in implementing the technical
assistance component. The performance of the DILG PMO also improved when the
Project Manager was replaced, and support was given by new management within DILG.
32.   The main concerns of the Bank's completion mission, regarding borrower's
performance, which were shared by the implementing agencies were as follows: (a) some
incompetent contractors were pre-qualified and won biddings, causing later on, a large
number of contract terminations and recisions during the construction phase; (b)
disbursements and payments to contractors were slow during periods of financial crisis
and regularly during the start of each fiscal year; (c) quality of detailed engineering,
construction and supervision was poor in several of the contracts; (d) as maintenance
requirements are intensive in these types of roads, it is critical that it will be performed to
assure project sustainability; and (e) the contribution of the project to capacity building of
both DILG and the provinces was difficult to measure.
33.  It is important to mention, that during the latter part of the SRRIP, DILG and
DPWH performed extremely well. Perhaps, this was partly due to the fact that PMO
Directors did not change for the last three years, and they enjoyed full support from their
management Also, implementation agencies' PMOs learned from experience, and acted
promptly to accomplish the objectives of the project. Unfortunately, since the PMOs are
project-based entities with a limited term, the capacity building objective could be bound
to this project only.
G. Assessment of Outcome
34.   Despite all the difficulties, the overall outcome of the SRRIP was satisfactory,
assessing the achievement of the original project objectives: a) the roads
built/rehabilitated in rural areas provided farmers access to markets, stimulating food
production and employment opportunities; b) provided the infrastructure required to
support land settlement efforts; c) facilitated the provision of health care, education and
other services to the rural population. The objective to strengthen institution building
efforts in DILG and PEOs was not clearly specified at appraisal. As there were no
specific targets, it was difficult to evaluate the success of this component. However
PEOs were strengthened by the provision of maintenance equipment, workshops, office
equipment, and training.
35.  In order to assess the economic impact of the roads built/rehabilitated, DILG
carried out impact studies in five provinces: Agusan del Norte, Davao del Sur,
Marinduque, Surigao del Norte and Surigao del Sur. Economic internal rates of return
(EIRR) were re-estimated in four of the studies, ranging from 1 1% to 29% as compared



- 10-
with 17% to 18%, estimated at appraisal for the same roads. In three cases the re-
estimated EIRR were higher than the original ones. In the fourth case, the re-estimated
EIRR was 11% for the Cogon-Kapatagan road, due to the extremely difficult terrain and
slopes with gradients of 12%, which resulted in higher than originally estimated
construction costs. However, in this road, traffic measured as weighted annual average
daily traffic (WAADT), increased from 45 pack-horses and 12 motorized vehicles
without the project, to 260 motorized vehicles with the project. Accessibility increased
from 60 days/year (4-wheel drive vehicles during the dry season only) to 365 days/year.
Travel time from the beginning of the road to the provincial connector was reduced from
12 hours for pack-horses and 2 hours for motorized vehicles, to 30 minutes for motorized
vehicles.
36.   For all of the 5 roads where the impact studies were conducted, the studies
showed that: (a) agricultural production increased, also due to the increase of visits to the
areas of influence by agricultural extension workers (DAR staff, provision of fertilizer
and banks); (b) travel times to the provincial connectors were substantially reduced; (c)
access to the areas of influence increased to year-round; (d) also traffic substantially
increased; and (e) transportation costs to the main road were reduced. The analyses,
however, assume the continued maintenance of the infrastructure which will require
further efforts. For this reason, sustainability is rated as "uncertain".
37.   The positive impact of the road construction/rehabilitation in the area of influence
could be seen during the site inspection. The Bank's completion mission visited a sample
of both DPWH and DILG roads in Mindanao. As barangays and municipalities were
connected to the main road network, population and economic activity increased
considerably. Some of the roads were previously trails and only accessible with pack
horses and buffalo carts. Presently, the barangays and municipalities affected have
regular jeepney service, which allows the communities to carry agricultural production to
the markets. In some cases, transport costs were reduced by 60%-80%. Previous peace
and order problems were also eased after roads were completed. Additionally,
communities expressed their willingness to participate more actively in the road's routine
maintenance.
H. Future Operation
38.   Due to the nature of the type of roads and bridges built/rehabilitated during the
SRRIP, adequate maintenance is essential to assure project sustainability and proper
future operation. The Bank's completion mission verified the commitment of the PEOs
to conduct adequate maintenance activities, and the existence of sufficient funds to
perform them, even though this was not specified at appraisal. However, there are
concerns that without specific follow-up support by the Bank or other donors to continue
the strengthening of these PEOs, maintenance may suffer and the infrastructure would
deteriorate.



- I I -
39.   The Bank together with NEDA, DPWH and DILG is reviewing its strategy
towards rural infrastructure, in order to support the GOP policy of devolving from the
national government to the Local Governnent Units (LGUs), the provision for the
delivery of basic services and facilities, such as rural roads, water supply, etc. Issues
under discussion are: (a) institutional responsibilities for the provision of rural
infrastructure including roles of central versus local governments; (b) appropriate cost
recovery policy for investment and for operation and maintenance; (c) strategies for
community participation; (d) application of appropriate technology and quality control
procurement methods; (e) responsibilities for maintenance; (f) methods of planning,
decision-making and appraisal of locally proposed projects; and (g) multisectoral versus
sectoral project design.
40.   Since DILG has developed an internal capacity to design and implement rural
infrastructure projects, it would be wise to use the momentum acquired during the last
few years, to analyze the issues mentioned in the preceding paragraph. The
understanding of those issues could prove to be critical for the successful identification
and preparation of future rural infrastructure projects in the Philippines.
I. Key Lessons Learned
41.   The lessons learned from SRRIP's preparation and appraisal experience, include
the need to: (a) designate a nucleus within the implementing agency with highly qualified
staff to be responsible for planning and managing the implementation of the project. This
could substantially minimize the institutional risks to a project; (b) establish clear and
realistic capacity building goals for the implementing agencies. With (a) and (b) in place
it will be easier, at least to identify the beneficiaries of the capacity building exercise, and
more probability that they will remain in-house, ensuring sustainability of the efforts; (c)
assure up-front the commitment of the implementing agencies to dedicate funds to
maintenance of the built/rehabilitated roads; and (d) encourage local communities to
participate in the design of the project.
42.   Summarizing, among the lessons learned that could be drawn from SRRIP's
implementation, there is a need to: (a) improve the pre-qualification process by making it
more rigorous and transparent. This would reduce contract terminations and recisions,
unnecessary delays and project costs; (b) speed up clearances by the Bank and
disbursements by the borrower; (c) improve Bank supervision during the implementation
stage; (d) engage the services of an independent technical consultant to assure quality
control in project performance; (e) develop more specific interventions to ensure adequate
maintenance and project sustainability; and (f) avoid including projects in remote areas of
the country where security risks limit adequate supervision.



- 12 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (Loan 2716-PH
Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2716-PH)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                Substantial          Partial           Negligible          Not applicable
Macro Policies                             0                   0                   0                    E
Sector Policies                            0                  0S]                  0
Financial Objectives                       0                   0                   0                    E3
Institutional Development                  0                  0m                   0                    0
Physical Objectives                       0E                  0                    0                    0
Poverty Reduction                          0                  0                    0                    0
Gender Issues                              0                  0                    0                    E3
Other Social Objectives                    0                  0                    0                    0
Environmental Objectives                   0                  0                    0                    0
Public Sector Management                   0                  0                    0                    03
Private Sector Development                 0                  0                    0                    E0
Other (specify)                            0                  o                                         0 E
B. Proiect Sustainability                     Likely                       Unlikely                       Uncertain
(/)                           (/)                             (/)
gb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
Highly
C. Bank Performance                            satisfactory               Satisfactory                    Deficient
(/)                          (/)                             (1)
Identification                                                          0                               0
Preparation Assistance                     0                            01                              0
Appraisal                                  0                            01                              0
Supervision                                0                            E3                              0
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                               satisfactory       Satisfactor         Deficien
(/)               (1)                (1)
Preparation                                            0                 0                  0
Implementation                                                             I 01             0
Covenant Compliance                                    0                 0                  0
Operation (if applicable)                              0                 0
Hhly                                                        Hih
E.  Assessment of Outcome                    satisfactoy      Satisfactory       Unsatisfat            unsatisfactory
0                  0HI                 0                    0
Partially Satisfactory



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Purpose           Approval    Status
Loan Title
Preceding operations
Rural Roads Improvement    to provide improved transport  1980    Completed
Ln. 1860-PH                services to the rural population       1988
in order to stimulate
agricultural production and
increase rural incomes
Following operations
Earthquake Reconstruction    reconstruction operations for    1991  Ongoing
Ln. 3263-PH                roads, bridges, housing,
irrigation, and hospitals
Highway Management         to improve the quality of    1992      Ongoing
Ln. 3430-PH                vitally important arterial
highway network and thereby
to reduce transport cost and
increase the country's
economic competitiveness
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle           Date planned     latest estimate
Identification (Issues Paper)              1984             1984
Preparation
Appraisal                                  July 1985        July 15, 1985
Negotiations                               March 1986       May 2, 1986
Board presentation                         May 1986        June 10, 1986
Signing                                                     June 19, 1986
Effectiveness                              Sept. 17, 1986    October 23, 1986
Project completion                         June 30, 1991    Dec. 31, 1995
Loan Closing                               June 30, 1992    Dec. 31, 1995



- 15 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
Appraisal estimate        3.50  16.90 36.80  62.00  77.80  82.00  82.00  82.00  82.00  82.00
Actual                          5.58  5.69  13.70 21.40 30.52  49.21  65.67  75.15  81.89
Actual as % of estimate        33%   16%   22%   28%   37%   60%   80%   92%   98%/a
Date of final disbursement   May 6, 1996
/a As of December 31, 1995
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Accomplishment
Rural Roads Built/Rehabilitated by Province
DILG Component
Province          Estimated at Appraisal             Actual
Road Length     Bridges     Road Length     Bridges
(kms.)      (No./l.m.)     (kms.)       (No./l.m.)
Abra                         14.9         4/395          14.7        4/378
Agusan del Norte             37.3         6/410          26.1         3/290
Agusan del Sur               62.2        17/381          42.1        4/146
Bohol                        19.9         4/141          27.4        5/176
Catanduanes                  68.4          3/40          69.7          2/44
Cagayan                      73.9        14/455          27.7        7/177
Davao del Sur                88.1        13/407          89.7        13/383
Ilocos Norte                 44.9          5/70          49.3          3/57
Marinduque                    8.6          1/30           8.2          1/31
Samar /a                     63.9        11/218          42.1        7/211
Southern Leyte               11.5          1/10          11.8          1/16
Surigao del Norte            10.5        10/212          12.8        8/224
Surigao del Sur              19.0          3/45          18.0         2/47
Misamis Oriental and       225.0       40/1,200          28.1
Other Roads
Total                       748.0     132/3,964         467.7      60/2,180
/a To be completed by December 1996.



- 16 -
Table 5B: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Accomplishment
Rural Roads Built/Rehabilitated by Settlement Area
DPWH Component
Settlement Area      Estimated at Appraisal           Actual
Road Length    Bridges    Road Length     Bridges
l ________________       (kms.)      (No./l.m.)    (kms.)       (No./l.m.)
Kabankalan                  116.4          3/78        116.1          2/48
Sultan Kudarat              179.5       21/395         162.1        19/437
Wao-Banisilan               298.1        54/824        260.0       47/818
Total                       594.0      78/1,297        538.2      68/1,303
Table 5C: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Accomplishment
Other Civil Works
DILG Component
Civil Works         Estimated at Appraisal          Actual
Workshop and Quality     5                        5 (Bohol, Catanduanes,
Control Laboratories                             Ilocos Norte, Southern
Leyte, Surigao del Norte)
Turned-over School type    0                      30
buildings                          .__ _



- 17 -
Table 5D: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
List of Road Maintenance Equipment Procured
DILG Component
Description                 Estimated at           Actual
Appraisal
Dump Truck                                           80                  100
Water truck                                          13                    8
Stake Truck                                           9                   11
Low Bed Trailer w/Prime Mover                         9                    7
Motor Grader                                         23                   32
Loader Front End                                     1 7                  19
Road Roller                                           8                   16
Bulldozer                                            18                   18
Pick up Truck                                        37                   51
Asphalt Kettle                                        2                    0
Rock Crusher                                          0                    4
Wheel Excavator                                       0                    4
TOTAL                                               216                  270
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
There were no indicators for project operation set at appraisal. Maintenance of the roads
built/rehabilitated will be carried out by the PEOs.



- 18 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose as defined at appraisal     Status      Impact of
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _stu d y
Feasibility         Identify rural roads projects in: Cavite    Completed   potential of
Camarines Norte & Sur, Masbate,                   future project
Romblon, Mindoro Oriental &
Occidental and Palawan
Feasibility         Identify rural roads projects in: Aklan,   Completed   potential of
Eastern Samar, Davao Oriental, Lanao              future project
del Norte, Maguindanao and Tawi-Tawi
Feasibility         Identify rural roads projects in: Kalinga  Completed  potential of
Apayao, Isabela, Bataan, Aurora,                  future project
Benguet, Nueva Ecija, La Union,
Pangasinan
Road Maintenance   self-explanatory                       Completed  improved the
Management                                                            approach of
Manual                                                                conducting
(RMMM)                                                                road/bridge
inventories
Guide to Equipment self-explanatory                       Completed   guide for
Management                                                            proper
Systems                                                               management
(GEMS)                                                                system of
provincial
equipment
pools



- 19 -
Table 8: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$
Local   Foreign               Local    Foreign
Item                   costs    costs      Total      costs     costs     Tot
Executive Agency DILG
Civil works in 13 provinces              18.8      20.4      39.2      24.6       28.8
Procurement of equipment                            8.6       8.6       0.1       12.5
Consultant services                       3.9       1.7       5.6       0.1        6.9
Technical assistance and training         0.4       1.0       1.4                  4.3
Executive Agency DPWH
Civil works in 3 settlement areas         9.6      10.4      20.0       19.6      22.9
Procurement of equipment                            1.3       1.3                  1.7 _
Consultant services                       1.3       0.9       2.1                  3.3
Technical assistance and training         0.2       0.6       0.8                  0.5
Land Acquisition                           6.9                 6.9       2.2
Total Base Cost                           41.0      44.9      85.9                        =
Contingencies                             17.5      18.8      36.3
Total Project Costs                       58.6      63.6     122.2      46.6       80.9    1
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Sample of Province/            Length   EIRR (%)    EIRR (%)
Road Section                   (Kms.)  Estimated at  Re-estimated
Appraisal   at Completion
Agusan del Norte/                12.7        18            23
Magallanes-Cabadbaran Road
Surigao del Sur/                 13.0        18            29
Teleje-San Isidro-Matidum-
Maitum Road
Surigao del Norte/               12.8        18            23
Mainit-Mansayao Road                                                l
Davao del Sur/                   26.7        17            11
Cogon-Kapatagan



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan/                                                            Orl7in^l  Revied   Description of Covenant                                    Commsents
Loan)                                           Orig~~~~~~~~~inal  Revised
Credit                                     Covenant               Ful lte   Fulfill
Agrement  Nuwer  Text Reference                        Clas(es) .. Statu  Date                                                                                        _ Date
LORd        L       3.Ol(al                            3.4.5.10      CD                            Carry out the projeetctith diligence end                1uVlefsentetion of the project wee marked by
Lffienriency and in accordance with the                 initial delays beyond the control of the
appropriate practices                                  Isplementing Agency, further delays incurred
becaus* of security situation in any areas, poor
performance of aon contractors, delayed payment
3.01 IbI                          5.10          CD                            Carry our the project in accordanca with the            isplementetion Prog,rams for both OWYN and DlOW
1lplesentation Program                                 have been revised t"odjust for delays incurred,
progress ie again felling behind program because
of additional ieplemnt tinn delays
3.02                              5.10          C                             Procur eent of goods, works and consultants             Procedures within both DPI  end DIW  are very slow
services shall be governed by the provisions of
the Loan Agreemsnt
4.01 E)                           1             C                              Maintain racords and accounts                           *attdfactor   chea to theayt   esyloyad by
OPUH and  DW were raquasted and Implemeeted
4.011bl Ii)                       I             CD                            Have the accounts, including the Special Account    Generelly complied with, except that the adits
audited.                                               ar  usually a little late
4.011b) (ii)                      I             CD                            Furnish to the Bank not later than six oothe            Generally coplied with, excegt that the re%ts
after the end of each fiscal year. a certified          aer  usually a little late.  The audit repo9rfror.
copy of the audit report                               the project Account, Special Account and Statement
of Expeniditures for 1994 is due an 6/30/95
4.01(b) (iii)                     I             C                             Furnish to the Dank such other informtion               Satisfactory, inforuation alway  provided when
concerning the audit as the Rank shall request          requested
4.01(cl (l                        1,3           C                             Mntain separate records and accounts reflecting   Satisfactory
all -expenditures under the project
.01(Cl (ii)                       1             HYD                           Retain all accounting records until at least one    The project is still running and further
year after the final audit report                       withdrawals are expected.  Records to date are
being recorded
4.015lc (iiil                     IS..9         C                             Enable the Bank to examine such records                 Satisfactory
4      .011 v                    I.R.lS        cP                            Include suchl eparate accounts in the annual audit Generally czlied with  Afttr lapses in 1992 ac
report and also a separare opinion by the               19P) while the project accounts were reforetted
auItorS                                                 In accordance with Dank instructions, the auditing
pgrocess is now beck on schedule. Audit Report
for 1994 Is due on 6310/95
Bch 5(l3 Eel                      5.10          CD                            DELW and OPWN to Implmet project in accordance    Generally satisfactory,bucoetsaryP
with action plan a   scehedule.                        always took longer than planned for unforeseen 
reasons
Sch5E11 b)                        5,10          C                             DIW and DPWH to apply satisfactory design                Satifactory
standards
Bch 5S11(c)                      510           CD                            Dla and DPOW  to carry out 197 program  agreed    Political eents prevented a quick start to the
with Rank                                               project the programm  wee eventually completed
Bch 523 Eel                       S. 10         CP                            Borrower to furnish annual lint of roads and            The late start to carrying out project worke
bridges to be improved/constructed                      resullted In  0sIte  lists of roaid andi bridge
contracts being drawn up which were morked on
biultanneously, the annial program  wae
babedoned
Sech.      l illSbI               5.10          C                              orrower to include roads annd bridges with ERR of  Satisfactory
at least 125
Bch 5 13(IIEe                     11            CP                            Rorrower to alloate maintenance funds In                DPUS have adopted this system of maintenance
accordance with U4K formula                             funding, but provinces are yet to comply
Sch 5i1 (bI                      11            CP                            Borrower to adjust these funds for inflation             Partly carried out, but funds for mintenance have
remained below desirable levels
Covenant Class
Status. C    - Complied with                                                                    I  Accounts/audit
CD          I oyiance after Delay                                                     2  Financial prformnce/generate revenue from beneficiaries
PC   - Rot Complied with                                                              3  Flow and utilization of Project funds
SOON - Caopliance Expected in Reasonably Short Tim                                    4  Counterpart tunding
CP   - Complied with Partilly                                                         S  Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
mmD  - Rot Yet Due                                                                    6   Environmental covenants
7  Involuntary resettlement
I  Indigenous people
I  Monitoring, review and reporting
10, Implemsentstion
11  Sectoral or croms-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13  Other



- 21 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank manual statement.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Revised                 Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$
Through appraisal             N.A.                    N.A.                     26.6      50,900
Appraisal - Board             N.A.                    N.A.                     33.7      61,291
Supervision                   N.A.                    N.A.                     83.4     168,200
Completion                                              8.0      16.400
TOTAL



- 22 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Specialized   Implemen-   Develop-
Stage of project   Month/  No. of    staff skills     tation        ment           Types of
I      ~~~22
cycle         Year   Persons  represented'    Status        Objectives2       Problems
Through
Appraisal
Appraisal - Board  6/86
Board -            10/86
Effectiveness
Supervision        5/87                              2            1            delays
12/87                            3             1           delays
4/88                              3            1            delays
10/88                            2             1           delays
3/89                              3            1            delays
8/89     2         HE            2             1            DILG 3- year delay
4/90     2         HE            2             1
6/90     1         HE            2             1
6/91     1         HE            2             1            peace and order
5/92     3         HE, FA        2             1            peace and order
12/92    3        HE, FA         2             1
9/93     2         HE, FA         2            2
3/94     4         HE, FA        2             2
5/95     1         HE             S            S
Final Supervision   2/96     2        HE, TE         S            S            Satisfactory
Completion         2/96      2        HE, TE         S            S            Satisfactory
HE: Highway Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; TE: Transport Economist
2   S: Satisfactory
1: No significant problems
2: Moderate problems
3: Major problems. Appropriate actions are being taken to address these problems



- 23 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (Loan 2716-PH)
Appendices
A: Completion Mission Aide Memoire
B: Economic Impact Data from DILG Roads
C: Economic Impact Data from DPWI Roads
D: Borrower Contribution to the ICR



Appendix A
Page 1
- 24 -
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2716-PH)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.          The Second Rural Roads Improvement Project, Loan 2716-PH was signed
by the parties on June 1986 and declared effective on September 1986. The closing date
was originally planned for June 30, 1992. Due to a number of factors, external and
internal to the project management, the project implementation period was extended, and
the project closed officially after four extensions on December 31, 1995.
2.          A World Bank mission consisting of Marcelo Minc, Team Leader
(Transport Specialist/Economist) and Peter Long, Task Manager (Principal Highway
Engineer) visited the Philippines during February 12 - March 1, 1996 to solicit the views
of the borrower and implementing agencies, to provide advice and support to the
government's efforts to make its own contribution to the ICR, and to collect additional
data for the preparation of the ICR. During its stay the mission inspected a sample of
rural roads constructed under the project (Attachment 1). Mary Judd (Community
Development Specialist) accompanied the mission during the field trip, to obtain the
views of communities affected by the project and to assess their participation in its design
and implementation.
3.          The mission received excellent cooperation from the respective DILG and
DPWH Project Management Offices (PMOs) and would like to express its appreciation to
Undersecretary Edmundo Mir of DPWH and Assistant Secretary Yolanda de Leon of
DILG for the courtesy and collaboration extended to the mission. This aide-memoire sets
out the mission's findings and agreements reached with DPWH and DILG at a wrap-up
meeting jointly chaired by Messrs. Director Baliamen Mamainte (DPWH PMO) and Alan
Maliksi (DILG PMO) on February 28, 1996. Ms. Violeta Corpus and Anna Nolasco
(Project Monitoring Staff, NEDA) also participated in the wrap-up meeting.
4.          During the mission the objectives of the ICR were explained to the DPWH
and DILG counterparts and discussions were held on the their draft ICR. The mission
encouraged the officials to emphasize on: a) providing feedback from implementation
experience; and, b) ensuring that the lessons learned that are relevant to similar projects
are considered in the future rural roads strategies.
5.          Project completion and construction supervision reports prepared by the
various consultants were given to the ICR mission as follows: a) DPWH component:
a. 1) Labor-based Roads (by Ray Cahoon); a.2) Wao-Banisilan Settlement Road (by



Appendix A
-25 -                          Page 2
Philipp's Technical Consultants); a.3) Sultan Kudarat Roads (by Philnor); and, a.4)
Kabankalan Roads, Negros Occidental (draft ICR by SRRIP Construction Team, Office
of the Resident Engineer, Tabugon); b) DILG component: b. 1) SRRIP Final Report (by
Renardet); and, b.2) draft ICR (by DILG PMO).
6.          The views of the stakeholders on the project implementation and operation
of the SRRIP can be summarized as follows. Both the Bank and the implementing
agencies, DPWH and DILG, performed satisfactorily under difficult circumstances.
From the start the project faced a number of difficulties including: a) the EDSA
Revolution in February 1986 resulted in major changes at all levels in the implementing
agencies management; b) 1991 economic crisis; c) changes in implementing agencies
management after 1992 general elections; d) numerous peace and order problems in
project areas; and e) unusual bad weather conditions in the project areas.
7.          Despite these difficulties, the overall outcome of the SRRIP was
satisfactory, assessing the achievement of the original project objectives: a) the roads
built/rehabilitated in rural areas provided farmers access to markets, stimulating food
production and employment opportunities; b) provided the infrastructure required to
support land settlement efforts; c) facilitated the provision of health care, education and
other services to the rural population. The objective to strengthen institution building
efforts in DILG and Provincial Governments was not clearly specified at appraisal. This
fact made it difficult to evaluate the success of this component. However, provincial
engineers' offices were strengthened by the provision of maintenance equipment,
workshops, office equipment. and training.
8.          The positive impact of the road construction/rehabilitation in the area of
influence could be seen during the site inspection. The mission visited a sample of both
DPWH and DILG roads in Mindanao. As barangays and municipalities were connected
to the main road network, population and economic activity increased considerably.
Some of the roads were previously trails and only accessible with pack horses and buffalo
carts. Presently, the barangays and municipalities affected have regular jeepney service,
which allows the communities to carry agricultural production to the markets. In some
cases, transport costs were reduced by 60%-80%. Previous peace and order problems
were also eased after roads were completed. Additionally, communities expressed their
willingness to participate more actively in the road's routine maintenance.
9.           The main concerns of the mission, which were shared by the
implementing agencies are as follows: a) there was a large number of contract
terninations and recissions during project implementation; b) disbursements and
payments to contractors were slow during periods of financial crisis and regularly during
the start of each fiscal year; c) quality of detailed engineering, construction and
supervision was poor in several of the contracts; d) as maintenance requirements are
intensive in these types of roads, it is critical that it will be performed to assure project
sustainability; e) the contribution of the project to capacity building of both DILG and the
provinces was difficult to measure.



- 26 -                    ~~~~~Appendix A
-26-                                 flage X3
10.         Among the lessons learned that could be drawn from SRRIP's
implementation experience, there is a need to:
(a)   improve the pre-qualification process by making it more rigorous
and transparent. This would reduce contract terminations and
recissions, unnecessary delays and project costs;
(b)   speed up clearances by the Bank and procurement procedures and
disbursements by the borrower;
(c)   improve Bank supervision during the implementation stage;
(d)   engage the services of an independent technical consultant to
assure quality control in project performance;
(e)   perform adequate maintenance to assure project sustainability; and,
(f)   establish clear and realistic capacity building goals for the
implementing agencies.
11.         The Government's contribution to the SRRIP ICR will be formally made
available to the Bank by April 30, 1996.
Manila, February 28, 1996



Appendix A
-27 -                             Attachment 1
Page 1
Attachment I
Roads Visited during the Field Trip, February 18-21, 1996
DILG Roads
1.    Cogon - Kapatagan, Davao del Sur
2.    Mati - Balabag, Davao del Sur
3.    Sinaliwan - Matanao - Bangkal, Davao del Sur
4.    Bansalan - Magsaysay, Davao del Sur
DPWH Roads
i.    Maramag - Pargantucan - Kalilangan - Kilikili, Bukidnon
2.    Kiliildi - Wao - Katutungan, Lanao del Sur
3.    Kilikili - Bumugot, Lanao del Sur
4.    Katatangan - Banisilan - Little Pantas, North Cotabato



-28-                             Appendix B
Page 1
Economic Impact Data From DILG Roads
Republic of the Philippines
Department of the Interior and Local Govemment
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IBRD Loan No. 2716-PH
Table 1
Population Within Road Influence Area (RIA)
Province/Road Section        !         No. of Barangays/Population
j__   w/o Project (1985)  |   w/Project (1995)
1 Marinduque                                   3/ 1927               4/ 2,658
Matalaba-Pantayin-De Villa Road
2 Agusan del Norte                             7/ 28973             15/ 48.158
Magallanes-Cabadbaran Road
1 8 Surigao del Sur                              5/ 3782              6/ 8,437
Telaje-San Isidro-Matiodum-Maitum Road
4 Surigao del Norte                            8/ 9625               8/ 10.352
Mainit-Mansayao Road
5 Davao del Sur                       |S 13001                       5/18.622
Cogon-KaPatagan Road                 !



F:eputIic of tthie MtidilpAes
OEpartniienI .)t tle Interior arid Local Goveruiwit
SECOND Rl!RAL R11A1)3 IMPROVEM ENI PROJECT
IBRD loan NIo 2116-PHI
'travelI ime
IBeHjriring to Erd of Road Section)
Piirk+eIRoad t ecti)on                       Lenigth          Surfae Te              Surface Condirtion Index             Averaqe Travel Time(mrnutes) I/
(krri)    w/o PrIolct    w/Proiect    wlo Prect      wiect             w/o Proiect (mylad)'       wlProlect (mv/ad)'
IidtMlul                                       8214       BE            G             16             8                    0i1 90;                  16/ 0
Matalaba-Paitayri-Da Villa Road
2 Aurdrw  el NJofte                            1 2 664    BG           POCCP           1 2            1                   201 / 01 I 0
MagaIanes{badbaran Road
3 sijfno del Sr                                 1 2 96    BE            G              1 6            9                   46 I 0                   131 0
Te3je-San Isidro-Malic0im-Maitum Road
41  rigaodil Norte                               12 8    VBG            G              13            10                   30 I 0                   19) 0
Marid-Milansa    Road
S Dayao idl Sir                              22 44142     VBE         GIPCCP           18            9/3                 120/ 720                  30 0
_o_     n-ataqan Road                      .    __                                                                                       _
SlURFACE TPE P                                                                      SURFACE CONDITION INDEX
G     -Gravel                                         SurfaceTvpe T    Surface   Sirface Type   I  Surface      Surface Type      Surface
Bi   -BadGravel                                       ad Condibonn  Condition No. and Condition    Condition No    and Condition    Condiion No
VEBG  - Var BEad Gravel                                      _Paved                         Gravel                         Earti
BE    -Bad Earltr                                     Good               1       Good                 8       Very Bad Stone         1 5
\BE  - Very Bad EaMlt                                 Good/Fair          2       Good/Fair            9         Pavefrment
FPOP - Portbrid Cernwrt Gsnorete Pamrnent             Fair               3       Fir                  10      Bad                   1 6
FairlBad           4       Fair/Bad            11       Very Bad              1 7
LEGEND                                                Bad                6       Bad                 1I2      Imapssable for        1 8                                     D
rnivlad)- mctor vehidenirnnl-drazr,                Bad'/ery Bad        6      BadNeiy Bad          13        Motorized                                                 X r
11 80 kph at paved road, 60 1ph at gravel road        Very Bad           7       Very Bad             1 4   _-  Transortatiorn    _                                         x
bL



Repubibkc uf te Fhiippines
Deportmeul ol the Iroeiido and Locol Goaverrirenl
SECI)ND RURPAL ROADS IWFIOVlEMENT PRoJECT
I6RDLOnNo 21l6-fH
Tablia 3-A,
ClOST OF FARIM PRODUCTS
FRCVlJCF           __FARM                                                                        ATE PRICES Pesos per kilo0r6ni
Rie   _       Cupr            Baneju     _      Nip     _        Comr        _Caiee        _Pesnut    _    Abaca             Cnote            uber _        Poto             Cao
Mam.duque               650             5 38
SurgaeO del Sur         5 3.            5 23        120 Ofs,sd.    351U 110/1 OIupcs
Sungno del ?k,rte       5 90            6 2S5
Arguseu, del Norie      t 0Q            6 00           a 80
D)aalcode1 Sir         680            8a o            3 00                               5 00          20 00           /00            15 00           3 00            8 00           12100          25 00
'Ufor time cournsumptiun o&>                                                                                                                                                                    1595 Prnces



- 31-                                                Appendix B
Page 4
Repubuc at thaPhtiiiopines
SECOND RUR.- L ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IBRO Loan No. 2716-PH
Tabie 3-S
MATERiAL AND LABtOR INPUT OF RICE
(1 Hectare ot Paiay)
Surigao dal Sur
A M11TERL .L 14PUTS
MATERiAL                                                t ATEPIAL INPUTS
Kind                :v        I       Cost         I Total Cast Pesos
1 Sarea              l         64^         T   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 cavans    jF-405 LSJOcavan  r-il 00
2 Ferti(z er UJsed                          
a. Srarad 3ad                       1 AmMonaurn Sulfate        IO klos            P9.0tJkg             37 oo
t;Fteld
1 StA  piication                i AMmonMum SuTute  I         SCCK           P225 00/sack           2 .25 00
2nd A pplicator                       ' 4-14-14             1 sack          P320.00/sack           320.00
3rd Applicalion                                                                                       -
3 Insecti-oe/Fungicide
- SeaedTreatment                     Orymbus              1ODmt             FS58.00JiOOmi              58.00
b  Seectresd Treatmernt              Az2dnn              1  lrter          P500.00/iter               250.00
c. Fisi Treatment                                                         I
1 st sprWng                     |Cymbus               I lirter          PS8QJtrter                 580.00
2nd spraying                     Phosphorus           1 liter          IP450/liter                 450.00
4 Raoentictae
c  Manual                                                |                                                -i
b  Chemricl                              Zinc Phostide         1/4 can           P60 00/can             1s
c  Electrical
5 Weediilde
ae  Field Trrcutment
1 st applicaton                        Madicete            1 bottle         P1 75.00,botle         175 00
2na oatiiCatton                        Hvdoncl              1/2 liter       P208 00/liter          104 00
ToGai _ost ot MateriLt input per CroppingL          3.067 00
a LAS-OR'NhPUJT
FARM OPERATION                                                LABOR INPUTS
Man-O&'         LaborlMar-dav      Total Cast PeSaS
1 Seedoed pre:aration. sowing S. care of serdilings                 2-50 00                              '00.00
2 Land Freparetiorr                                         I,
a  Land Clarwir                      _a                                    I       PS00 o0             400 Of,
b  Plowing                                                                 I                            0
;   witn anima;
2 wtn rnacnine                                              none
c.  HarrownoI
1 wrth animal                                                                  P5 00        |      400 00
2. wrtn maLchrne                                            none
d  Repair of dikes 8 levelitng                                    2                P50 00              100 00       i
3 Pulling eLnd Hauling of Seedlings                                25                P50.00             1 .250.00
4 Transplanting & iUningoBroadcasting                              20                P50.00             1.000.00
S Fertilizing                                                       1                P50.00              50.00
6 Cleaning Oikes                                                    S                P50.00              300 00
7 Weedino
a  I.1canua
b  Mechanicai
c.    emnmical,                                                  1                P50 00               50.00
8 Conrol of insCeCt pests
& diseases
M Manual
b  Chemnical                                                      1        |       Ps50.00              50.00
g Conurol of Rats                                                   1                P50.00              50.00|
1C0 Hareastno and 5udllng                                            15       I       PSO 00             750.00
Total Labor input       4.500.00
TOTAL MATEPiALS . LABOR INPUTS                       7.56700



- 32 -                                 Appendix B
Page 5
Ropublic of the Philippines
Departnent of the Interior and Local Govemment
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IBRD Loan No. 2716-PH
Table 3-C
Labor Input of Coconut/Hectare (150 Trees/Hectare) *a
Surigao del Sur
FARM OPERATION                    LABOR INPlJT          TOTAL
| ______________________________ _ g Man-days  ! Cost/Man-day    *d  I    COST
A.  Land Clearing Ob                    6                175.00  1.050.00
SB.  Copra-making 'c
1 Climbing                     1                 225.00   225.00
2 Nut Stocking                  1                150.00   150.00L
3Husking                       2                 112.50'  225.001
4 Nut Hauling                   1                150.00   150.Q1
5 Nut Cracking                  1                 45.0     45.00 
6 Dtying and Shelling          2                 150.00 j 300.00
7 Sacking                      1                  50.00    50.00
8 Copra Hauling                 1                 50.00    50.00
|TOTAL                                 16              1         2.246500 1
NOTE:
a   on the average of 10 nuts/tree or a total of 1.500 nuts per hectare
*b Land cdearing every 6 months
c   Harvesting every 3 months
*d  19965 Prices



- 33 -                                Appendix B
Page 6
Republic of the Philippines
Department of the Interior and Local Govemment
SECOND RPtURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IBRD Loan No. 2716-PH
Table 4
FREQUENCY OF VISITS
PROVINCE         1  Agricultural Extension Workers (AEW)
________________ _ l         DAR     I   Chem.Co.   !  BankClient
Marinduque              lonce a month ftwice a year  twice a year
ISurigao del Sur          monthly
Surigao del Norte        4 times a year 6 times a year 6 times a year
Agusan del Norte         4 times a year monthly
Davao del Sur            1 monthly   _monthly    Itwice a year



- 34 -                                  Appendix B
Page 7
Republic of the Philippines
Department of the Interior and Local Government
SECOND RUPLRAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IBRD Loan No. 2716-PH
Table 6
Days Per Year With Vehicle Access
Province/Road Section                      Vehicie Access (Days)
W/O Project *        W/Project
1 Mannduque                                            365                365
Matalaba-Pantayin-De Villa Road
2 Agusan del Norte                                     365                365
Magailanes-Cabadbaran Road
3 Surigao del Sur                                      153                366
Telaje-San lsidro-Matiodum-Maitum Road
4 Surigao del Norte                                    365                36|
Mainit-Mansayao Road
5 Davao del Sur                                         60                365
Cogon-Kapatagan Road        ;                                        .
Fagures were based on the followiig:
Marinduque -    Vehicle access is from Matalaba to Pantayin on.y From Pantayin.
access was possible oriy by foot & animal sledges.
Aqusar del Norte road section wvas an all-weather road.
Surncao del Sur - vehicle access was from Teiale to San Jose oniy and
accessible only during dr/ season.
SuriaEo del Norte the road orovided an all-weather motorized access.
Davao .,el Sur -  tne road ,was accessible bY foot and animal-draw-n carmage only.
Accessible by 4-wheel drive dunng dry season only.



keputik, ot the Ftilppriea
Departriment of the Inleric r frd Locl Gov'ernrrter
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT FPRCOJECT
IBFtD- Loan No 2716-PH
Table 6
Summary Resulls of Arinual Average Daily Traffic (M[DT)
_  __  __  _          _                                                /WEIGHTED ANNLIAL AVEFRAGE DA.ILL  TFAFFIC9(AADT-L_
VEHICLE Tr PE            A_arinlsrue                     Ausar delNortae- -Suri a3 del Sur                          Sujrla  Ie Ncorte               Da3 'o del Sur
_____ _ ___            wrw oled tt     \pdrojecl     wp Froyect      w/Fyolect     wio Project     w!5roec.t     w1o Prq rect   wlijct         io Projeet  _wProlect
C arNatrdPic$-p                  8             8              97            12:             3             115            27             30 ,                          21
Jeepney                          2             1 1            16             29                            2)6           63             67                            22
J11i1al ls                                     6                             2                             3
Sub-Total LiGlT                 10             2              I 12          164             3             144            90              1              a 8           43
Fligid Tiucd                     1             2              4o             81                           91              8             12                            19                  n
Aibiulated TruW;                                              10             10                            1 7            3
Sub-Total MED)U1M1               1             2              63             95             1             18             11             1               (             19
Others                           1             1f,           12             466             6             3t7            51             480             4             188
TOTAL                            2374                                       71_              9      __        _9         162            E89             12           250
Aniwial-drawn                   24                                                          6                             25   _5 _              _                        _



Repi'blbi o( the Pilipplnes
DeVa3drrrent of Ihe Intenor aridi LocA Governrment
SECOND RURAL RCADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IBRD Loan No 2716-PH
Table 7
Cost of Transport
(Mart Road to M.ket)
F'-once/Road Section           _wh Prolect-                                                                   wProject
Meaans of Transport        Transport Cost           Means of Transport  _            Transport Cost
I Mannduque                               Jeepney up to       6.00 Pantaqin - Sta. Cruz Market Jeepney up to            4 00 Pantayin-Sta Cfuz Market
Matalaba-Pantain-De 4illa Road          Pantani onr'                                       De Vola                    8 00 De Vlla-Sta. Cruz
5 00 Bariogbog-Sta Cruz
.Oa
2 Agusan dei Norta                        Thc)1el             15600 Magallanes - Cabadbaran   Trk.)le/                 10 00 Magallanes-Cabadbaran Market
Malallanes-abadba,-an Road              Motorized Padicab         Market                   Motonzed Pedi_3D   _.
16 00 Maitum/Maticdurnr to
3 Sungao del Sut                          Arrncl-drawn)             Tandag Market            Motorcyc,es               10.00 Matm-Tandag
Telae-San Isidro -Matlicirri-Maiturn Road  banca + Jeepney    10.00 MaitumlMatidunr, to                              10 00 MaticAdm-Tandag Market
Qu,ezon
._________   6.00 Quezon - Tandag Market
4 S,urigac, del orte                      Jeepney             1000 Mansayao - Mainit Market   Jeepney                  5 00 Mansaao-Mainit Market
Main,t-Mansayao Road                                        3 00 Mabn-ao- Mairiv Market                               260 Matin-ao - Mainrt Market
5 Davao del Sur                           Anirnal-drawn      60.00 Kapatagar, - Digos Market  Jeepney                  ,3000 Kapatagar-Digos Market
Cogon-r4atagan Road                     ________-10 00 Kj~gpt - Digos Market               ___ _6 00 Kiagnt-Digos Market
tMaiturn and Matcdurr, were orny accessible by foot trais. anin-da-,A carfiage and banca3 most riovernens fioFi ths area crossed the Tandag Riyer                  >
and cimnctes\cd with jeeprieys at Quezon going to Tandag propr                                             r
- M
,4



Reputlc. of the F'hilipprles
Department of ith lrateiior and Local Governmer,t
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IBRD Loan No 2716-PH
Table 8
Result of Post-Evaluation
Prowrirce.Roal Section         Length       P         st (POOO)     _       E IR()        -           Benefit Source
__________   (krns        F S.       Completed        F        - Completed        F S.        Corrpleted
1 Marrmduque                               8214        9843         17.661         13.9                  TrafficJ        Trafric
Matalata-Parita1n-De Villa Road                                                                        DeveloprA,ental
Road
2 Agusan dal Norte                         12 654      4.809        32.767         18 4         23 48    Trafftl         Traffic                             -
Magallanes-Cabadbarari Road                                                                            Developmental
Road
3 Surigao del Su                            12 96     10.018        16,624         17 9         28 37    Trat&iH         Traffic
Tel.e-San lsidio-MalIxum-Mahitrr, Road                                                                  Devekiprf(euital
Road
4 Surigao del Nrte                          12 8       13.028       13.853         18 1         22 5     Traffidc        Traffic
Marit-Marsayao Road                                                                                    Developmrrental
Road
5 Davao del Sur                            26 64      16.929        68.797         17 6          13      Traffic,'       Tratfic
Cogorr-Kapatagan Road                                                                                   Developmental
._________________________  .._______    .__________  .___________   ______._ _  _ _  _____  Road  _R a
OQ la
tD .



- 38 -
Appendix C
Page I
Economic Impact Data from DPWH Roads
Sultan Kudarat Settlement Area
Before (1990)           After (1995)
(a) Population                       P 91,224.00              P 104,907.60
(b) Travel time to a major center       4 hrs.                   2.5 hrs
(c) Local cost of a defined list of goods
(I) Palay                        P 2.50/kilo              P 6.80/kilo
(2) Corn                         P 2.50/kilo              P 7.00/kilo
(3) Coffee                       P 22.00/kilo             P 61.00/kilo
(d) Frequency of visit by health or  twice/semester or        everyday
other services to local communities   once/quarter
2 High School (public)  2 High School (public)
2 High School (private)  5 High School (private)
2 College (private)
3 Elementary School     3 Elementary School
(e) Days per year with vehicle access  125 days/year          365 days/year
(f) Number of jeepneys/day that reach
the local communities
(1) Jeepneys                        4                        12
(2) Motorcycles                    45                       321
(3) Light cargo vehicles            6                       138
(g) Cost of transport to the main road
or to the market                 P 1.25/km                P 0.75/km



- 39 -
Appendix C
Page 2
Kabankalan Settlement Area
Before (1 990!           After (l995?
(a) Population                        P 12,000.00              P 27,000.00
(b) Travel time to a major center        3 hrs.                   I hr.
(c) (1) Transportation cost of:
(i) Palay                      P 20.00/sack             P 10.00/sack
(ii) Fertilizer                P 20.00/sack             P 10.00/sack
(2) Cost of palay                 P 600.00/sack            P 950.00/sack
(3) Cost of fertilizer            P 480.00/sack            P 800.00/sack
(4) Cost of sugar                 P 700.00/sack            P 1,200.00/sack
(d) (1) Health
(i) Hospital (managed by
Dacongragon-Sugar Central)   everyday                everyday
(ii) Barangay health center    once/month                everyday
(2) Education
(i) 3 High School              2 High School             5 High School
(ii) 3 Elementary School        3 Elementary School      3 Elementary School
(e) Days per year with vehicle access  135 days/year           365 days/year
(f) Number of jeepneys/day that reach
the local communities
(1) Jeepneys                         2                        12
(2) Motorcycles                     15                        35
(3) Buses                            2                         5
(g) Cost of transportation
(1) Jeepneys                      P 20.00/person           P 15.00/person
(2) Motorcycles                   P 10.00/person           P 5.00/person
(3) Bus                           P 25.00/person           P 12.00/person



- 40 -
Appendix C
Page 3
Wao-Banisilan Settlement Project Area
Before (1990)           After (1995)
(a) Population                       P 350,796.00             P 403,415.40
(b) Travel time to a major center       6 hrs.                   4 hrs
(c) Local cost of a defined list of goods
(1) Palay                        P 3.80/kilo              P 10.50/kilo
(2) Corn                         P 3.80/kilo              P 10.50/kilo
(d) Frequency of visit by health or  twice/month              everyday
other services to local communities
2 High School           4 High School
2 Elementary School     4 Elementary School
I Vocational School
2 College
(e) Days per year with vehicle access  365 days/year          365 days/year
(f) Number of jeepneys/day that reach
the local communities
(1) Jeepneys                        10                       20
(2) Buses                            5                      10
(3) Motorcycles                     10                      15
(g) Cost of transport to the main road
or to the market                 P 3.50/km                P 2.50/km



- 41 -ApeaxD
DPWfH Contribution to ICR                Page 1
1. EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.1 Introduction:
The Second Rural Roads Improvement Project (SRRIP) is one of the components
of the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) programs in three settlement areas,
namely, Kabankalan Settlement in Negros Occidental, Wao-Banisilan in Lanao
del Sur and North Cotabato, and Sultan Kudarat and South Cotabato.
A study was conducted and intended for an integrated large scale development
program, divided into different components. Nonetheless, the National, Provincial
and Barangay Roads Component was assigned to the Department of Public
Works and Highways. The project was funded by the World Bank-IBRD Loan No.
2716- PH. The total loan and breakdown of estimates and be shown on annex
"A". Twenty five (25) percent of the project cost is co-financed by the
Government of the Philippines under GOP.
Detailed Engineering Design was undertaken by the Local Consultants -as early
as 1986. The Barangay roads component was then immediately implemented by
Administration thru Labor Based Equipment Supported Projects. Imptementation
completion report was prepared and submitted by Engr. Raymund L. Cahoon,
SRRIP Rural Roads Resident Consultant, after it was completed in July 16, 1991.
The National and Provincial Roads projects were started in October 1 990 by
contract packages. The supervision was also awarded to Local Consultants. This
Implementation   Completion  Report was made in compliance with the
requirement of WB-IBRO for their evaluation and reference on the completed
projects.
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
In these three settlement projects, mostly located in rural areas, the govemment
program is to improve and reconstruct the poor existing condition of National,
Provincial and Barangay roads to all weather road in an effort to support sustainable
development, reduce the transport operating cost and travel time. The three
settlement areas are potentially rich in agricultural products. In Kabankalan, a
cooperative type Sugar Milling Corporation is located at the township of the
settlement. The areas remained neglected in terms of Infrastructure improvements
and the road conditions are deteriorated gravel which become unpassable during
rainy season. This physical condition of road makes the three settlement areas
isolated.
The SRRIP project therefore was aimed to alleviate poverty by providing better
transport facilites to enhance easy access to markets in order to generate increase
in food producton, additional empioyment oppurtunities, and uplift the standard of
living. With better roads, insurgency problem will be minimized, while social services
such as health educaton and other outreach assistance program of the government
will be greatly improved.
The project is funded by WB-IBRD under Loan No. 2716-PH and co-financed
by the GOP.



- 42 -
Appendix Di
rage Z 2
3. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
3.1 Achievement of Project Objectives:
The project objectve has been substantially attained in terms of economic,
social and political aspects. Increased in agricultural production has significant
effect thru upliftment of standard of living in the projects influence area. Social
Services such as health education and government assistance to the inhabitants
upgraded to a considerable degree. Support services becomes readily available,
while peace and order problem was minimized. The communities in the three
settlement areas changed into very progressive countryside and farm produce
can now be easily transported to markets. The outcome has been very satisfactory
since the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) has been achieved as planned. The
summary of actual costs, financing arrangement, implementation timetable as
compared to the original estimate were found on the attached Annex 'A'.
3.2 The following are major factors that affect implementation timetable:
3.2.1  Seven Project Directors has taken over the SRRIP - PMO management
since it was started in 1 986. This create major changes/delays in the
management and implementation of projects.
3.2.2 It took more than three (3) months before W3-IBRD releasesthe refund
for expenses incurred by PMO during construction period.
3.2.3 Unstable peace and order problem in the settlement areas. Several incident
of harassments/threats has been noted during implementation. Overtime
work after 5:00 p.m. is no longer advisable.
3.2.4 Detailed Engineering studies under contract by local consultant is erroneous
resulting into changes and variation orders then exceeding the 25% limit set
by the, government. Most bench marks and reference points has been lost
during'implementation because they were only marked on semi-permanent
:ees or boulders along the alignment.
3.2.5 Some incompetent contractors were prequalified and won the bidding. The
equipment mobilized/deployed to the project were far below the number of
equipment requirement as stated in the contract
3.2.6 Inexperienced and Incompetent staff were fielded by the contractor resulting
in the inferior quality of work, mismanagement of equipment, manpower and
other resources causing considerable delay in the implementation.
3.2.7 Poor assistance or support received by Field Personnel from the Contractor,
resulting into the delay of the aquisation of materials, fuel, oil and spare parts
resulting in the delay of project implementation.
3.2.8 Road Right of Way Problem.
3.2.9 General items or assistance to the Engineers were not promptly released to
the Consultant. This hinders mobility and close supervision of the on-going
construction.



Anix  D 1
3.3 Project Sustainability                                      Page 3
It is likely and probable that the project will maintain its achievements generated
in relation to economic and social impact upon completion. The living standard
of the settlers is likely to improve as a result of increased Agricultural production
and additonal incentives created by the establishment of government support
facilities and services.
In this connection also, a proper maintenance program, whether routine, periodic
or by contract shall be immediately undertaken to avoid early deterioration of gravel
surfacing materials. The project study and planning for follow-up improvement to
upgrade into Bituminous Asphalt Pavement or Portland Cement Concrete Pavement
will further bolster sustainability.
3.4 Bank Performance
One of the major problems encounted in the implementation is the delay in the
release of reimbursement trom WB-IBRD which usually takes three (3) months
before the expenditures incurred during construction period are replenished. If GOP
counterparts are no longer available to pay the contractors progress billings, the
progress of the work is affected. Moreover, immediate constructon is very much
affected by the delay of the review of bidding results by the World Bank before the
award is made.
In this regard, it is suggested that this method be revised or modified to miximize
delay.
3.5 Borrowers Performance
Project Management Office was mandated to implement and supervise the
project operabon. Although seven Project Directors has already taken overthe
management of the PMO, thus creating major changes in the implementaton, the
office is however staffed with competent technical engineers to assist in the field
operation aAfd in administrative matters. Periodic project coordination meetngs were
conducted resolving the issues that affect the project timetable. The progress billing
of the contractors and consultants are acted promptly. Project inspectons and site
visits are frequently made by no less than Dir. Baliamen P. Mamainte, the present
Project Director. Quality Assurance Unit from DPWH conducted also periodic
inspectons, thus, improving the contractors performance and compliance with
Materials Specifications.
3.6 Assessment of Project Outcome:
The project outcome has been satisfactory since all the major objectives has
been achieved as a result of substantial development and elimination ot major in the
process.



44 -                              Apendix Dl
Page 4
4. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSON
LEARNED:
4.1 Key Lessons Leamed:
The major detects that badly affected the Timetable and cost of the project may
be eliminated in the future construction of the following factors, and adopted, as
recommended, viz:
4.1.1 If possible, no frequent changes in the Top Management Executive hierarchy
be made to avoid changes in policy and management style.
4.1.2 Project loans shall be released to the project proponent on time to avoid
delay and make the fund available whenever needed.
4.1.3 Detailed Engineering Studies shall be strictly supervised by the concemed
PMO, requiring the Consulting Engineers to comply with Terms and
Conditions of the Contract.
4.1.4 Improved/more strict PBAC selection of contractors to ensure that only
qualified ones are allowed to bid.
4.1.5 Prequaliflcation of Technical Staff of the contractor shall be included in the
bidding requirement. Only prequalified staff shall be the same person to
supervise the project and replacement/substitution thereof shall be submitted
to the PMO for evaluation and approval.
4.1.6 Acquisitfon of Road Right of Way shall be done before the project is started
and shall be the responsibility of the implementing PMO not contractor.
4.1.7 Provision of General Items shall be modified and included in the contract
supervi0on of the Consultant.
,,
4.2 Plans for Future Operations:
It is urgent that the project will be property turn-overto concemed agency
National, Provincial and Local Government Unit so that regulations, maintenance
liability of the contractor after Turn-over and Acceptance is only one year tor this
particular projects and transfer of responsibility to the end-user for the future
operation is necessary to enhance project sustainability.



Appendix DI
Project Coll and Timetable                                         Anflfnl-A.Page 5
CONTRACT  NAxME OP                   ORIGINAL         REVISEO      PLANNEO oATr         OATS        REMARKS
PACKAGES   CONTRACTORS                 COOT            COOT         *) Strt         a) Coenpl-ted
b) Completed    b) Terffinated
I                         la              I~~~~      ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~Peso) 
CP-I         ACPI                     34s3.219S 3       S.060.525.90 a)   04-Oct-90 *1   23-JuI-1 Terminated
.)   1t-Jui-02 0)
CP-l         UNICORN                  63.233.290.37    78.744.044.34 a)   04-Apr-92  a)  1S-Aug-9S Completed
0)   03-Apr-9S  D)
CP-11-A      GoRoNEs                  76,s4a.044.70    103.6Q."4.00 a)  22-Fer-SO  a)  30-Jan-94 Completed
0)  13-Jun-52  0)
CP-Il-U      R.P. AGUSTIN             SS.300.977.00    83o348.951.86 a)   Os-Jan-Il a)               Teirnated
0)   21-Apr-92 U)
CP-11-C      PL. SEBASTIAN            7a,1198029.36    1OS.342.200.27 a)   22-Oct-So  a)  0a-Mar-14 Completed
b)  04-Nov-92 b)
CP-Ill-A     P.L. SEBASTIAN           02.395.225.93    118,212.816.04 a)   21 -Oct-S0 a)  08-Jan-94 Completed
0)   10-Oct-92 b)
CP-Ill-S     N LOPEZ                  14.301.340.2S    23.937.000.00 a)  IS-Nov-O0 a)
D)   0o-Jui-02  0)   2S-Jui-92 Rescinded
CP-Ill-S     P.L SEBASTIAN            S0.054.717.3a    69.603.952.04 a)  21-Feb-94 a)  21-Mar-94 On-going
a)  20-Jan-93 D)
CP-Ill-E     GRAACE CONOT.            38.616.1449.0    47.621.291.24 a)  11-Oo-92 a)  03-Fet-94 Completed
*)   06-Oct-93 0)
CP-Ill-C     sM CONSTRUCTION          47.3Ts.210.09    1i.2S3.000.00 a)  0-Jan-Si a)
0)  2e-Feb-02 b)  l6-Mar-04 Reonded
CP-Ill-C     GRACE CONST.             4r,73o.926.43    S9.416.1S6.02 A)  29-Jan-OS  a)  10-Msr-96 Onrgoing
D)  1a-Dec-9s D)
CP-11-CC    COTASATO CONST.            8,702.000.00     6,762.000.00 o o   17-Nov-92 a)              Terminoted
0)   12-Oct-93 b)
CP-Ill-CC    GRACE CONST.             30.391.4S1.84    30.391.461.4 a)  01-Aug-9s5 - )               Completed
L)  18-Mar-96 0)
CP-I11-D     HOWA CONST               67.142.000.50    13,637.000.00 a)  07-Nov-00 a)
0)  31 -Dec-91 0)  02-Apr-94 Terminated
ICP-IlI-O    PFL. SEaASTIAN      .f   47,67S.526.70     34.83.91J3.04 a)   17-Oct-94 a)  26-May-96 On-going
D)  27-Jun-96  b)
CP-111-02    ALGON ENGG. CONST.    46.622,140.34       46.070.390.51 a)   19-Jun-04  *)  1S-Mar-96 On-going
b)   04-Apr-93 b)
CP-Ill-I    iALGON ENGG. CONST.    68.947.211.98    10,32a.732.36 a)  07-Nov-90 a)  16-Oeo-93 Completed
I                                                       D)  29-Peo-92 b)
CONSULTANCV SERVICES:
CP-Ill       PHILIPPS                 21.767.303.00    44.023.909.70        Na               NA      On-going
CP-Ili       PHILNORIJdANSUETO        14.630.S90.S0    24.854.133.40        Na              N4a      On-going
CP-I         T ANS ASIA                3031 .720.00     3.031O720.00        NC               Na      On-going
CP-Ill       LAZARO                    6,112.131.20   S.112,131.t2           NA              Na      Detaled
CP-Il        TECHNIKS                  4,044461.96      6.044.441.906        Na              Na      Oetaled
CP-I          OCCO                     2.573.3o0.00     2.875.360.00         Na              Na       Oetoed
TOTAL          P153.906.052.16 P.o64,07,S8OS.12
-6-



Appendix  Dl
- 46 -                                         Page 6
ANNEX B: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A.  AcijAlWvetnent of Objactives        substantlil        Partial        Negligible   Not appieDable
Macro policiesI
*Sctor policies                         I ,
tinancial objectives                   r.
inmtitutional  oveloopment             |
Pnysicai oojectivoe                                         I
Poverty reduction
Gander issuesI
Otner social obectives 
Environmental ObjeOtiVOS               r
PublIc sector managoment                  /
Private sector development                I
otner (specify)
.  Project sustalnaoillty                  Likely          U nlikely      Unoortain
(I)            (V)              (I)
5.  Ratik perform an*o-                 SatIstaotory     Satisfactory      Defi-lent
(I)             (I)             (I)
Identitlc ation m
Preoaration assistance                                   i
Aop praisalI 
Supervision                               E
Highly
B a orrower perform-ance           |    Satloleatery      Satioa-tory       oriol-ent
(I)             t/)             Cl)
Prep&ration                            jn
ImplomentatIon                         r
Covenant compliance                                    L
Operation (if appicab|le)                    i
Highly                                         Hl eghiy
E.  Assessment of outcomfne             Satisrfatory     aetiataotory  UnsatIsiactory  Unsatistoctorl
U)              C)U)                             Wl
-7 -



- 47-                                            A endix D1
ANNEX B: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS  Page 7
A.  Acnlevement otO% eotlvee           souetantial      Partial       Negllgible   Nat GPplleable
C/~~~      Cfl             (flCl
Macro polle ie
Sector pollcie s
Financial rclectives x
inetituruonal revelopment            i
Phycal oblectives                       a
Poverty reduclon                                                    r
Gender saue                                                                           i
Other social objectlve s
Environmental Obljetivoe            |
PubDlc sector manageoment                                                 |
Private sector development          |
Otner (specity)                                        I
E m ploymnent
B.  Project su=tainabilty                Likely          Unilkoly     Unortaln
Cl)            Cl)            U)
Highly
C.  Banx performance                  Satistactory      Catiefactery    Def-lient
tl)           U()             C)
Irdenctication                        I
Preparation assistance               |
Appraisal                             I
Supervision                             I
Highly
D   Dorrower pertormanoe               Satisfactory   Satiefatery     Detlic-nt
Cl,        Cl~~)          Cl)
Preparation                                |
I m plementabon                                      |
Covenant complianoe                                 |
Operation (it applicable)
Highly                                       Highly
F.  Asessement of outoe  me    |    8atisfectory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactery  Uneatiefactal
l)             Cl)            C               U)
I i I x 1 1 1 



- 48 -                           Appendix D2
Page 1
DILG Contribution to ICR
PRO.JECT BACKGROUlr4D
1.1   INTRODUCTION
Focius lias long been givei bvy Ihe Philippine (iovernliluelt on   rnrads
developilelit. It lnas becomle one of the govenuneutCs top prioritv ill view of ihe
increasing tlraffic volwue and tr:affic related iiee(ds to sustain economilic growth
and halsten econoimic developmijenit in tdie counilysidle.
Thlis r-esulted in die improvement orf llipl priority rw-url roads tllrlonaz
reconstruction anil restorationi projects. However. this did not finmilv address
and enmphasize tde importance of preserving Ihe inivestnilellt to newly consiructed
rural roads becantse road niiaiiitellnnnce has always been relealted secondarv lo
that of conistructioni aiidl hias not been well attend(ledl tO.
In view of tiis, die Departmenet of the Interior and Local Govemnuiieiti
(IIL,G) implenionted and comlpleted various ibreial- assisted n1ural roads
development prog-muns witlh fitnancial nssistanice fi-oai IISAII). World Bunk anid
ADB.   Oiie  of these  waR  tbe IBIW-assisted  Second  Rau nl Roads
Improvement Project (SRRp) imder  Loan  No. 2716-PH  willi miraior
objectives of assisting the provinicial governmientls to cany out rur-al road
improvement anid  mainteiianice  progrnns; mad  s rngthellill  tile  local
gover-nunienit's capability to adninister and imnlplemenlt tleir nrral inkastruchire
p-rogralms fi-omji project identificationi to actual imnplemnent'alion.
Tlhe SRRIP was initiated to continiue the World Banlk's assisltuuce on
rural road development. It can be said that SRRII' was successfill in attaining its
targets despite problems aid delays in thie project inulple-me.niation.  lThe
experiences oll SRRll' could serve as good bases for adopting mluch belter
systemiis mad procedures in the imaplemnenttuion orDIL('s succeedinig pro.grallls.
This Implemintlaion  Completion Repori (ICR) only covers the
project components imlplemented  lby DJLG  in  foamuteeui (14) SRRIPU
provinces. Infondation obtained fro pipraisal r-eports, teasibility stttdies,
progress reports anid interviews from people w*ho lhave been directly intvolved
in dhe implementation of dhe project were made as basis in thie preparation of
this report.
1.2 : PRO.J,ECT PRE,PARATION, APPRAISAl, AND NEGOTIATION
A.    CR1 GIKAMD PREPARAION
In 1980, ns part of the process ot rationalizirng lhe relationslip
between the Ministuy of Public Highways (MP-1I) niow Dcpaittielit of
Public Works and. Highways  (DPWYIH) and  Mioistty  of Local
Govenmment (MX,C]) Iow  D)epartment of the Interior and  Local
Governunent (DILO) antd delegating the responsibilily of adminiisteriuug



49  -                            Appendix D2
Page 2
rural roads, series of nietnorladulodI of   a;etilUt  loI rival  roads
developillenl proingrals Weire estabili.lx'dl beovuL- P DPI 1. 1)1 '( aiti(
otlilem  colceorielud n'dional aoencies tuid thie proje'lt prov iice-s.  Irn&
tliese nareenients. D)P'Wll was r-)spo!sible. for se4tiI;2 stan(hl (is sUid, for
a transitional period %vould provide technical assistace to DILG and
tle provinces.  1 AL,A] Was tIiskell lo i"orlitorl phlsicat iinplelneOtnt loll
wid expenditures by tlie proviices stuld provide tlseil also witil technlical
assistance. Full nulthority to plant. prograni aid execute tnaininitnice of'
all iural roads wvas given to tlhe provinces.
Since liets. I)U,G was given a wider rui  ol' reqpotUsibiltly to
act as tile executina agec   r  provincial -oads..  Ilhl  imlemented
projects inclu(le lechijical assist.uice programn to flih-i-er improve tlie
capability of D)ILG  to nIonitor mid supervise  the lproectis beino
u.unldeitaketi bv 6ike provinces aid tit tlue smuine tiini traiin tlle provincial
staff: tlhin enablin2 tllemii to undertake ruiral road iniprovenlets an.d oIl e-
infi-astructure projecls iu ilhe ile;u liltile.
Tlle SIUIUP was started duriliQ  ithe lii s  1BRl)-ussisted Rur -t
Roads  imnprovenient  Project's  (Rl lP   Loami  No.  1 860-    I t)
inpl)lenelltalion o01 six (6). pilot provinces nsumelv: Aklhi. C."lruilles
Noite. Cebu, Iloilo, Ilocos Sur mid Qtiezon. Under RtRI', 1easibililtv
studies for rural r oads improvenment in  twelity-two  (22) priority
provinices were undcleltak-en and comnpleted in 1982. Out of tie hventy-
two (22) provinces, nine (9) provinces were included in tdie first ADB-
assisted Thlird Road Improvemnent l'roject ('TJIP Loan No. 597-fl11)
inpl)lenlietited in 1983 unwil 30 Junie 1991. Tlle reniaining thiiteen (13)
provinces were presented to the 1RIJ )B aW3 and wer-e eiveni finanicial
assistance.  Durinig loait negotiation  tdie Govemiiijenl requested die
inclusion of si additional province. thus fourleen (14) province.s wei-e
covered bvy tie SRRIP.
llie SRRIP recipient provinices by regiont are as follows:
CAR            -      Abra
Reeion I       -      llocos Norle
Region II      -      Cag,%ayit
Region IV      -      Marinlduqiue
Region V       -      Catairdusiues
Region VIU    -       Boliol
Re.gion V1II   -      Saniar. Soijlhenil LeOte
Region X       -      Agussmi dcel No-te. Agusami del
Stin, Misunlis Oriental,
Surigno d(l Nolte
Region XI    -        Suripgo del Sur, Davao del Sur
The provinices were selected based on tlhe following criteria
aeecl bv I13RD and DILG:



- 50 -                           Appendix D2
Page 3
1)    a responsible cross-seclioii  of atl pr vinces  in0 ter-ns Of
-    eglneerlilR  atliiisilive capabilities.
2)     reasonlable   ran2e   of  filalncial   de'clopllnelnt.   Iouollv
representlative of ',ll pro.'ines; and
3)     geographical (listlbuiluioiI llt tHot sO Widell, distributed us to
cause tumtsual difficulties in monitorins. tes,iz  anld evaluaiin
projects.
B.    APP L41S 4t A.D ivECOL            J
Thlle Banik  appraised  1i)  Project on  Jnimt  1985C  mid  lthe
Gorentllellt was inviledi to oaul tiegotiatioll oil iecelnber tlle s-aume Vear.
Thie IBtRD Loan Agreretieut No. 2716-Pll for TS S82.0O(i milllon for th,,
implementation of the SiRRII' R was signied on 19 JAune 1986.
1.3  PROJECT OBJECTITES AND COMLPONENTS
A.    PRO JECT OBkjIZC'T1 VEFS
'Tlie ORPJ' umajor otljectives a:re 'IS  lows:
1.     alleviate poverty ii rurwal aueas by providinig fartiers wit easy
access to markels  ltherelby slinlulsli b 11eo(1 pjrodlidttotil IJ(I
eniplovinenlt oppoltutlities:
2.    lprovide time infi-astructure required to suppoir lanid settlement
ejforts.
3.     facilitate provision of lealtim cas-e and otlihe services to the nu-ral
populationi; and
4.     fiurthier' istiel-h inlstitutio- I tiIliig, effott ith lo &al
gover-nment uniits (LOU,s) started wider the previous projects.
B.     PR lCIECT COMPORENTS
The DILG project comiponienits includ-,e thc followine:
1.     Rehabilitatioin, upgraditkg and spol improvement of about 750
iois. of hliigh priority provincial roads includinge bidges, in tile
14 recipient provinces andl constiriction of five (5) mieclaniical
workshop and quality contr ol laboratories.
2.     Provisioni of road maintienaince equipienit. suaid procuremnent. of
workshops, enginieer-ing. office and trainting equipment.



-51-
Appendix D2
Page 4
7.   consultac",y selvices For d-sti(ljtd enoniteri: an;d con-d,Jlu'tio
-      superv ision).
4.     Tecihical assistance to DLCi and the, l provincial road authoritiLs
to improve road anid brid-^e cont-Iniction  Mid mainitefrnace
capabilihies; ami(i to preopare feasibility sIludies iOIb addliot'l ten
(10) pr-ovinices amid to train local s1013'
5.     Overseas trainling. spleciial cou-ses and senliuulas for seled0 eld
o,ior stafll fiom) 1D11,(3 ,*) )I 1 11projectov prioeRR:
1.1    PROJECT COS1S ANDL) ENANCJNG
Tlhe tcoal pr-oject cost bliseted on 198. appraisal wvas P2.285.10
million eciquivalelit to US$ 122.20 miillioni inclusive oFDPFVII and DILG
conlponents. US$82.00 minillioni or aboult 67%(, will be financed roml the
loan proceeds while Ilie balance ol $ 40.2 imillion  (3.3%.;-) is the
Philippine Govellullenl's counterpart to Ilhe project.
Out of the loat amiiouwt of US$82.00 niillionJ, the DILG allocalion
was US$57.60 miillioni.  This will cover 74.32%l. of thle total DlIL(J
prolject cost of USS 77.50 niillioil.
Listed below  are thle D)IL.G  comuponenles ilnlditd  Ithe lioa
allocation to each itemil:
DILG                             Loan Allocation
Coin,,ouuent                      (JJsS,Mil lio)i
On ~i na I    _e visedt
1. ConistructioluIlluplovellelin ot o    350.So         3S.5o
Provincial Roadsk/Bridees in
14 Plovinces (750 kihs.), andCI
QUal itv Coihtol Ulsboralo res
in five (5) provilices
2. Road Maintenance, Workshopiq           8.60          1 2.Li
--Laboratory. Office ancl Other
Equjipmenlt
3. Colisultancv Services fou              5 .60         5.60
Engincering ald Conlstuiiction
Suppoil, Feasibility Studies
4. T'echnical Assistaiice and 'lraininv    1.4t0         1.40-
5. Unalloctded (Coutuiiagentcies)         6.50          2.50
Total $ 57.00       $ 57.6(
Project costs comparison betveen the appraisal and actual costs
are presented in Table 1.



- 52-                           edix D2
PageS
1.5  LOAN EFFECTINITY AND CLOSING D)ATE
A.      r (\ EF.FE,CT VITY 
flie  RRIP Ioaul jee-:neuit bkanle effeclive of] 1,7 ';eplemIbelr
I984ninlety (90) (days a11er tIho 1m1)0 l iot llilg ill Wasillmltoll 1).o..  l 19
Jtune 19866. The lowi ejThctivitv period was five (5) yevus.
B.    LOAi  L (CJ,NA DCA- TE
'llie origoiial loanu expir;v daIte v-sLs 30 Jtmte 1992.  Due lo
im1iph110iilatioli delavys. dlk lon was exteideod  lourl ('1) tim1es with linal
closing date 01131 Decemiber 1995. Thle diflkre-et e,teis,onos pranted tw
thlBaJik  e -Ls followvs:
Extensil o        Duration             Per-iod Covered
Ist           6 monl1ts liI.! uly 1992 to .I D)ec. 1992
2id i12 uontlihs    01 Jun. 1993 to 31 Dee. 1993
3 i-d         12 11m0othils    0 1 Jan. 1994 to 31 Doc. 199:1
4t1 121 1icahs    01 Jun. 1995 10 31 Dec. 1995



-53_                          Appendix D2
Page 6
2.  PROJECCT MIPLEMENTATION
2.I    CIVI1L WORKS CONPONENT
Unider thle program. abotut 750 kIns. oif lhighI priorily provincial roads.
itnclu(lilg bridges mid five (5) workshops and quality control laboratories
should be constructed, improved and'or rehabilitated withiin a five (5) year
peliod. Due to imnplemenetatioii delays. tlie MJ3RD!WB  approved -hur (4I)
extensionls tluovilig thle loanl clomSig date Jioi  301 Juwe 1992 to 31 Decemiber
1995. Henice, tie actual project iniplemneiatttion perio(I was 8.5 years.
A.    PPRov,i,ct4t. RA Dn'S
Detailed enRinleen ing designl for 53 contract packages comprisising
773 ions. of provincial roads vere comlpleted. lluiitV six(36) contracts
for thle 1st, 2nd and 3rd year pr ogramns were done  by local conisuiltanls in
1989 while seventeen (17) conrhacts lor the 411h yeua  programn were
prepa-red by die Pr-ovincial ED,ginee,.iig Ollice- (PEGs) in 199 1.
To recover fion twvo (2) years delay in project take- on,
detailed enkgineering design for the Ist to 3rd yem- lproui wvere dlonie
sitnuitunieously in 1988 to early 1989. Bidtdiiko were donte itn 1990 with
27 contracts successfullv awarded towards 1991.  llie other contracts
were not awarded clue to failutre of bidding awcd1or design problems.
Upont r eview of loan proceed requirem-ent for the 27 awarded
piojects, it becamne app)arent that the available loma fThds will just be
enough to covet ani additional fouir (4) contracts. -Thus, onlv tWvo (2)
both in AgtUsnn del Stir, out o thie niine (9) iinawarcded contracis plus the
two (2) contracts designied by the PEO, Miswnis Oriental for thie 4th
year prowajnii were considered for rebiddintz/biddi.n2 in 1992. Thlis
miakes the 31 conttact packages comilpr'isinlg of 467.57 kins. impleniented
wider SRRIP. Twenty two (22) contracts were defetTed on the
other liand.
As of 31 DecemLer 1995, 29 contracts were successfully
completed comilpr-isinig 436.13 Ilos. of roads and 54 bridtes witil
comiibined lengtl of 1,968.18 lineur meters. The actual contirct amounit
of the completed projects was 1P1.11 Ibillion.
'lie two (2) remaining contracts wortlh P162.61 million bollt in
Samrm Provinice were delayed due to prolonged woiit suspension
broughlit about by inclemenit weather in die project area and in some
degree, to conllactors wlho lacked tIme neces-uay financial rtsoiwceS.
Tlhe PEO of Samal has filly taken1 over one J)roject white die other
contract will be doie jointly witlh tihe contractor.



_ 54 -                          Appendix D2
Page 7
Plivsical acc inplishinetil for the provincial :oad coluponellt is
98%') as of i)ec.ember 1995. Th1e coniplele list of road and bridge
projects implemnenled iunder the prow.Uwn is presentled in Table 2.
B.    WOVC -RKZSH;P0S ANVD QULI1TY (CvT,  R O.   OJt4TORJES (WO0 CL)
All five (5) WQCL facilities  inciltded  und-kr th,e .loUI were
completed before 31 December 1995. Construction works tvere (lonie
ly thle recipient provinces throughp their r especlive PEOs. Thne actual
cost of the facilities was 1'33.95 mlillioni. Complete details of project
locationi mid contract costs are presellted in Taible 3.
C.~   \S,)CWOL- TYPE   U/IDI   DI.@NG.;''. S.!,r FO ,R, TUE EN(XNEER
A iotlu oftflilty (330) school-yp-e bu1ilings which s-l.ered as.1. tlhe
Eneineer's Office lhave also bee-n turned- over to tfhe local aulltorities.
Most of these buildinkgs are iiow' being used af school rooIIIs. T1h1e
comiple,te list of the buildlingss ad(I whlkere constrncted iecl-over is
sliowin in Table 4.
2.2  EQU1PMENT COIWPONENT
Various equipmne-nt were proctured wial dtelivere.d to li.e provinces whiich
inclulde:
A.    R OADM IVM4'ET 4NC EQUIP'M EN
A total of 270 units of various mainteanice equipment to supl)ort
road miiainteniaiice operalions were lproclured  lthrough.i internatiollil
competitive bidding ill 12 Ju1lvy 1989. It inCIIl(udes purchase oI' one lot ol'
spare psi-ts equivalenit to 10?)l of each equipiiient cost.  11' (total
procureient amiounted to 113$10.81 imillioni inclus.ive otlbail: charoes.
Late in October 1992. additional spare parts for (umip trucks,
niotorgra(lers. whieel loaders aid bulldozers were plocured thluu direct
conitractin.g.  flie cost of additional spare parts amuounted to USS0.65
milli}on.
Total cost of equipmenit inicludinig spare p!arts mnuouitf.-ed to
USS11.46 millioni.  1)etails of equipment distribution andl costs are
presenited in Table 5.
B.    OFFICE. ENGINEEPJIVCAATVD WORK ISHOP EOCQUP.MENT
To  further  strlengtentIe  provinces'  enginreering  anid
a(diniiiistiative capabilitv. support equipment sucih as workshop tools
mnd equipmenlt, mid  .u'eying sund office equipinent were iticluded in tie
pjrovamn. Basic tools auid miiiscellanicoiis equilpntieit wer-e procured
tlirou)gh inteniational shopping on1 20 Matrcia 1992 wilit a total cost of



- 55 -                            Appendix D2
Page 8
US$0.46 i Inj1ion. Details of the eqiipmiuent and co:;s aue prve1iiteo in
Table 6.
Najor items of workslhop. oflice 'Ind Coiiuelinc 2q1lipalnolli
vvwere also procured Ou  22 Iulfle 1.992 11t111 itttINate .ion al comupetitive
bidding with a totll to monltll, of 1USS0. 55 milloll. C'omlplete detmikV of thl
e(uitllnenlt incClLdiIllg costs aIre preselltecd in Table 7.
2.3  CONSUiJIANCY COMPONENT
A.     DET,LED  GINE..%UNc; .7Ar,fli.7     ( '7I-'J.T
O 'even (7) local cons.line:uacv Ii ni. were him- r bd  Qite 1)1l,(, io
JuLIe 198Fmutntil Fenlmurv 1.989 to riepa:ue tIlt  clela ieci ed u   eiUg
desini of the lst-3rd vear proarmllm conmprkiFit  575 k'nms. of road&S. Thle
actual cost of the services was 1P22.() liiillioln  villth P9.86 mIillio
fina-nced fi-oni tilc smvin gs ol 1131t'D ILnnue No. I8690 -ll 1. Iletailed i ist
of thwe consutlitgfilllls wit lile iltividuall cotllil.lI aout are preSellte
il Tallc S.
hiI add(lition, ilhe Pi-,Os of ilhe tbleuteell (14) provilices Weire
commissioned in 1991 to undemiake tlhe deLailed ensgineering  deSig  of
192 kins. ofroals for tlie 4th1 vearu- progi-amll. lle Project idenltification
dtl imFe feasibility sludies wer*e done Jointly by tIl SPj?JI Officte Ind
provincial conttetl)ali Stlalf in  1989. 'l.he tololl cot ot' Itle de tailed
eteoigeeriing (lesign cldone lby the 14 provitces vwas P4.34 mil liOnl.
B.     CONSTR UCT! O,;St JPE         : ONn  RER F-7 CHAS'
Nine (9) local fim,S were also conirtrtlld 1.ibv  hlie L)ll,( to
supervise the actial road coCinsituction ikom  MIay 1991 to Oclober 1995.
Aclual cost of thle consultancy servides for cowlsitctior clmperi.iOn   as
P141.23 taillioni.  Detailed list of consill(itants wiltl tleil tesqpective
contract anIowtit is preSellte(l in Talile 9.
C.     F,EAS7IiLiTY STUDY  ~         -H
To idlenitify futiure rural roal projects, tlie DILC; lilred tLir-ee (3)
local finns in March 1993 to tuidertnkee (lie feasibilitv studies in tventv
two (22) provinces itistead often (10) provinces as originally phumned.
Tlhe Conqsultants services wvere comnpletedI in January 1994 wilth a total
cost of P24.63 million. Detailed lisl of consultants wld Colltract costs
are presented in Tablc 10.
Ilie feansible projects  comprising of 950 knts. of roads wvere
packagedl tuider time prol)osedI Tlirdl Rural Roads ln)ptovenimenit Project
(TRRIP).  The project proposal was submitted to NEDAk on March
1994 for evaluatioun.



- 56 -                         Appendix D2
Page 9
Tle CO1S'ultancy11' ;CV   c' U$A prOViLed  by Px,njdtel S.A.
(Consi;lline EuQineez's of SwilzeorhluId i  joilln venture will the local
consi.lting lIi-In of'lleristics  Technol ogy mid fyliw;uigenisilt Consultailts,
-Ic.  llie conslultant services commenced  on November 1990 and
comlleted o0 131 Deceiinbe  1995. Actual cost olf lhe services aiuouzits
to USS 2168   illion for foir.ign CoSt component and P27.56  illion for
local cost comiponmenit. Details are pre!sented in  I ntble I 1.



- 57 _                             Appendix D2
Page 10
3.  INSTITUTIONAL, DEVELOPMENT 
3.1  TECUNCAtL ASSISTANCE
I'o assist thle D.U1G and the SklIM) Oflice iu siaengileling e II). local
governm11selit Ullits to ilamge tliein rural -' road improvellielint prognlsus. a tteaull of'
Coorditiatinie Consultants and Advisor s werc Ihire.d bv the Govermnent under the
project.  hi  addlitionl to   tecnlilical assistanice  ill tlhe allalagltielit .Uld
imnIleilitation supervision   of road and bridgee lprojects. hlie Consullants
tfrou2.h the respective Advisors. assisted thie SRPJP Ollce to   mied anid
improve the differ-ent guidelines develolle(d ciiin2 the previolus project. Tule
iuproved guidel ines have beeni distributed aid lnowv ill use laliollwide.  Ilese
manuals include:
A.     R J4 A LUEVAc MA,,,yAr (WME/vr>4tr=SJf=TvT M5>t'0'4Ln (R.AIAIM)'^'l
The first drcIa of'ihe i.iuniial was lprepar-(l ill 9 I ulnder Oue tifsi
IB3RD-Ahssisteed RIP aid pilot tested in tile six (6) project prvilicesz.
Subsequenitly, thee aiwiual was adopted for national implemiienitationi in
1984 whieni all the ptovinces were required to prepare their 1985
mainitenianice woIk prongms andl budgets in accordance wilb  tle
requirelmlenlt of dhe miiantual.  'Ilu ougli lte ye.u s. t(le  IMIaual   is
periodicaldlv reviewed and in Jtuie 1985 a revised e(litioni was prepared
joilntly by the RRIP Office, Road Maintenalnce Advisor an(i tecluhical
representatives of thle project provinces.
hI 1992. tlirough thie coIIIbillo(d effoits of the Road Mlaintenanlce
Advisor, SRRIP Oflice and palticipating provinces, Ilhe 1985 editioni of
the nianiual was thoroughily revised and updaled.  Ilie gtuiclelines mid
stanidards presented  in die  aninual aure desianed  for the  pr eselit
provincial organization and on tihe basic aesotiu-ces rieadilv availatble. amci
tie r oad systeini Hey liave to miainitaiin.
A inore realistic al)proach in tihe coinduct of roati mnd bridge
inventory lias been svsteniaticaliv improved atid stipulated  in the
nimiual. Teciliical paranieters sUchI as m-iding conditiori index, road
width, thickness, surface type. average daily traffic and strnchtures withiin
tie road section liave already beema takein into account.
In tlie old systeml, inaijiteiiaince flids wer-e being r eleased
thu oghl dile DPWH having the full autoiloity on all r oad supervision and
financial inatters.  Tlhe funids released to thie provinices were based
mainilv on the Equivalent Maintenatince p,er Kilometer (EM K) in which a
conresponding anoioit was being niultil)hie(l to the tot.l road network
and not oni the submitted anmual promranis and budgets. Preparationi and
slubimissionI of maimual proLumns anid budgets were treatedl onilv as
complianice for thie release of mainitenanice ftund.



- 58 -                              Appendix D2
Page 11
Since  RPIMINM   lhas  been  produced  in         lihe  li.Jl  of tire
- npleanentntloll of tio' Novw I ocul (love-rnmielit Cotle of 1991 iVill, tll
LUlTs fiull aton it'/ and teCliCal Slipel'iSiOn OVer tIme 1310\ iliCifi I mond1
fmlids for road mnaiinteimiuice woere n ow: aivemr prolmer sllocatimor blasecd on
what are required( in tile anmmumi- nmaitulellmamce lyro. alll amml d budget.
flie 1993 editioni ol th,e RMINIAM lhus tdremlyI bemij disfr-ibuted to
all ploviice.s fob  natiowvide imple rientatiou.
B.      UrU L)E TV r  (I! E;'Ti' -P   L;           T ;,
'[lie te(lilical asistIdice to the lyrovilices alSO, ifiChides tfie
provision) of'a gtide do f  the proper                         eymanaeemnem;t of provincial e(lipmnOllI
pools. Olle lUijor acco0inpil slnlivilt ill te iflmlnlemuentatioll of SRRB' is
thI comlmplete revision of tire Guide to Equiipmoeit Mrmrmaemenit System
(GEMIS)  anuaiil.
GENIS is also kviown  -6 .O rl     n ll)Elellt l.umarigrnenmt M.l.unal
developed   ind implemnled  iln le six (6) PJUP' pilot proviimces iii 1983.
Time illmummal inillodliced  nagement supervision in eqluipnimlet opjerattliol
cost syslelus, seriCvcinq  ammd repair system1, coutrol  6stein, 1hnnmIiim
practices aind procur-eiiienit a91(1 disposal.  Afler ils pilot lesting,. tie
niainial was revise(d ill 1984   id thlilen distributed for use. Suiguestions
aid recomnuendations fioii the provinces wvere com-iidered to adopt a
svslelnl copatllible to local colldildiomis afl( ln-.lclic5.  liloleh jirovimices
We-re amllelIbl)le to lhe Purpose of ile immanual.lu., Idloptioll waS vwnv miiiinilal
comisiderine thie very Jimited equipmnit and mnipower resources as well
avS iroin- himilaiarizatioii to tie proposed systenia.
Thle imuiual. was adopled by tlie SRRIP provinces up)on fIre
arival of the road  mainteianuce   eqmmipnienit iii 1990  mid  1991.
However, due lo  vmried  provincial orgm;aizaliomtal set-up, lack  of
pelSsoIimiel and ability to cope  willi tihe demminds for dalta recording,
equipt)etut engiiieers suggested for. a imiore respomisive smstelil to suit ltheir
local operationls. FluallTer with tlhe effieclivity of tlile Local Goverunlelit
Code of 1991, revisionl to thle 1ma,1nual is mecessaly Io keel) abreast to lire
presenit organizationial and local govemnlienit stnicturen.
In early 1993, a top level seminar was held by tie SRIUP Office
and Equipmenit Advisor to finalize the revisioll of tile ilainual. llits was
attended by equlim.reut engilieers lihoui tlhe 6 RJlP  anid  14 SRRIPt
provinces & otlier DThILG  FAPs ofirces  & kev officials of LOGOME.AP.
TIlle revised versiol. wvilich is flow  culled tIme  GEMS  was
comlp)leted  in  mid-1993   nid  iIIrodluced    clurimmo  tihe  711t  Anilual
LOGOMEAP Coniferetice Workshop in August 1993.  A. toual of  300
copies were tlienc distributed to all proviices, cities. DP11  Centrtl anid
Regionial Oflices for nationwide adoplion.



_ 59 -                           Appendix D2
Page 12
Tlhe mnuial is a guide for: 1) equilpmnenit pool miaiianelainent. 2)
equipment. operational coitrol, 3) equipmnent malintenance nrmn1angenllrenlt,
4) parts  mianagenient, anid  5) eqLuip3Iment  Ucosti1n9  wnd  budgetinn.i.
Inmportance   of   pel-sonnlel   training   (skilicdLspecialized    alnd
computerizalion). data baiks, regular repoiling/nroniforinrg and uir,dted
orgalizationl shtlchure were also inllorlpoaler inI thie nIIIall.l"1
Some prtovinces ar-e nowe embarkitik o01 flteir- ownzl equiIenlt
eCOllOili c eliel-rprises Ilsing flre revised Inaulrial FS gi tide.
C.     TRALMVN11GS'
In filwlthel-ance to lwe cqJaplilify bnijdiug objectives of tjie project,
vafious t aullillras anid selliilnars waere developed and coliducted jollitly by
the Coorduiaftill, Consultaits aWId SRIPS COffice. III otiem occasiolns.
personnel were sent to international conIences/semimus specifically,
oni bilernatiomral Road Federationi (lRF) sponsored tr-aifinrgs. Belowv are
sonie trainiiags conducted aund attended to by the D11,(O and Provincial
coumrterprtrts uintder tire project.
1)     Overseas Conferences/Serllimnas
The SRRIP Office lIas senit a total of fourteen (14)
participaits firotm DILG top levvel and middle mnanageienit to thie
IRF Fxecutive Coiiferenice oni Road Matlagelllellt in ArizoIIa
U.S.A. Tluee (3) each drin-iie tlie Seconid (1988) and llird
(1989) while fotur (4) each duir-ikg (lie SixIli (1992.)  nd (lie
Seveniti (1993) confer-enice. 'lle conferenice objjective is to traimr
and orienit die pa-ticipants in Road Mainilemmaruce M-aniageelnt
Technoloyv.
Foiur (4) DILG/SRiRII' personnel also  at(enided  tie
Trainer's  Traimiiitg  oni IRF  Videotalpes  oni  Coimsltictionr
Inspection, Road  Maintenance  Operation, and  Eqtuipmlent
Mainlenanice and Operation nl Washiiglton D.C. U.S.A.  Thle
seminar emphasized tie concept of technical training techluiqules
to develop tire par-icipiants' capabililies to train their
subordinates aid to use IRF Videotapes as mediumii to improve
productivity mid effectiveness. A provision of two successive
5-dlay btaininlg in Manila whiicih foruur part of tire semiinar was
included to re-eciho the traiting in Ire fourteemi (14) SRRIP
provinces.
2)     Local Trainines
Basic computer trainiigs werel implemeented durii,e tdie
first quatuer of 1989. These trainings were coniducted in support
to tie computers   delivere(d to tire fourteen  (14) SIRPIP
provinices. It aimned to orienit anid fniiaiize DILG persoinel



- 60 -                              Appendix D2
Page 13
and provincial staff on 1he basic disk opertfinc, sysftenUS aWd
tecluliques.    ollotow-up  avaniced  cOmIpjuter colurses  wvere
condiucted on tdie iltier pmat of 1990.
Several traininl,.s on1 Roadl Maintenance and Equipluelnt
Manlagenielit S'-slelis were conductoed to strenothlen tlie road
naaiiiitemmtawce ani d  equipill2.eut  wu mulavellient oper.Ai ul1  ill Ithe
provilucesl. vevlifualliv it u ultedl iu the revisioll and upd)(Ialing of
tle RMTMM -1  uld (GEMIS.  Actual applicalions on  hlie bnasic
tecnlusiales andt, inelhods kased on the oil   vi tRpes oil 1-d
inainlenm:uce aid equipment      itimimee   dui( oper"ations lhaIve
bcell Ir0-,9i7-Cd.
Afler- ltie IMNMM  mnd GIh1; revised ediliomi hlave leen
finalized. successive tr-tnuigis were agaill carrieiid otil oto onlV
aniolne time SRRIP pluticipalling provinces but ill oilier selected
provilnceS as ws ell. A  one-milonilti c(inlprhellsive tainin   o
iMuagemnemit or Civil Woroks was condulcte(l in Cavile durino tilie
last quUUelr of 1992 foir DILG  Central a w( PEO  teclulical
personinel.  Ilme training focused on dlie  proper procediue of
Civil Works imp leirieni ation ajnd Hleavy Equipminents Woi-ks witi
emlliphasis on: a) construction mlletod anld ecluhiques., qulll ity
contr-ol amid roald mnaintenance; anld b) piO l)p  imlacimiile sel-tionl
aid macihine, matching productivity & miainteunanmce of eqiipnmen(.
3)     h1ndils Oni Trnaining
II addlitioni to fomnual lrajinin  sessionis. a uuumber of DlLG
amd provincial counterparts were seconided  to tlhe detailed
engineer'iqg consultants of le 1st to 3rd year pr-oject lor on-tde-
job trainings. Each COs1wte)t Sta'Were giVen specific tasks to
peiforin. for themi to specialize in one. Field like nmiter-ials
engineering,  road desipi, and bridige/shmuclural designi. III doing
so, a multi- disciplinaiy desigui tenin canu be trained tor cactl of
the project plrovinces.
Subsequently in 1991,  tie 14 provinces throuigh thieir
respective PEOs were commissioned to uindeitiake the detailed
desigti of proojects undei tihe 4thi Year Proraiin.  Witih iie
technical assistaice of the Coordining - Comsi fulas aid tie-
SRRIP Ofice, tlie provinces were able to comiplete the design
inchlding drlh tenider documenits fbI 17 conitr-acts coverin-g 192
kiloimeters of roads.   Ilowevei,  thie  projects were  niot
iIple ntldil t id undcler tlie SRRIP dute to limite(d loi fiuids wid flhe
inability of thie Gove-iminienit to whoilly finwice tlhe projects.
Major trainings undei-taken tinder the S'RI) ate preseented in
Table 12.



- 61 -                            Appendix D2
Page 14
1.     PERFOR1JAiNCE ASSESSMlEINT
4.1    DILG AND SR-RP OFM'CE PER  ORMANCE
A.      R C).!E Ci' (.LfPOt'V!UwiT
Apait fi-ofm tile inifial delays inI laliichinl tle p0roject in 1986 upI
to 1988. tle political situalioll iI Ite fliitii,ies and t.i1e lacl: of
cotilnuityilv of thie D[L  tol) and middle level executives  have *reallv
cont.ributed to die unforeseen dtelavs.   Realiniuent of fuictions mnd
responsibilities  cause%  Imatni  ununiaerial  difficulItieS  aid  in  the
processing of Varirous docullielits withiii t[ie DILG.
An11other lactor that imumlipered project complietiom  I-as dlle to
delaVed' stalt of conSitructionl activities fiolml tlhe  ini1e tle detailedl
ellngilleeriln  was % Completed. If tookl 1%vo years before tile , wwa rds wore
uade, anid duriniig that period, thle l).ojeQi roaIdIs had dkleorl ioI.rated tillflelr.
ConSequently, additional costS miud tiune   wer e  li'-Ssaty  Ibl the
additional works.
Project implementation was also g enatIy aff'ccted byv Ihe middle
east crisis in  1990.   Costs of constructioni mnaterials have goine
excessively highI that somle contractors have to ininimize constructionl
activities if not totally stopped. Tllis was coutpled by tle inallility of tlle
Governumienit to provide thle necessary filids to cushlion tih?e impact of
price increases thius. tlie delav on payiments to thle contractors.  Thle
probleml was solved onilv witih die Baik's approval of tIhe direct payment
sclhellme ill ml1id-1992.
Eflirts to improve project imuplemneutafion were nmdde lyv tle
cturrenlt DILG malae-ment fioml tihe time tllev ass-illc'd ofUice in mlidl-
1992. Ii adlditionj to regular coordination meetinlgs. delayedl contrtacts
wer-e isslled warninigs anid in soIme., contr'actoi-s were advised to sulb-
contract p)orions of the work.  Sonie contractors were nlso expelled
with the sub-contractor and die PEC) takinig over to conmplete time
projects. Ill extfellme cases, several contracts were teriiiniaed ald were
awarded to iiew  contractors  U-othlroI inegotiatioin O- orebiddihg.  As a
result, twenty  niine  (29) out of tlithty  otte  (31) contracts  were
successfiulv comliplete(l. Thle tvo (2) remaining projects. bothl ill Sainia.
were delayed largelv due to inclemiienit weather anid in sollie m1easure, to
the contractors who lacked tlhe necessarv financial backing.
It was not uitil the last qualter of 1992 thlat thle project stalted to
take off at a faster rate despite problems mud difficulties. Tlhe miajor
accollilislunelnt that shiould  have be-en dolle  duilring tlhe live-ve,u
implemenitation period of tlie project was completed for onily tluee ancd
a lialfyvars during thie proJect exlension leriod alid upoll take-ovVer of a
new DILG adminiiistrationl in 1992. Rale of accomlnpisluimienl rose fioml



-62-                               Appendix D2
Page 15
8.9%)/Veai thle first live ve,nis (1987 - hll'e I 992) le I5.        limijn
-July 1992 - December 1 995.
(In tile othlol'rhalld (h11'' fivo (5) WQC(1,  ee  ;II comil't'n d mId
su)pplied vtith all die Iocessa10 ols andi eqLulipilnlelt. Rpold Ililiitelluilce
qIII li t'nenlt includillJg vaarious type o1 CnOIIOOu. ot_ifci' and l Iraivig
equilu nelit *vere al'su d-eliv-led to Ilhe provin ces.
A  colincered  eflblrt. was  also  Illnde  I.%  Ithe (- ool diflmtiI
i:'iosullants ,)d Advisors togelhler wv ih th)e 1)11 D ;SR;111'RIVO colillepartplis
to caim,-out triiiiing plogain  TnMnl adi  hpoics  Ti nuI II  Ml
to Cll-UI I *illllgpl    ull,'UI ill N4lallilaalld ill tile p Vll tfS  'Ulil'
conductedA gave enmilphasis Oil the C"apabi it  imiprvemety   i.iintaininy
equilpment aNd ioadl facili[ies.  luouoh joilit eLlodis, Ile [e-n allso
ni"proved  and updAted hlie   l.lNNMM   anld the (Thi.1  which wevre
lrplo(1dlc(Id  i(l distilbuted  (o ;all plroviin"cs ,illd Ii,.jor cihi .s brl.
natiollwidte implementationl.
S;enior D11,(I staf wveroe also sent lo atten1d overseas Irailiuns
wand conferencefseniiiiilnas condcticted  l v Ilte IRF in VWashiiilgolii an1d
Arizona. IU.S.A. It also includ-es l1te Ilnrclm.se of 16 sets (45 volumnes
per set) of RF video tapes on1 coiistiictioni inspteclion, road mnaiiteilance
operation, and equilment nmailntenfauce amid Operationl. ilie said tapes
were used bvy te traineld local stfffor re-echo Iraintilgs ini the different
regionis anrd provinces.
Overseas studv ton-s and posl-m-aciiale stiudies for seuior statl
wele tnot pushed through becauise of the issumcie of  govelilllelit's
ecololllmy IlleaSures Onl overseas tlavels alid tlie needl to maximize tIIe ISe
of available manpower lo cope up with thIe projecl &elays.
Aliltoughi thie project ob jective to stienviigthen istliltntioli-t-udild
effoils in tihe DlLG amd LGU was ntot clearly s1,ecilied ill tie appraisal.
tie capabilities of tie PEOs were strenigthenied blv tle provision of road
maintenance equipmenit,  vor;kshiol) tools. ollice  equipinenlt, inll-provod
inamagemieit mianuals aind initenisive traininiiigs.
It is also wort-hwhiile to mitenttiont tihat a total of liiil1y (30) school-
t,pe buildings (85 rooms) whiichi selrved as Fighimeer's Field Of-tices andl
cost component of civil work coitracts were turnied-over to tlie local
authorities. Most of thte buil(lings weore constnicted withinl tile school
coilpoutli( anid now beinig used as schIool rooImS.
Thle consilLuictioii of engineer's field offices were statled unider
the SRRIP and was expalndod to ithe A)13-assisted projects to conlinue
the DILG's support to the social developme-nti of lhle localities.
Thle over-all physical nccoipslnnent oftlie project c'n [e said
to he allmolst 100%4. However, (lie efiects of this cannot be judged after
a relatively  slhoit period.   11Te econonmic miand social bellefits of



- 63 -                           Appendix D2
Page 16
roads/bridges as well as tle benefits fiTorn tainiiigs aid iniprovellnellt of
maintlena-nce capability of each provillce will take tilme to ass.  But
to give an idea, an iiipactl slud', haiS beent utidell hkell ill liv: (5)
provilnces to asess Ille illyrovtlinen0t in  local coll(lilions dlircclly
attr ibutablle to the coumpleted road project in Ilte area. ljle result of the
inmpact stiicly is discusse(l in Section 5 of tlis repoit.
B.     F;'J'vALVC,.AL
It is estiniated dhal the tot-l Cost ol the DI L, A mcoilionellntt will
reacih PL.92 Lillioni (US$74.18 uiillionll) comipared to 1985 appraisal
estimiiate ofP1.45 Lbillion (US$77.5 miillioni). Bank's share to tlie prloject
was pegged at US$5 7.60 m)lillioQU. Deta.ilS ar-e plreeeiited i l Table 1.
As o[3G April 1996., tolal value of wvork puid amtiounlts to P11.89
bill ion equivaleut to US5 73.24 mi i lion.  I b-e valu,e of work paid is
equivalenit to 98.95%i,) of thie total pro ject. 0ml Ue otherhand. total loaln
disbilrselitelit ol thie salile perio(l is US$5 7.60 mlillion. Ii- e ainoinit is
equivalentt to 1 00% of th,e DILG loanl allocatioll.
Tnhe status of loan utilization for- in(lividtial couiponients are as
follows:
Loan                Allocation  Disiursenment   Statis of
CollL,ojlelt        (Alil    l on  (_1ilhion)L     iUltzatLion (%J
a. Civil Works        S35.50 i)      $.1             98.96
b. E:quipiumenit        8.60           12.48        1415.12
C. ConIsultacV          5.60            5.95        IC6. 25
d. TArrlaitiuji          1.40)         4. (M        288g.93
e. UnallAocated         6.50              -         100.00
TOTFAL             $57.60         $s7.60         If)t.10
Based oti (lie nbove figures. eqimipin-enIt aid leclillical assisltance
comilponlents  used up Imost of tie unallocated fimd.  The increase ini
equipmiienit cost was due to low  estimate duringo thie appraisal and
procureeneit of additional units muid spare par ts for the r-oad mivainteianice
equipmeLit. Consequently, US$4.0 mlillioni of tihe uniallocatedi finld was
realigEnect to the equipment item in luite 1991. hicrease in cost on thle
teclulical assistalnce colnlponiett was p?ri immily due to extenisionl of th-e
consultalnts services for miole thIani two (2) years ill view  of lroject
delays.
Cost of civil works were kept close lo ilie loan alloculiomi level
by deferring tie imiiplemnenitationi of projects under the 4t6 ye.u progr aiii.
These deferred projects are beinig progri-minmed for inlllemelitati o
unidler ie TRT P and proposed to be financeld by thle IBRDbWVL. Thle
list of plojects and estimnated costs are shownt. ii Table 13.



- 64 -                         Appendix D2
Page 17
5.     PROJECT  hll'VACT
All project toads serled predtplnidoinajitly angtitirat 1 Ilmls. Ditinz thie conduct
of tile feasibility studies andcl appraisal .1 major qanitifiable xetiefits w7er  expected to
resiilt froml thie provision of mlore economical traunspolatlion to tose, areas wvihere a31
existing or potential Wallspo)t demand had been identified.  lime mproject wold provide
remiiote baruwgavs witih low-cust truanspolt and easy access to nziculturad extenlsion
wor-kers. TIlerefore. farmer s were expected to he ailde to introd(lce hybrid varieties. to
adopt diversified pro(luction aid 1miullicroppilnlg  m1id to  culllivate  idie  landul a11il
ultillialely. aigrIcultural plroduclionl was expcoted to inicrease. In a"ddition, a mun1luber ol
case studlies uildertakeni in ithe Philippines had shlovwn a close co relin ionll between
imnproved roads and hikher farmngate prices for aQricultural connodiities as well as
increased  tranisfr of mIo(den  Larminig  lccutiiqies throuo,ih agruicnltural exlenlsioln
serv ices.
Ben,efits fioml trafFic are expected1 to h)e Qeerateca a resnilt of reduceld vrellicle
and  ani teainenace operati,ig cosis, and transport costs of non-agricultural conmmIoditit's.
sulch as consullmier oods. nerals andl l    lasetWnt. Dul)uni  appraisal, the roeltais ol' the
rural roads ra-ged lotin 12-37%, witlih  weitited EIP- of 20.X>f.
Tlhe SPRIUP Office calried ouit impact surveys onl five (5) ral road prcljects
completed two (2) years ago. 'Tllese surveys showed diat: (1) contraiy to ex,pqectatto0is.
thlere had beeln no significanit changes in fmiln tecnluology. (2) there h1a5d been increases
in the pro(uiction of certain crops and in die prices received by the faniner at die
faiiigate, (3) there lhave been substantial increase in traFfic aid economilic activities
witinii die l)roject areas. and (4) miost of the gravel snrtbaceud roas silowedl si.s3s of
deterioration, characterized bv suiface weauing, potholes and r-tun-off caunals within thie
roadwav caised bv increaseld axle loads, excessive rains and minilial maintetnmance
activities.
The impact surveys were undertaken inl tile following, provinces:
Road
No.   Province               Road Section                         Date C'omilletedl
01     Mariminduque          Matalaba-Paitayil-De 'Villa          July 16. 1992
8.214 I;ms.. Gravel
02     Agusan del Noile       iagtillanes-labadbaratx             .hte 1, 199.3
12.654 Ikns., P(C2F
03     Surigao del Sumr      Telaje--Sanisidro-                   September 8. 1993
Maticdlum-Ml :lait
12.96 kits., Gravel
04     Surigao del None      Mainit-Mamisayao                     October 27, 1993
12.8 knis., G3ravel
05     Davao del Sumr        Cogon-Kapatagam                      December 6. 1993
26.64 kans., GravelPCOCP



-  65  -                             Appendix D2
Page 1 8
5.1    EcoI ilinic Project Benesits
Proj ect belnefits were qualitii (1edl ath(l ero lt te(l -hrough tIa.lic t llid SociU-
economilic impact alalasis.  Betnefits wvere inII h1e fb;lli of N-etl Piesc-nti \'alil.'
(NPV) andl Vellicle O)perating cost Sanvill(' l, (\V'C'cS).
1TawUspo,lt cos sa'. i ,gS,5 'vere ob aitled till loil I edlclC(d '. clice op-elatilUz
costs.   blese  Letnefits accrue-d  to  lBoll  trawsport oil rators  and  to  local
population tlhrot2iil reduced costs of IrallispYohllng persolns aleycilillJ tulrn  po(rhdcls
an(d u on-agiiClluaral comumodilies.
Non-(pianilifianle benefils w    ile ako considderd like improv-de access lo
hlealth11 and ecdlicatiollal ficifilies mid lo olhetr puhlic sel vice.s. rOr local esi(leills.
Road  iImpi ovellnets wvele locaed ill illllpove islleld ewts  ihilll pr Cpilta
inicoime below  tfie colintrv's absolillu   pov-olrt  iltlrshold.   Ir;eitAi:u-ies uS
prlirliar     illy te st.l} holding(1 and    riclItIIr-al workoleis.  11 plrovi(ies
frners ieimprovedI op)pollillitties to ilmrket tleui produicts tlewreby s1i intitll iiD
azpicultural productionl wilit associalteld 1oCleltiuO Pt iIci eased  incolile ;nid
et.1uploynilelit for- workers i tlle a iicultural sectlor ill 0eicr-al.
5.2    Economic Antalvsis
Of the five (5) road sainples used in the impact analysis. un11%i, three (3)
have increa.sedl EllUt.  Two( 2) road proj ecks.                                 21.Itlahal. aJ:ta'uni-t)e V i Ia
Road iti Maiinduique and Coguni-Knpala,wui Road in l)avao  (d.1 Stir have
d(ecre-isec  EIR1U. Altlhouohi ecollonlic ;clivilies incrasd ill hvo(2!) projects.
tlie re(luced LIRR can) be altributed to verv ltiiJI construclioll costs.
Ill, iticrease in agJ icultural %l ene hils aI e trot siiffcjeilm to olhet t11ime
Ireinem-(lodis ilncreanse ill thie aIctlull conistilmti on costs. Wit iI icrea.ss in velicl.
Iraflic volmitiie coul(d have resllte(l lioilr  a li illcre.se ill ap 1ri ctlimiral-p  01otluction.
this d1id not ninaerialize tine to nonll-adloption   ot nlewv fhaitil leciliroinKy and oller
inputls.
Below iS tlhe tabulaled comIparison of the impact sludy:
7FASIBUlITY STUDY    MIMPACT SMT I.) Y                      DIFFT-1ENC (I )
Road No.t   Eco. Cost    EIIR(%)    Eco. Cost    EHIU4R(%                   Cst           EUR
(1"n00                      ('0)_ ____._ (") (.,._.,I...
I)           9.843          13.9          17.551          ).'l9          78      I    (96)
02          4.809           18.4         32.767          23.48          581             7
03          1 (0.018        17.9         15.624          28.37           60
04          13.028          18.1         13.853          22.50_   _6_6                  21,__
05          1-6.929         17.5         68.797          13.01)         306            (26)
R.oardnos. 01 nnl 05 nme still teing evRlunted for socio-(C'u'oIic leLetits






hr                      tOW                 -. ~~~~~~~~~.   8    -   ilo*                                               dr                                             'Er~~~~~~~~~12
PHILIPPINES
[LOCOS                                        -                                  SECOND RURAL ROADS
ICAYAN                                       IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
/    9                                   PRESENT PROJECT.
IS.~~~~~~~Pj. .11A-
I  k.....           s.o.oo                            ~~~~~~~~PREVIOUS PROJECTS:
CLASSIFICATION  OF PROVINCES                                                                        6F..sb.p ~ odo                                                                         ,r,t HiRIOSy Project - Loo  731 PH
BY GEOGRAPKIC  REGIONS                                                                                                 I I SCon'ro',ooodIO'                             OOOel          Secrd Htoo.y Project - Lo-  950 PH
-                                        e 0''~~~......   B.gm;P        Th.d HqI-yOO  Projeol - Loo  1353 PH
NCR. NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION                                                        -S-                                                                    Ferries                            FAI, HIRh.Oy P-o1et - 2418 PR
I. ILCCOS                      VI WESTERN VISATAS                         5t*oo  7____                                                            A        Ar- Workshops (MPH)                 R-ro Roods Imp,--met Pro1eol - Loo  1860 PH
1Aboo                        38. Aklco                                            bo                 '       C5O0                                      Regool B-. Workshop. (MPH)
2   enet39. A.rlps.9-"
5 Lo Uo,on                    42 N.os Oroideotol                                                                                                       Roiboop
so   . M-o.to                  M. CENTEAL VISAYAS                                                    ~                                                      rero.nlAirport                         9        00       50        00      0
8. ~~~~~CAGAYAN VALLEY      44 Cebo .U                                                                                                               Ar,port
R. Rotooss           ~~~43. Negro. OriertoI                                                                                              *.    pos                                     O                    s0o0   100
V  q. Cgoo                  46 S,qoijor, o.2
IT. ilogoo           97~11. EASTERN VISAYAS                           /                                                               .oC,rMPH Reg.ioo Heodqoore- .....
I I. tIsoeb                   47E  ,oser S...                                                                    ~P                                             Rsodre
12  (I,.ogo Apoyoo           48 L                                                                 1                                        -      -     rssr
13 NoeoVisoyo                  49Norther  Soo .'                                                                                                        Reg._iorlRod
IR. CENTRAL LUZON                3I. S-,ht..r Lepte                    I                      * .r~                                             .-- btrrsolRodro
IS  Rotor                   IS. WESTERN AMNDANAO
16 BOlooo                     52 Zorrrlooog  de1 Horse
7IN-er  E,Ilo                 53 Zornhbong  del Sor                    O-0528
18 Porporrgo                  5    .-.
19Toloo                       25. Solo
20 Zombole,                    56. Tooo-Tioss
I. SOTHERN TAGALOG           X. NORTHERN OtJNDANAO
21. Aoror                      57. Ago=o  del Ho-s
22 Rotoogo.                    SR. Agoso  delSo
4. 23. Coo,te                     39B. k.dr-o
24. Loju-r                     60. Cosoigoso4
23 Moriodqo.                   61A. Misooi O-dis1oto
26. O-rdooto  M.rdo-           62. M,sosis Odetol*                                            1        3
27 Or,wrtd Mindoro             63. Sorigoo del NodeAAN UA E
2RBOoeeo                    Xl EASTERN MIDANAO
29 R-oo                        64 0-o
20 Rosobloo                    635lsc Ck   l So                                (            \ 5'..I ...   I
21l. Poloo                    66 D-ooOeoo
V. RCL                           67 Sooth Cotoloot
32. A"o                        ER So,4oo d.l S.r,soee                                           . 2           MARINDUQUE F~,,                              33        L 
33.Coscooe  Hoot            Xtt. CENTRAL AAIHDANAO
34. Cosso. Sor                 89 EL.-  del Node
33. Cotorrdooe                 70 Looo  del S.,
26. M-oslso.                   71 Mogsodono
3?. Sorsogo                    72 Norh Cotohot
73 Solto- ILoJro                                                       I      -..                                                                             4
*0~~~~~~~~~~~j3
31~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I0*  *   '-P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                            .s<~~~~~~~N        Q        U~~ETHERP "'-o
Kabon I ~          ~            ~           HINIANA~A
6+               -~~~~F                              688SURIGA
*X                        "tDELLUSUR
55                                                                                                                                                                                            S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/  C  .,.              Woo-   rtioiboo          'o,                            X I)AG
_____________________                                                                                                                   XII        :i       ooosei'?S                C'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  "' DL 
iiro,or.o\1otOf NASA    POILIPPI ES                                                                                                                                          *. 
L,   A                                                                                                            3S4A   
A                                          .                                             Sultan K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OdaUTH COTABATO                           coDAA
56                                                                                                                                                           0
'0.        too                                                iso.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  iEN*                 -.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~6









L m 12& 1 I N (A
R ePort N,:,:        1 7 8u1
Type: ICh



