Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4322-PR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVETLO
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$82.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PEILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1986
I This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   = Pesos (P)
P 18.70         = US$1.00
P 1.00          = US$0.05
(As of December 1985)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EMK      =     Equivalent Maintenance Kilometer
LIN      =     Labor Intensive Methods
MAR      =     Ministry of Agrarian Reform
MOTC     =     Ministry of Transport and Communications
MOB      =     Ministry of Budget
MLG      =     Ministry of Local Government
MPWH     =     Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEDA     =     National Economic and Development Authority
NTPP     =     National Transportation Planning Project
RRIP     =     Rural Roads Improvement Project
RRPO     =     Rural Roads Program Office



FOR OFFICILL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project SummZry
Borrower:         Republic of the Philippines
Amount:           US$82 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project are to continue the Bank's
efforts, begun under the first Rural Roads Improvement
Project to: (a) alleviate poverty in rural areas by
providing farmers with access to markets through the recon-
struction, restoration and improved maintenance of high
priority rural roads; (b) provide the infrastructure
required to support land settlement efforts; (c) facilitate
provision of health care and other services to the rural
population; and Cd) further strengthen institution building
efforts in MLG, the provincial governments and MPWH. The
project would specifically emphasize continued strengthening
of maintenance activities, and labor-intensive civil works.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation, upgrading and
improvement of about 1,340 km of national, provincial and
barangay roads in 14 provinces and three settlement areas;
(b) construction and improvement of mechanical workshops and
quality control laboratories; (c) procurement of road main-
tenance and construction equipment, workshop, laboratory and
other equipment; (d) technical assistance to MLG, the
provincial road authorities and MPWH to implement the
proposed project, introduce labor intensive road construc-
tion and maintenance methods, and prepare feasibility
studies for future rural roads improvement projects; and
(e) on-the-job, local and overseas training for staff of
MLG, the project provinces and MPWH.
The project roads will serve areas that are predominantly
agricultural, and by providing farmers with opportunities to
market their products, stimulate food production and employ-
ment. The population served by the project roads generally
have per capita incomes below the absolute poverty level for
the Philippines. The main project risks are possible cost-
overruns on the civil works component, particularly in the
settlement areas, and that the improvement works carried out
may not be adequately maintained after completion. The
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oftheir offcialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be discoed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
former has been minimized through basing the estimated costs
on updated feasibility studies and experience in implement-
ing similar projects, and the latter through measures for
improving maintenance initiated by the Government.
Estimated Costs: /a                     Local      Foreign   Total
($ million)
A. Implementing agency -- MLG
Improvement of provincial roads in
14 provinces (750 km)                  18.5        20.0     38.5
Construction and improvement of
workshops and laboratories               0.3        0.4      0.7
Road maintenance, workshop, laboratory
and other equipment                       -         8.6      8.6
Consultant services, technical
assistance and training                 4.3         2.7       7.0
B. Implementing agency - MPWH
Improvement of national, provincial
and barangay roads in the three
settlement areas (590 km)               9.6        10.4     20.0
Road maintenance and construction
equipment                                 -         1.3       1.3
Consultant services, technical
assistance and training                  1.4        1.5      2.9
C.  Land acquisition /b                    6.9         -        6.9
Project base cost                41.0        44.9     85.9
Physical contingencies                3.6         4.0      7.6
Price contingencies                  13.9        14.8     28.7
Total project cost               58.5        63.7    122.2
(of which taxes and duties)  (12.8)                (12.8)
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                      18.4       63.6      82.0
Government                                40.2         -       40.2
Total                            58.6        63.6    122.2
/a   As of December 1985.
7T   For all project roads.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                     1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
--------------($ million)------ ---
Annual                       3.5   13.4    19.9   25.2   15.8    4.2
Cumulative                   3.5   16.9    36.8   62.0   77.8   82.0
Rate of Return:                     20X
Staff Appraisal Report:             No. 5971-PH, dated May 15, 1986.
map:                                No. IBRD-19287



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $82.0 million to help
finance the Second Rural Roads Improvement project. The loan would be repaid
over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1'
Performance in the 1970s
2.        During the 1970s, the growth rate of the Philippine economy averaged
6.2Z compared to only 5.1% in the 1960s. The agricultural sector grew at
about 4.9% p.a. and manufacturing industry at 7.2%. Manufacturing, however,
did not play a leading role in the country's economic development. Its share
in total GDP increased only slightly from 23% to 25% and its share in total
employment actually fell from 12Z to 11%. Although manufactured exports grew
rapidly, the greater part of the sector remained oriented to the domestic
market and was affected by severe inefficiencies.
3.        Although economic performance was relatively good in the 1970s,
structural weaknesses held it below its full potential. CDP growth was
achieved at a high investment cost - the incremental capital/output ratio
(ICOR) was about 35% higher than those of comparable Asian countries.
Although inherently capital-intensive infrastructure investments explain part
of the high ICOR, inefficiency of industrial investment was the most important
cause. Inappropriate trade, industrial, financial, and exchange rate policies
designed to foster import substitution provided high protection for domestic
manufacturers, and led to investments in which the Philippines did not have a
clear comparative advantage. External borrowing and imports expanded rapidly
while traditional exports and domestic resource mobilization lagged. This
resulted in a chronic shortage of foreign exchange and increasing external
debt.
4.        Despite satisfactory aggregate growth during the 1970s, the inci-
dence of poverty remained around 40%, income distribution continued to be
skewed, and regional disparities remained pronounced. The incidence of
poverty reached 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
1/   This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Metropolitan Manila Water Distribution Project
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 20, 1986.



-2-
people, especially in the rLral areas, still suffer from malnutrition and lack
safe water, basic education and health facilities. An increasingly unfavor-
able man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal
lands, limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and the
sharp deterioration in the external terms of trade put downward pressure on
real incomes. The Government instituted several programs to improve directly
living conditions of the poor, but most of these were implemented on any
significant scale only during the last few years.
5.        Population growth in the Philippines was reduced from about 3Z in
the 1960s to about 2.5% in the early 1980s; the labor force continues to grow
at over 3% per year, reflecting the rapid growth of past decades. Thus, rapid
population and labor force growth continue to strain available land resources,
aggravate the already serious unemployment and poverty problems, and burden
the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public services. The
Philippines has a family planning program which expanded rapidly during the
1970s; however, participation in the program needs to expand further in order
to have a significant impact on population growth.
6.        Growth of productive employment, particularly in the industrial
sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the labor force, and con-
siderable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the agriculture and ser-
vice sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion of new entrants to
the labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the first half of the
decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-intensive export pro-
duction grew. Overseas employment, especially in the Middle East, increased
rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
Structural Problems and Adjustment
7.        The structural weaknesses of the Philippine economy have become more
apparent in recent years as unfavorable world economic conditions have exacer-
bated the balance of payments and resource mobilization problems. In the late
1970s, the country's terms of trade deteriorated sharply due to oil price
increases, accelerated international inflation and depressed prices for major
export commodities. The continued heavy reliance on export earnings from a
few primary products (coconuts, sugar, copper and timber) kept the Philippines
extremely vulnerable to international commodity price fluctuations, while con-
tinued high dependence on imported oil further aggravated the balance of
payments problem.
8.        Excessive protection and an artificially low cost of capital led to
low efficiency of investment and stagnant employment in industries producing
for the domestic market. The industrial sector remained a net burden on the
balance of payments; although manufactured exports grew rapidly, their net
foreign exchange earnings were limited due to a high import content. Export
promotion measures induced rapid growth in nontraditional manufactured
exports, e.g., garments, electronics and handicrafts, from $50 million in 1970
to $3 billion in 1984. However, export expansion was concentrated on a few
items, and backward linkages were limited by high cost and low quality of
domestic inputs. As part of an adjustment program supported by SAL lending,
the Government has initiated major policy reforms designed to move towards an



- 3 -
industrial structure utilizing more effectively the country's comparative
advantage with respect to labor cost and raw material availability and which
is internationally competitive. The program includes major tariff reform,
liberalization of import controls, realignment of industrial incentives and
improved export incentives. The program is proceeding well considering the
international recession and domestic crisis which have hampered the implemen-
tation of some policy reforms.
9.        Financial Sector.  Although well developed, the financial sector has
not performed adequately in raising private sector savings and providing
investment financing. Among the main reasons have been the level and struc-
ture of interest rates which were not geared to mobilize sufficient savings
and encourage longer maturities; their low level contributed to relatively
inefficient and capital-intensive investment. Further, the Central Bank's
rediscounting scheme frequently encouraged over-investment in some sectors
while others were relatively neglected. In 1981, the Government introduced
far-reaching financial policy changes. The banking system was given greater
flexibility, interest rates were deregulated, and the Central Bank was given a
stronger position in its roLe as "lender-of-last-resort," all of which pro-
duced positive real interest rates and a significant increase in domestic sav-
ings. Adverse international and domestic conditions have resulted in a deter-
ioration in the financial positions of both private banks and Government-
financial institutions (GFI). While the Government has examined various
proposals to restructure GFIs, an overall program of reform has not yet been
put in place. The Government also needs to address the issues affecting
private intermediaries and the evolution of the financial system as a whole.
10.       Agricultural and Rural Development.  While the performance of the
agricultural sector was satisfactory during the 1970s, policy and institu-
tional problems constrained sectoral growth. Although there were considerable
gains in food production and towards self-sufficiency, particularly in rice,
the sector could have made a stronger contribution to the balance of payments
and overall economic growth under a more favorable policy environment. Trade,
pricing and exchange rate policies discriminated against agriculture and had a
negative impact on rural incomes. The institutional framework for agricul-
tural policy formulation and implementation suffered from a lack of coordina-
tion. During the last two years, the Government has made a concerted effort
to address these problems in the sector through a program of policy and insti-
tutional reform. Additional steps will need to be taken in order to enhance
agriculture's potential contribution to economic recovery.
11.       Energy.  Since the 1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has
made a considerable effort to reduce its dependence on imported oil. Through
a combination of pricing, taxation and conservation measures, the Government
exerted downward pressure on commercial energy consumption. Steps to increase
and diversify domestic energy supply, i.e., the development of hydroelectric,
geothermal, nuclear and coal based power sources, have contributed to reducing
import dependence. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in 1979,
although exploration has now slowed down because of lower oil prices. As a
result of the Government's energy program, domestic energy production consti-
tuted 45Z of total energy supply in 1985 compared with only 21Z in 1979. The
volume of oil imports fell from a high of 71 million barrels in 1979 to an



-4-
estimated 47 million barrels in 1985. The Government has included in its
adjustment program policy measures for the energy sector which aim at
increasing the share of domestic sources to nearly 55% of commercial energy
supply by 1987.
Performance During the 1980s
12.       Despite the adverse external situation in the early eighties, the
Government increased its investment program to make up for deficiencies in
domestic infrastructure, expand industry and reduce the dependence on imported
petroleum. The public sector investment program rose from less than 6% of GNP
in 1979 to 9% by 1982. A portion of the investment program consisted of large
scale projects having long gestation periods and often limited or delayed
economic benefits. Private sector projects continued to rely on loans and
guarantees by public financial institutions, which then had to turn to the
Government for budgetary support when these projects encountered difficulties
because of adverse domestic or external circumstances. At the same time,
public sector resource mobilization declined, p-oducing a large and growing
government budgetary deficit. This deficit was covered in large part by
foreign borrowings; in 1982, foreign borrowing financed over 70% of both the
Government's deficit and the deficit of the public corporations.
13.       The impact of adverse external conditions and expanding public debt
was a growing balance of payments deficit and increasingly difficult debt
service burden. The current account deficit rose from $1.9 billion in 1980,
to $3.2 billion in 1982. The total debt service ratio, including interest on
short-term debt, increased from 21% in 1980 to 38% in 1982. During 1983,
foreign banks began reducing their exposure in the Philippines. The Govern-
ment was increasingly forced to resort to short-term borrowings to finance the
balance of payments gap, which further exacerbated the debt service problem.
While the terms of trade improved in 1983, a severe drought reduced agricul-
tural exports, and overall export earnings fell. The situation was further
exacerbated by political disruptions, a flight of capital out of the country,
and a cessation of short-term lines of credit from the commercial banks. In
October 1983, the Government announced a 90-day moratorium on debt repayments,
a further devaluation of the peso, and new controls over the allocation of
foreign exchange for imports.
14.       In December 1984, the IMF Board approved an eighteen month stand-by
agreement in the amount of SDR 615 million, and agreement was reached with the
members of the Paris Club for the rescheduling of approximately $0.8 billion
in official debt payments. An agreement was also worked out with the private
banks on May 20, 1985 for the provision of about $6 billion of debt relief for
the 2-year period ending December 31, 1986, along with $925 million in new
money and the establishment of a $3 billion trade facility.
15.       As part of the stabilization program, the Govern,ment has adopted a
number of important measures and improved its management of the economic and
financial crisis. Since 1984, the peso has been allowed to float and exchange
controls adopted during the 1983 crisis have been eliminated. Important
structural reforms have been initiated in the sugar and coconut subsectors
designed to improve accountability and marketing efficiency. Price controls



on many basic commodities, including rice, have been dropped. New tax mea-
sures have been introduced despite a shrinking of the tax base. The Govern-
ment has carried out a comprehensive review of its investment program for the
period 1986-89, reduced the program to an essential minimum and undertaken the
first periodic review in mid-1985. As a result, public investment has been
reduced from 7.2% of GNP in 1983, to 4.4X in 1984 and an estimated 3.6% in
1985. The Government has also been working closely with the Bank on a program
to rationalize the operations of government-owned or controlled corporations.
The Bank has also cooperated with the IMF on incorporating certain structural
measures into the standby agreement, particularly in the areas of trade
liberalization, public investment and the coconut/sugar subsectors. Since
February 1986, a new Government has assumed power. However, preliminary
discussions between Bank staff and government representatives indicate that
these reforms will be continued and/or expanded.
16.       Overall, there has been good progress in meeting the objectives of
the stabilization program. The current account deficit in the balance of pay-
ments and the budget deficit were reduced in 1984 in line with the program,
and the rate of inflation has sharply diminished. The inflation rate during
1985 was about 6% (December-to-December basis), compared to 50% during 1984.
The current account deficit dropped from 3.9% of GNP in 1984 to less than .1%
of GNP in 1985. The Government, from time to time, has been unable to meet
certain of the performance criteria under the stand-by program. Nevertheless,
because the broad thrust of the stabilization effort has been maintained,
understandings have been reached between the Government and the IMF on revised
criteria enabling the drawing of the second tranche in July and the third and
fourth tranches in December 1985. The IHF has not held the third program
review required for further drawings under the existing program. IMF staff
initiated discussions with the new administration in April, and these
discussions are continuing.
17.       In view of the financial and economic problems of the economy, the
Bank has stepped up its aid coordination activities. The last Consultative
Group (CG) meeting was held in January 1985 in Paris. At the meeting, the
members of the group decided to establish a subcommittee to monitor progress
in the implementation of the economic stabilization and structural adjustment
programs and the flow of aid. Meetings of the subcommittee were held in Tokyo
in July 1985, and May 1986.
Medium-Term Prospects
18.       While the stabilization program has been broadly successful, it has
come with a high cost in terms of reduced output and growth. CDP increased in
real terms by only 1Z in 1983, declined by 4.6% in 1984, and is estimated to
have declined a further 4Z in 1985. As a result of a fairly rapid populatio,.
growth (2.5Z), per capita output has declined by over 15% during 1985, and the
unemployment rate in Manila is reported to be over 20%.
19.       In the long term, the solution to the economic crisis lies with a
resumption of growth in output and exports. The challenge faced by the
Government in the coming year will be to restore growth without a resumption
of inflation while maintaining a viable balance of payments. Essential



elements in the recovery program will be measures to accelerate exports,
increase public and private savings, and use investment resources more
efficiently than in the past. Attention will have to be directed at
industrial restructuring, reform of the financial system, and institutional
improvements in agriculture. A combination of government actions, a restor-
ation of private sector confidence and increased external assistance should
permit a resumption of growth closer to historical experience or at an average
annual rate of about 4-52. Over the longer term, therefore, the country
remains creditworthy for new Bank borrowing on conventional terms, despite
current short-term difficulties. Because the country faces an exceptionally
tight resource position, local cost financing for selected projects will
continue to be justified.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
20.       As of March 31, 1986, the Philippines had received 98 Bank loans (of
which 2 were on Third Window terms) amounting to $3,966.29 million and 6 IDA
credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled $160.2 mil-
lion. The share of the Bank Group in total MLT debt disbursed and outstanding
is currently about 15% and its share in total debt service is about 27%.
These ratios are expected to be about 17% and 12%, respectively, by 1990.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1986.
21.       Bank Group lending to the Philippines expanded from an average of
about $90 million and 4 loans per year in FY71-75 to an average of about
$460 million and 7 loans in FY79-83. However, the lending program decreased
dramatically in FY84 (5 loans for $183.2 million) and FY85 (3 loans for
$254 million) because of the limited scope for traditional project lending
under prevailing economic circumstances. The Bank has financed projects in
virtually alL sectors of the economy, with particular emphasis on agriculture
which has accounted for almost one third of total Bank/IDA Lending. Lending
for industry, transportation, power, and social sectors followed in declining
order. With regard to the future, the lending program is being revised to
make it more responsive and relevant to the country's current needs. During
the next two years, the operations would focus on essential macroeconomic and
sectoral policy reforms, rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infra-
structure, and high priority activities that would minimize the need for
budgetary support.
22.       In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the irriga-
tion system, credit programs, and other services to support rice production.
The experience with irrigation has been positive with the establishment of a
strong institution and expansion in irrigated areas, although cost recovery is
still a problem. Efforts have also been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for tree-crops, livestock, fisheries, and integrated
rural development projects. In FY85, the Bank provided assistance under the
Agricultural Sector/Inputs project to support programs of policy and institu-
tional reforms, and the Agricultural Credit project to provide credit to agri-
cultural producers and to help establish a framework for a financially sound
rural credit system.



23.       In the industrial and financial sectors, lending has supported
policy reforms under the Government's structural adjustment program. Struc-
tural adjustment lending in 1980 and 1983 ($502.3 million, total), supported a
series of reforms of the tariff structure, the system of industrial incen-
tives, energy pricing and export promotion. The reforms suffered a setback in
the current economic crisis but the Government remains committed to progress
in these areas, which we expect will be resumed and expanded. A trade libera-
lization and tariff reform study is currently underway. An Industrial Finance
Loan supported improvements in financial sector policies including liberal-
izing interest rates, reducing bank specialization and increasing the avail-
ability of longer term funds. It also introduced a new institutional concept
to broaden the reach of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex"
unit in the Central Bank. In addition, the Bank has supported a textile
sector restructuring project and continued to provide financial support and
technical assistance to small and medium industries. Future assistance will
be geared towards broad policy reform and regulation of the financial inter-
mediaries. The Bank is currently reviewing the recommendations to restructure
the GFIs (para. 9). For the export sector, the principal emphasis will be on
complementing the broader trade and industrial policy reforms by strengthening
the institutions concerned with export promotion and reducing the bottlenecks
to the expansion of the small and medium export sector.
24.       In the transport sector, the Bank has supported five highway pro-
jects, one rural roads project, three ports projects and one shipping pro-
ject. The Bank's role has been to assist the Government in the implementation
of its program in the sector, with special emphasis on institutional issues
and strengthening maintenance capabilities. Future objectives would be to
continue to provide assistance to the sector institutions with which the Bank
deals, assist thew to formulate sector priorities and investment programs, and
implement appropriate sector policies.
25.       As a result of the country's economic and financial problems, and
particularly the tight budgetarv constraints of the Government, implementation
of Bank-financed projects in the Fhilippines deteriorated in t0e last three
years. The disbursement factor 1 (amount disbursed during thi iscal year as
compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the same fiscal year)
for FY85 was 14.4%, down from the FY84 level of 19.6%; the latter was largely
a result of the immediate impact of the Special Agion Program (see below).
The comparable FY8' ratios for Egypt and Morocco - were 22Z and 13%. The
East Asia Regional average and the Bankwide average were both about 22% in
FY85. To deal with the implementation problems, the Government and the Bank
have instituted a process of joint Country Implementation Reviews. Six
reviews have been held since May 1980. The Bank and the Government have also
agreed, under the Special Action Program (SAP), on corrective actions to
1/   All calculations of the disbursement factor exclude disbursements under
Structural Adjustment Loans.
2/   Egypt and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank group lending programs.



- 8 -
address project implementation problems affecting the Bank's loan portfolio in
the Philippines. Under the SAP, selected projects have benefitted from
increased cost sharing and disbursement ratios, the establishment of special
accounts and in two cases, supplementary financing. These actions facilitated
project implementation and resulted in improvements in disbursement perfor-
mance during FY84.
26.       This will be the second loan to the Philippines to be presented to
the Executive Directors in FY86. In addition, loans for the Central Visayas
regional development project (urban), an export sector technical assistance
project, the public corporate sector rationalization project, a sugar
rehabilitation project, an irrigation operations support project, and a
geothermal development project are now in various stages of preparation.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
27.       The Philippines economy grew at 6% a year during the 1970s thereby
generating a strong and growing demand for transport services. To meet this
demand, the Government undertook investments totalling about P 20 billion
(US$1.4 billion) principally in highways. With the majority of the national
highways improved, the Government has now turned its attention to improving
maintenance, while limiting investments to strengthening bridges and high
priority highway sections. During the 1980s, the transport sector is expected
to continue to grow but at a somewhat reduced pace in line with the slower
growth rate of the economy.
28.       The Philippines transport system is a predominantly bimodal system,
with road and water transport generally complementing, rather than competing
with each other. Road transport handles 80% of the country's passenger move-
ments and 60% of freight movements, but the Philippines also depends to a
great extent on interisland shipping services. The railways and air transport
handle only relatively small volumes of passenger and freight traffic.
29.       The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) is responsible
for transport policy, regulation and administration. Planning for the trans-
port sector is, however, the responsibility of MOTC (for all modes other than
highways and rural roads), the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH)
for highways and barangay roads, and the Ministry of Local Government (MLG)
for provincial, city and municipal roads. The Naticnal Econoxoic and Develop-
ment Authority (NEDA) has a coordinating role. MOTC undertakes overall
sectoral planning through the National Transportation Planning Project (NTPP)
(para. 36).



-9-
Sector Issues
30.       The five major issues facing the transport sector remain those
identified in the Transport Sector Report of September 1983 (Report
No. 3916-PH). The most urgent problem in virtually all modes is inadequate
maintenance. The second is institutional weaknesses, particularly in MOTC,
MPWH and MLC, where a major problem is attracting staff of adequate caliber
and experience. A third issue concerns government regulations relating to
route licensing and tariff setting, particularly in interisland shipping and
road transport. The fourth issue relates to the distinction between trucks
licensed for hire (TH) and trucks licensed for owner use (T) at lower fees.
This is inadequately enforced and many T trucks operate for hire thus
depriving the Government of substantial revenues. The final issue concerns
the future of the Philippines National Railway (PNR).
31.       The Government has recognized all of these problems, and is already
dealing with most of them. Government now gives the highest priority to the
maintenance of all transport infrastructure. The problem of attracting
=xperienced government staff is, however, more intractable because of low
government salaries, and the technical agencies may have to continue using
consultants (local and expatriate) for some years to come to fill critical
gaps in expertise. On the third issue, MOTC has started to review the
regulatory framework for road transport and interisland shipping with the help
of technical assistance under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2418-PH). The
recounendations are expected in late 1986. On the fourth, MOTC has tightened
up procedures for the issue and renewal of licenses for T trucks. As regards
PNR, the Government has decided against closure of the railway, but has taken
steps to strengthen the management in order to improve operations.
Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
32.       Experience with Past Lending.  The Bank Group has assisted the
transport sector through five highway projects, one rural roads proiect, three
port projects and one shipping project. The total lending for highways and
rural roads projects has been US$435 million. Two of the highway projects
have been satisfactorily completed. The Project Performance Audit Report
(No. 2449, of April 4, 1979) for the First Highway Project found that problems
during implementation were largely caused by civil disturbances in the project
area. The project's re-estimated economic return, however, was satisfac-
tory. The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 4757, October 25, 1983) for
the Second Highway Project noted that significant difficulties and delays on
one road construction contract coincided with variations from the Bank's pro-
curement procedures (the lack of prequalification of contractors). This was
corrected in subsequent projects. The report estimates that the projec;'s
economic return will be satisfactory despite some loss in benefits caused by
imposition of tolls and a ban on truck traffic on one of the project roads.
The ban was to facilitate additional construction work and increase traffic
safety. The Government's Toll Regulatory Board subsequently instructed that
the ban be lifted.
33.       Implementation of the Third, Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects was
seriously delayed because of slow procurement, poor performance of contract-



- 10 -
ors, inadequate budgetary planning and lately financial austerity measures.
To improve project implementation, MPWH agreed with the Bank on action pro-
grams in 1981 and 1982, and subsequently adhered to these programs. As a
result, project implementation improved significantly. The Third Highway
Project was completed in June 1985 and the Fourth Highway Project is expected
to be completed by December 1986. The first Rural Roads Improvement Project
(RRIP) is expected to be completed by June 1987, which is about two years
behind schedule. The delay was caused by difficulties in obtaining inflation
adjustments for civil works carried out by contractors, who consequently
slowed down or stopped working. The problem has now been resolved and there
are no other particular problems with RRIP which should lead to changes in the
design of future rural roads projects.
34.       The Bank has also supported the Government's effort to improve the
ports (Loans 290-PH, 939-PH and 1855-PH) and shipping subsectors (Loans 1048-
PH) with loans totalling US$101.6 million. Two port projects have been
completed and the Third Ports Project is ongoing. The Bank's first shipping
project assisted the Government in modernizing the interisland fleet of
vessels. The project was completed in 1981 with a two-year delay.
35.       Bank Role and Lending Strategy.  A principal objective of the Bank
with regard to transport sector lending in the Philippines has been to assist
the Government in improving the infrastructure of the country. The Bank has
also assisted in strengthening the institutions dealing with the sector,
especially with the establishment of an appropriate framework for planning and
policy development. As a result, an important component in several recent
loans has been technical assistance for national transport planning.
Continued assistance in attaining these objectives will be needed in the
context of the country's constrained economic conditions. The Bank also
expects to continue to assist the Government in formulating sector priorities
and investment programs in the context of reviewing the Public Investment
Program.
Highways Subsector
36.       The Philippines has an extensive road network of some 157,139 km
(1984), of which 25,100 km are national, 28,800 km provincial, 15,900 city and
municipal, and 85,200 barangay roads. The network is, in general, quite ade-
quate in location and extent, but suffers from many deficiencies. Only about
14% of the total network is paved. The condition of many roads is poor
because of lack of maintenance and damage from overloaded vehicles. Missing
or weak bridges diminish the usefulness of existing roads, and in some remote
areas access roads are scarce. The Bank-financed NTPP study, completed in
1982, concluded that the deteriorating condition of the national highway net-
work is a critical issue, and that inadequate maintenance is the main
reason. Road classification is also often arbitrary as it is not always based
on function; the Fifth Highway Project includes an overall road classification
study, which is expected to lead to correction of this problem.
37.       In 1984, there were some 980,000 motor vehicles in the Philip-
pines. Overall during the past 14 years the fleet grew by 5.2% per year.
Heav-y overloading of trucks is quite common and a major cause of concern. The



- 11 -
Government has carried out a Pavement and Axle Load Study (October 1985) with
Bank financing under the Fourth Highway Project. The Government is reviewing
the recommendations of the study to prepare the necessary regulatory changes
and enforcement procedures.
38.       Highway expenditures in the Philippines have increased from P 573
million in 1970 to P 7.3 billion in 1983. During this period, new construc-
tion averaged 65% of total expenditures, maintenance 25% and administrative
costs 10%. Road revenues are obtained from specific road user charges includ-
ing fuel and oil taxes, motor vehicle fees, licenses, tolls and common carrier
taxes on gross receipts. Currently, road user charges cover expenditures for
road maintenance, administration and 30% of road construction. However, some
problems remain with the system of road user charges, for example, taxes are
lower on diesel fuel than on petrol (P 1.67 vs P 3.13 per liter) and license
fees charged for three-axle trucks are too low. The Government has been
eliminating the tax differential gradually (as part of the Second SAL
operation (Loan 2266-PH)) and, as indicated above, is reviewing the recommen-
dations of the Pavement and Axle Load study to take corrective measures.
Administration and Institutional Aspects
39.       Responsibility for the public road network in the Philippines is
divided, with some overlap between the national government and local govern-
ment agencies. In the National Government, MPWH is responsible for national
highways. At the local government level, provincial governments and cities,
municipalities and barangay councils, under the overall supervision of the
MLG, are respectively responsible for the provincial, city, municipal and
barangay roads in their area. In addition, other government agencies are
involved in planning, programming, design and construction of roads related to
projects for which they are responsible. This is particularly the case for
the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR) which has constructed about 2,500 km of
national, provincial and barangay roads under six agricultural and rural
development projects.
40.       There is a shortage of experienced middle-level technical staff.
Bank support has been provided in the past for advanced technical training
overseas for MPWH/MLG staff. This program has been quite successful, and the
present project would continue this assistance.
Planning, Design and Construction
41.       Planning for national highways, including those in Metro Manila, is
initiated in MPWH, and the design and supervision of their construction are
also carried out by MPWH, either directly or through consultants. MLG has an
overall responsibility for planning, design, construction and maintenance of
provincial, city and municipal roads. MLG's field organization consists of
76 provincial governments each headed by a Provincial Governor, 55 city coun-
cils and 1,440 municipal councils each headed by a mayor. Each provincial,
city and municipal government has an engineering office responsible for all
types of planning, design, construction and maintenance. In 1980, MLG
established a Rural Road Program Office (RRPO). Over the last four years,
RRPO was strengthened, expanded, and local staff were trained to enable RRPO



- 12 -
to handle all provincial road projects, and three separate divisions were
established to handle projects financed by IBRD, ADB and the Government. In
addition, with help from the technical assistance staff provided under the
RRIP, manuals and guidelines for road design, construction supervision, road
maintenance, and equipment management and specifications were developed and
are now being used in six pilot provinces. However, with expansion of the
rural roads program, RRPO will need to be further strengthened, through
recruitment and training of additional staff. MLG has drawn up a
reorganization plan for this purpose.
42.       Most design work is carried out by consultants and only for small
projects is design work done by provincial offices. During negotiations, it
was agreed that design standards would be continuously reviewed and economized
as much as possible, taking into account the use of low-cost materials. Most
of the construction work for national and provincial roads is carried out by
contract. Some minor projects, particularly for barangay roads, are executed
by force account, in many cases utilizing labor-intensive methods of
construction and employing village labor. Local contractors are quite
competitive with foreign contractors and have succeeded in getting most of the
contracts under ICB.
Maintenance
43.       The greatest weakness in the Philippine highway sector has been
inadequate maintenance (para. 36). The reasons are many, ranging from
inadequate organizational setup to shortages of funds and equipment. Years of
neglected road maintenance have thus resulted in the deterioration of a large
part of the network to a point where it cannot be maintained by normal
methods; restoration works are needed to put the roads in a maintainable
condition.
44.       The Bank has provided assistance to strengthen the maintenance in
previous road projects with some success. Routine maintenance operations on
national highways are now being carried out to a reasonable extent, and
periodic maintenance is also being improved in most regions. In 1982, MPWH
began implementing highway maintenance programs in four pilot regions which
established physical targets and resource requirements. MPWH is now intro-
ducing this system in all 14 regions. Similarly, MLG, with assistance under
RRIP, has improved maintenance operations in 6 pilot provinces and will expand
this effort to 14 more provinces under the project.
45.       In 1971, MPWH developed a system for the allocation of maintenance
funds for national highways based on the concept of an equivalent maintenance
kilometer (EMK). Maintenance funds for provincial roads are provided partly
from the local government budget and partly through grants from the national
government and channelled to local governments through MPWH. The EMK
allocations have been increased several times. However, the last increase was
in 1983 when the allocations of P 11,342 per km/year for national roads,
P 8,506 for provincial roads and P 4,500 for barangay roads were
established. The Government, realizing that these allocations were
inadequate, revised the EMK formula in 1984 and, subsequently, increased the
allocations by 38% as of January 1, 1986. However, this increase does not



- 13 -
fully reflect inflation since 1983. Agreement was reached during negotiations
on an adequate base level and appropriate inflation adjustments for the EMK
formula.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
46.       The proposed project was initiated under the ongoing RRIP in 1980.
Under this project, the consultants undertook feasibility studies for the
improvement of rural roads in 22 priority provinces. The studies were
completed in 1982 and updated in 1985. Based on these studies, the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) agreed to finance construction and improvement of rural
roads in 9 provinces, and the Government requested the Bank to finance the
construction and improvement of rural roads in the remaining 13 provinces.
The Government also requested the inclusion of an additional province during
negotiations. In addition, the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR) had under-
taken feasibility studies for the road component of a proposed second land
settlement project. The studies were completed in 1981 and updated in 1985,
but as the remaining components of the project were delayed in preparation,
the project was dropped. However, since the rural roads component enjoys the
highest priority in the Government's regional planning, the Bank agreed with
the Government to include it under this project.
Objective and Rationale
47.       The proposed project would continue the Bank's efforts begun under
the first RRIP to: (a) alleviate poverty in rural areas by providing farmers
easy access to markets, thereby stimulating food production and employment
opportunities, (b) provide the infrastructure required to support land settle-
ment areas; (c) facilitate provision of health care and other services to the
rural population; and (d) further strengthen institution-building efforts in
MLG and provincial governments started under the previous project.
48.       The project continues to provide the basis for the long-term
development of an effective locally based program for rural roads. The Bank's
specific contribution would include the expansion of development activities to
additional provinces, continued strengthening of maintenance capabilities and
the emphasis on labor-intensive civil works. The project was prepared by MLG
and MPWH assisted by consultants and staff from the International Labor
Organization (ILO).  Appraisal of the project was completed in August 1985.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 30 to May 2, 1986. The
Government delegation was led by Mr. Antonio Locsin, Deputy Minister of
Economic Planning. The Staff Appraisal report (No. 5971-PH) dated May 15,
1986, is being circulated separately. Supplementary Project Data are
contained in Annex III.



- 14 -
Project Description
49.       The project would consist of two separate components:
(a) rehabilitation, upgrading and improvement of about 750 km of high
priority provincial roads, including bridges in the following 14
provinces: Abra, Agusan del Norte, Agusan del Sur, Bohol, Cagayan,
Catanduanes, Davao del Sur, ILocos Norte, Marinduque, Misamis
Oriental, Southern Leyte, Surigao del Sur, Surigao del Norte, and
Samar. This project component would be implemented by MLG and the
provincial governments; and
(b) improvement of about 590 km of rural roads (national, provincial and
barangay) including bridges in the following three settlement
areas: Kabankalan, Sultan Kudarat-South Cotabato and Wao-
Banisilan. This project component would be implemented by MPWH.
50.       Provincial Roads (MLG).  This project component covering 14
provinces would consist of:
(a) rehabilitation, upgrading and spot improvement of about 750 km of
high priority provincial roads;
(b) provision of road maintenance equipment, construction of mechanical
workshops and quality control laboratories, and procurement of
workshop, laboratories, and office equipment and tools;
(c) consultant services for detailed engineering and road construction
supervision of the above roads;
(d) technical assistance to MLG and the provincial road authorities to
improve their capability to implement the project, to prepare
feasibility studies for additional 10 provinces and to train local
staff; and
(e) overseas training and special courses and seminars for senior staff
selected from MLG and the 14 project provinces.
51.       Rural Roads (MPWH).  This project component covering the three
settlement areas would consist of:
(a) improvement of about 80 km of national roads, 225 km of provincial
roads and about 280 km of barangay roads;
(b) provision of road maintenance equipment to enable MPWH and
provincial governments to maintain the above roads;
(c) consultant services for detailed engineering and road constructon
supervision of the above roads;
(d) technical assistance to MPWH to assist in implementing road
construction by labor-intensive methods and to provide on-the-job



- 15 -
training for local supervisory staff and overseas study tours for
senior staff.
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Project Roads
52.       The project roads are impassable for part of the year wi,h extremely
rough and narrow surface. Inadequate drainagc, missing bridges, poor original
design and construction, and little or no maintenance have caused rapid dete-
rioration of surfaces. These ioads would be improved by rehabilitation, up-
grading or spot improvement, largely following existing alignments. Bridges
would be constructed, replaced or strengthened and embankments would be raised
to reduce damages during floods. Some of the more heavily travelled sections
of the provincial roads would have bituminous treated surfaces, while in the
settlement areas, the national and provincial roads will be upgraded to the
gravel engineered standards and barangay roads to all weather gravel stan-
dards, with 4 m carriage way. The barangay roads would be constructed or
improved by labor-intensive methods (LIM), using barangay labor. LIM are also
expected to be introduced in carrying out maintenance operations. In addi-
tion, small locaL contractors will be engaged, on a pilot basis, for construc-
tion of about 30 km of these roads using LIM. These techniques will be used
in the construction of other rural roads, where feasible. The Bank is
expected to provide additional assistance during project supervision in
determining means, methods and practices of increasing the labor/capital ratio
wherever appropripte in road construction and maintenance.
53.       Agreement was reached during negotiations on the list of roads and
bridges to be included in the first years work program. The Government also
agreed to: (a) submit to the Bank for comments by July 1 of each year a list
of the provincial roads and bridges to be included in the next year's work
program! and (b) include in the program only roads with an ERR of 12% or
higher.
Road Maintenance and Other Equipment
54.       At present the project provinces do not have the essential road
maintenance equipment and workshop facilities to service and repair equipment,
and in some provinces quality control laboratories are nonexistent. In addi-
tion, both MLG and the provincial offices do not have adequate office equip-
ment, technical tools, and training equipment. To rectify these problems the
project includes the provision of road maintenance equipment, workshop equip-
ment and tools, materials testing, surveying, office and other equipment and
assistance for the construction and improvement of workshops and quality
control laboratories.
Technical Assistance
55.       MLG has the major responsibility for providing guidance for and
monitoring of development activities by the local authorities. The increased
emphasis placed on decentralization by the Government puts MLG in a key
position to implement this objective in provincial road improvement and main-
tenance.  Over the past four years, MLG has been strengthened through recruit-
ment and training of local staff, but with the exception of the managerial



- 16 -
staff, the majority of professionals are young and inexperienced, particularly
at the pro7incial level. Therefore, in order to ensure that the project is
implemented uniformly in all provinces, and in accordance with MLG's manuals
(para. 41), technicaL advisory staff to be provided under this project will
assist MLG in coordinating implementation of the project. Technical advisory
services will also be provided by ILO to MPWH to assist in implementing the
land settlement roads component, particularly for construction and maintenance
of barangay roads using LIM.
56.       Detailed engineering and construction supervision for project
provincial roads, mechanical workshops and testing laboratories will be
carried out by Provincial Engineers' Offices, assisted by consultants. MLC
will provide overall supervision and guidance. Similarly, MPWH, with the
assistance of consultants, will undertake detailed engineering and construc-
tion supervision for provincial and barangay roads in the settlement areas.
57.       In addition, MLG, with technical assistance staff, will undertake
feasibility studies for the remaining roads in the 1988-1990 road program in
the 14 project provinces as well as for rural roads in 10 additional pro-
vinces. Furthermore, rural roads planning and programming will be developed
and tested with emphasis on institutional improvement begun under the ongoing
project. The project includes 120 man-months of expatriate and 222 man-months
of local technical assistance. The qualifications, experience and terms of
reference of the technical assistance experts would be acceptable to the Bank.
Training
58.       As part of the efforts to further strengthen MLG and the provincial
governments, the project will extend to the new project provinces the training
program started under the ongoing RRIP. The project thus includes advanced
technical training and overseas study tours for selected permanent staff from
MLG and the 14 provinces. In addition on-the-job training in design, contract
management, construction supervision, road maintenance and equipment manage-
ment and monitoring, and labor-based techniques will be carried out by tech-
nical advisors to be provided under the project. With regard to labor-based
techniques, the project provides for overseas study tours for senior project
staff.
Project Cost and Financing
59.       The total project cost, including land acquisition, is estimated at
US$122.2 million; excluding taxes and duties, the cost is US$109.4 million.
The foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$63.6 million or 52% of the total
project cost. The cost estimates are based on updated feasibility studies and
on recent bids for goods and similar works in the country.  Physical contin-
gencies of about 9X are included in the project cost, and overall physical and
price contingencies combined represent about 30Z of the total cost. Price
contingencies were calculated on the basis of international inflation which
was estimated at 7% for 1986 and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for
1990, and 4.5% thereafter.



- 17 -
60.       The proposed loan of US$82 million would finance 75Z of the net
project cost, including the foreign exchange cost and US$18.4 million of local
costs. Local cost financing is justified in view of the project's focus on
poverty alleviation and the Government's constrained financial position
despite their best efforts at resource mobilization (paras. 15 and 19). The
national and provincial governments would finance the balance of the project
costs totaling US$40.2 million equivalent. The costs of provincial roads,
workshops and laboratories would continue to be shared between the national
and provincial governments in accordance with the different fiscal
capabilities of each participating province; a system that is already working
satisfactorily under the ongoing project. The land settlement roads will be
financed by the National Government through annual budgetary allocations to
MPWH.
Project Implementation
61.       The project would be implemented over a five-year period, including
preparatory work in 1986 financed under RRIP. Contractors would be
responsible for maintaining their respective works for a 12-month period after
completion, after which provincial governments would assume this
responsibility for provincial roads and MPWH for barangay roads. An action
program for project implementation and a project implementation schedule were
prepared and agreed during appraisal.  In summary, the action program calls
for engineering for the first-year roads to be completed by October 1986.
Since most of the civil works are in the nature of rehabilitation and spot
improvement of existing roads, relatively short lead times are required. This
would enable bidding for the first year roads to be completed by the end of
1986. Construction works would start early 1987. The economic evaluation of
project roads for future years would be completed by the end of 1987.
Procurement of maintenance equipment and feasibility studies for possible
future rural roads projects would be completed by the end of 1990. Civil
works would be completed by mid-1991. Institutional strengthening and
training would start in 1986 and will continue throughout the project
implementation period. During negotiations the Covernment agreed to:
(a) arrange for timely acquisition of land for each road section and workshop
or laboratory site; and (b) adhere to the agreed action program and
implementation schedule.
Procurement
62.       Civil works contracts for the construction of national and provin-
cial roads in the three settlement areas, amounting to about US$20.1 million,
would be awarded to prequalified contractors on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank guidelines. Civil works
contracts for the construction of provincial roads, mechanical workshops and
quality control laboratories in the project provinces, totalling US$55.9
million, would be awarded to prequalified contractors on the basis of local
competitive bidding under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In this case,
ICB would not be appropriate as the relatively small contracts involved
(US$0.2-2 million) would be scattered in 14 separate provinces and phased over
a period of four years. However, foreign firms would be eligible to
participate. Construction of barangay roads in the three settlement areas,



- 18 -
totalling US$8.4 million, would be carried out by force account and local
contractors using labor based techniques. These techniques would be used for
the construction of other rural roads, where feasible. All procurement
documents for works over US$0.3 million equivalent will be subject to the
Bank's prior review.
63.       Road maintenance and construction equipment, workshop equipment,
machinery, tools and other equipment estimated at about US$13.8 million would
be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
procurement. A preference, limited to 15X of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to the local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. All procurement documents for
equipment would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Procurement of hand
tools for construction and maintenance of barangay roads and off-the-shelf
items, each costing Less than $12,000 equivalent would be done by shopping, in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines; the total amount of such purchases
would not exceed US$400,000. Consultants services for detailed engineering,
construction supervision, studies, and technical assistance would be obtained
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The
procurement summary is shown in the Table below.



-19 -
PROCUREMENT SUMMARY
(US$ million)
Procurement method         Total
Project elements                              ICB      LCD      Other      cost
Civil works
Rehabilitation and improvement              20.1     54.9                75.0
of national and provincial roads         (12.8)   (35.1)              (47.9)
Improvement of barangay roads                                   8.4       8.4
(5.4)     (5.4)
Construction and  mprovement                          1.0                  1.0
of workshops and laboratories                      (0.6)               (0.6)
Equipment and Machinery
Road maintenance and construction           12.4                         12.4
equipment and spare parts                (12.4)                       (12.4)
Workshop equipment machinery,                1.4                0.5        1.9
laboratory, office and other              (1.4)              (0.5)     (1.9)
equipment
Services
Consulting services, technical                                 13.8      13.8
assistance and training                                     (13.8)    (13.8)
Land Acquisition                                                  9.7        9.7
'-3       (-)
Total                                33.9     55.9      32.4     122.2
(26.6)   (35.7)   (19.7)    (82.0)
Notes: 1. Amounts shown for each project component include physical and
price contingencies.
2. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank Loan including a prorated share of unallocated funds.
Disbursements
64.       The loan would be disbursed on the following basis:  (a) 64% of the
total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100Z of the c.i.f. cost of all equip-
ment, procured directly from abroad, or 65% if procured locally and 100% of
the ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured locally; and (c) 100% of total
expenditures on technical assistance and training. Disbursements for
expenditures on the construction and improvement of provincial roads and
bridges, will be made only after the size and scheduling of the following
years work program has been reviewed and agreed between the Bank and the



- 20 -
Government. Disbursements for civil works contracts under $100,000 and works
ezecuted by force account will be made on the basis of withdrawal applications
supported by statements of expenditure certified by MPWH.
65.       The disbursement period for the project is about one year shorter
than the actual disbursement profile of the ongoing BRIP. This is justified
for three reasons. First, engineering for the first year project reads will
be completed by October 1986, thus enabling construction to start early in
1987. Second, most of the project activities will be concentrated in the
first three years. Third, the implementing capabilities of MLC have improved
as a result of actions initiated under previous projects. To expedite loan
disbursements, a Special Account of $5 million will be established for pay-
ments of eligible expenditures.
Audits
66.       MLG's and MPWH's accounting procedures are broadly satisfactory and
are subject to a continuous external audit by the Government's Commision on
Audit (COA). A certified copy of the audit report for the project and the
special account will be furnished to the Bank within six months after the end
of each fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
67.       The major benefits of the project would result from the provision of
more economical transportation. The project roads, whether provincial or land
settlement roads, would serve areas which are predominantly agricuLtural, thus
providing the local population with opportunities to market their products, to
improve the quality and quantity of their yields through prompt, low-cost
delivery of agricultural inputs, and thereby to intensify land use. Agricul-
tural extension workers, through better access, would be able to assist more
local farmers. Other benefits include lower transport costs for passengers
and freight. The population served by project roads generally have per capita
incomes below the absolute poverty threshold for the Philippines.
68.       By upgrading and improving the capacity and resources of provincial
governments and organizations in the 14 project provinces, the project would
also assist in achieving the Government's objective of decentralizing
responsibilities for the planning, construction and maintenance of the rural
roads network. Funds have been included in the project to further expand
these activities to more provinces throughout the country.
69.       The economic rates of return (ERR) carried out for 57 roads in the
project provinces range from 12% to 37%, and for the land settlement roads the
ERR ranges between 25Z and 27%. The weighted ERR for all project roads is
20%. The benefits of the maintenance components have not been quantified but
experience in this type of investment elsewhere suggests high returns, giving
this type of investment the highest priority in road development programs. A
sensitivity test assuming a 20% increase in investment costs and a simulta-
neous reduction of benefits by 20% resulted in an overall ERR of 15Z.



- 21 -
70.       The principal project risks are that the cost of civil works,
particularly in settlement areas, would be higher than estimated and that
improvement works carried out under the project may not be adequately
maintained after completion. The former has been minimized through basing the
estimated costs on updated feasibility studies and experience in implementing
similar projects, and the latter through measures for improving maintenance
initiated by the Government. The risk will be further reduced through
strengthening of MPWH's and MLG's maintenance capabilities by providing road
maintenance equipment and technical assistance under the project.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
May 15, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                                      ANNEX I
T A    LS R                                         AI    Page  1 of 6
PHZLtPLnRs            - SCIAL MO! CATOET  DAT *ASI
.OST                    (sOST atuCrT grt%*Tv lb
19W4?b cutuSi IU Fla                    Wtonu lUcas
1960L?.    isma ztsttwTzLb        ASI* A PACIrIc          LAT. SWAtCh  CAt
ToTAL                             200.0       300.0      300.0
SACILTU,L                          96.5      106.0       129.0
-  on ca     (t                        ..         ..        70.0      1       011.1                   1075.9
vf  ==M         M   Cf.lA
cw.ochs  OF OD. qOZYALUE          109.0      231.0      31U.0              544l                     993.4
vaeaattdt.O'I3M  C?UdhlmTSIDI   2794.0    348.0Ao  52055.0
guma  NoULATtK  CZX OF STA)        30.2        32.9       36.7              35.9                     67.1
Por    00 1u no 200   t (MuL                            7*.
ST*tts*i PSRLAUC (MILtL)                               121.0
mw01*15M  Sf5O                                           1.9
NLAUS mmni
M  So. 5.                        91.3       122        113.5             316.9                     46.0
PM N. M. SRI. LAS               276.1       354.3      393.3            1591.2                     91.1
POULAO Mm ST RUC           (It)
0-14 US                         4.          45.4       41.0              36.2                     38.5
1544 Yu                          52J.        51.J       54.0              57.1                     57.1
GS An               _             3.0         Z.8        2.8               3.5                      4.2
NUaULATIOU GOUE 3A1t (2)
TnAL                              3.0         3.0        2.7               2.3                      2.4
gUm                               4.1 4       3J         3.8               4.1                      ]4
cuS EERTE RU (CU  YlMO            440         44.0       31.0              30.1                     30.9
CU 1o  1  11 Al ("a TUWS)          14.          9.8        .7                9A                       O.0
Goss SXOUCTU am                     3.4         3.1        2.0               1.9                      2.0
PAUN! PLSMUG
AWFtO. SUM. CTES)                 ..        191.7      375.0 IC
USt CZ 0o uARIU   u)               ..        1.0A /1    4.0               54.5                     45.3
NOW AA mosiu
tan or Fon M. nr coin
(19971-100)                       102.0       101.0      121.0             12&.4                    109.
MtA CAPTA SPIL  OP
CALUJI CZ or  It          )      68.0       101.0      120.0             115.7                    111.2
P1033 CANe  PM BAT)              41.0        48.0       54.0              40.3                     G.A
OF auRI *lDWL AS PUr            17.0        20.0      Z2. la             14.1                     34.2
C-LD CAG1 1-4) 0*13 MU             12.9         9.1        4.0           -   7.2                      4.3
LIP SANC. AT   UtSE CUS)           52.8        59.0       64.4              40.4                     ".
ISAT Mmt. "M (M  SUIS)            104.0        75.0       49.0              44.9                     59.7
A SS TO SAI VATf (20)
TOL                                ..        3.         51.0 Ic           44.0                     45.3
U38*                              ..          ..        45o 7;            57.4                     74.5
AURAL                             ..          ..        43.07;            37.1                     4.2
MISS T0   3ACRTA OL11O0WL
( OP POWL;TION)
TL                                ..         57.0       72.0 Ic           50.1                     56.3
IURBA                             ..          ..        81.0              52                       73.4
ADURL                             ..          ..        67.0 7I            4.7                     25.5
POPULAfl  PEA PUWCL             4910.0      9100.      7970.04           7751 .7                  1509.7
PO. PEA NURSE  PUASI             t"0.o /f  59.0         6000.0 O7         244.3                     60.2
.OF   Il OSPI TAL  -
TOTAL                          121o.0        0.0 5. 0.0t,a              1112.1                    362.0
USlm                            50.0        390.0        ..              451A                     422.0
AURL                               .          ..         ..             2594.9                   Z714.7
ASSIO   P           L -l            ..         10.0            *      -    41.1                      2.5
Anu     szint oF ouscOLa
otaL                              5.8         5.9
UUU                                ..         4.2
RAL                               ..          5.8
tMUS    . oF isou3,m
TOl                               ..          2.3
U05                                ..         2.1
raL                               ..          2.4
SCU S  r OP L 3t       MIUS.
TOTAL                            14.5        22.7        .0 3.
OL                                ..         59.9       LO.Ai.
SL                                ..          4.?       IOA0.*0*



ANNEX I
23-                                                   Page 2 of 6
T A I L 9 34
01MtLO                 - SOCTAL t"DNTOIRCAIO90FIAINIE1  CUEIoN   AvE3AI35
NOO S                    lSO1T OAC90  St s ATnx 
Nc                NIDOLi tNCOMn           NuOLI Acomg
i,.at     1a7. k t1flNIMATal        ASU & PActFic           LAT. AMERICA 6 CAI
ADJUI?ID &NIOLUMM NT IAOI
P*nR,   TOTAL                     93.0        01.0       109.0              100.7                     to0.7
KAU                     91.0        ..        107.0              109.9                     z0a.s
nF                     9.0          ..        105.0               97.2                     104.9
SgcA   ia TOTAL             '     6.0       "9.0         9.0                47.6                      94.2
PULE                    u.0         ..         92.0               50.9                      92.7
n                       23.0        ..         97.0               4.3                       44.9
vOCaU:Z       (3 or nsmaa)          14.3         6.9        13.9  _            t1.6                      L3.3
FWIL-TUAC3  3A1I0
nom                      ~~~~~39.0   29.0         32.0              30.4                       19.
UODIfV                            27.0        33.0        54.0               22.2                      19.7
PASS=U    CASITUUUMSJ  OlQ           3.2         7.9        10. A              10.1                      99.0
ULDt OEtIWsl3OAND 1O1 01.9                     40.7        43.0              172.9                     3223.
TV  Y      VU/o  Afl PM               1.4       10.9        24.3               53.5                     12.4
IIESPWIE  "H T I@ AL
ZXruM1 ') CZICAT10
Vn    UOUMID A OM VLATU             17.7       13.3       32.9                95.3                      K1.
CUI  UIIIAL ATMSISC/CAflTA           0.9  j      ..          7.4                3.4                       2.4
?OAL LAM  la=  (TNOUS)            10915.0    12377.0    19150.0
FINAL  (1103?)                    34.2        33.1         22.2              332.                      23.9
AGIUCUUUU  t136 ?                 91.0        53.0        49.0 4&            32.2                      31.4
USTE! (1CIN3)                      15.0       19.0        17.0 _j            17.9                      24.3
IAnCIPAUOn  RATE Cnu1u)
TOTAL                              39.6       39.9       3NJ                 3.9                        33.3
FALE                               52.1       46.9        49.4               50.6                      51.3
J-a.                              27.4        29.9        23.9               29.6                      15.9
SCOOUC DECIUU RATIO                   1.2        1.2         1.2                1.1                       1.3
INl COME
-3105i o01 FEIvAn INcoU
r3OV   n
EUST? 32 Or uO SE S               30.1        25.1
NIU.T 202 o1 Uo      lls           59.3       59.0         .-                4.0*
LOU   202 01  ml'Rims              4.2         3.2         *-                  .4
LOliS 902  OF EOJousso=            12.0       14.2          .                13.5
LEVEL (0   M  CAPITA)
1*                                 ..          ..        290.0  c             ..                      2U6.3
1                                   ..         ..       1iS.C 7c            1S1.9                      135.3
5sr1t19 W           UAT L A  15033
LIVCL (158 Pna c0*1119
1                                   ..         ..        299.0 /c           177.9                     519.3
3039.                               ..         ..        100-0 w            164.7                     359.7
381191D POP. 3ELW AbUtSC
ovnE?  DlCUl LVL cz)
03993                              ..          ..         32.0 le            23.5
3u3*1                              ..          ..         *1.A 7             37.8
Mt? AVAILASL
NO T TvIS
/a  nu gcp AveragsU for ea  ladceter are po@alat15t"Miughteiettlmetlce mm.  Coverage of countree
q   e idicators depens an awLmamLUqy of dt a  Se sWt uztow.
_  Unl_e otbewLe  noced. Data tfor 190 rater ct  my yer betuma 1939 ad l9S1; Data for 1970" lb_oe
1969 &ad !971; mad data for 'Nost beset FAtIMee  batVGWW 1    VW 1923.
fc  1960; /4 199; le 1977;  f 1962;     1 979;  /l 199  IIt 1956.
JuE. 19



ANNEX I
-24-                                     Page 3 of 6
OFFNmMONS OF SOCAL INDICATORS
Noaa: Although thedata aredrawn from sources genrallyjudged the mot authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted iht they may not beinternstionally I
comparable bemuse of the lack of standardied definitions and concepts ud by ditraet countres in collecting the data The data are. nonetheies. ueful to
desnbe orderm of nuegtude. midiate irends, and chuanteriz ceruin major differenes between countri.
The reference grps are (I I the same country group of the subject country and t2) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
proupofthe wbject country iexet for-High Income Oil Exportenr group where "Middle Income North Afrca and Middle EiaCt is choen because ofstronger
so.rioculturul antiets). In the reference group data the averag are populatton weighted arithmetic means for each indicator and shown only When mdjonmy
orthecountrie in a group hsdatl for that indicator. Sinre the coverge ofcountries among the indicatondepends on the availability of data and is not unifonn.
cution mus be eercised in relating avenges of one indicator to another. These average are only uaeful in companng the value of one indicator as a tiun among
the country and -eference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Crud  irti Rate (per theousado-Number of live births in the vear
Tetal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters:  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                          Crad Death Rase (per thousadj-N umber of deaths in the year
AgrkiumhWn-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gras Reprodutto. Rare-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year avenges ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS-GNP per capita estimates at current            in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated bv same conversion method as World        nmly Plamnis-Acceprors. Annat (shousandrI-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (198143 basis): 1983 data.                              bet ofacceptors ofbirth-contro devices under auspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMIPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption or commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        Family Pnniung-Users (perce fmarried inu)-Tbe percen-
petrolumn. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal eec-     tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontraception. Women
1992 data.                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured ror other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
Total Populton. Mid- Y (ar  thousm)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Irdex ofr Fod Prodution Per Capita (1969-7)  lfJ0-index of per
Urban Popuaon (percent of tod t   -Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: differnt definitions ofrurban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal reed ard seed fro agriculture. Food commodities
ability or data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.        include primary commodities e.g. supgrcane instead of supari
Popultion Prf)ecto                                                 which are edible and contain nutnents (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popularian tn Year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.     excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. osl seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
otal population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate prnduction of each countrv is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national average producer price weights; 196145. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Supply ofCalries (percnt ofrequamientses-Comput-
Starionary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic pruduc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the vear 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing IO percent for
rate to replacement level,                                         waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population .omentum-Is the tendency for population growth to       Per Capiet Supply of Prote  (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supplv of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the ne reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year I is measured as   provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio or the ulimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of anima! and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standaros are lower than those of
ment level from year : onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popuatim  Density                                                  average for the world. proposed bv FAQ in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-       Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of .otal area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita Protein Supply From Animal an Pulse-Protein suppl)
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural    of food denved from animals and pubes in grams per da%. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Populaion Age Structure (percen.)-Children (0-14 yearsl. work-     Child (ages 1-4) Death Rare (per rhousand)-Nsumber of deaths of
ingage (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over; as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year. For most developing countnes data denved
from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Popuation Growth Rare rpercer.t-toral-.nnual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083.        HEALTH
Population Growrh Rate (percenr)-urrban-Annual growth rates        Life Expectany ar Birrh (years-Number of years a new bom
of urban population for 195040. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.         infant would live if prevailing pattems of mortalitv for all people



ANNEX I
-25-                                    Page 4 of 6
at th lime of of ts birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pupd-reecher Ratio - primary, and secondary-Total students enc
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled In primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
rnf   Mortality Roe (per thousandJ-Number of infants who die   teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thouiand live births in a iven
yeAr; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Acces to Safe Watr (perent of papuatdonJ-total, ur-b     nd     Prae Cars rpgr thousnd populiofni-Passengar cars com.
rwalt-Number of people (total. urban and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
acces to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontamnioated water such as that from protected  Radio Receivers (per thousand popnation)-All types of receivers
boreholesa sprinp and sanitary wells) as percentaps of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
dve populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed rece.vers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 mcters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect: data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
household do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  Trwd   (pr th                      r      so     a
in fetchig th  anl'  ae  edto general public per thousand population: excludes unicensed TV
.the familys dwaternees. of po pJUJeaJotaiJ w -   ,   receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
AcceSS to Ezerea Disposal (percent of populdatin -totl we,     in effect.
ad rural-Number of eopkl (total. urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentags of their respective populations.  Newspaper CGrculmUm (per housand popuaation)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposa may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of 'daily genea  interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of humun excrcta and waste-water by water-  penodical publicauon devoted primanly to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It i   nsd to be 'daily i it appears at last four times a week
PopulA on per Phuilen-yPbpulation divided by number or prac-  Cinema Annal Attendance per C*ap  per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickcts sold during the year. including admtissions to
Popaulion per Nrsing Person-Population divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing nale and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.     A
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABR FORCE
Populati  per Hospital Ard-total, urban, and rural-Population   Toeal Labor Force (thouuands)-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding anned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specialized  students. etc.. covering poplation of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries ar not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femal (perceuzri-Fernale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricultre (percentJ-Labor force in farning. forestry. bunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. tidvife etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force i960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         fIdasry (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospual Bed-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity, water and g  as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Partdioian Rare (percenr)--toral, mal, aadfenale-Particpation
HOUS1NG                                                        or activity ates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Average S;:e of Hohold (personss per household)J-rotal, urban,  as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
andrural-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few esumates are from nazional sources.
Awrage Number of Persos per Room-toral, wrba, and rural-       Econroaic Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwelngs wirh FJectricdir- oaal. urban, and rural-  Percentage of Total Disposable Income (both in cash and kisd)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROLPS
Adjusted Enrollment Ratios                                     The foUowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Primuary shool - total. mak and female-Gross total, male and   levels and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of al ages at the primarv level as percentages of  Estimaed Absohue Povey Income Level (LSS per capita)-arban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adcquate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflkcted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relative Poverty Income Level (CSS per capiraJ-urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countrv s standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, mael and femal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four years of approved pri-  Estimated Populaton Below Absolute Povery Income Level (per-
mary instruction: provides general, vocational or teacher training.    cent)-urhan and rural-c PLrcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usuaLTy of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocasional Ezrollmera (percent of secondary) -Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
dons include technicaL industriaL or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 26 -
ANNEX I
PA ge 5 of 6
Population       53.4 million  (aid-1984)
CNP per Capita:  US$660         (1984)
PHIiTPPINIES -  CONOMC INDICATORS
Amount
(million USS at                          Annual growth rates (2) (constant price)
current prices)                     Atua                      Est.                 Pro    ed
Indicator                          1984             1980   1981   1982   1983   1984        1985    1986 1987- 198          1989 M9
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product           32,845            5.3    3.9    2.9    1.1   -4.,S       -3.7       1.5    3.7    4.2    4.9    5.2
Agriculture                     8,354            5.0    3.7    3.1   -2.1    0.8         1.3      2.9    1.0    3.1    3.3    3.4
Industry                       11,045            4.7    4.S    2.1    0.7  -10.6    -10.7         1.1    4.2    5.5    6.5    6.9
Services                       13,446            6.2    3.4    3.5    3.7   -2.5       -0.9       1.0    4.0    4.3    4.8    5.O
Consuiption                      27,n54            4.4    4.9    3.5    2.0   -0.1        -3.1     -0.8    1.2    4.5    5.3    5.3
Gross investment                  5,988            4.4    2.3   -3.5   -4.7  -36.7    -14.8        16.7    5.0    5.0    5.3    5.3
Exports of CNFS                   7,043           12.7    1.1   -1.1    5.6   11.5        -5.5      1.9    4.5    5.1    5.1    5.1
Imports of CNFS                   7,240            3.2   -2.6    3.2   -1.5   -3.4    -19.3         3.7    2.4    5.2    6.1    6.1
Gross national savings            4,72n            3.4    1.1   -6.5   -3.1  -38.5    -2n.8
GDP deflator (1972 - 100)                        285.7  317.2  343.9  384.1  574.4    660.6
Exchange rate (US$1 -   )                          7.5    7.9    8.5   11.1   16.7        18.6
Share of CDP at perket Prices (2)                         Average annual Increase (2)
(at current Prices)                                      (constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990         1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product         100.0   100.0   1n0.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           5.1        6.1        6.2      -n.4        4.1
Agriculture                   28.1    27.8    29.0    23.2    24.1    23.6           4.5        4.3        5.3        1.3       3.1
Industry                      25.8    29.6    33.5    36.9    14.4    35.5           6.0        8.6        7.5      -3.4        s.n
Services                      46.1    42.6    37.5    39.9    41.5    40.9           5.2        5.4        5.6       1.3        4.0
Consumption                   85.3    79.2    75.8    73.R    8O.3    77.5           4.8        5.5       4.7        O.,        3.7
Groms lnvestment              16.3    21.5    31.0    30.5    20.5    20.9           8.2       11.5        7.9     -11.8        6.7
Exports of CNPS               1O.R    19.4    18.5    70.1    21.2    23.2           5.8        3.2       11.8       3.6        4.5
Imports of CNFS               10.6    19.7    25.3    26.4    22.1    21.6           6.8        6.R        8.0      -5.4        4.7
Gross national savings        16.2    20.5    25.3    22.1    17.n    2n.6           7.4        9.7        5.8        -          -
As 2 of CDP
1960     1970      1975     198n      19R3       Labor force in 1983          Millions         2
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                        Agriculture                     9.8          48.8
Current revenue                    9.R       9.5      15.n     13.1      12.1       Industry                      1 9 14f2
Corrent expenditures               9.6      10.9     13.2       9.3      9.6        Services
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)         0.2      -1.4       1.8      3.7       2.5       Unemployed                      1.n           5.0
Capital expenditure                2.3       1.9      3.2       5.2      4.5
Foreign financing                   -        0.1      n.I       1.5      2.n              Total Lahor Force        20.1         100n.
1960-7n           1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GRP growth rate (2)                              5.1              6.1                6.2               n.4               4.6
Annual CNP per capita growth rate (2)                   2.0               2.7               3.5              -2.1               2.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)               7.4              6.2                4.2               n,7               4.2
ICOR                                                   3.7               4.3                5.2              23.8               4.2
Marginal savingS rate                                   0.29             0.33               0.26              N/A               0.30
Import elasticity                                       1.33             1.12               1.20            -12.5               1.1
East Asia and Pacific Region
May 1986



- 27 -                                                               Annjx 
PuIuPPIuuS - BAANuCE OF P*yuwy  AND FRINAL CAPITAL AND DiBT
($ million, at current prices)
Actual                          Eat.                             PrJected                 _M
1980     1981      1952     1983      19       *f .          1956      1987     3983      1989      1990     3994
Summry of Balance of Paymvnt
Exports of Roods and service'             8,010    5,415   0I04   8R132   11nt7            7.917        5,.n0O    9,4O   1l05331   11.827   13,305   30,055
Of which:  exports of Roode             5,788    5,722    5.021    5,005    5,391        6,629        4,925    6.122    6,935    3,866    8,924   12.961
mportp of moods end servicem             10,348   13,151   11,69n   13,354    9,671        1,258       15,782   10,234   113341   12,648   14,215   20,496
nf whicht imports of good.              71727    7,946    7,667    7,487    6,070        5,131        5,100    6,307    7,124    8,13n    9,269   133,71
Transfers (net)                             436       472      486       472       386       37e          461       479      47q       519      531       671
Current Account Balance               -13904   -2.061   -3.200   -2.750   -13261            1         -311     -391      -311      -302     -368      -765
Direct inveestment (nt)                    -102       175        17       112        6         53          56        RI       103      11(       117       110
IHLT lane (net)                            1,032    1,332    1,548    1,392        255      1,894         516       776       725      946       567    1,390
OfficIal-source lans (net)                 536      N/AA      N/A      NIA       NIA    12167         1,n95    1.515    3,l44      1,143    3,1n3    1.03S
Private-source loans (net)                496       N/A      N/A       NtA       N/A       727         -279      -737     -723      -197     -536       355
Other capital (net) la                       593       -6       -14     -872       319         44          3e        39        2n       2n        2n         -
Overall Balance                         -381      -5D   -1.621   -2.111        -185     1,311          732       485      565       870       588      928
International reserves (end-yesr)/lb      *.n3    2,962    2.422          0n8      894         -            -         -         -        -         -        -
Net International reserves (of
Central Bank)                            1,045      266   -1,370   -2,932   -1,003         8Ut/e      1,580    2,065    2,630    3,50M    4,088    5,736
Reserves as monthe of imports                1.2      0.3     -1.4      -3.1      -3.7        1.0         3.8       2.2       2.5      3.n       3.0      3.0
Fxternal Capital and Debt
Crone Mleburaements                        1,887    2.116    2 693    2,224    1 4W9
Concesseonal loans                         168      212    t     i     151       287
Bilateral                               17        198      15        ITS       51 s5
IDA                                       2         7         o        -         1
Other multilateral                       59         7         9
Nonconceauional Loana                    1.719    1.924    2.518    2 073    1.172
Official export credits                   1        58       66        95       622
IIRD                                    229       441      251       584      610
Otber multilateral                       83       119       125      163       216
Private sources                       1,399    1,306    2,076    1,232        402
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          8,415   10,148   12,145   13,659   13,893
official-source                       2,802    3,494    3,865    4,824    5.628
Private-source                        5,613    6,654    8,280    8,R35    1,265
LkLdisbursed debt Ic                    4,086    4,546    3,999    4.200    4,309
Debt Service
Total service paymnts Id                 3,013    1,560    2,048    1,324    1,442
Of which:  interest                     568       506    1 .076      852    1 053
Payments asm  of exports of goods
and services /d                        12.6      18.1     25.6      16.3      18.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                              7.4      1 7      14 4      q,4      9e4
Private-source                              14.3     15.5
Average mturity of new loans
Official-source                            2n.2      20.9                 ,
Private-source                             10.1      20.0               R3       jtH 
a  Noomonetary abort-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRo and errors end oidessons.
7i; iFS lines 21d and lad (groas official reserves and current velue of gold).
W7  Puiblic and publicly guaranteed only.
7;i Includes prepawents of S492 uillion in 1979 and S02 million in 1950; 1985 onwards reflects estisated recheduled mturities.
7; Aseumes adjustment of short term  lisbi litiem of 52,540 million tbroDuh debt rescheduling.
East Aais and "acific Region
Nay 1986



- 28 -
ANNEX II
PaRe 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF DANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
As of March 31, 1956
Loan or
credit                                                                                 Amount (less cancellations)
number      FY    Borrower                    Purpose                                  Sank       IDA     Undishursed
Fifty-fi w loans and three credits fully disbursed                                     1,867.03    32.22          -
1227-PH     1976   Rep. of the Philippines    Chico Irrigation                            50.00      -          0.13
1414-PH     1977              "                Nat. Irrig. Systems Improvement            50.00      -          12.31
1421-PH     1977              "                Rural Dev. Land Settlement TI              15.00      -          2.04
1506-PH     1978              "                Smallholder Tree Farming                    5.65      -           1.53
1526-Pf     1978              "                Nat. Irrig. Systems Improvement II        65.00       -         22.60
790-PH     1978              "                Rural Infrastructure                         -      28.00         7.81
1567-PH     1978                               Magat II                                  150.00      -           1.15
1615-PH     1979                               Mantla Water Supply II                     88.00      -          8.05
1647-PR     1979              "                Second Urban Development                   32.00      -           1.41
1661-PH     1979                               Highways IV                               100.00      -          18.16
1710-PH     1979                               Provincial Water Supply II                 16.00      -          16.00
920-PH     1979                               Provincial Water Supply II                   -      22.00         7.97
923-PH     1979                               Population II                                -      40.00        18.75
1772-PH     1980              "                Samar Island Rural Development             27.00      -         10.87
1786-PH     1980                               Fisheries Training (Educ. VI)              38.00/b    -          23.49
1809-PH     1980                               Mediuzr-Scale Irrigation                   37.00      -          17.03
1814-PH     1980                               Manila Sewerage & Sanitation               51.00      -          12.45
1815-PH     1980              "                Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)               12.00      -          6.96
1821-PH     1980                               Third Urban                                71.00      -         23.65
1855-PH     1980                               Third Ports                                67.00      -          7.67
1860-PH     1980                               Rural Roads Improvement                   62.00       -         26.23
1890-PH     1981                               Watershed Management                       38.00      -          17.17
1894-PH     1981                               Third Livestock & Fisheries                24.56      -          2.18
1984-PH     1981   Central Bank of the Phil.  Industrial Finance (Apex)                  150.00      -         111.06
2030-PR     1981   Rep. of the Philippines    Elementary Educ. Sector Loan               100.00      -         75.40
2040-PH     1982              to               Agric. Support Services                    30.00      -         24.62
2067-PH     1982              "                Urban Engineering                           8.00      -           n.76
2127-PH     1982              "                Textile Sector Restructure                 16.70      -           2.62
2156-PH     1982              "                National Fisheries Development             22.40      -          21.43
2169-PH     1982              n                SKI III                                    85.01      -         25.93
2173-PH     1982              "                Communal Irrigation                        71.10      -          52.73
2181-PH     1982   Philippine Nat. Oil Co.    Coal Exploration                            10.00      -           3.85
2200-PH     1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Education VIII                              24.40      -          19.83
2201-PH     1983   Republic of Phil. & PNOC   Petroleum Exploration Promotion              9.00      -           0.74
2202-PH     1983              "                Petroleum Exploration Promotion            15.74      -           R.66
2203-PH     1983                               Geothermal Exploration                     18.00      -          11.13
2206-PH     1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Water Supply and Sanitation                 35.50      -          21.45
2257-PH     1983                               Regional Cities Development                67.00      -          57.11
2360-PH     1984                               Central Visayas Regional Development       25.60      -         21.89
1282-1      1984                               Manila Urban Development (Supplement)    10.50        -          4.00
1639-1      1984              "                4aget River Multipurpose (Supplement)       5.10      -          0.15
2418-PH     1984                               Highways V                                102.00      -         94.92
2435-PH     1984              n                Municipal Development                      40.00      -          36.92
2469-PH     1985              "                Agrilcultural Sector Inputs               150.00      -         88.63
2495-PH     1985              t                Telecom. Tech. Assistance                   4.00      -           2.78
2570-PH     1985   Central Bank of the Phil.  Agricultural Credit                        100.00      -         77.08
Total                                                                     3,966.29   122.22    1.029.30
of which has heen repaid                                                  600.51     0.99
Total now outstanding                                                     3,365.78   121.23
Amount sold                                             31.94
Of which has been repaid
(third partnes)                                       28.31                 3.63      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                    3,362.15   121.23
Total itndisbursed                                                          994.77    34.53    1,029.30
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A Is described In a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects
in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Fxecutive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b Includes $7.6 million NORAD funds.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1986
Fiscal
year                  Company                              Loan   Bquity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Dev. Corp. of the Philippines          15.0     4.4    19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0      -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.          3.7     0.8      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corp. of the Phil.              -      2.2      2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2     2.1      8.3
1972         harinduque Mining and Industrial Corp.         15.0      -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9     n.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.6        0.6      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2      -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial Corp.           7.0      -       7.0
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                      2.6     0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3     1.2      3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5      -       3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.    2.1         -       2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                     4.0     1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                       10.5     0.1    10.6
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business                -      0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980         Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.             4.5      -       4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                  18.5     0.6    19.1
1981         Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp.   -         5.0      5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                       16.0      -      16.0
1982         NDC-Guthrie Plantations                        11.0      -      11.0
Total Gross Commitments                      136.9    23.3   160.2
Less sold, acquired by others,              99.7    15.6   115.3
repaid or cancelled
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC             37.2      1.7    44.9
Total Undisbursed (including
participants' portion)                       5.56    0.02    5.58



- 30 -
ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           17 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:       MLG, MAR, MPWH, NEDA with
assistance from consultants.
(c) Date of the first Bank Mission to
consider the project:                 January 1984
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:          June 1985
(e)  Negotiations completed:                  May 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1986
Section II:  Special Bank implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) MPWH would incorporate into the EMK formula an adequate base level
and appropriate adjustments for inflation (para. 45).
(b)  Government will submit to the Bank for comments by July 1 each year,
a list of provincial roads and bridges to be included in the next
year's work program. Disbursements for expenditures on these roads
and bridges will be made only after the work program has been agreed
between the Bank and the Government (paras. 53 and 64).
(c) The program will include only roads with an ERR of 12Z or higher
(para. 53).



II,COS          -..                                   PHILIPPINES
NOROF.,..,IOCOS            ,.1  1  'JSECOND RURAL ROADS
,  _ C- CiAVAN                IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                         I4                                 ~''           P. 0.~R*I-A  SR
BY GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS                                                                                                   W-'v   S  .  P* -    RT
Ca ATIOCCJTCAP,TACO*ON                                    '''1        %/  "r                                         r.i TCItr ..T41raaA
I-I    S.1         .  7-,                                                              ---     1110Mi.Nd
Pa...,,,         X ,olOiAlo 5.11                          N'' Vi                         V _0a~~10                      0.1'.y
IC1 IINlA.o       LELO RABTA1LL,BAOOE                           C   II                          110 Ra0. *a 0*w v   zllmm Lqa-A"m
A... .1.ra.,,s      N ar IL. deS.,,                          _/                   4_
.IZA  A,Aa           CA So,..,                                                                   RaaOOA. CoAa,a.
IT  T.,I,.   CO  5,z',
ZT orl.,al M.d,zj    113 s5Ie Ni&NDi4:'lAO   ,  i   .. _  \   )     M ii'      }3   CATANDUANFS
I30 BCTRaN1ACIA     q VSCrw AVOA -gl9                            _I    G             t0           < 
-AL~~ ~ ~ ~                                                      MAzM\-wA-A;   
=?<.a,             l            +         ~~~~~~~~Vlill
TS wrax   -! N=lh CS,a,IV' 'GS T
OCICa,,I<a  CAa9YaN..oa             a-                  t''       t? 3    
*a,I                 a Ca.M_,                          *.,'/'
OC R,a,,, a, A.,.. 091 B,'                                                                                                             DL U   I
LION               ,,  .',LV, J"'.L'sa 2
(                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~
1 2 A s A F W G_ I > ) D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EL SUR
a                     ~ ~~.A,,A                     0.   bE 55V1                                        }^                     9       ,.          ;
'C Oo'Aao  '. AaaoAda.aO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ GUAq
-    /   )%~~~~x                             i
SS~ ~~~~~~~~~~~MY3                               09,     ~      A0



