Dormm of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCIUL USE ONLY
Report No. 5971-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1986
East Asia and Pacific
Transportation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Pesos (P)
US$       =  P 18.70 1!
P 1.00    =  US$0.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT          -  Annual Average Daily Traffic
ADB           -  Asian Development Bank
BAT           -  Bureau of Air Transport
BOT           -  Board of Transportation
CU            -  Construction Unit
EMK           -  Equivalent Maintenance Kilometers
ERR           -  Economic Rate of Return
CNP           -  Gross National Product
CRT           -  Gross Register Ton
LIM           -  Labor Intensive Methods
MAR           -  Ministry of Agarian Reform
MARINA        -  Maritime Industry Authority
MOTC          -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
MOB           -  Ministry of Budget
MLG           -  Ministry of Local Government
MPWH          -  Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEDA          -  National Economic and Development Authority
NTPP          -  National Transportation Planning Project
PEO           -  Provincial Engineers Office
PRIP          -  Philippine Rural Infrastructure Project
PPA           -  The Philippine Port Authority
PPDO          -  Provincial Planning and Development Office
PNR           -  Philippine National Railways
RRIP          -  Rural Roads Improvement Project
RRPO          -  Rural Roads Program Office
1/ As of December 15, 1985.



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPRoVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of the Philippines
Amount:             US$82 million equivalent.
Terms:              20 years including 5 years of grace period at the standard
variable rate.
Project
Description:     The objectives of the project are to:  (a) alleviate pov-
erty in rural areas by providing farmers with access to
markets, thereby stimulating food production and employment
opportunities through reconstruction, restoration and
improved maintenance of rural roads; (b) provide the infra-
structure required to support land settlement efforts;
(c) facilitate provision of health care and other services
to the rural population; and (d) further strengthen insti-
tution building efforts in Ministry of Local Government
(MLG) and Provincial Governments started under the previous
project.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvement
of about 1,350 km of national, provincial and barangay
roads in 14 provinces and three settlement areas; (b) con-
struction and improvement of mechanical workshops and
quality control laboratories; (c) procurement of road
maintenance and construction equipment, workshop machinery
and tools, laboratory and other equipment; (d) technical
assistance to MLG, project provinces and MPWH to implement
the proposed project, introduce labor intensive road
construction and maintenance methods, and prepare
feasibility studies for future rural roads improvement
projects; and (e) on-the-job, local and overseas training
for staff of MLG, the project provinces and MPWH.
The project roads will serve areas that are predominantly
agricultural, and by providing farmers with opportunities
to market their products, stimulate food production and
employment. The population served by the project roads
generally have per capita incomes below the absolute pov-
erty level for the Philippines. The main project risks are
possibLe cost-overruns on the civil works component, par-
ticularly in the settlement areas, and that the improvement
works carried out may not be adequately maintained after
completion. The former has been minimized through basing
the estimated costs on updated feasibility studies and
experience in implementing similar projects, and the latter
through measures for improving maintenance initiated by the
Government.
Thb document has a resicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authoriation.



- ii -
Estimated Cost /a                               Local        Foreign        Total
--       US$ Million
A. Implementation through MLG
Improvement of Provincial Roads in
14 provinces (750 km)                           18.5         20.0          38.5
Construction and Improvement of
Workshops and Laboratories                       0.3          0.4           0.7
Road Maintenance, Workshop, Laboratory and
other Equipment                                   -           8.6           8.6
Consultant Services, Technical Assistance
and Training                                     4.3          2.7           7.0
B. Implementation through MPWH
CImprovement of National, Provincial
and Barangay Roads in the 3
Settlement Areas (594 km)                        9.6         10.4          20.0
Road Maintenance and Construction Equipment          -          1.3           1.3
Consultant Services, Technical Assistance
and Training                                     1.4          1.5           2.9
C.  Land Acquisition /b                             6.9          -            6.9
Project Base Cost                            41.0         44.9          85.9
Physical Contingencies                              3.6         4.0           7.6
Price Contingencies                                13.9        14.8          28.7
Total project Cost                           58.5         63.7         122.2
(of which taxes and duties)                (12.8)          -          t12.8)
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                               18.4        63.6          82.0
Government                                        40.2           -           40.2
Total                                       58.6         63.6         122.2
Estimated Disbursement
BANK FY                     86      87     88      89     90      91     92
Annual                       0      3.5   13.4   19.9   25.2   15.8    4.2
Cumulative                   0      3.5   16.9   36.8   62.0   77.8   82.0
Rate of Return:                  20Z
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 5971-PH dated May 15, 1986.
Map:                            fo. IBRD-19287
/a   As of December 1985.
7i   For all project roads.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I . THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  The Transport System ...................................       1
B. Sector Issues. ... . ..  ................................       1
C.  Bank Involvement in the Sector .........................       2
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network              ..................     .               3
B.  Road User Charges and Highway Expenditures .............       3
C. Administration and Institutional Aspects ...............        4
D.  Planning Design and Construction .......................       4
E. Maintenance .    ...........................................    5
III.   THE PROJECT
A.  Background ......................................   .          6
B. Objectives of the Project               ..                      6
C. Main Features                    ...                            7
D. Detailed Description                 ..            .            8
E. Estimated Project Cost                    .        .            10
F.  Financing ..............................................      12
G.  Implementation ................12
H.  Procurement and Land Acquisition           ..                  14
I. Disbursements   . . ..... .......................              16
J. Auditing ...............................................       16
K. Environmental Aspects                 ..                        17
IV. ECONOMIC CVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ........................        17
B. Traffic Analysis                    ..                          18
C.  Construction and Maintenance Costs .....................       18
D. Overall Economic Evaluation ............................       18
E.  Project Risks ..........................................       19
V.  AGREEMENT TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................        19
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited the
Philippines in July 1985. The mission was composed of Messrs. B. Bjelogrlic
(Engineer), L. Nordin (Economist) and J. Maweni (Financial Analyst).



TABLES                                                                                Page No.
1. Project Road Sections in 13 Provinces                       . . .                     21
2. Project Road Sections in 3 Settlement Areas                      . . .                23
3. List of Road Maintenance Equipment for HLG                      .. .                  25
4. List of Road Maintenance Equipment for MPWH                     . . .                 26
5.  List of Workshop Equipment and Tools .........................    .                  27
6.  List of Engineering, Office and Other Equipment                   .    .    .        29
7. Workshops, Laboratories and Offices                        . . .                      30
8. List of Technical Assistance and Training                      . . .                  31
9. Detailed Cost Estimates                             . . .                             32
10. Composition and Cost Estimates for a Typical
Construction Unit                            . . .                                33
11. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements                        . . .                      34
ANNEXES
1.   Action Program for Project Implementation .....................                       35
2.   Project Implementation Schedule ...............................                       42
3.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File ......44
,APS
1.   IBRD-19287 Location Map for Project Provinces and Settlement Areas



PART I -- THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01      The Philippines economy grew at 62 a year during the 1970s thereby
generating a strong and growing demand for transport services. To meet this
demand, the Government undertook investments totalling about P 20 billion
(US$1.4 billion) principally in highways. With the majority of the national
highways improved, the Government has now turned its attention to improving
maintenance, while limiting investments to strengthening bridges and high pri-
ority highway sections. During the 1980s, the transport sector is expected to
continue to grow but at a somewhat reduced pace in line with the slower grewth
rate of the economy.
1.02      The Philippines transport system is a predominantly bimodal system,
with road and water transport generally complementing, rather than competing
with each other. Road transport handles 80% of the country's passenger move-
ments and 60% of freight movements, but the Philippines also depends to a
great extent on interisland shipping services. The railways and air transport
handle only relatively small volumes of passenger and freight traffic.
1.03      The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) is responsible
for transport policy, regulation and administration. Planning for the trans-
port sector is, however, the joint responsibility of MOTC (for all modes other
than highways), the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH) for highways
and barangay roads, and the Ministry of Local Government (KLG) for provincial,
city and municipal roads. The National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA) has a coordinating role. MOTC undertakes overall sectoral planning
through the National Transportation Planning Project (NTPP).
Sector Issues
1.04      The five major issues facing the transport sector remain those
identified in the Transport Sector Report of September 1983 (Report
No. 3916-PH). The most urgent problem in virtually all modes is inadequate
maintenance. The second is institutional weaknesses, particularly in MOTC,
MPWH and MLG, where a major problem is attracting staff of adequate caliber
and experience. A third issue concerns government regulations relating to
route licensing and tariff setting, particularly in interisland shipping and
road transport. The fourth issue relates to the distinction between trucks
licensed for hire (TH) and trucks licensed for owner use (T) at Lower fees.
This is inadequately enforced, and many T trucks operate for hire, thus
depriving the Governmrat of substantial revenues. The final issue concerns
the future of the Philippines NationaL Railway (PNR).
1.05      The Government has recognized all of these problems, and is already
dealing with most of them. Government now gives the highest priority to the
maintenance of the infrastructure. The problem of attracting experienced gov-
ernment staff is, however, more intractable because of low government
salaries, and the technical agencies may have to continue using consultants
(locaL and expatriate) for some years to come to fill critical gaps in



expertise. On the third issue, MOTC has started to review the regulatory
framework for road transport and interisland shipping with the help of
technical assistance under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2418-PH). The
recommendations are expected late 1986. On the fourth, MOTC has tightened up
procedures for the issue and renewal of licenses for T trucks. As regards
PNR, the Government has decided against closure of the railway but has taken
steps to strengthen the management in order to improve operations.
C. Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.06      The Bank Group has assisted the transport sector through five high-
way projects, one rural road project, three port projects and one shipping
project. The total lending for highways and rural roads projects has been
US$435 million. Two of the highway projects have been satisfactorily comple-
ted. The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2449, of April 4, 1979) for
the First Highway Project found that problems during implementation were
largely caused by civil disturbances in the project area. The project's rees-
timated economic return, however, was satisfactory. The Project Performance
Audit Report (No. 4757, October 25, 1983) for the Second Highway Project noted
that significant difficulties and delays on one road construction contract
coincided with variations from the Bank's procurement procedures (the lack of
prequalification of contractors). This was corrected in subsequent projects.
The report estimates that the project's economic return will be satisfactory
despite some loss in benefits caused by imposition of tolls and a ban on truck
traffic on one of the project roads. The ban was to facilitate additional
construction work and increase traffic safety. The Government Toll Regulatory
Board subsequently instructed that the ban be lifted.
1.07      Implementation of the Third, Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects was
seriously delayed because of slow procurement, poor performance of contrac-
tors, inadequate budgetary planning and lately financial austerity measures.
To improve project implementation, MPWH agreed with the Bank on action pro-
grams in 1981 and 1982, and subsequently adhered to these programs. As a
result, project implementation improved significantLy. The Third Highway
Project was satisfactorily completed in June 1985 and the Fourth Highway
Project is expected to be completed by December 1986. The Rural Roads
Improvement Project (RRIP) is expected to be completed by June 1987, about two
years behind schedule. This delay was caused mainly be earlier difficulties
in obtaining inflation adjustments for civil works carried out by contrac-
tors. As a result contractors slowed down or stopped working. This problem
has since been resolved. There are no other particular problems with RRIP
which should lead to modifications of future rural roads projects.
1.08      The Bank has also supported the Government's effort to improve ports
(Loans 290-PH, 939-PH and 1855-PH) and shipping subsectors (Loans 1048-PH)
with total loans of US$101.6 million. Two port projects have been completed
and the Third Ports Project is ongoing. The Bank's first shipping project
assisted the Government in modernizing the interisland fleet of vessels. The
project was completed in 1981 with a two-year delay.
1.09      A principal objective of the Bank with regard to transport sector
lending in the Philippines has been to improve the infrastructure of the coun-



- 3 -
try. The Bank has also assisted in strengthening the institutions dealing
with the sector, especially in the establishment of an appropriate framework
for planning and policy development. As a result, an important component in
several recent loans has been technical assistance for national transport
planning. Continued assistance in attaining these objectives will be needed
in the context of the country's constrained economic conditions. The Bank
also expects to continue to assist the Government in formulating sector
priorities and investment programs in the context of reviewing the Public
Investment Program.
II. THE HIGHWAYS SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01      The Philippines has an extensive road network of some 157,139 km
(1984), of which 25,100 km are national, 28,800 km provincial, 15,900 city and
municipal, and 85,200 barangay roads. The network is, in general, quite ade-
quate in location and extent, but suffers from many deficiencies. Only about
14% of the total network is paved. The condition of many roads is poor
because of lack of maintenance and damage from overloaded vehicles. Missing
or weak bridges diminish the usefulness of existing roads, and in some remote
areas access roads are scarce. Road classification is often arbitrary as it
is not aLways based on function; the Fifth Highway Project includes an overall
road classification study, which is expected to lead to correction of this
problem.
2.02      Major road improvement activities began in 1969 following completion
of the Philippine Transport Survey (PTS). Most of the priority roads identi-
fied in the PTS have been improved with local resources, supplemented by
assistance from Japan, USAID, ADB and the Bank. Some 10,800 km of national
highways are paved, but the rate of road improvement work has not been suffi-
cient to keep up with the need for repairing or replacing deteriorating
bridges. The Bank financed National Transport Planning Project study, comple-
ted in 1982, concluded that the deteriorating condition of the national high-
way network is a critical issue, and that inadequate maintenance is the main
reason.
2.03      In 1984, there were some 980,000 motor vehicles in the Philip-
pines. Overall during the past 14 years the fleet grew by 5.2% per year.
Heavy overloading of trucks is quite common and a major cause of concern. The
Government has carried out a Pavement and Axle Load Study (October 1985), with
Bank financing under the Fourth Highway Project. The Government is reviewing
the recommendations of the study to prepare the necessary regulatory changes
and enforcement procedures.
B. Road User Charges and Highway Expenditure
2.04      Highway expenditures in the Philippines have increased from P 573
million in 1970 to P 7.3 billion in 1983. During this period, new construc-
tion averaged 65% of total expenditures, maintenance 25% and administrative
costs 10%. Road revenues are obtained from specific road user charges includ-



ing fuel and oil taxes, motor vehicle fees, licenses, tolls and common carrier
taxes on gross receipts.
2.05      Currently, road user charges cover expenditures for road mainte-
nance, administration and 30Z of road construction. However, some problems
remaint with the system of road user charges. First, many truck owners,
obtain private-use licenses and pay lower fees and taxes, but then operate
mainly for hire. The Government is aware of this problem and MOTC is tighten-
ing enforcement of truck licensing to increase the number of trucks licensed
for hire. Second, taxes are lower on diesel fuel than on petrol (P 1.67 vs
P 3.13 per liter). The Government has been eliminating this differential
gradually (as part of the SAL operation, Loan 2266-PH). Third, license fees
charged for three-axle trucks are too low. The Government is now considering
the recommendations of the Pavement and Axle Load study (completed October
1985) and will take corrective measures.
C. Administration and Institutional Aspects
2.06      Responsibility for the public road network in the Philippines is
divided, with some overlap between the national government 2nd local govern-
ment agencies. In the National Hovernment, MPWH is responsible for national
highways. At the local government level, provincial governments and cities,
municipalities and barangay councils, under the overall supervision of the
MLG, are respectively responsible for the provincial, city, municipal and
barangay roads in their area. In addition, other government agencies are
involved in planning, programming, design and construction of roads related to
projects for which they are responsible. This is particularly the case for
the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR) which has constructed about 2,500 km of
national, provincial and barangay roads under six agricultural and rural
development projects.
2.07      There is a shortage of experienced middle-level technical staff.
Bank support has been provided in the past for advanced technical training
overseas for MPWH/MLC staff. This program has been quite successful, and the
present project would continue this assistance.
D. Planning, Design and Construction
2.08      Planning for national highways, including those in Metro Manila, is
initiated in MPWH, and the design and supervision of their construction are
also carried out by MPWH, either directly or through consultants. MLG has an
overall responsibility for planning, design, construction and maintenance of
provincial, city and municipal roads. MLG's field organization consists of
76 provincial governments, each headed by a Provincial Governor, 55 city
councils and 1,440 municipal councils, each headed by a mayor. Each
provincial, city and municipal government has an engineering office
responsible for all types of planning, design, construction and maintenance.
In 1980, MLG estabLished a Rural Road Program Office (RRPO). Over the last
four years RRPO was strengthened, expanded, and local staff were trained, to
enable RRPO to handle all provincial road projects regardless of the source of
funding. Accordingly, three separate divisions were established to handle
projects financed by IBRD, ADB and the Government. However, with expansion of



- 5 -
the rural roads program, RRPO will need to be further strengthened, through
recruitment and training of additional staff. MLG has drawn up a
reorganization plan for this purpose.
2.09      With help from the technical assistance staff provided under the
Rural Roads Improvement Project (RRIP), manuals and guidelines for road
design, construction supervision, road maintenance, and equipment management
and specifications were developed and are now being used in six pilot
provinces. Most design work is carried out by consultants and only for small
projects is design wurk done by provincial offices. Design of provincial
roads is based on revised design standards which are considered generally
adequate for various types of terrain and traffic volumes. During negotia-
tions it was agreed that design standards would be continuously reviewed and
economized as much as possible, taking into account the use of low cost
materials.
2.10      Most of the construction work for national and provincial roads is
carried out by contract. Some minor projects, particularly for barangay roads,
are executed by force account, in many cases utilizing Labor-intensive methods
of construction and employing village labor. Local contractors are quite com-
petitive with foreign contractors and have succeeded in getting most of the
contracts under ICB.
E. Maintenance
2.11      The greatest weakness in the Philippine highway sector has been ina-
dequate maintenance. Since the Bank's involvement in the highway sector in
the early L970s, it has observed a serious lack of attention to road mainte-
nance in the field. The reasons were many, ranging from inadequate organiza-
tional setup to shortages of funds and equipment. Years of neglected road
maintenance have thus resulted in the deterioration of a large part of the
network to a point where it cannot be maintained by normal methods; restora-
tion works are needed to put the roads in a maintainable condition.
2.12      The Bank has provided assistance to strengthen the maintenance in
previous road projects with some success. In general, routine maintenance
operations on national highways are now usually being carried out to a reason-
able extent, but periodic maintenance is neglected in most regions. in 1982,
MPWH began implementing highway maintenance programs in four pilot regions
which established physical targets and resource requirements. MPWH is now
introducing this system in all 14 regions. These changes, however, will take
several years to produce results in the form of improved maintenance opera-
tions. Similarly MLG, with assistance under RRIP, has improved maintenance
operations in six pilot provinces and will expand this effort to 14 more prov-
inces under the project.
2.13      In 1971, MPWH developed a system for the allocation of maintenance
funds for nacional highways based on the concept of an equivalent maintenance
kilometer (EMK), and has been using this formula since. Maintenance funds for
provincial roads are provided partly from the local government budget and
partly through grants from the National Government and channelled to local
governments through MPWH. The EMK allocations have been increased several



-6-
times to cover price escalation. However, the last increase was in 1983 when
the allocations of P 11,342 for national roads, P 8,506 for provincial roads
and P 4,500 for barangay roads were established. The Government, realizing
that these allocations were inadequate, revised the EMK formula in 1984 and
subsequently increased the allocations by 38% as of January 1, 1986. However,
this increase will not fully reflect inflation since 1983. Agreement was
reached during negotiations on an adequate base Level and appropriate infla-
tion adjustments for the EMK formula.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      The proposed project was initiated under the ongoing Rural Road
Improvement Project (Loan 1860-PH) in 1980. Under this project consuLtants
undertook f asibility studies for rural roads improvements in 22 priority
provinces.1 The studies were completed in 1982. Based on these studies, ADB
agreed in 1983 to finance improvement of rural roads in nine provinces. The
Government has requested the Bank to finance construction and improvement of
rural roads in the remaining 13 provinces. During negotiations the Government
requested the inclusion of an additional province. In addition, the Ministry
of Agrarian Reform (MAR) had undertaken feasibility studies for the road
component of a proposed second land settlement project. These studies were
completed in 1981 and updated in 1985, but for various reasons, the remaining
components of the project were delayed in preparation and the project has been
dropped. However, since the rural roads component enjoys the highest priority
in Lhe Government's regional planning, the Bank agreed with the Government to
include it under this project.
B. Objectives and Rationale
3.02      The Government is giving high priority to the economic development
of rural areas and is complementing its economic programs with actions
designed to reduce regional disparities. In particular, the emphasis is on
transport investments that support countrywide attempts to stimulate agricul-
tural production and increase rural incomes. The investment program is grad-
ually shifting away from new construction and replacement, and is focusing
more on maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement of transportation infra-
structure. In particular, the Government views rural roads and tertiary ports
as a means of further integrating remote rural areas with the national econ-
omy. Through improved maintenance, the Government expects to extend the econ-
omic life of existing assets as well as to reduce transport operating costs.
Rehabilitation will be undertaken to restore delapidated assets, when regular
maintenance is not sufficient and selective improvements will be made to the
basic network of roads, ports and airports to eliminate bottlenecks and reduce
transport costs.
1/   After these provinces have been covered, 45 provinces still remain to be
covered in future programs.



- 7 -
3.03      The proposed project would continue the Bank's efforts, begun under
the first Rural Roads Improvement Project, to (a) alleviate poverty in rural
areas by providing farmers with easy access to markets, thereby stimulating
food production and employment opportunities; (b) provide the infrastructure
require.d to support land settlement efforts; (c) faciLitate provisionl of
health care and other services to the rural population; and (d) further
strengthen institution-building efforts in MLG and the provircial governments
started under the previous project. The specific contribuition of the Bank
would include continued expansion of development activities to additional
provinces, strengthening of maintenance, and emphasis on labor-intensive civil
works.
C. Main Features
3.04      The project would consist of two separate components:
(a) rehabilitation, upgrading and improvement of about 750 km of high
priority provincial roads, including bridges in the following 14
provinces; Abra, Agusan del Norte, Agusan del Sur, Bohol, Cagayan,
Catanduanes, Davao del Sur, Ilocos Norte, Marinduque, Misamis Orien-
tal Southern Leyte, Surigao del Sur, Surigao del Norte, and Samar.
This project component would be implemented by MLG and the
provincial governments; and
(b) improvement of about 590 km of rural roads (national, provincial and
barangay) including bridges in the following three settlement
areas: Kabankalan, Sultan Kudarat-South Cotabato and Wao-
Banisilan. This project component would be implemented by MPWH.
3.05      Provincial Roads (MLG).  This project componenc covering 14 prov-
inces would consist of:
(a) rehabilitation, upgrading and spot improvement of about 750 km of
high priority provincial roads;
(b) provision of road maintenance equipment, construction of mechanical
workshops and quality control laboratories, and procurement of work-
shop, laboratories, and office equipment and tools;
(c) consultant services for detailed engineering and road construction
supervision of the above roads;
(d) technical assistance to MLG and the provincial road authorities to
improve their capability to implement the project, to prepare feasi-
bility studies for additional 10 provinceq and to train local staff;
and
(e) overseas training and special courses and seminars for senior staff
selected from MLG and the 14 project provinces.
3.06      Rural Roads (MPWH).  This project component covering the three set-
tlement areas would consist of:



-8-
(a)  improvement of about 80 km of national roads, 225 km of provincial
roads and about 280 km of barangay roads;
(b)  provision of road maintenance equipment to enable MPWH and provin-
cial governments to maintain the above roads;
(c)  consultant services for detailed engineering and road construction
supervision of the above roads;
(d)  technical assistance to MPWH to assist in implementing road con-
struction by labor intensive methods and to provide on-the-job
training for local supervisory staff and overseas study tours for
senior staff.
D. Detailed Description
(a) Rehabilitation, Upgrading and Spot Improvement of Provincial Roads
in Project Provinces
3.07      The proposed roads have extremely rough and narrow surfaces and are
impassable for part of the year. Inadequate drainage, poor original design
and construction and little or no maintenance have caused rapid deterioration
of the surfaces even under light traffic. Under the project, about 750 km of
the highest priority roads, including bridges, would be improved by rehabili-
tation, upgrading or spot improvement (Table 1). The bridges would be
strengthened or replaced and embankments would be raised to reduce damage dur-
ing floods, where necessary. The roads will have improved drainage and cross-
drainage structures; subgrades will be properly drained using appropriate
materials; an4 roadway surfacing will be protected by roadside berms or shoul-
ders. Some of the more heavily traveled road sections will have bituminous-
treated surfaces.
(b) Improvement of Rural Roads in Settlement Areas.
3.08      The project roads (Table 2) totaling about 80 km of national roads,
225 km of provincial roads and about 280 km of barangay roads, including
76 bridges totaling 1,483 m, were identified by consultants under feasibility
studies financed under the Second Land Settlement Project. Roads incLuded in
the project within each of the settlements have been selected on the basis of
the existing population concentrations and the need to provide reliable
linkages between them, main access routes, market centers, :ownships and agri-
culturally developed areas. Existing gravel surfaced roads and trucks are in
poor condition and inadequately maintained. Several cross-drainage points are
unbridged and the larger proportion of existing bridges are made of timber and
are in poor condition. The poor quality of those roads, combined with high
rainfall, frequently render them unserviceable and seriously disrupt traffic
flows during the rainy season. Under the project, national and provincial
roads will be upgraded to the gravel engineered standards and barangay roads
will be improved to all weather gravel standard with 4 m carriageway.



(c) Road Maintenance an. Other Equipment
3.09      The ongoing RRIP (Loan 1860-PH) focuses on proper maintenance of
provincial roads, which are the responsibility of MLG. However, these eff3rts
are currently limited to the six Bank-financed pilot provinces and the nine
ADB financed provinces. Under the proposed project, these efforts will be
expanded to cover 14 new project provinces. At present these provinces do not
have the essential road maintenance equipment and workshop facilities to ser-
vice and repair equipment, and in some provinces quality control laboratories
are nonexistent. In addition, both MLG and the Provincial Planning and Devel-
opment Offices (PPDO) and Provincial Engineers' Offices (PED) do not have ade-
quate office ecquipment, technical tools and training equipment. To rectify
these problems the project includes: (a) provision of road maintenance equip-
ment for MLG (Table 3) and MPWH (Table 4), workshop equipment and tools
(Table 5) materials testing, surveying, office and other equipment (Table 6);
(b) construction and improvement of workshops and quality control laboratories
(Table 7); and (c) technical assistance, to aid MLG and the provinces with
maintenance, planning and programming, management practices, operations,
workshops and equipment management and spare parts control.
(d) Consultant Services
3.10      Detailed Engineering and Construction Supervision.  PEOs, assisted
by consultant will undertake detailed engineering and construction supervision
for provincial roads, mechanicaL workshops, and testing laboratories in the
project provinces. MLG will provide overall supervision and guidance. Simi-
larly, MPWH, with the assistance of consultants will undertake detailed engi-
neering and construction supervision for provincial and barangay roads in set-
tlement areas. For these purposes, MLG and MPWH will employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank.
(e) Technical Assistance
3.11      MLG with technical assistance staff, will undertake feasibility stu-
dies for the rema.ning roads in the 1988-1990 road program in the 14 project
provinces as well as for rural roads in 10 additional provinces. Furthermore,
rural roads planning and programming will be developed and tested with empha-
sis on institutional improvements begun under the ongoing project, RRIP (Loan
1860-PH)- For this purpose, rILG will employ consultants totaling 102 man-
months whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable
to the Bank (Table 8).
3.12      MLG has the major responsibility for providing guidance for and
monitoring of development activities by the local authorities. The increased
emphasis placed on decentralization by the Government puts MLG in a key posi-
tion to implement this objective in provincial road improvement and mainte-
nance. Over the past four years, MLG has been strengthened through recruit-
ment and training of local staff. With the exception of the managerial staff,
the majority of professionals are young and inexperienced. However, they are
gradually taking a more active role so that outside experts mainly fulfill a
cz ordinating and advisory function. In order to ensure that the project is
implemented uniformly in all provinces, and in accordance with MLG's manuals



- 10 -
and guidelines, technical advisory staff will assist MLG in coordinating
implementation of the project particularly with regard to design, contract
management and construction supervision, road maintenance and equipment man-
agement. In addition, the advisors will provide on-the-job training to MLG
and provincial staff so that in future they can operate independently without,
or with only minimal., technical assistance. To achieve this, the project
includes 168 man-months of technical advisory services (Table 8) of which
72 man-months will be expatriate and 96 man-months will be local staff.
3.13      Technical advisory services will also be provided by International
Labor Organization (ILO) to MPWH to assist it in implementing the land settle-
ment roads component of the project, particularly for construction and
maintenance of barangay roads using labor intensive methods (LIM). In
addition, the technical advisors will provide assistance and on-the-job
training in areas of design, contract management and supervision, road
maintenance and equipment management. To achieve these aims, 72 man-months of
technical advisory services will be provided (Table 8): 36 man-months are
expected to be expatriate staff and 36 man-months are expected to be local
staff. For these purposes, MLG and MPWH will employ advisors whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank.
(f) Training
3.14      As part of the efforts to further strengthen MLG and the provincial
governments, the project will extend to 14 new provinces the training program
started under the ongoing RRIP. To achieve this objective, the project
includes advanced technical training and overseas study tours for selected
permanent staff from MLG and the 14 provinces (Table 8). In addition, on-the-
job training in design, contract management, construction supervision, road
maintenance and equipment management and monitoring, etc., will be carried out
by technical advisors to be provided under the project (para. 3.12). With
regard to labor based techniques, the project provides for overseas study
tours for senior project staff. Moreover, the staff will receive on-the-job
training from technical advisors included in the project (para. 3.13)
E. Estimated Project Cost
3.15      The total project cost, including land acquisition, is estimated at
P 2.9 billion or US $122.2 million equivalent. This includes physical contin-
gencies of 9% and price contingencies of 34Z of the project base cost. Price
contingencies were calculated on the basis of international inflation which
was estimated at 7% for 1986 and 1987, 7.5Z for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for
1990, and 4.5% thereafter. Overall physical and price contigencies combined
represent 30Z of the total project cost. The foreign exchange cost is estima-
ted at US$63.6 million, or about 52% of the total project cost; the remaining
US$58.6 million represent local costs, of which US$12.8 million, or about
10.3% of total project costs are local taxes and duties. The cost estimates
are shown in Table 9 and are summarized in Table 3.1 below.
3.16      The average construction cost per km of provincial and national
roads (excluding contingencies) is estimated at about US$47,600 including
bridges. The average construction cost of bridges is estimated at US$3,600



- 11 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(USs million)
Foreign
Local    Foreign   TotaL      exchange as
Z of total
A. Executive Agency MLG
- Improvement of about 750 km of
provincial roads                    18.5      20.0    38.5            52
- Construction and improvement of
5 workshops and testing labor-
atories                              0.3        0.4     0.7           51
- Procurement of road maintenance
and other equipment                   -        8.6      8.6          100
- Consultant services, technical
assistance and training              4.3        2.7     7.0           32
B. Executive Agency MPWH
- Improvement of about 590 km of
national, provincial and
barangay roads                       9.6      10.4    20.0            52
- Procurement of road main-
tenance equipment                     -         1.3     1.3          100
- Consultant services,
technical assistance and training  1.4          1.5     2.9           43
C. Land Acquisition                       6.9         -      6.9            0
Base Cost /a                   41.0       44.9    85.9            52
D. Contingencies b
-  Physical                            3.6        4.0     7.6
-  Price                              13.9       14.8    28.7
Total Project Cost                 58.5      63.7   122.2            52
Project Cost ExcLuding Taxes /c  45.8        63.6   109.4            57
/a   December 1985 prices.
7T   Details are given in Table 18.
7i   Total taxes and duties estimated at US$12.8 million
per meter. These cost estimates are based on updated feasibility studies and
on recent bids for  _-:.ilar works in the country and are therefore considered
reasonable and realistic. The average construction cost per km of barangay
roads to be constructed by labor-intensive methods (LIM) is estimated at about
US$15,400, excluding bridges over 10.0 m which are to be constructed by



- 12 -
contract. These costs are computed on the basis of various related items of
works and prevailing cost of those works carried out by LIM in the
Philippines.
3.17      Consultant services for detailed engineering including prepaiation
of bid documents, and construction supervision is estimated at 11% of total
construction costs. In addition, the project includes 342 man-months of tech-
nical assistance, of which 120 man-months are for expatriate staff and
222 man-months are for local staff.
3.18      Cost estimates for mechanical workshops and quality control labora-
tories are based on recent similar works in the country, and the estimates for
equipment are based on suppliers' recent quotations.
F. Financing
3.19      The proposed Bank loan of US$82 million would finance the project's
foreign exchange costs, estimated at US$63.6 million, and US$18.4 million of
local costs. Local cost financing is justified in view of the project's focus
on poverty alleviation and the Government's constrained financial position
despite their best efforts at resource mobilization. The loan would thus
finance 75% of the total estimated project cost, excluding taxes and duties,
and the Government would finance the remaining US$40.2 million equivalent
through annuaL budgetary allocations to MLG for provincial roads and MPWH for
roads in settlement areas. Except for roads in settlement areas, the cost of
provincial roads, workshops and laboratories will continue to be shared
between national and provincial governments in accordance with the different
fiscal capabilities of the participating provinces; a system that is already
working satisfactorily.
G. Project Implementation
(a) Provincial Roads in Project Provinces
3.20      MLG will be the executive agency for this project component since
the provinces lack the capabilities to plan, design, construct, supervise and
monitor project implementation satisfactorily. Most of the project roads will
be designed with the help of consultants, constructed by contract and super-
vised by consultants under overall supervision and monitoring by MLG. In
addition, MLG, with the participation of the provinces, will be responsible
for procurement of equipment and machinery, consulting services and technical
assistance, and for making arrangements for overseas training and study tours.
Since most of the civil works are in the nature of rehabilitation and spot
improvement of existing roads, relatively short lead times are required.
Engineering for the first year roads will be completed by mid 1985, financed
under the ongoing RRIP, thus enabling bidding during 1986 and construction to
start early in 1987.
3.21      During negotiations, the list of the roads to be included in the
first year work program was agreed. During negotiations assurance was also
obtained that the Government will submit to the Bank for comments by July 1 of
each year a list of the roads to be included in the next year's work program.



- 13 -
(b) Rural Roads in Settlement Areas
3.22      MPWH will be the executive agency for this component.  Detailed
engineering, construction supervision, and procurement of equipment will be
undertaken by MPWH. Improvements of about 80 km of national roads and 225 km
of provincial roads will be done by contract. Approximately 290 km of baran-
gay rorAs excluding bridges over 10 m will be improved by force account over a
period of 3-1/2 years using LIM. For this purpose 5 construction units (CUs)
consisting of 280 workers each will be established and will be managed by
MPWH's engineers trained in LIM under the ongoing Philippines Rural Infra-
structure Project (Credit 790-PH). The composition and cost estimates of a
typical construction unit are shown in Table 10.  The basic equi 7ent required
for -t- s work, estimated at P 2.6 million per construction unit,- will be
pur. .  d.  The remaining 30 km of barangay roads will be improved on a pilot
basis, by contractors who will be required to use LIM. MPWH will select three
contractors, one for each settlement area, on the following criteria:
(a) contractor's willingness to employ LIM; and (b) possession of equipment
for compaction and vehicles for transportation of materials. These criteria
will be reflected in the contract agreements with the contractors. The work
will be supervised by MPWH under the overall direction and supervision of one
LIM expert, to be provided under the project (para. 3.13). In addition the
lengthman system for maintenance of barangay roads using LIM will be intro-
duced during the project period. LIM is expected to provide a viable techni-
cal and economic alternative to equipment intensive methods and will create
job opportunities in the settlement areas. The bridges over 10 m long will be
constructed by local contractors.
3.23      The project would be implemented over a five-year period, including
preparatory work in 1986 financed under RRIP (Loan 1860-PH) and should be com-
pleted by June 30, 1991. Contractors would be responsible for maintaining
their respective works for a 12-month period after completion, after which
provincial governments would assume this responsibility for provincial roads
and MPWH for barangay roads. An action program for project implementation and
a project implementation schedule (Annex 1) were prepared and agreed during
appraisal. In summary, the action program calls for preparatory work, includ-
ing bidding, for first year roads to be completed by the end of 1986. Con-
struction works would start early 1987. Economic evaluation of future year
project roads would be completed by the end of 1987. Procurement of mainte-
nance equipment and feasibility studies for possible future rural roads proj-
ects would be completed by the end of 1990. Civil works would be completed by
mid 1991. Institutional strengthening and training would start in 1986 and
will continue throughout the project implementation period. During negotia-
tions assurance was obtained that the Government would adhere to the agreed
action program and implementation schedule.
2/ Excluding trucks rented for transport of gravel.



- 14 -
H. Procurement and Land Acquisition
3.24      Civil Works.  Civil works for MPWH's improvement of national and
provincial roads in the three settlement areas estimated at US$20.1 million
would be procured under contract packages through ICE in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA CRedits, May 1985.
Procurement of remaining HLG civil works by international competitive bidding
would not be appropriate because the contracts or contract packages involved
will be relatively small (US$0.2-2.0 million), scattered over 14 provinces,
and will be phased over a period of 4 years. Therefore, contracts for the
construction of MLG provincial roads, mechanical workshops and quality control
laboratories, totaling US$55.9 million equivalent, will be awarded to prequal-
ified contractors on the basis of local competitive bidding under procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Construction of barangay roads in the 3 settlement
areas, totaling US$8.4 million, will be carried out by MPWH force a:.count
using labor-based techniques. These techniques will also be used for the
construction of other rural roads where feasible. lable 3.2 below summarizes
the key procurement information. All procurement documents for works over
US$0.3 million equivalent will be subject to the Bank's prior review, which
will cover about 95Z of the proposed Loan.
3.25      The sizes of the contract pac ages are designed to ensure economies
of scale and to provide opportunities to local contractors. These contractors
have been very active in bidding for small contracts on previous Bank-financed
road construction projects in the Philippines. It is therefore expected that
they will bid for all contract packages included in the project. All contrac-
tors will be prequalified, and many are expected to seek prequalification and
to bid on one or several contract packages. The Government has agreed that
executing agencies will institute a detailed system for careful evaluation of
prequalification application, employing procedures adopted under the Fifth
Highway Project (Loan 2418-PH).
3.26      Equipment.  Road maintenance equipment, workshop equipment and
machinery, tools and materials testing equipment and other equipment estimated
at about US$13.8 million equivalent would be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for "Pro-
curement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" May, 1985. A preference limited to
15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is
lower would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. All
procurement documents for equipment would be subject to the Bank's prior
review. Procurement of hand tools for construction and maintenance of barangy
roads and off-the-shelf items, each costing less than US$12,000 equivalent
would be done by shopping in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The total
amount of such purchases should not exceed US$400,000 equivalent.
3.27      Consultant Services and Technical Assistance.  Consultant services
for detailed engineering, construction supervision, studies and technical
assistance would be obtained in accordance with the relevant Bank Guidelines.
3.28      Land Acquisition.  The Government acquires right-of-way by negotia-
tion when possible, although it has adequate compulsory powers if needed.



- 15 -
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT SUMMARY
(USS million)
Procurement method         Total
Project elements                              ICB        LCB     Other      cost
Civil Works
Rehabilitation and improvement             20.1       54.9                 75.0
of national and provincial roads        (12.8)    (35.1)                (47.9)
Improvement of Barangay roads                                    8.4        8.4
(5.4)     (5.4)
Construction and improvement                           1.0                  1.0
of workshops and laboratories                       (0.6)                (0.6)
Subtotal                            20.1      55.9        8.4       84.4
(12.8)    (35.7)      (5.4)    (53.9)
Equipment and Machinery
Road maintenance and construction          12.4                            12.4
equipment and spare parts               (12.4)                          (12.4)
Workshop equipment machinery,               1.4                   0.5        1.9
laboratory, office and other             (1.4)                (0.5)      (1.9)
equipment
Subtotal                            13.8                  0.5       14.3
(13.8)                (0.5)    (14.3)
Services
Consulting services, technical                                   13.8      13.8
assistance and training                                      (13.8)    (13.8)
Land Acquisition                                                    9.7       9.7
C-)       C-)
Total                               33.9      55.9       32.4      122.2
(26.6)    (35.7)    (19.7)    (82.0)
Notes:  1. Amounts shown for each project component include physical and price
contingencies.
2. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank Loan including a prorated share of unallocated funds.
There have been isolated cases in previous projects where delay in acquiring
right-of-way has caused disruption of scheduling. Assurance was obtained
during negotiations that the Government will take timely action to make



- 16 -
available right-of-way on each road section and the land required for each
workshop or laboratory.
I. Disbursements
3.29      The loan proceeds will be disbursed on the following bases:
(a) Civil works: 64Z of the total expenditures for civil works;
(b) Equipment: 100% of the c.i.f. cost of all equipment procured
directly from abroad, 65% of the actual cost of imported equipment
procured locally, and 100% of the ex-factory cost of equipment manti-
factured locally; and
(c) Technical assistance and training: 100% of total expenditures on
consulting and technical assistance services and training.
3.30      Except for the first year program, disbursements for expenditures on
construction and improvement of provincial roads and bridges will be made only
after the size and scheduling of the corresponding years work program has been
reviewed by the Bank and agreed upon with the Government. Disbursements for
civil works contracts under US$100,000 and works executed by force account
(construction and improvement of barangay roads) will be made on the basis of
withdrawal applications supported by statements of expenditures on work
performed and duly certified by MPWH. MPWH will also maintain and make
available to the Bank's representatives all relevant documentation in support
of the statements of expenditures as and when required.
3.31      Table 11 gives a schedule of the estimated disbursements of the
loan. The disbursement period for the project is about one year shorter than
the actual di:bursement profile of the ongoing RRIP. This is justified for
three reasons. First, engineering for the first year project roads will be
completed by October 1986 and will be financed under ongoing RRIP (Loan 1860-
PH), thus enabling construction to start early in 1987. Second, most of the
project activities will be concentrated ii the first three years. Third, the
implementing capabilities of MLG have improved as a result of actions initia-
ted under previous projects.
3.32      To facilitate implementation of the project, the Bank would make
advance payment into a special account to cover the estimated Bank share of
expenditures. The special account would be in US dollars in the Central Bank
of Philippines. The amount on deposit in the special account would at no time
exceed US$5.0 million, which is the estimated average quarterly Bank share of
expenditures including a 20% margin. Before replenishing the account, the
Bank would review the withdrawal applications justifying expenditures from the
account. During negotiations it was agreed that a special account would be
established.
J. Auditing
3.33      MLC's and MPWH's accounting procedures are broadly satisfactory and
are subject to a continous external audit by the Government's Commission on



- 17 -
Audit (COA). Although the COA auditors are resident in MLC and MPWH they
report directly to the COA office, an arrangement that is designed to safe-
guard their independence. During negotiations it was agreed that the Govern-
ment will furnish to the Bank, within six months after the end of each fiscal
year, a certified copy of the audit report for the project and the special
account.
K. Environmental Aspects
3.34      No environmental or ecological problems are anticipated as a result
of the project because there would basically be no changes in the alignment of
project roads to be improved; therefore the requirements for additional land
and disturbance to property would be minimal. The improvement works include
such features as bridge and drainage improvements, raising embankments, con-
struction of wider and better shoulders and some alignment improvements.
These would improve not only environmental conditions along the roads but also
road safety.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      The project roads, whether provincial roads or land settlement
roads, will serve areas that are predominantly agricultural. The local popu-
lation is expected to benefit from:
(a) improved quality and quantity of yields through prompt and cheaper
delivery of agricultural inputs;
(b) intensified land use;
(c) improved bargaining position vis-a-vis truckers, traders and mer-
chants and thereby higher net prices for farm products;
(d) more efficient use of existing agricultural extension staff;
(e) lower transport costs for passengers and freight; and
(f) improved personal travel.
4.02      Detailed studies have been carried out for all the roads in the 13
provinces included in the project as well as for the three land settlement
areas. The socioeconomic characteristics of each road's influence area have
been documented to analyze and forecast agricultural production and land use,
population, the volume and type of traffic, marketing system, credit avail-
ability, transport prices, farm-gate and market prices of agricultural commo-
dities, and production costs. The population served by the project roads
generally have per capita incomes below the absolute poverty threshhold for
the Philippines.



- 18 -
4.03      The most important of the quantifiable project benefits are based on
projected increase in the net value of farm produce including better ex-farm
prices of inputs and crops. Increased production is expected to result from
improved agricultural inputs, diversified production and multicropping, and
cultivation of idle land as the project provides remote rural areas with low
cost transport and easy access to agricultural extension workers.
4.04      Adoption of new farming techniques would normaLly result in
increased production of food crops and bananas in about three years while new
hybrid coconuts would require five to ten years. Once roads are improved, the
cultivated areas for cash crops are expected to expand more rapidly than that
for food crops, as farmers would be encouraged to grow perishable, but highly
profitable, crops such as fruits. Other income-generating activities would
also expand such as cassava production for animal feed and production of
tapioca, peanuts, vegetables etc.
4.05      Several studies in the Philippines have demonstrated a close
correlation between improved road standard on the one hand and increased
transfer of modern farming techniques and higher farmgate prices on the other
hand. In the Philippines, there is a high degree of competition among
transport operators, and reduced transport costs resulting from improved road
conditions are generally passed on to the farmers. Improved roads would thus
benefit primarily farmers, followed by the local population and the transport
operators in the road influence areas.
4.06      The second group of quantifiable benefits is based on the reduction
in transport costs of: (i) nonagricultural commodities, such as consumer
goods and minerals; and (ii) passengers. Road user savings for these two
types of traffic not directly related to agricultural production have been
quantified to supplement the benefit component of the net value added on
incremental output resulting from the road construction.
B. Traffic Analysis
4.07      Traffic counts and origin-destination surveys have been carried out
on all roads proposed by the Government and the results have been analyzed to
obtain traffic estimates. The range in the level of existing traffic on the
project roads varied greatly from an average annual daily traffic of 4 to 190
vehicles. Traffic on these roads is expected to grow at about 4-6% per
year. Vehicle operating costs on the project roads have been estimated by
vehicle and by road type.
C. Construction and Maintenance Costs
4.08      Construction costs have been calculated net-of-taxes for the econo-
mic evaluation. The foreign exchange component has not been shadow priced.
The construction costs have been spread over the implementation period for
each road with typically 10% falling in the first year, 40% in the second, and
50% in the third. The maintenance costs were used as estimated by the
consultants.



- 19 -
D. Overall Economic Evaluation
4.09      An economic analysis has been carried out for 57 individual roads in
the project provinces totalling 964 km of which 29 roads totaling 523 km have
an economic rate of return (ERR) above 12% (Table 1). ERRs range from 12% to
372. During negotiations it was agreed that future project roads in the 14
provinces would be evaluated according to the same methodology and would be
included in the project if their ERRs exceed 12%. The road networks in the
three settlement areas totalling 590 km were also evaluated and have ERRs
between 25% and 27%. The weighted ERR for all project roads is 20%. No rates
of return have been calculated for road maintenance equipment, workshops and
related equipment and machinery, and technical assistance. The benefits of
the maintenance components have not been quantified but experience from this
type of investment elsewhere suggests high returns giving this type of
investment the highest priority in road development programs.
4.10      Sensitivity tests carried out for the project roads showed that an
increase of 20% in investment costs reduce the overall ERR from 20% to 17%; a
reduction of benefits by 20Z lowers ERR to 17%, while a simultaneous increase
in costs and reduction of benefits by 20% results in a drop in ERR to 15%.
E. Project Risks
4.11      The princi?al project risk is that the cost of civil works, particu-
larly in settlement areas, would be higher than estimated. Although the works
are relatively small scale and their costs are based on updated feasibility
studies and on experience in implementing similar projccts in the country
there may be some risks of cost overruns. As noted above, a 20% increase in
costs would still yield an overall ERR of 17%.
4.12      Another major risk is that improvement works carried out under the
project may not be adequately maintained after completion. However, some mea-
sures for improving maintenance have been initiated by the Government.
Responsibilities of the maintenance of barangay roads have been transferred
from local authorities to MPWH and budgetary allocations for road maintenance
have been increased by 38% as of January 1, 1986. The risk will be further
reduced through strengthening of MPWH's and MLG's maintenance capabilities by
providing road maintenance equipment and technical assistance under the
project.
V. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
on the foilowing:
(a)  review and economize design standards, takirg into account the use
of low cost materials (para. 2.09);
(b) secure an adequate base level and regular inflation adjustments of
the EMK formula for road maintenance allocation (para. 2.13);



- 20 -
(c) list of first year roads to be constructed (para. ^-R21);
(d) list of roads to be constructed in later years to be submitted with
their economic analysis to the Bank for comments by July 1 of each
year (para. 3.21);
(e) action program and implementation schedule (para 3.23)
(f) timely acquisition of land for each road section and workshop or
laboratory site (para. 3.28);
(g) establishment of a special account (para 3.32);
(h) submission of audit reports on the project and the special account
within six months of the end of each fiscaL year (para. 3.33) and
(i) roads to be constructred in later years to be economically justified
according to the same methodology that was used for the first year
roads and included in the project only if their ERRs is 12% or
higher (para. 4.09).
5.02      On the basis of these agreements and conditions the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$82 million equivalent (representing about 75%
of the total project cost excluding taxes and duties) for a period of
20 years, including 5 years of grace. The Borrower would be the Republic of
the Philippines.



Table 1
-21 -                               Page 1
PHNLIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Rehabilitation, Upgrading and Spot Improvement of Provincial
Road in Project Provinces
Project Road Sections
Road                                               Bridges   Estimated   Internal
Province/    length                                             no/length    cost        rate of
road no.       (km)          Project name                          (m)       (P'000)    return C!)
ABRA
WI7M             -     Malanas Irish Crossing                       1/300       7,132        20
4.18C           -      Canan-La Paz-Lagayan                         2/30       1,765         17
4.A5           14.9    Jct. Sinalang-Penarubia-Bucay                1/15      10,096         19
Subtotal   14.9                                                 4/395      18,993
AGUSAN DEL NORTE
58.04C          1.n    Tubay Jct.-Abucay Bridge                     1/96       2,917         21
58.01I         6.4    Jabonga-Magdagooc                              -         5,042         18
58.n5         22.IaBaan-Magallanes-Cabadbaran                       2/27      4R,139         16
58.04D          -      Dona rosaario Bridge                         1172       1,705         16
58.06          7.8    Agay-Jct. Ralangbalang-San Antonio           I/Inn       2,368         18
Subtotal   37.3                                                 6/410      64,378
AGUSAN DEL STJR
54.18          7.0    San Teodoro-Old Runawan-Mambalili            1/88        8,948         37
54.163          3.2    Ebro-New Visayas                              -         2,817         23
54.17          4.3    Patindog-Caimpugan                           1/24        3,8on         22
54.24          4.3    Crossing Luna-Jet. Supas-San Luis            9/157      31,938         20
54.06          18.1    Lucena-San Joaquin-San Jose                 2/48       15,796         16
54.07           -      Taglatawan-Jct. Panaytay-Maritula           4/64        5,136         19
Subtotal   62.2                                                17/381      6R,435
BOHOL
4/.1Z          7.9    San Miguel-Tomoc                               -         5,402         20
47.131         12.0    San Miguel-San Pascual                        -         6,197         19
47.067          -      Corella-Balilihan                           4/141       4,744         19
Subtotal   19.9                                                 4/141      16,343
CATANDUANES
Z5.:7--   68.4    BARAS-CITMOTO-VIrA                               3/40       33,799         13
CAGAYAN
T2-.UT1         -      Mabanguc-San Lorenzo                        2/54        3,495         16
02.031          -      Sto. Nino-Dingao                            4/144       6,937         16
02.n4          15.7n   San Jose-Sta. Margarits                     6/229      21,960         14
02.07         29.6    NRJ-Baggao-San Jose                            -        42,721         15
02.12         28.6    NRJ-Sampaguita-Tamban                        2/28       22,599         22
Subtotal   73.9                                                14/455      97,712



-22-                                 Table 1
Page 2
Road                                              Bridges   Estimated   Internal
Province/    length                                            no/length    cost       rate of
road no.      (km)           Project name                        (m)        (P'OOO)    return tX)
DAVAO DEL SUR
bZ.18          7.8    Sinavilan-New Visavas-Madanao                 -         5,965        23
62.11          6.5    Hatti-Balabag                                 -         2,782        22
62.39         33.2    Kiblawan-Tagaytay+Bunot                     6/132      25,202        22
62.22          8.2    Bangalan-Magsaysay                          3/110      13,954        20
62.95         21.0    Cogon-Kapatagan                               -        17,838        18
62.29         11.4    Matanao-Bangkal                             4/165      12,856        17
Subtotal   88.1                                               13/407      78,597
ILOCOS NORTE
3.O5ABC       21.6    Bacarra-Paninaan Network                    2/3n       15,n33        16
3.59ADCE      23.3    Pasuquin Road Network                       3/40       16,593        14
Subtotal   44.9                                                5/70       31,626
MARINDUQUE
30.07          8.60   Matalaba-Pantayan-Deveila                    1/3n      10,314        14
SAMAR
36u-.TJT      20.4    Gandara-Matuguinao                          7/153      19,669        i0
36.06         10.9    Bulugo-Tarangnan                              -         6,588        24
36.04         10.8    National Highway-Sta. Rita                  2/45        5,781        24
36.031         8.5    National Highway-Villareal                    -         5,250        22
26.032         3.3    Villareal-Talalora                          2/40       11,R62        15
Subtotal   63.9                                               11/218      49,150
SOUTHERN LEYTE
45.35     ---11.5   CAMBITF-HINGATIKAN                             1/1n       7,324        21
SURIGAO DEL NORTE
48.021        10.5    Mainit-Mansayao                             6/103      13,424        18
48.03                 Mainit-Sison Network                        4/109       5,385
(Bridge work)
Subtotal   1C.5                                                0/212      1g,gm
SURIAGO DEL SIlR
55.01         13.5    Teleje-Maticdum/San Isidro-Maitum           2/30       1n,438        1R
55.07          5.5    NRJ-Bayan-San Isidro                        1/15        3,982        15
Subtotal   19.n                                                3/45       14,42n
MISAMIS ORIENTAL .AND
OTHER ROADS  Z25.0    To be identified                          40/1,2nn   210,000
Total     748.0                                              132/3,964  720,no
Dource: MLG/Mission.
December 1985



Table 2
- 23 -                                    Page I
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Construction and Improvement on Settlement Areas
Project Road Sections
Internal
Settlement                    Road                                                 Bridges    Estimated    rate of
area                      length                    Road section               No. /length    cost         return
(km)                                                    W)        (rPOOO)       (Z)
A. Kabankalan
(M) Hatimal Roads        20.0     babankalan - Tapi                                 -        8.720
(ii) Provtncial Roads    29.4      Bantayan Nursery Mill - 1log river             2/48       15.991
7.0     Tabugon - Project boundary                        -        3,317
Subtotal             31.4                                                     2/48       19.208
(iii) Barangay Roads        6.6     Tago - Sition Na6alayan                           -        1,566
4.5     Tabugan - Pinaguinpinan                           -          945
7.8     Tabugon - Sition Marangis                         -        2,106
3.1     N. Boundary - Ahian                               -          651
5.0     N.W. project boundary - Tagoc                     -        1,434
7.3     Tagoc - Inapoy                                 1/30        2,883
9.6     Langka - Pinaguinpinan                            -        2,016
2.8     Sitio - Tabla river                               -          708
6.0     Bantayan - Villa progresso                        -        1,260
2.3     Sagumayon - Baray Diotay                          -          759
5.0     Connecting links                                  -        1,650
Subtotal             66.0                                                     1/30       15.978
Total                116.4                                                    3/78       43,906         26.7
B. Sultan Kudarat
(t) Provincial Poads      19.0     Bagumbayan - NE project boundary               L 78       17.318
45.0     NE project boundary - Kulaman                 8/175       36,674
9.0     ulaman - Ludo                                 2V30        9,150
12.0     Gapok - South Cotabato boundary                1120       11,550
Subtotal             R5.0                                                   15/303       75.392
(ii) Barangay Roads         1.5     Kulasrn          - link to provincial road        -          315
0.5     Bugso            - lick to provincial road        -        2,577
5.4     Buenaflores      - link to provincial road   1/12          3.862
0.5     Sevod            - link to provincial road        -          165
4.8     Langal           - link to provincial road   1/24          2,188
3.8     Basag            - link to provincial road        -        1,834
0.5     Maniag           - link to provincial road        -          165
0.5     Seguya           - link to provincial road        -          165
4.2     Nalum            - link to provincial road        -        1,906
0.5     Gapok            - link to provincial road        -          165
3.0     South Cotabato 1 - link to provincial road   1/12          1,995
3.2     South Cotabato 2                                  -        1,156



- 24 -                                         Table 2
Page 2
Internal
Settlement                    Road                                                 Bridges    Estimated    rate of
area                      length                    Road section               No. /length    cost        return
Sultan Kudarat
Barangay Roads (Cont'd)  5.3      Langal - Sewod                                 1/12        1,735
4.5     Buenaflores barangay road - S.W. Barangay
boundary                                        -       1,485
4.3     Langgae Buenaflores boundary - Langgal            -       2,168
9.4     Langgal-Basag barangay road                       -       3,202
7.5     Basag-South Cotabato provincial boundary          -       3,202
8.4     South Cotabato 1 - Seguya                         -       2,872
10.3     South Cotabato 2 - Malum                       2/16       4,939
6.0     Nasiag provincial road - West                     -       2,860
0.5     Capok provincial road - Nursery                   -         265
5.0     Connecting links                                  -       1,850
Subtotal             94.5                                                     6/92      39,266
Total 8              179.5                                                  21/395     114,658        26.3
C. Wnao-Banistlan
(i) Hatimal Roads        35.0     Maramag - Kilikili                             3/20       19,085
6.0     Xilikili - Seram                               3/42       6,454
7.0     Seram - Wao                                    2/36       6,413
13.0     Uao - Banisilan                                9/36      19,085
Subtotal              61.0                                                  16/270      51,017
(ii) Provincial Roads      1.1     Kilikili road                                  1/18       1,644
17.3     Kilikili - Aparfort                           61120      21,640
49.9     Banisilan - Xitub                            13/168      50,840
35.0     Kitub - Libungan                               5/20      35.100
Subtotal            103.3                                                   25/406     109,124
(iii) Barangay Roads        4.5     Aparfort barangay road                         1/12       2,025
1.4     Frankfort barangay road                           -         462
5.9     Sumugot barangay road                             -       1,948
8.4     Kilikili barangay road                            -        2,328
5.4     North Park Area - National Road                2/24       3,942
4.6     South Park Area - North Park Area                 -       2,598
1.3     Wao barangay road                                 -         429
3.8     Wao-Christian village                             -       1,254
7.9     Wao-Malaigang                                     -       2,607
4.2     Muscrap - National Road                           -       1,386
3.5     Kadingilan - National Road                        -       1,155
5.0     Kanipisan - National Road                         -       1,650
16.1     National Road - Milaya                         2/18       6,933
9.7     Kabatangan - Amoyong                              -       3,210
4.0     Paradise - Malinao                                -       1,320
6.0     Malinao - Kapayangan                              -       1,980
5.0     Wadia Tombao Kamalig                              -       1,650
20.9     Little Thailand - Little Panter                6/54       9,327
1.2     Tinambacan - link to provincial road              -         396
10.0     Banisilan - Taunan                             2/40       6,900
5.0     Connecting links                                  -       1,650
Subtotal            133.8                                                   13/148      55,140
Total C              298.1                                                  54/824     215,301        25.7
GRAND TOTAL          594.1                                                79/1,403     373,865
Source    MPWH/Mission.
December 1985



P14IytPPTNFq
sFrnNn RIIRAI. RnADc LXRflVFvPWrIT PRnJFr'
UIqst of Rna$ Uafntenance Rnuiriment for MlIX
Itni t
ARUisan  ARusan                                 navan                                                                         cost
Iteri                                           Rel       Rel               raapn-  ratAn-    de,    llncns  '4arin-  14patern   qourhern    Surigan  SurtgAn                        Manila   Total
no.   'leacription                     Abra   Norte       Sur      Rohol    van    diunnc    SRur   Norte   dciule          Sanar        leyte    del llorte del Stir  Total  c.i.f.  enat
- '!jRVOfln 
I    lhmp truick                       7       2         7        12                           A h  R   16       1.          4        A A              A          Rn       33    2,44n
2    itter truck                       I       -         2         1        I           I      I         I        1          -        II               -          13      1        447
1   Stake triuck                       -       I         I         I        -        -         7         -        I           I       -I               1          9        72       IqR
4    Low-hed tratler with
primre mover                    I      I          I        _        _        _          1         I        I          I                                    q       4 6      414
i   Mntor grader                       2       1         7                           7         I         I        I           I       .7               -          23       53    1,219
6    Ionder front ensi                 2       -         I         4        _        I          1        2         1          1        1               1           17     4b       7I1
7    Road rollers                      -      -          I         I        I                  I 7               1          _-      -_                           F        31       264
q    Rulldnzers                        2       1         1         4        I        I         2         2        1           1       - I              I          Ip       S      I,nnR
9    Pick-up tr.ek                     4       1         1         4        6        2         S          I       ?           2       2 4              1          37       11       Af7M
In    Asphalt kittles                   -       -         -         -        2        -         -                                                       _          2                  ] IA
Total (Cost                                                                                                                                                           7-319
Source:   MLA:, Provineial C.nvernments and Mlssinn.
llecerher 1I8RS



-26-                                   Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Road Maintenance and Construction Equipment for MPWH
Settlement area
Item                                    Kaban-  Sultan Kudarat-    Wao-       Total  Cost (P 000)
go.  Description                       Kalan   South Cotabato   Banisilan   no.   Unit   Total
A. Road Maintenance Equipment
1.  Dump truck, 6 m3                    2             3              4        9    600    4,200
2.  Motor grader, 125 hp                 1            1              1        3    960    2,800
3.  Wheel loader, 1.75 yd                I            I              1        3    650    1,950
4.  Road roller, 8-10 t                  1            1              1        3    600    1,800
5. Water tanker, 1,500 gal               1            1              1        3    60n    1,800
6. Pickup truck, 0.5 t                   1            I              1        3    150       450
7.  Motorcycles                          1            1              1        3     25        75
Subtotal                                                                        13,155
B. Construction Equipment
8.  4-u drive vehicle (diesel)           1            3              3        7    180    1,260
9. Pickup truck, 0.5 t                  2             1              1        4    150       600
10.  Motorcycles                         2             2             4         8     25       20n
11.  Road roller, 8-10 tons               1            2              2        5    600    3,000
12.  Concrete mixer, 0.25 yd3            2             3             4         9     30       270
13.  Concrete vibrator   3               2             3             4         9     12       108
14.  Water pumps, 10/15 m                 1            2              2        5     3n       150
15.  Pedestrian-operated vibratory
roller                            2             3             3         R     Rn      640
16.  Medium-size farm tractor             1            2              2        5    200    1,000
17.  Tractor trailer                      1            2              2        5     50       250
18.  Towed light roller                   1            2              2        5     40       200
19.  Towed water bowser                   1            2             2         5     40       200
20.  Rand tools (lump sum)                                                                  1,670
21.  Light drilling equipment             1            2              2        5     40       200
22.  Stone crusher (medium size)         -             -              1        1    600       600
23.  Office survey equipment (LS)                                                           1,400
Subtotal                                                                        11,748
Total                                                                           24,903
Source: MPWH.
December 1985



PHILIPPINES
SECO"D RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Workshop Equipment and Tools
Number of Items Required by Provinces
Unit
Agusan  Agusen                                Devao                                                                            cost,
Item                                                          del      del                        Catan-   del   llocos  Hartn-               Southern   Surigao   Surigao                 Mantla    total
no.                   Description                    Abra   Norte    Sur    Bohol  Cagayan  duanes   Sur   Norte   duque   Samar    LAyte   del Norte  del Sur  Total                       elf       cost
(US$1     (US$)
I        Hydraulic floor, jack 10 ton                 I        1        2         1       1         I       3         I       I         -           I          I           1       13      1,152      14,976
2        Hydraulic Jack, 10 ton                       -        I        I         I       I         1       2        -        I         2           -          2           2       14        215       3,010
3        Transmission Jack                            I        I         I        I       I         1       I             I        I          I           I          I             13        261        3,393
4        Drill press, 1/2 HP, 220 V,
60 cycle single phase, 1/2 chuck
capacity                                   I        -        I         I       I         I       I         I       I         -          1           3           I       11        308       3,388
5        Portable electric drill,
22n V (metric)                             I                          III                I       III              I          I          I           I          1       13         242       3,146
6        Portable electric drill,
220 V (SAE)                                I        I        I        I       I          I       I        I       i          I          I           I          -       12         242       2,904
7        Bench grinder, 220V, 60 cycle
1/2 IIP                                   I         I        I        1       I          3       I        I       -                     1           I          -       In         264       2,640
8        Arbor press lever, 3 tons                    I        -         I                I          I       I        I       -          I          I           I          I       it        359        3,949
9        Valve refacer                                I        I         I        I       I          I       I                                      I 1         I          1       10         154       1,540
10        Combustion leak toster (gas &                                                                                                                                                                           I
diesel engine)                             I        -        I         I       I         I       I         I      -          I           I          I           I       11        461       S,071
11        Valve lifter                                 I        -         I        I                 I        I        -                 I           I          I           I       10         44          440
12        Expanding hand reaser set
adjustable                                 I        I        I         I       I         I       I        -       -I                                I           I       11         82         902
13        Multipurpose puller sec                      I        I        I         I       I         I        I        I       I         I           I          I           1       13        144        1,872
14        Tube pipe, flaring and cutting set              I        I        I        I         I       I         I     I       -         I           I          I           1       12         55          660
15        Taps & dice, metric                          I        I        I         I       I         I       I         -       -         I           I          I           I       11         31          341
16        Taps & dice SAE                              I        I         I        I       I         I       I        -                  I           I          I           3       11         31          341
17        Clutch aligning tool set                     I        I        I         I       I         I       I         I       I         I           I          I           1       13         86        1,11S
l8        Nut splitter                                 I        I        I        I                  I       I         I       -         I           I          I           I       11         21          231
19        Track pin press                              I        I        I                 I         I       1         I       1         I           I          -           I       12      1,474      17,688
20        Arc welder engine driver                     I        -         I        I       I         I        I        I       I         I           I          I           -       11      8,045      88,495
21        Welding unit static                          I                  3        -       I          I       1        3       I         I           I          -           I       10        457        4,570
22        Anvil                                        2        -         I        -       I         I        I        1       2         1           1          1           -       12          51         612
23        Bench vise                                        I             I        I       I          I       I        I       I         I           I          I           1       13         S2        1,066
24        A ptpe vender heavy duty                     I        I         I        I       I          I       I        I       I          I          I           I          -       12         143       1,716
25        Air compressor, electric 220V,
60 cycle, 175 FS 1, single,                                                                                                                                                                           l
20PH                                      I        -         I        -       I          -       I        I       I          I          -           -          -        7         564       3,948
26        Air compressors, portable engine
Drivers, 40 CEM, 200 PSI                  I        -         1        -       I          I       I        I       I          I          I           I          -       10      7,072       70,720
27        Battery charger, 220V vac, 6) IIP,
Heavy duty booster cables (500 Amp)
and Battery tooter                         I        -        I        -        I         I       I        I        I         I          I           I           I       i1        457       5,027



Table 5
-28-                                          page 2
- -    e n   ctewle_c e..o-. -ss--a__r   z
* .m           am , m C  .e. a-ra_fl..m.a.0.al_fe IcC
a a_:^o_                              ;: _;   "   
- -    -- _--      ---         -------  -------
-.    -     n.ccoCcaCn-tc.e.                      CceCCVc         .-<N r.CC...
c a... c_         n"_se- c s<se-F                   ..fl   -ecar.-e
C                                                                        -
Os-
a -
nc'
V,.
015
: -
CC
a, 
E  >t w    -------"----------------------
-   2c
C~~~~~~~~~~C
e
      C-
Ca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-                                                                                   oo
" = - M 1 _ - D V            v  =
61               . . . . . .                       
*   C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
c e        _ C                                              -
O S a                                                      
C     C                            5 -_- c ec c  -_          
o            * -q          f      Ug g=C         CX__     
c S                     ,      B,UUe                        ,W!      
O   I   I _ .    *_-.   -f-- l                         f          -C            _
I~ ~~         ~~~~~~~ -.5
_      ocC_ecta  .qore_-^  
a  C         r_ _r____  v. 



la                      C           -                0 !>
n   8  ..b o 40.m    bOs obCS                                            C         "__s*Xe
I 1      0   o _w a *          .I      
-- ---             ---        ------. 
_ zs _ v ~~~~~Cn    0-                        C*0-  t
n            3-  -n-              -      -  n        ------
QC 00O           0- a         *0
-    - - - - - - -.   -- -      - - -    CC
-              -.      ---  _-                       In
- C           -   -    -   -      -- -S      - --   W
'I        --    -       - --.      ---     A
-      -- -     - - -      - -            -- - -
*            a                                 S     O.- ------
-       -------               __-       ------               o
----                 ---         a---
-         c-- o               ---         --- -
_ oooooo   .__    0__                                                       ef
=                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
_~~t 2__ _ _ _-                   Q S   
_                                                                    0.      ___ ____F         
_   ~~~~~~,~~~___  ___  ___ 0__              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'C I   
_ ~~~_~~~__  ~~__   __~~__                   r n   o    nI0
_ nooonoo ___ __-_~~~ e CC 
_~~~~ 0---o~- _0 _5_                                  - 
_  _______  ___        _____o                 i'C I 
~~ ~~----o  _~_    __^,___                o                      n
-O             0
-'                  _;'      =Or       0 _ _@               o-
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I O                                            000g~w           0  r        
9 *lq ls              - 6Z       ~~~~~~~~as 



Table 7
- 30 -
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVENINT PROJECT
Provincial Wbrkshops, Quality Control Laboratorles, and Provincial Engineers Offices
Present Facilitles and Required Improvements
Province/facility                     Location            Present status               Work required              Estimated cost
(f million)
A. Bohol
1, Workshop and equipment       Tagbilaran city    Temporary building           Renovation of facility            1.000
pool                                                                         including repair bays.
M.E., Office, spare parts
and tool varehouse. water
distribution system wash
rack and loading ramp.
2. QuaiUty control              Tagbilaran city    Temporary building           To be transferred to new          0.468
laboratory                                                                   location.
3. Provincial engineer's        Tagbilaran city    Temporary building           Construction of 2 storey          1. 34
office                                                                       concrete building.
B. Catanduanes
1. Workshop and equipment       Virac               Temporary                   Construction of N.E.              1.200
pool                                             (Operational)               Office, repair bays and
Workshop facilities
2. Quality control              Virac               Temporary                   Improvement of building           0.300
laboratory                                       (Operational)
C. Ilocos Norte
1 Workshop and equipment        Laoag               No facility                 New construction                   3.000
pool
D. Southern Leyte
1. Workshop and equipment       Nassin              Permanent - 4 repair        Construction and modifica-        2.000
pool                                             bays. I parts room,         tion of facilities
N.E. Office
2. Quality control              Maisin              Temporary                   New construction                  0.500
laboratory
E. Surigao del Norte
Workshop and equipment pool      Dapa, Surigao        Destroyed by typhoon        New construction                  1.500
2. Quality control              Dapa, Surigao       Destroved by typhoon        New construction                  0.400
laboratory
Total Cost                                                                                                     12.712
Source: HLG, PRovincial Covernments and Uission
December 1985



- 31 -                           Table 8
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training /a
Cost estimates (USS'000)
Man-               Subsistence   Total
Position                                 months       Fee    and travel      cost
Technical Assistance Through MLG
1. Technical advisors to MLG for design
and construction
One expatriate for 2 years           24       216.0       23.0       239.0
Two locals for 4 years               96       240.0       70.8      310.8
2. Maintenance advisor
One expatriate for 2 years           24       216.0       23.3       239.3
3. Equipment advisor
One expatriate for 2 years           24       216.0       23.3       239.3
4. Feasibility studies for future road
projects
One expatriate for 1 year            12       108.0        9.9       117.9
7 locals for 9D man-months           90       225.0       29.7      254.7
Subtotal                        270      1,221.0      18n.0    1,4nl1.0
Technical Assistance Through MPWH
1. Technical advisor on labor based
construction and maintenance
One expatriate for 4 years            36       502.0       66.0       568.0
One local for 2 years                 36        90.0       27.0       117.0
Subtotal                         72        592.n       q3.n      685.0
Total                           342      1,743.0      243.0    1,986.0
Training
1. Overseas study tour
30 staff from MLC and the
provinces for 2 months                  -       120.0      18q.0       3n0.n
2. Postgraduate degree courses
20 staff members from MLG
and the provinces for 2 years           -        1n.n      131.0       141.n
3.  Training of MPWM  staff                             -          -         n00.0
Total Training                     _        130.0      320.0      557.0
Total Technical Assistance
and Training                     -      1,873.0      563.n    2,543.0
/a Costs are to be financed wholly by the Bank.
Source: MLG, MPWH and Mission.
December 1985



Table 9
- 32 -
SUO  EML ROMs crARVPX    OJ
Detail"d Coat Batloat.O
Esthated Coot                                        Vor.l4p
Itse                  Deacriptton                        Local    Taxes    Por-l4u    Tet-i           Lo1a     Toms   Poreig    TSotel        2 of total
(Pago nillion)                              (US$ dillte)
A. Ixeutiw.         3ELC
1. l h M      u. rO   eum m spot t pr_
gnt of 790 km of provinciol roads           24U.7      97.2      374.0     720.0         13.3       5.2      20.0      31.5           52
2. CoGtructlen and i _proaeant of 5 sachanical
wukabopa and quality control laboratorte      3.7       1.9        7.5      13.1          0.2       n.1       0.4       0.7           52
Subtotal                                252.5      9.1      313.5      733.1         13.5       5.3      20.4      39.2           52
Procurae_u  ot gquite
3.  Road _initsnnc"   squime nt                      -         -       1336.      136.5           -        -        7.3       7.3
4.  lorkgbop. laboatery. office ad  other
equtp_nt and tools                             -        -         24.3      24.1           -         -        1.3       1.3
Subtotal                                   -        _        160.3     160.6           _         -        3.6       o 6.          00
Consultant sarwieas
5. Detailed oeUItaeering                           24.3       1.9       11.2       37.4          1.1       0.1       0.6      2.0            30
6. Cooftruction uspereision                         37.4      3.7       10.7       59.-          2.0       0.2       1.0      3.2            30
7. Fe-sbbltty study                                9.4        -         5.6       15.0          0.3        -        0.1      0.4            25
Subtotal                                 71.7       5.6       35.5     112.2          3.6       0.3       1.7       5.6           30
Technical Asoinc  Sa  Trainin
3. Technidal nwsie  be for 3'L                       5.6       -        20.6       26.2          0.3        -        0.7      3.0           O7
9. TraiAning                                         3.8.                'I3.7      7.5          0.1        -        0.3      0.4            75
Subtotal                                  9.4       _         24.3      33.7          0.4        -        1.0      134            73
Total A                                 332.9    104.7       602.1   1.039.7         17.5       5.6      31.7      54.0           56
*.  Ze ttW                     area
sl t weta e 3* ele_nt T*re-
ID. ReflabIlLratIon. ao. upgr-ailg of 31 Itz
o natioal roads                              1837      9_3       313.       59.0          1.0       0_5       1.7       3.2          S5
II. Rehabilitation. upgrading sad spot taprove-
ant of 224 km of pro tical roads            63.6      29.9      110.3     203.8          3.4       1.6       5.9      10.9           54
12. Cotructlo  and bproamnt of 2U8 km of
bsrsngy roads                                46.7      12.2       52.4     110.1          2.5       0.6       2.1       5.9           47
Subtotal                                129.0      50.5      194.5     374.0          6.9       2.7      10.4      20.0           52
lrcrun of equint
121. load . nidomnance an  conatruction equipwnt
including uttitty webicles                    -         _        24.3       24.3           -         -        1.1       1.3          100
Consultant * rvic-r
1a.   atiilenginagerian                              9.3       1.9        3.7       14.9          0.7       0.3       0.5      1.2            41
35. ConstructIn supervision                          7.5        -         3.7       11.2          0.5       -        0.4       0.9            44
Subtotal                                 16.I       1.9        7.6      26.1          1.2       0.1       0.9       2.1           42
T1cniecal Aasistane and laten
tO, ic-ToWC    assitauce tor hM.                     3.7        -         7.5       11.2          0.2       -        0.5       0.7            71
17. Training                                          -                   1.9        -.9                    -        0.1       0.1           100
Subtotal                                  3.7       -         9.4       13.1          0.2        -        0.6      0.3            75
Tot4l 3                                 149.6      52.4      235.6     637.6          3.2       2.8      13.2      24.2           55
C. Land Aqc utttlon                                      123.4       5.6         -       129.0          6.6       0.3       _        6.9
Project Bass Coat Is                    605.9    162.7       337.7   1.606.3         32.3       8.7     46.9       85.9           52
17 YS itcal lb                                      52.3      15.0       74.8      142.1          2.1       0.0      4.0       7.6             -
I0. Price /c -                                     198.2      61.7      276.8      536.7         10.6       3.3     14.8      23.7             -
Subtotal                                250.5      76.7      351.6     678.8         13.4       4.1      13.1      36.3           52
IOTAL PROJUT COST                       856.4    239.4    1.189.3   2.205.1          45.3      12.8      63.6    122.2            57
la  In constant  _sesbar 1955 prices.
lb  57 for Itt   3. 4 and 13; 0 for Itet  C and 10S for r_milngn Ites.
1986   1987  1980  1989   1990   191
IC  Prie conktiogmuies (S?:        7  --T7   7,5 * -T       7      -*45
Source: ILC. 1WR and  ianion.
December 1905



- 33 -                              Table In
PHILIPPINES
SErCO'D RUTRAL RnADS IMPRnf"!:4?NT PROJECT
Compositi n and Cost Estimates for a Typical Construction Unit
(For an average output of 1n km/unit/year)
(P-nnn)
Manpower Costs                                       !Ionthlv rate      Annual cost
Engineertng Personnel at Site
I senior engtneer                                       42                  4!
2 assistant engineers/surveyors                         36                  72
10 foremen                                              ?4                 24n
in technical staff, to assist with surveying,
testing and datia collectton)                         24                 24n
6 adminiscrative staff                                   IR                In0
Subtotal                                                                7n2
Technical Assistance
I expatriate consultant /a                                                 onn
I local consultant lb                                                      22R
Subtotal                                                               ,I'R
Labor
5sn laborers For 274 davs annuallIv                                      3 Q60
Total  lanpower                                                       S 79n
Cost of Fqulpment                    i'nit crst     Total      Annuial  epreciation
2 tandem rollers                        60n         l,onn               2nn
2 pedestrtan rollers                      qn          I61                1?
2 Farm tractors                          IRn          10n                72
2 tractor trailers                        sn          Inn                -n
2 towed railers                          4n            An                16
2 towed water b~users                    40            qn                IA
2 four-wheel vehtcles                    3Mn          36n                16
I pickup tru ck                         I sn          I sn               3n
2 motorcyeles                             25                             i n
2 sets light  Irillinp eqipiment          sn           qn                IR
2 mtscellaneouss                          -             -                2n
Subtotal                                       7,A2n             1Aq
Fquipment Running Costs                                                    Tota1
Fuel, PnL, spar- parts and drivers                                         1,7nn
Maintenanep and repair of eotiprment                                         Inn
Subtotal
nther Requirements
Rental of trucks for transport of gravel inrl.4irr their
running costs
Pipe culverts                                                              SAn
Hand tools and carabao Implements                                          14n
Field construction eamps                                                    on
Mtseellaneous                                                               2n
Subtotal                                                               .,In
Total                                                               11 RSR
/a Thirtv-six man-months P 0.R million *.r P 3,0inn per km.
/b  Thirtv-six man-months s 2.?  Sillinn or '  7,0nn per km.
Source:  '4PWI, ILn, Mission.
December 1R05



34 -                              Table 11
PHrILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Bank fiscal year            Ouarterly          Cumulative        x of        Bank
and quarter               disbursements       disbursements      total      profile
- -    (USS millions)          -              (%)
1986/87
March 31, 1987
June 30, 1987                 3.5                3.5             4.0         1.3
1987/88
September 30, 1987            3.0                6.5             8.0         2.1
December 31, 1987             3.2                9.7            12.0         3.1
March 31, 1988                3.4               13.1            16.0         3.5
June 30, 1988                 3.8               16.9            21.0         5.1
1988/89
September 30, 1988           4.2                21.1            26.0         7.5
December 31, 1988             4.7               25.8            31.0        11.0
March 31, 1989                5.2               31.0            38.0        14.0
June 30, 1989                 5.8               36.8            45.0        17.0
1989/90
September 30, 1989           6.8                43.6            53.0        17.0
December 31, 1989             6.9               50.5            62.0        22.0
March 31, 1990                6.0               56.7            69.0        35.0
June 30, 1990                 5.5               62.0            76.0        37.0
1990/91
September 30, 1990            5.1               67.1            82.0        42.0
December 31, 1990             4.2               71.3            87.0        43.0
March 31, 1991                3.7               75.0            91.0        46.0
June 30, 1991                 2.8               77.8            95.0        49.0
1991/92
September 3n, Iq91            2.0               79.8            97.0        53.0
December 31, 1991             1.1               80.9            98.0        60.0
March 31, 1992                0.7               81.6            99.0        71.0
June 30, 1992 /a             0.4                82.0           100.0        79.0
/a Project closing date.
Source:  MLG, MPWR, Mission.



- 35 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOWD RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MLC, PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS AND MPWH
ACTION PROGRAM FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Target Date
A.   MLC
1.   Institutional Improvements
(a)  Reach agreement with the fourteen project provinces for sharing
project costs; and allocation of funds (including maintenance
funds to be provided by the national government and the details
of a province-specific formula for recovery by the national
government of a portion of the total costs from the provinces in
such a manner that their fiscal capability to fulfill their
responsibilities, fully implement the project and continue the
general development of the province will not be impaired. The
agreement should also clearly delineate the division of respon-
sibilit-es and the lines of authority between MLC and the
provincial governments for construction, improvement and
maintenance of all provincial roads.                                    December 31, 1986
(b)  Modify its organizational structure to concentrate authority and
responsibility for all rural roads programs under one
MinisteriaL unit (Chart 2).                                             June 30, 19..7
(c)  Arrange, through coordination with the Office of Budget and
Management (OBM) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF), to provide
from national government resources, sufficient funds (on a
timely basis) to expeditiously implement the Project. A portion
of these funds are to be later recovered from the provinces in
accordance with the agreed arrangements (see para. (a) above).          June 30, 1986
(d)  Institute a target-oriented budget system, beginning with the
1987 budget, to provide adequate funds for MLG'S in-house
operations.                                                             January 1987
(e)  Provide sufficient funds in 1987 and sub3equent years in MLG's
budget to cover salaries and allowances for the additional staff
to be appointed.                                                        January 1987
(f)  Acquire adequate space and proper facilities for the Rural Roads
Program staff, including necessary equipment, apparatus and
supplies, providing sufficient funds in the 1987 and subsequent
budgets for initial and recurrent expenditures.                         June 30, 1987



-36-                                  ANNEX I
Page 2
Target Date
(g) Appoint or recruit sufficient, qualified staff to fill key
positions iD MLG'S revised organization, including an adequate
number of qualified counterpart staff to the tecilnical assis-
tance experts being appointed under this project to provide
assistance and advice. Recruit or appoint a sufficient number
of qualified support staff to appropriate positions in its
revised organiZation.                                                   June 30, 1987
(h) Select qualified personnel from the provincial Covernment units
and from NLG staff to be sent overseas for advanced technical
training and for short study tours.                                     March 31, 1989
(i) Institute, with the help of technical assistance experts to be
appointed under this project an on-the-job training program.            January 31, 1989
2.   Provincial Roads Construction and Improvement
Hay 1, 1986 (for
(j)  Select and appoint, subject to Bank concurrence, qualified and          1987 projects)
experienced local consulting firms to undertake detailed                September 15 each
engineering and construction supervision of the 1987 project            year for subse-
roads and for the improvements to provincial workshops and              quent year
laboratories.                                                           projects
(k) Select and appoint, subject to Bank concurrence, suitable
qualified technical assistance consultants to assist in
improving its organization, management and technical capability
and in guiding, supervising and monitoring the work of the
provinces and of the local design consultants.                          May 1, 1987
(1)  Arrange, on a centralized basis, for the prequalification of            November 30, 1986
contractors to undertake the construction of the proje   rural          (for 1987 proj-
roads and workshop improvemnts, using an improved                      ects) May 31 each
prequalification evaluation procedure satisfactory to the Bank.         year for subse-
quent year
projects.
(m) After completion of the detailed engineering and preparation of
contract documents fcr the first year construction program for
the rural roads included in this project, conduct local
competitive bidding for the ruraL roads improvement works on a
centralized basis, evaluate the bids using systems and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and with Bank concurrence,
award contracts for construction.                                       May 15, 1987
(n) Begin construction of the first year program for the Rural Roads
Improvement Project.                                                    June 15, 1987



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Target Date
P.   PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS
1.   Institutional Improvements
(a) Reorganize the PPDO and PEO to clarify division of authority and
responsibility.                                                        January 31, 1987
(b) Provide sufficient funds in 1987 provincial budgets to cover
staff salaries and allowances for additional staff.                    June 30, 1987
(c) Recruit qualified personnel to fill key positions and provide
adequate support staff.                                                December 31, 1987
(d)  Appoint suitable counterpart staff to MIG technical assistance
advisors.                                                              July 15, 1987
(e) Acquire necessary additional office space and facilities for
PPDO and PEO, providing sufficient funds in 1987 and subsequent
provincial budgets for initial and recurrent costs, including
utilities and suppLies.                                                January 31, 1987
(f) Conduct a comprehensive ruraL road condition inventory on a
yearly basis to be used for maintenance planning as well as road
improvement programs.                                                  June 30, 1987
(g)  Conduct training at the provincial level, with assistance from
technical assistance advisors and using resources and training
materials provided by MLG.                                             June 30, 1989
(h)  Nominate staff for MLG training courses, including on-the-job
training, advanced overseas technical training and overseas
study tours.                                                           March 31, 1989
i)  Appoint sufficient qualified staff to properly operate
provincial workshops and laboratories and improve methods,
procedures and operations with the help of technical assistance
consultants to be appointed under this project.                        April 30, 1989
2.   Rural Roads Construction and Improvement
(j) Acquire necessary land for provincial workshops and laboratories
and required right-of-way fur projtct roads.                           December 31, 1986
(k) Institute adequate quality control procedures using improved
laboratory facilities and qualified personnel with the help of
MLG and the technical assistance consultants to be appointed
under this project.                                                    June 30, 1987



-38-                                  ANNEX 1
Page 4
Target Date
(1) Improve workshop facilities by acquiring, through MLG, necessary
equipment, tools and machinery as well as improving physical
facilities.
October 30, 1988
(m)  Improve the conduct of rural roads maintenance operations using
modified and improved methods and procedures determined with the
aid of MLG technical assistance consultants, by recruiting and
appointing adequate maintenance personnel and by implementing a
satisfactory training program.                                          June 30, 1989
(n) Supervise, with the help of local consultants to be appointed
under this project, the rural roads improvement work performed
by contractors and the improvements to the provincial workshops
and laboratories, assisted by MLG and the technical assistance
consultants appointed under this project.                               June 30, 1987
3.   Preparation of Future Rural Roads Improvement Project
Feasibility Study for 10 Additional Provinces
The project includes funds for conducting a feasibility study in
preparation of a future rural roads improvement project which
will cover about 10 additional provinces. It will be necessary
for MLG and the provinces to provide adequate and qualified
counterpart staff to assist the consultants in carrying out the
study. This counterpart staff should be available beginning in
January 2, 1989, and their appointments should be completed by
June 30, 1990.                                                          January 15, 1989
4.   Consulting Services
(a) Adequate and qualified counterpart staff should be provided by
the Government to assist the consultants who will be appointed
to provide the technical assistance to MLG and the provinces.
This staff should be available by June 30, 1987, for design and
contract management advisor and by January 31, 1989, for road           June 30, 1987
maintenance and equipment management advisors.                          (January 31, 1989)
(b) Detailed terms of reference for the various consulting services
and technical a-qistance included in the project will need to be
completed in final form (draft terms of reference are in the
Project File) by MLG and MPWH and submitted to the Bank for
review and concurrence. These will include:



- 39                                  ANE-
ANIIE 1
Page 5
Target Date
(i)   Terms of reference for consulting services (except for
the first year's program) to perform detailed
engineering and construction supervision for the rural
roads improvements included in the project;                   May 31, 1986
(ii)   Terms of reference for detailed engineering and
construction supervision for the provincial workshop
improvements (except for the first year's program);           November 30, 1986
(iii)   Terms of reference for the various technical assistance
services for MLG and the provincial governments, based
on the agreed outlined terms of reference (Annex 2).          April 30, 1988
C. MPVH
1. Institutional Arrangements
(a) Ensure sufficient funds in 1987 and subsequent years, for the
project, in respect of salaries and allowances for the staff
needed for the project, particularly the staff required for             November 30, 1986
supervision and implementation of labor based projects,                 and annually
including initial and recurring costs, utilities, supplies etc.         thereafter
(b)  Appoint and recruit sufficient, qualified staff, according to
the approved organizational plan, to fill key positions in the
Central Project Management Office and field offices to be set up
in each of the settlements.                                             December 31, 1986
(c) Institute necessary coordination arrangements with Regional/
District Offices of the MPWH, Provincial Engineering Offices,
and MAR, regarding prosecution of projects and setting up of
field/base offices for the purpose.                                     February 28, 1987
(d) Acquire adequate space and construct necessary temporary
buildings for field offices/base offices in each of the settle-
ment areas, including requisite office furniture, utiLities,
supplies etc.                                                           April 30, 1987
(e) Reach agreement with KLG, and project provinces, about sharing
of equipment purchased under the project for maintenance of
project roads.                                                          January 31, 1989



-40-                                ANNEX 1
Page 6
Target Date
2.   Construction/Upgrading of National and Provincial Roads
(a) Prepare terms of references and letters of invitation for
technical proposals for preparation of detailed engineering,
bidding documents and construction supervision.                         June 30, 1986
(b) Evaluate technical proposals, select and appoint consulting
firms for detailed engineering/construction supervision after
complete evaluation of their bids and getting concurrence of the
Bank.                                                                   September 30, 1986
(c)  Complete detailed engineering and bidding documents for national    March 31, 1987 for
and provincial roads.                                                   1987 and 1988
projects and
September 30, 1988
for 1989 and 1990
projects
(d) For the first two year program (1987 and 1988) conduct ICB in
accordance with the Bank guidelines and with Bank concurrence
award contracts.                                                        September 30, 1987
(e)  Similar to above for 1989 and 1990 program.                             April 30, 1989
3.   Construction/Upgrading of Barangay Roads
by LB Methods                                                           March 31, 1987 for
1987 projects and
(a)  Complete detailed engineering of barangay roads.                        December 31, 1987
for remaining
roads.
(b)  Establish construction units and started with the first year            March 31. 1987
program.
(c) Complete detailed engineering and selected small local
ccnstractors to undertake road construction by labor based
method.                                                                 September 30, 1987
(d) Begin construction of project roads through contractors starting
with 1988 program                                                       December 31, 1987



- 41-                                 ANNEX 1
Page 7
Target Date
4.   Technical Assistance and Training
(a) Prepare terms of reference, select and appoint, subject to Bank
concurrences, qualified technical assistance, consultants for LB
projects.                                                               December 31, 1986
(b)  Run short-term training courses for foremen/local staff/small
contractors bid project Implementation Schedule starting with
the first year program.                                                 April 30, 1987
(c)  Select personnel from Central Management Office and field               October 31, 1987
offices of the project for short overseas study tours of LB             (for 1988)
projects.                                                               October 31, 1988
(for 1990)
5.   Equipment
(a) Prepare specifications and issue bidding documents, subject to
Bank concurrence, for operational equipment for the construction
of LB roads.                                                            October 31, 1986
(b) Evaluate the bids, select suppliers and with the Bank
concurrence award contracts (b) for equipment)                          January 31, 1987
Cc) Finalize specifications and bidding documents for road
maintenance equipment and with the Bank's concurrence invite
bids.                                                                   June 30, 1988
Ce) Evaluate the bids, select and appoint, subject to Bank
concurrence, suppliers for the above-mentioned maintenance
equipment.                                                              March 31, 1989



ANNFX 2
Page 1
- 42 -
PHIUPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ImpementatIlon Schedule
YSW    1906        1967       I1966     1969        4990       1991
_.    -  Y95 Pcgan7                                              9I                     Wl         W
QulKN    1 21 31 4 _1 2 13 _1 tl13  t2131 41    21 31 34 112 1    23 4
1. EARIVACVIMIS 
A BOARD REEIATION
IL LON EFFK11911V 
M. PRAC IPBIETTO
A     EXKlRNG fC-    LG
d_I  enwo w of P_ca Rock
a    C- b  R      d 1>eg
- 19a0 I IcP
-2 Rood  ltRogwnMs ePvoTI_
3   02wornoSfa                            M                j         E
bCAroodmafln wipcemanuof(eipotsxt
|1           dt a  oK           p          PHOw BP     HP .|CII          IIIIIII               I     I
I   Eqjpmgnt mwraowet   In (onI
b  % Pmrl                                                       BP (on   u&b     ll4 H    1 I        
1     anf 4   IS sPnce was)                    III   
'o'*'s war& GO nn-ntro c   ccll                                                 llll 
2 RAdncUmwigC200ogromn2
b PtCufwtvtoftrood m11 - aecoCov St,
C   -Pruated EneushrkiOg                 |                BP A| |||t
I    OP OW                                        -I I   I I   'DOII I                              I I
SP _ehfrS A    dn                    STA -Su dTednns
OP   -  D P  P enHf cfl               |n                                                   I - T n O0 1
FS  U. -Few  SS    9W   o
PO  -PIeqA" (OMnt8<-3



-  43  -
ANNEx 2
PaRe 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementakion Schedule
Year    1986         1967        1988        1989        1990       1991
Quafr   1  2 314112  3 4  1121314  1  2 3 4 1 2  3 4  1 2  3 4
B EXECVUING AGENCY -MPW
* Imrovement of 305 krns of National &
Prvln,oal Rioads
- Detale Engeerng 1987-8 Rogram             DE
- Detaled Enrgweeng 1989-90 Progom                     SC      DE
- Constction 1987 & 1988 Program                BP                       . __
- ConrLcton 1989 and 1990 Program                  --- --                P      _ - _    CP _ _
2 Costcro/pgog 289 kffs of                                              
Brgy Roadls by LB Mes 3111l                                                                I
a Poqectsbc faOCCount (259 km)                  O
- 1989 &  M99 Progom                                                 -                  ' L  - _ _
b Prectsty smanl contractors (30 km)                                                       I T
- 1989 & 1990 rogrom                                            Cl   B         P       CP          -
3 Technica Astnce & Training
o Technical osssronce fa LB works                                         I1
(OnegrpanaftetforyA s&one local            IA L  I
far 3 yeors)
Shotraining courses for forernerVlocal        I I                                  - I  1    1
c Stud  tou LB prjects owveeas for senior
stf (6 persons 2 month eoch or 9 Dersons                  S |F
I month each)j                                                              I
d Tranng of smll contractors                                                          T
4. Rood Moantenace bV LO                                    I                                     -     - |_
5 Procureent of EQuipment                                                        j
a Hrdtcolsfo LB projects                  Bi
t Senice vehides & equment lr LB prqects   BD          DP
c Monkoc equlpment             
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I :   I   A   I  I ,     M  t      --      I
ID  - Bidding DocunertSpecificotions       SC  - Selection of CnrsOont
BP  - Biddn PerbdlContract hmrord          RM  - Roao Maintenance
CP  - Conrucio Period                      STA  - Selcfion of Technical Assioance Staff
DE  - Deftded Engineering                  PN  - Reparo    Work
DP  - Delery Period                        TA  - Technical Assitan
FS  - Feasbhll Studv                       T   - TraWing
PO  - Prequalfcotion                       ST  - Studv Tours                                      World Bank-30167 2



- 44 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project-Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A.   General Reports and Studies on Transport Sector
A-1 Public Investment Program 1986-1990, NEDA.
A-2 National Transportation Planning Project, 1982, by Renardet
and Sauti-I.C.E.
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1 Rural Roads Development Program II, Feasibility Study, 20 Volumes,
October 1982, by Norconsult and Renardet.
B-2 Rural Roads Development Program, updated Feasibility Study, 4
Volumes, December 1985, by Renardet.
B-3 Kabankalan, Sutan Kudarat-South Cotabato and Wao Banisilan
Settlement Project Feasibility Study, 6 Volumes, May 1981 by Tahal.
B-4 Kabankalan, Sultan Kudarat-South Cotabato and Wao-Banisilan
Settlement Project, updated Feasibility Study, Volume, December
1985, by Renardet.
B-5 Proposed Second Rural Roads Improvement Project, Application
incLuding:
(i)    detailed cost estimates for roads, equipment consultant
services and technical assistance;
(ii)    draft terms of reference for coordinating consultants;
(iii)    draft terms of reference for maintenance and equipment
advisors; and
(v)    draft terms of reference for planning and programming technical
assistance.
B-6 Design Guidelines, Volume 1 by Ministry of LocaL Government.
B-7 General Provisions and Technical Specifications, Dezember 1983, one
Volume by Upham International Corporation.
B-8 Draft Interim Construction Supervision Guidelines, May 1983, one
Volume by Upham International Corporation.



45 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 2
B-9  Equipment Management Manual, August 1984, by MLG.
B-10 Proposed Manual for Road Feasibility Studies, by MLG.
B-li Land Settlement roads component, by MPWH, including maps.
B-12 Maintenance Management Guidelines, 1983 by MLG.
B-13 A study of Labor Based/Equipment Supported Road Construction 1983 by
ILO-Geneva.
B-14 Proposed Annual Adjustment on the Basic Cost per Equivalent
Maintenance Kilometer (EMK) of National Highways, 1986 by MPWH.



PHILIPPINES
NORTE                                                           SECOND RURAL ROADS
3 CAVON                         IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                               _                                            C44  4           . 'in4 447 4w   P4. 44   EE0 PC
By GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS                                                              ( o'4                                                         ,4 4I744 P      ;     1 
1 10c5   3s alilrn                      8 8-n 2   2/t  z    >1--IC                                      R44nE..r44fl OU il. 7i00. "404  .44  ,, 44,E
7004in               46.14 Ibw                     \                                                                  .44444E. 4.^r=l"l^W440..*p p4C
4 II,444N4oI.  44.C,EO ~ ~  ~         ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       ~      ml.I-
411 0444444 ll           41.0 Nq     -lo                tR4404 440j44E.44.O4f
C-I4.        71 .I0, p                                            p       eAVN4
C444                      6444                             '4s               o,7 eNl    arr \     -_/3   =   obi
11                    CIE4STET 2wY0 ,, .2 4444' 44044 O.44.o "                                                                                                                            ,,.
I4 IQ                   61MwLO lnI                        y>=s                                                     3    t!
4  0   a M>nr ?1.1A47N ENDAN^O   ''    , 4,,?z, ,,            <      \    ~  t-l' z-   ''    ei31 CATANDUANE5
44. 5444               4.s ?ETR v IN404V,AD                          ->      i     ,                 ?                   4,00460044          /
40. '414               4 Sl
73    silso? 11 \ < o/tn ? 30 z wX vo~~~~~~~Vil
IC. NUTOER, 7400.u0 0   4. NORR 4   .........................................THER7 _
4. 04114444               4. ;'-"-'4                                           .44.3
44.,,P,,,,4            44. 44I.,,,1., 4                                                                                                        ,441p
A. 640               44. - 60,004140C444                                                                                                                           lDAEVACU              ^
44. 4104444              41 05454  01444
4_ 4.4444'                 44. |. 440.14444Oi
45. 44044444.4  74. 1444401444 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~T
44.4414044   74.0444444444 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ SRIA
47 $440444  74. 44440444044~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DL U
4xxi
04444  44              5,f-                                  A-
44.444404444  7444444404440444  04444447474  I ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ DE SU
- - - - - - - - - - - - -  - -44  4444474                              4444



