Lo4AJ S62 - AE
RESTRICTED
Report No.   TO-613a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
RIO COLORADO IRRIGATION PROJECT
MEXICO
December Z1, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1. 00             =   Pesos 12.50
Pesos 1                  US$0. 08
Pesos 1, 000, 000    =   US$80,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1            -   December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES-METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)    =   0. 039 inches
1 centimeter (cm)    =  0. 3937 inches
1 meter (m)      2   =   39. 37 inches
1 square meter (m ) =    10. 76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )   =   35. 31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters
(Mm )             =  810.7 acre feet
1 kilometer (km)     =  0. 62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       =  2.47 acres
1 liter (1)          =   1. 057 quarts (U. S.)



MEXICO
RIO COLORADO IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNIY      ***                      * **          .           i -aii
I.    INTRODUCTION    . . .     . *     a   a 0 8 0 0 0 0 .   0 .  .   1
II*    BACKGROUND   *s**        * *        * **  a    0**    *e
III.    THE PROJECT AREA    .. . .          . . . . .           .*2
General 0 *   0     0 0      0      0*   *   9 *  0 * *        2
Climate, Topography and Soils . 0*0000         00              3
Land Tenure a 0* 0 e a     0 0 0 a a     a * o  e a 0 e        4
Technical Services     . . . . . . ... ... .. .                14
Agricultural Credit . .        ..* &     .*. .                 4
Present Production and Values .. . . . . .. . .                5
Ylarketing and Prices    . . . . a .00     0 .   .  .   . *    6
VI.    THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        6 * . .  6
General . . .    o*   **    * 0 0     0*   0***                6
Project Works       . .. .. .. .. .. ....           .          7
Water Supply     0000000a0000*00a0a                            7
Water Requirements       ....       e * a  *          *o*8
Status of Engineering . . r      . . . .*. .. ...  a.          9
Construction Cost Estimates . .      * * *   ** *              9
Financing    e o   * 0 * e  * * * 0 * * , 0         0         10
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . .       . . . . ..                11
General . . . . a . a a . . . . * * . . . 0         0 .       11
The Irrigation District.       ...........                    U
Construction    . . . . . ......e              *              12
Expanded Technical Services 0 . . . . . . . .        .        13
Soils and Farm Drainage Studies . . . . . . ' . .             13
Requirements for Farm Credit      0 . * . . . . . . .         14
VI.    FINANCIAL RESULTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             14
Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimates       . . . .        14
Water Charges.    *0              o oo oao        o o         15
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION      . . . . . . e..                 16
Inproved Land Use n    se.    .o o.ao         .               16
Increased Crop Yields... . . . .           . .  o             17
VIII.    CONCUJSIONS A1ND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . .       *.  . . .      18



ANNEES
1.   Land Tenure and Size of Farms in Rio Colorado District
2.   Agricultural Credit
3.   Crop Production and Value, Mexicali Valley - 1963/64-1965/66
4.   The Existing Irrigation System and Proposed New Works
5.   Water Requirements
6.   Estimate of Costs
7,   Operation and M"aintenance Costs after Rehabilitation
8. Estimated Increase in Net Value of Annual Production Following
Rehabilitation
9.   Estimated Costs and Benefits
CHART
Rio Colorado - Construction Schedule
MAPS
1.   Mexican Rehabilitation Irrigation Program
2.   Rio Colorado Irrigation Project
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Mexico in February/March 1967, composed of Messrs. Greenshields,
Bartsch, Kordik and Zarandin of the Bank, Mr. Garnier of FAO, and
Mr. Knights (consultant to the Bank).



MEXICO
RIO COLORADO IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Mexican Government has applied to the Bank for a loan to
assist in the financing of the rehabilitation of the Rio Colorado Irriga-
tion District, located in the lower Colorado River delta, extending south
from the United States' border into the States of Baja California and
Sonora.
ii.       The Project would increase the quantity of water for irrigation
by the reconstruction and lining of canals, by rehabilitation of existing
wells, construction of new wells and integration of groundwater supplies
with gravity flows from the Colorado River, and land leveling for greater
efficiency in distribution. It would include complete rehabilitation of
all drains to enable better control of salinity. The Project would also
include new and improved roads, an office building, repair shop, ditch
rider houses and a telecommunication system to facilitate operation and
maintenance. Technical and extension services to farmers would be expanded
and improved.
iii.      The Project would provide assured water supplies and better water
management for approximately 203,000 ha, of which 12,700 ha would be double
cropped, in effect bringing the total annual area of irrigated crops to
215,700 ha.
iv.       The estimated cost of the Project (1968-74) would be approximately
US$95 million. In addition, farmers are expected to invest about US$12
million for on-farm drainage over a period of about 15 years.
v.        The Proposed Bank loan of US$25 million would cover the presently
estimated foreign exchange component of civil works for the Project. All
other costs including local currency costs would be met by the Government.
vi.       The Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH) would be responsible
for the execution of the Project. SRH has a competent staff and an effi-
cient organization for carrying out the Project and their execution of
similar Bank-financed projects has been satisfactory.
vii.      Water users would make payments to the Government over a period
of 25 yearsp after the construction has been completed, to assist in de-
fraying about 50 percent of the investment cost of the Project. The water
users would also pay a water charge to cover the entire cost of operation
and maintenance.
viii.     Annual economic benefits would reach a level of approximately
US$16 million in about 15 years. On the basis of these direct agricultural
benefits, the internal rate of return to the economy would be about 11 per-
cent. In addition, the Project is indispensable for maintaining the com-
mercial and industrial economy of the area as these are entirely based on
agriculture.



- ii -
ix.       The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million for a
term of 20 years, including a grace period of seven years. The Borrower
would be the Nacional Financiera, S.A., an agency of the Government of
Mexico.



MEXICO
RIO COLORADO IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Mexican Government has requested a Bank loan to help finance
the rehabilitation and consolidation of the Rio Colorado Irrigation Dis-
trict comprising 330,000 ha, of which about 203,000 ha would be irrigated.
Three previous loans have been made by the Bank for the rehabilitation of
irrigation projects: Loan 275-ME in January 1961 for US$15 million; Loan
336-N4E in April 1963 for US$12.5 million; and Loan 450-ME in May 1966 for
US$19 million (for location of projects, see Map 1). Construction work
under these loans is progressing satisfactorily, except for deferment of
a portion of the construction in one district pending completion of further
studies to improve drainage and cropping patterns.
1.02      This report contains an appraisal of the Project based on feasi-
bility reports prepared by Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH), in-
formation supplied by the Mexican Government, and on the findings, field
studies and discussions by a Bank Mission composed of Messrs. Greenshields,
Bartsch, Kordik, Zarandin, Garnier (FAO), and Knights (Consultant), who
visited Mexico in February/March 1967.
IIo BACKGROUND
2.01      In Mexico agricultural production contributes only about one-
sixth of the total gross domestic product, However, nearly half of the
population derive a living from work on the farms and ranches* During the
past 10 years the average rate of growth of agricultural output has been
over 4 percent per year. This rate of growth has not only enabled the
country to cope effectively with the annual population growth of 3.6 per-
cent and the increasing per capita food consumption, but has also enabled
Mexico to become a net exporter of basic food crops.
2.02      Exports of agricultural commodities in 1965 were valued at
US$665 million, amounting to about 65 percent of all exports, Cotton ac-
counted for 19.1 percent, cereals for 10.6 percent and livestock products
for 4.7 percent of all exports. Mexico has adopted agricultural programs
with a view to producing adequate food and fiber products for national
needs and to increasing agricultural exports.
2.03      The rugged topography of much of Mexico, combined with arid and
semi-arid conditions prevailing in many regions, limits the area of culti-
vation to about 30 million ha which is only 16 percent of the total land
area. Under these unfavorable natural conditions, continued increased
agricultural outputs can be attained only by using the available arable
land more intensively. This requires improvement of all major inputs and,
in areas where water shortage is the principal limiting factor, the expan-
sion and rehabilitation of irrigation. In recognition of this, the Govern-
ment has devoted more than 90 percent of its agricultural investment to
irrigation in recent years.



- 2 -
2.04      More than 4L million ha of farmland are under irrigation, of
wJhich 2 million ha have been brought in during the past 15 years. The
IMexican Government, through its Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources (SRH),
is operating irrigation facilities on about 2.5 million ha, while farmers
with private systems irrigate approximately 1.5 million ha. About 30
percent of the harvested crops of Mexico are from land receiving irrigation.
2.05      An impressive expansion of irrigation development took place in
1930-40.  However, too little attention was given to the construction of
facilities that would make full utilization of the potential water re-
sources. Excessive water losses resulted from unlined canals and in
efficient water distribution.      In 1960 the Government decided that the
rehabilitation of existing irrigation facilities be given priority over
the construction of new schemes because of greater economic benefits. The
work of rehabilitation has included the redesign of canal systems, lining
of canals and laterals, provision of drainage, construction of additional
reservoirs, and the redistribution and consolidation of land holdings. In
the case of the Rio Colorado Irrigation District, the rehabilitation of
works would permit the expansion of the irrigated area by about 27,000 ha
and double cropping on about 12,700 ha.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area includes the Rio Colorado Irrigation District
within the Mexicali Valley. This valley is the lower Colorado River delta
extending south from the United States-Miexico border into the States of
Baja California and Sonora. The gross area of this District is about
330,000 ha, of whiich 176,000 ha are presently irrigated. Water from the
Colorado River, the amount of which is established under International
Treaty (paras 4.03 and 4.04), is used for the irrigation of 113,000 ha,
while 63,000 ha are supplied with water from deep wells.
3.02      The area's population is about 300,000, of which about 220,000
are in the City of Mexicali (see Map 2). Irrigation has been practiced
in this area since 1908 and within the past 30 years the Mexican Govern-
ment has been improving the irrigation facilities principally through the
construction of canals, drainage works and the Morelos Diversion Dam.
3.03      The existing irrigation and drainage system, constructed as it
was over a period of years by several private groups, is below standard.
Many canals cannot provide adequate volumes of water for optimum applica-
tion. Water losses from the unlined canals are excessive. Inadequate
land leveling also contributes to inefficient water use. Neglected main-
tenance during the past years has contributed to the low efficiency of
the system.
3.0a      The authorities, as well as the farmers, are aware of these poor
conditions in the project area and they are in general agreement that



remedial action has to be taken. The farmers, through their organized
groups, have expressed strong support for the proposed rehabilitation
program.
3.05      The area is well suited to irrigation farming and has consider-
able potential for expanded agricultural output despite the limited water
supplies. Present levels of agricultural production are among the highest
in Mexico. Most farmers have adequate sized farms to achieve acceptable
levels of income and for use of modern mechanized methods.
Climate, Topography and Soils
3.06      The climate of the Rio Colorado Irrigation District is arid,
with an average annual rainfall of only 36 mm, which occurs principally
during the months of December, January and August. During the past 20
years annual rainfall has varied from 6 mm to 77 mm. Temperatures during
the sunmier months average about 320C (900F), while temperatures in winter
are about 130C (550F). Freezing conditions during nights may be expected
between the months of November and February.  The minimum temperature
recorded was -70C (190F). Hailstorms during winter months have been re-
ported only twice in the past 34 years.
3.07      The District is a relatively flat plain within the broad Colorado
River delta. The soils are medium to fine grain alluvium and free from
coarse sands or gravel deposits. The plain is divided by a 10 - 20 m
elevated ridge so that drainage from the northwTestern part f'ows toward
the Salton Sea in the United States and from the remainder of the area to-
ward the Gulf of California.  The northwestern plain has a gradient of
0.46 m/km, while the southern plain is somewhat flatter, with a gradient
of 0.42 m/km. Both parts of the area have topography favorable for irri-
gation and effective water control.
3.08      The soils of the District have been adequately classified and
mapped. According to the United States Bureau of Reclamation's system of
land classification, most of the soils are I and II, which classes are
suitable for sustained production under irrigation. In general, they are
free draining with the exception of about 33,000 ha of heavy clays for
which extensive drainage would be provided. The organic matter content is
low in al series, therefore, nitrogen fertilizer applications are nec-
essary for satisfactory production.
3.09      Salt has accumulated in the soils due to faulty irrigation prac-
tices under the desert-type climate. Limited application of irrigation
water has precluded leaching and resulted in increasing salinity over
about 35 percent of the area. This area will require moderate leaching
to restore full productivity. About 22 percent of the total irrigable
area will require heavy leaching, and 13 percent of the area with salts
in the soil in excess of 2 percent by weight, would be excluded from the
Project as well as three limited areas of highly alkaline soils. About
20 percent of the area is nearly salt free.



Land Tenure
3.10      Under the agrarian land reform program, farmers have been allo-
cated farms in units of 20 ha with full water rights, which have effective-
ly been reduced to 18 ha of irrigated crops under presently available water
supplies* About three-fifths of the farmland of the project area are culti-
vated by ejidatarios (life-tenants established under Mexican Land Reform)
who have use rights but no legal ownership title in the land. The
ejidatarios represent about 65 percent of all farmers in the District
(Annex 1). The remainder of the District is cultivated by private farmers.
The modal-size group of both the ejido and private farm is the 20-ha unit.
Although the maximum allocation of water rights to any one individual is
20 ha, some farm families jointly farm several units held by members of
their family or leased from others. A family farm can have a maximum of
150 ha if it is in cotton or 100 ha if it is in other crops under present
regulations of the agrarian reform law.
3.11      The private landowners have higher incomes than the ejidatarios
because they operate bigger farms on the average, have more financial
resources, and use more modern techniques of farming. Nine-tenths of the
farms with over 20 ha are privately owned. More than 70 percent of the
farms of 5 ha or less in size are operated by ejidatarios.
Technical Services
3.12      Agricultural research and extension services are the responsi-
bility of the Secretariat of Agriculture. The Secretariat maintains a
number of central plant breeding and other experimental stations. Trials
of best adapted varieties are carried out for the District at a 40-ha sub-
station near Mexicali for winter crops, and at a station in the eastern
sandy soil part of the District for summer crops. Also at the Mexicali
substation, experimental work is undertaken on fertilizer application,
irrigation practices and plant protection. The crop research program at
these district field stations is considered adequate for providing basic
information on present crops and on the crops to be introduced in the
project area.
3.13      Agricultural extension services have not been expanded in keeping
with needs. Some additional staffing and supporting budgets are needed.
The Mexicali Valley has only five extension agents, five home economists
and a part-time specialist agent for livestock. To a large extent the
effective technical services are now provided by the inspectors of the
governmental lending agencies, the Ejidal Bank and the National Agricultural
Bank, and by the cotton companies. The Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources
provides extension guidance on irrigation and drainage practices primarily
through the supervisors of irrigation units.
Agricultural Credit
3.14      The principal sources of short-term farm credit in the District
are the 12 cotton companies and the two Government banks - the Banco Ejidal
which lends exclusively to the ejidatarios, and the Banco Agricola which



- 5 -
lends mainly to small private farm operators. The cotton companies finance
over 90 percent of all annual crop production in the District. Their fi-
nancing, as well as that of the banks, is advanced for each separate major
item of work throughout the crop calendar. Each succeeding stage of work
is financed only after an inspector has determined the preceding work to
be satisfactorily completed. The companies are now employing many gradu-
ate agronomists as inspectors. They have one inspector to each 50 to 75
farmers. Private commercial banks make loans to a few large scale farm
operators and to farmers who do contract work with agricultural machinery.
Their participation in the overall agricultural credit picture is quite
negligible.
3015      The two Government banks, as well as the cotton companies, pro-
vide a part of their annual credits in kind such as seeds, fertilizers and
in contract services. The cash part of most annual loans is based on
amount of labor required and is advanced on a month-to-month basis to
cover family living expenses. The usual rate of interest charged by all
lending agencies on annual crop production loans is one percent per month
on the outstanding balance. Details on farm credit are given in Annex 2.
3.16      The Banco Nacional Agropecuario, established in Mexico in 1965,
opened an office    in Mexicali in September, 1967. This sub-branch will
fill an important credit need by the provision of medium and long-term
credits not now covered by the two existing official banks. Farmers will
need longer term credit for installation of on-farm drainage and for pur-
chase of farm implements. In addition, the farmers -who are expected to
go into livestoclk production in the project area wTould need a stable ar.d
adequate source of medium and long-term credits.
Present Production and Values
3.17      About 71 percent of the irrigated acreage is devoted to cotton
as the climate and the soils of the area are especially favorable for
this crop. Wheat is the second major crop with 24 percent of the irri-
gated area. Alfalfa, vegetables and some other crops are cultivated on
5 percent of the land. Average seed cotton yields of 2.9 tons per ha are
the highest in Mexico. The cotton lint is fine-long staple, white and
clean due to hand picking and absence of rain and insect pests, and there-
fore, usually commands a premium price.   Good quality hard wheat averages
2.9 tons per ha and alfalfa hay yields 9 tons per ha (Annexes 3 and 8).
3.18      Livestock is presently of minor importance in relation to crop
production, but it is increasing. Three commercial dairies in Mexicali
are producer-owned and operated. The total investment in dairy cattle
and plants in the District is estimated at about 68 million pesos. The
output of the commercial plants is roughly 50,000 liters per day. The
output of raw milk by small producers is from 10,000 to 15,000 1 per day.
About 10,000 1 per day are imported from the United States. Thirteen
commercial feed lot operators keep an average of 30,000 to 35,000 head of
beef cattle to meet the local demand of about 100,000 head annually. The
District is also important as a transshipment area for feeder cattle,
mostly from the State of Sonora, destined for export to the United States.



- 6 -
Annually about 60,000 head are fed normally 10 to 15 days in commercial
feed lots at Mexicali prior to being transported to the United Stateso
3.19      The overall standard of farming is well advanced and this is
reflected in the high levels of fertilizer application and the high degree
of mechanization. About 5,800 tractors and 19050 combination harvesters
are being used in the District according to a 1964/65 machinery census.
Ninety-four percent of the farms can be considered fully mechanized.
Harketing and Prices
3.20      All cotton production is financed and marketed under contract to
the twelve cotton ginning companies in the Rio Colorado Irrigation District.
These companies export practically all of the lint output to Japan and
Europe. Cottonseeds are processed by two of the companies that have oil
mills. The oil is converted into shortening which finds its way into the
Mexican market. The cottonseed cakes are chiefly exported to the United
States. The fibers grown in the District are straight middling 1-1/16"
which are of high grade and have earned a good reputation in foreign cotton
markets. These high-strength fibers go mainly into garments. In 1966/67,
the average export price per pound of straight middling 1-1/16" was U.S.
cents 22.15 fob Ensenada, a port on the western coast of Baja California.
3.21      Wheat prices are fixed under a price support program administered
by a federal agency called CONASUPO. The country-wide support price is
800 pesos per ton, which is slightly higher than the world price of 750
pesos per ton. CONASUPO's support price for wheat produced in the Mexicali
Valley was 1,100 pesos (US$88) per ton in 1964/65, and 913 pesos (US$73.o4)
per ton in 1966. These Mexicali support prices, which are higher than
those for the rest of the country, are justified by the high transport cost
that would otherwise be involved in bringing wheat to the District from
other producing areas of Mexico.
3.22      In addition to wfheat, prices are fixed under the federal price
support program for corn and sorghum. The prices for cottonseed, safflower
seed, beans, soybeans, and sesame seed are not fixed, but they are supported
through purchases by CONASUPO. A complementary agency called ANDSA grades
and stores the wheat and other products purchased by CONASUPO. ANDSA has
five fully mechanized warehouses in the District, each with a storage
capacity of 15,000 tons.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The Project consists of the rehabilitation of the irrigation and
drainage facilities of the Rio Colorado District. The principal works
would include the following: (i) realignment and lining of canals, con-
struction of new wells and rehabilitation of existing wells for improving
the water supply; (ii) construction of new drains and rehabilitation of



- 7 -
existing drains; (iii) construction of new roads and repair of existing
roads and telephone lines; (iv) construction of office, repair shop and
other buildings and gauging stations; (v) land leveling and the filling
of old canals and ditches; and (vi) purchasing equipment for improving
the operation and maintenance of the system. Completion of all construc-
tion work is expected to take 61-½ years (see Chart). With the completion
of the Project, the net irrigated area would increase from about 176,000
ha to 203,000 ha, of which about 12,700 ha would be double cropped. In
addition, the Project would provide more reliable delivery of water sup-
plies, facilitate water management and improve conditions for more inten-
sive agriculture.
Project Works
4.02      The project works would include the reconstruction with concrete
lining of 2,334 In of canals down to laterals providing water to 60-ha
blocks. To improve the District's drainage system, about 1,500 km of
drains would be realigned and improved. Under the Project, 35 private and
57 federal wells would be abandoned, mainly in order to eliminate sources
of water with excessive salinity. Most of the remaining private wells
would be rehabilitated. One hundred and seven new federal wells would be
constructed including power service lines. The completed Project would
have 640 wells, 436 federally operated and maintained by the District and
204 privately operated and maintained by the owners under the supervision
and regulations of the District. The operation of all wells wiould be
regulated under the strict provision of "Decreto Federal" dated May 15,
1965. In addition, 221 observation wells would be drilled in order to re-
cord water level changes in the aquifer during and after rehabilitation.
To permit easy access to the irrigation works, as well as better trans-
portation of farm products, 555 km of roads would be improved or newly
constructed. Land leveling to assure a high degree of irrigation effi-
ciency would be undertaken on 178,000 ha. The remainder of the project
area does not require leveling. A new office building, repair shop for
SRH machinery, ditch rider houses and an internal telecommunication system
would be provided to facilitate operation and maintenance of the District's
irrigation and drainage system. Details of the project works are given
in Annex 4.
Water Supply
4.03      Water for the Project would be provided from two sourcess gravity
supplies from the Colorado River, amounting to about 1,850 Mm3 annually;
and groundwater including private wells amounts to about 700 Mm3 per year.
All the water available for use originates in that part of the Colorado
River Basin within the United States. The amount of surface flow of the
Colorado River available to Mexico was set by the International Treaty of
February 3, 194h. The water is delivered to Mexico in accordance with
monthly requests which must be within the minimum and maximum water quan-
tities stipulated by the Treaty. Operations under the International Treaty
are supervised by the International Boundary and Water Commission, United
States and Mexico.



- 8 -
4.04      The 1944 Treaty does not contain a definite stipulation on the
quality of water to be delivered.  In 1962, the drainage system of the U.S.
Wellton-Mohawik Irrigation District, located in the Gila River Basin, began
discharging highly saline waters into the Colorado River upstream from
Morelos Dam. This caused a severe salinity condition for the Rio Colorado
District. A provisional agreement was reached by Mexico and the United
States$ on March 22, 1965, whereby the United States constructed at its
expense a lined canal to carry the Wellton-Mohawk drainage water to Morelos
Dam wihere it can be discharged either above or below the Dam, as may be
required, to maintain acceptable salinity of water for use by the Rio
Colorado District. Experience on the operation of the Morelos Dam, in con-
junction with the drainage bypass channel since its completion in November
1965, indicates that an acceptable salinity level can be attained and that
practically all of the 1944 Treaty allocation of 1,850 Mm3 per annum will
be available for use in Mexico. Discharges below Morelos Dam and other
operational requirements at the Dam have been about 39 YA3 per annum. This
amount has been talken into account in the estimates of project water supply.
Future operations may well reduce this loss.
4.O5      The source of the groundwater supply is a thick aquifer through
which water flows generally toward the Gulf of California. Records main-
tained on the water table show a progressive depletion during recent years
when 1,150 Nm3 per year have been pumped. This exceeds the annual replen-
ishment of this aquifer which is estimated to be about 950 lMn3 coming from
three sources: (i) the underground flow from the United States Colorado
River Basin across the international boundary; (ii) leakage of water from
the unlined canals and drains; and (iii) deep percolation from the irri-
gated cropped area. The Bank has been advised that the United States has
no objections to the proposed Project which would depend on wfater supplies
originating in the United States.
4.O6      Hydrogeologic studies indicate that an annual volume of about
700 Mm3 can be safely provided from groundwater resources after completion
of the Project. From the available hydrogeological data, this figure can
be considered as a reasonable order of magnitude* The Federal Government
will continue hydrogeological studies to provide the basis for efficient
integration of surface and groundwater supplies, as well as to avoid the
"mining" of the aquifer, and the possible intrusion of sea water.
Water Requirements
4.07      Irrigation water requirements have been calculated on the basis
of the proposed cropping pattern and irrigation practices, leaching require-
ments and an assumed 80 percent field irrigation efficiency. To these farm
turnout requirements, 13.5 percent has been added for conveyance losses of
surface water and 4 percent for well water. This makes an annual total con-
veyance loss for the District of 237 Nm3. After rehabilitation, the Dis-
trict would require 2,274 Mm3 per year at the farm turnouts, for which it
would be necessary to divert 1,811 MO3 into the gravity irrigation system
at Morelos Dam and to lift 700 Mm3 from bored wells (pumping lifts would
range from 15 m to 30 m). About 39 Mm3 per year would be bypassed due to
salinity and operational waste. The estimates of water requirements are
sound (see Annex 5).



-9-
Status of Engineering
.08       The Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos has been responsible for
the preliminary investigation, planning, design and preparation of cost
estimates of the proposed Project. SRH has had broad experience in pre-
paring similar irrigation projects throughout Mexico and its technical
staff is competent and well qualified. Preparation of detailed plans was
the responsibility of the Mexicali Field Office, which has gained detailed
knowledge of the project area through their operation of the District for
over 20 years. A semi-detailed design of laterals and sub-laterals has
been completed on about 20 percent of the proposed project area to furnish
the basis for developing data and cost estimates. Adequate topographic
maps (scale 1:20,000) and good aerial mosaics were utilized and specific
detailed ground surveys were undertaken as required. Construction materials
have been located and have been tested along with samples of aggregates.
Groundwater observations have been maintained over a ten year period and
groundwater contour maps have been prepared and utilized. Hydrogeological
data are complete and adequate for planning purposes.
Construction Cost Estimates
4.09      The cost estimates are based upon preliminary designs and quantity
estimates developed for a semi-detailed layout of 56,000 ha within the pro-
ject area. These preliminary designs and quantity estimates were extra-
polated to the entire project area. In the case of the drains and some of
the larger canals, specific preliminary designs and quantity estimates have
been prepared to obtain greater accuracy than that available from sample
area extrapolation. SRH maintains a complete listing of contractor's unit
bid prices for each class of work which is continuously up-dated in accord-
ance with the latest bids received. Prices from this list were applied to
the quantity estimates to obtain total field costs. Engineering and super-
vision costs, estimates for equipment and an adequate provision for con-
tingencies have been included. The methods used are sound and the resultant
cost estimate is realistic.
4.10      SRH has prepared detailed analysis of the local and foreign ex-
change component costs of major items of civil works over a long period.
Their analysis of cost on this Project assumes that all of the civil works
would be awarded to local contractors. The foreign exchange cost of the
Project would increase if any part of the civil works under international
competitive bidding is awarded to foreign contractors, but the increase
would not be large. Their original analysis showed a foreign exchange com-
ponent equivalent to US$37.2 million. Since their calculation included
second and third level indirect foreign exchange components, a recalculation
was made to take out such indirect components. After making deductions
for these items, the remaining foreign exchange cost would be US$25 million.
which is considered satisfactory for establishing the amount of the pro-
posed Bank loan.



- 10 -
4.1l      The cost estimates are summarized below (for details see Annex 6):
Local      Estimated Foreign
Currency    Exchange Component   Total
- US$ J4illion -
Construction and rehabilitation
of canals                          21.3            11U4             32.7
Construction and rehabilitation
of drains                           4.0             2.2             6.2
Drilling and rehabilitation of
wells                               4.6              0.7             5.3
Roads, buildings, telephones,
land leveling and minor works       9.9                             17.4
Sub-total, Civil Works
Construction                    39.8            21.8            61.6
Cement and steel to be furnished
directly by Government             10,5               -             10.5
Sub-total, Civil Works          50.3            21.8             72.1
Engineering and supervision
@ 12.5%                             9.0               -              9.0
Equipment, local purchase             1.4               -              1.4
Sub-total                       60.7            21.8             82.5
Contingency 15%                       9.3              3.2            12.5
Total                           70.0             25.0            95.0
Financing
4.12      The proposed Bank loan would cover the presently estimated for-
eign exchange component of civil works excluding steel, cement and concrete
additives which the Government will furnish directly to contractors. The
remaining estimated foreign exchange cost of civil works is US$21.8 million,
and with an allowance of US$3.2 million for contingencies, the loan would
total Us$25 million.
4.13      The remainder of the project cost would amount to US$70 million,
wlhich costs would be met by Government budget allocations.
4.14      Although the IMexicali Valley area is a free trade zone, both
Mexican and foreign contractors must have permits to bring in construction
equipment. Durin-g-negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government
will promptly issue the necessary licenses and permits.



- 11 -
4.15      Procurement.  Awards of contracts for civil works would be on the
basis of international competitive bidding, except as explained in paragraph
5.07.
4.16      The expenditure schedule would be approximately as follows (in
millions of U.S. dollars):
1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974    Total
Local Currency   12.2   10.0   11.7    8.9    8.9     8.5    9.8     70.0
IBRD Loan         4.4    3.8    4.4    3.3    3.3    3.1     2.7     25.0
Total            16.6   13.8   16.1    12.2  12.2    11.6   12.5     95.0
4.17      Disbursement of Loan.  Disbursements from the proposed loan for
civil works would be based on an agreed percentage relating to the presently
estimated foreign exchange component. In case of a decrease in the esti-
mated cost of the civil works, the percentage would remain the same. If
such costs increase, the contingency reserve would be used. In case the
contingency reserve is not sufficient to permit disbursements of the loan
over the entire period of execution of the Project, the agreed percentage
would be changed by the Bank as required.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01      The Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH), a Federal Ministry,
would be in charge of executing and operating the Project. The Ministry
was established in 1947 and the Secretary is a member of the Cabinet. He
is assisted by twTo sub-secretaries, and has one administrative and four
technical de2artmenrits.  The Ministry's organization and staffing permits
full and independent control of irrigation projects from the investigating
and planning stage to construction and operation.
5.02      Most of the irrigation development in Mexico is undertaken by SRH
through 128 irrigation districts. A number of the districts are very small,
and for administrative purposes, they are consolidated into g:roups un±der one
Chief of Districts. There are 58 such Chiefs of Districts who in turn re-
port to 34 General Managers, who usually have jurisdiction over an entire
State. General Managers report directly to the SRH offices in Mexico City.
In the case of large districts, like Rio Colorado District No.14, the
District Manager reports directly to SRH.
The Irrigation District
5.03      The Rio Colorado District is headed by a District Manager who is
an engineer. He is assisted by engineers in charge of four sections dealing
with: (i) water distribution and delivery; (ii) construction and rehabili-



- 12 -
tation; (iii) operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage facil-
ities; and (iv) administration. A well qualified technical staff of more
than 200 persons is available for carrying out the Project. This staff
has had much experience in preparing plans and specifications for new con-
struction and rehabilitation, supervising construction, planning water al-
location, and directing operation of District-owned equipment. The Admin-
istration Division is in charge of accounting, water charge collection,
disbursement and other related duties. District funds are controlled by
SRH, but financial operations are subject to the Ministry of Finance's
approval. SRH audits the accounts of the District four or five times each
year. In addition, auditors from the Ministry of Treasury and Public
Credit examine the District accounts twice a year. Auditing provided by
the Government would be satisfactory for purposes of the Project.
5.04      An Advisory Committee (Comite Directivo), established by Presi-
dential Decree under the Law of Ministries and Departments of 1958, serves
a vital role in the District's operations. The District Manager serves as
the Chairman of the Committee and the representative of the Ministry of
Agriculture serves as its Secretary. Other members represent the National
Agricultural Bank, the Ejidal Bank, private farmers, the ejidatarios, the
Cotton Association, and the International Boundary and Water Commission.
The Advisory Committee advises the District Manager on the annual operation
of the project, including the establishment of water charges, allocation
of water and annual cropping patterns. After being advised by the Manager
of the amount of water than can be expected in the irrigation season, plans
for the cropping pattern and the amount of crop credit necessary are deter-
mined by mutual agreement with the Committee.
5.05      For operation and maintenance of project works after construction,
the District would be organized into six units each of which would be under
the direction of an engineer. These units would be parcelled into about
85 sections, each with a ditch rider in charge. Efficient communication
would be provided by road, telephone and radio networks. Operation and
maintenance of the present system has been hampered by laborer squatters
on the system rights-of-way. To prevent such a situation in the future,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that all rights-of-way neces-
sary for the construction and operation of the Project would be established
free and clear of encumbrances and adequately protected against third
parties.
Construction
5.06      SRH is capable of effectively preparing final designs and con-
tract documents, supervising the engineering construction, and operating
and maintaining the completed Project. The technical staff is qualified
and experienced, and adequate laboratory facilities are maintained for
studies in hydraulics, soil mechanics, and testing materials.
5.07      Contracts for the principal features of construction work would
be awarded on the basis of publicly advertised international competitive
bidding procedures. In order to make practicable the participation of



- 13 -
international contractors, schedules and specifications would be prepared
for civil works contracts having a minimum value of 20 million pesos insofar
as possible. Certain kinds of civil works can be performed most effectively
through small contracts negotiated with local contractors at regional prices
set by SRH. This follows a practice long in common use by SRH and hereto-
fore accepted on projects financed by the Bank. The percentage of work to
be awarded without bidding would not exceed 20 percent of the value of all
civil works contracts. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
bids for civil works would be called for in amounts of 20 million pesos or
more insofar as practicable, and that contracts awarded without competitive
bidding would be limited to a total value not to exceed 20 percent of the
cost of all civil works.
5,08      SRH would be required to undertake effective prequalification of
bidders and to accept the lowest evaluated bid unless just cause can be
established for rejection of such low bid. Performance bonds for con-
tractors would be required covering 10 percent of the face amount of the
contract. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that bidders would be prequalified and that contractors would be re-
quired to furnish performance bonds.
Expanded Technical Services
5.09      The Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock has drawn up a com-
prehensive plan for technical services for the Rio Colorado District.
The plan is based on the cooperative effort of several agencies and the
program of work would be coordinated by the State Secretary of Agriculture.
The program would include experimental farm investigations, plant pest
and disease control, cooperative agricultural extension services, seed in-
spection and certification services, special small farm technical guidance
and livestock promotion.
5.10      The experimental farm investigations would include fertilizer
applications, use and management of water, and new crops. The extension
activities would provide technical assistance for the expansion of forage
crops, especially alfalfa, and other adaptable crops. In addition, ex-
tension services would be directed towards raising the nutritional stand-
ards of rural families, assisting farmers with plans to improve their live-
stock production, promoting rural youth clubs, and improving the general
quality of rural home-life. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Government would continue to provide and strengthen these techni-
cal services planned by the Ministry of Agriculture and SRH.
Soils and Farm Drainage Studies
5.11      To deal effectively with any future salinity or alkali problems,
a continuous program of soil testing will be necessary. This program would
include continuing salt content readings of drains and observation wells.
Soil test holes in approximately 250 representative areas of the District
would be required and annual readings taken on at least three levels of
the soil profile. The findings of these tests would be a basis for ini-
tiating chemical applications and farm drainage works. If these tests



- 14 -
should indicate the need for providing drains for some farms, SRH would
supply farmers with construction designs and prepare field layouts. Assur-
ances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that soil
studies would be continued to the Bank's satisfaction, and that SRH would
provide farmers with technical and such other assistance as may be required
to enable them to install on-farm drainage when it becomes necessary.
Requirements for Farm Credit
5.12      The requirements for annual production credit in the District are
now adequately met by the cotton ginning companies and the two Government
banks serving the area. With the opening of a Mexicali Branch of the Banco
Agropecuario and the proposed increase in farm credit operations by the
commercial banks, adequate short-term credit would be available to cover
the increased future needs.
5.13      While medium and long-term credit needs do not, at the moment,
present any serious problem, proposed changes in cropping patterns leading
to a significant expansion in livestock production, would require addi-
tional medium to long-term financing. Also the long range needs of soil
amendments and drainage will require long-term financing. In the heavy
clay zone of the District, the installation of tile drains may eventually
be required on about 18,000 ha (para. 5.1l). Without an adequate drainage
system, the life of farmland in this zone is limited to about 20 years.
Most farmers in this area would probably need long-term financing for
installation of drains and the Mexicali Branch of Banco Agropecuario is
being established to help serve these needs. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that the Government would take all necessary action
to ensure the availability of medium and long-term credit resources in the
project area.
VI. FINANCIAL RESULTS
Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimates
6.01      Rehabilitation and consolidation of the irrigation network and
better supervision of operating personnel through the allocation of def-
inite operating areas, interconnected telephone and radio communications
would materially increase efficiency. However, proper maintenance of the
rehabilitated and new drainage system would cost more than current expen-
ditures. In addition, water management and extension services and super-
vision of irrigation practices would be increased over present levels.
Present annual O&M costs of about 38 million pesos would increase to about
48 million pesos after completion of the Project, including the cost of
supervising private wells.
6.02      For areas supplied by surface water, the O&M costs would average
about 260 pesos per ha, or 24 pesos per 1,000 m3 of water used (for fur-
ther details, see Annex 7). The total O&M costs for the Project would



- 15 -
increase gradually throughout project construction as follows (in millions
of pesos):
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
37.9    39.6    41.1    42.8    44.0    45.3    46.5    47.7    47.7
These estimates have been calculated in detail and are considered reason-
able.
Water Charges
6.o3      In conformity with established Government policy, SRH intends
that, following the completion of the rehabilitation work in the District,
water users shall meet all O&M costs. The water rates would be established
in accordance with procedures set forth in a Presidential Decree of July 23,
1964, which governs the water management of the District. Under the pro-
visions of this Decree, the General Manager of the District must prepare
a budget in advance for each year, and upon the basis of estimated water
supplies available, determine the water rates required to recover all O&M
costs. The District budget and calculations showing the basis of the
proposed water rate for the ensuing year are submitted first to the
Advisory Committee of the District for advice (para. 5.04), and then sub-
mitted to SRH for approval.
6.04      Water charges are based on volume of water delivered to each farm.
For the past four years these charges have been as follows: for normal
gravity deliveries through the canal network 1.75 pesos per liter per
second per 24-hour day (equivalent to 86.4 m); for water from collective
wells operated by the District, 3.20 pesos per liter per second per day;
and for domestic water users, 3.50 pesos per liter per second per day.
Those farmers who operate their own wells within the District are charged
30 pesos per ha per year to cover supervision and regulation costs.
6.05      Upon completion of the Project, water supplies from District-
operated wells and from the Colorado River flows would be fully integrated
and a single water rate would be charged. On the basis of the estimated
annual O&M costs of 47.7 million pesos, the water rate for all water would
be 2.06 pesos per liter per second per day (Annex 7). The charge of 30
pesos per ha for supervision and regulation of the remaining privately
operated wells would continue to be applied for an estimated 23,000 ha.
6.06      In addition to the above water charges, based on volume of water
delivered, an agreement has been reached with water users that they will
assume approximately one-half of the investment cost of the rehabilitation
worlcs. By this Agreement, signed by representatives of farmer groups on
October 7, 1966, a charge of 192 pesos per ha per year for a 25-year period
would be made as a rehabilitation charge. This charge was calculated as
the amount necessary to amortize one-half of the then estimated cost of
the Project at 6 percent interest. The gross payment under this Agreement
would amount to approximately 40 million pesos per year. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the Government would ratify the



- 16 -
General Agreement of October 7, 1966 between the farmers and the Rio
Colorado District No.14, and that a Presidential Decree would be issued pro-
mulgating the charges and water rates to be paid by the farmers.
6.07      As required by existing regulations, all matters concerning water
users' obligations would be recorded in written agreements between SRH
and water users, including both private landowners and the ejidatarios.
Agreements wiould be made with each ejido sufficiently in advance to insure
orderly progression of construction schedules. The obligation for water
charges would be individualized for each member of the ejido and private
farmers.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would be carried out as part of a national program to
promote better utilization of available water in publicly operated irri-
gation districts. The principal aim of the Project is to retain the Dis-
trict's agricultural productivity through prevention of salinity and water
losses. The area under irrigation in the Rio Colorado District would be
increased by approximately 15 percent or 27,000 ha, and a uniform water
supply would be ensured.
Improved Land Use
7.02      With completion of rehabilitation, available water would be suffi-
cient to irrigate 203,000 ha instead of the present 176,000 ha. Intro-
duction of barley and oats, or forage crops, would permit double cropping
on 12,700 ha, bringing the irrigated crop area per year to 215,700 ha.
SRH proposes to gradually reduce the area of cotton from 127,500 ha to about
100,000 ha to eliminate low yielding areas that result in inefficient use
of water. Grain sorghum, soybeans and safflower would be introduced on
about 35,000 ha, and alfalfa, wheat and barley acreages would be expanded
from 48,000 ha to 58,700 ha (Annex 8). The expansion of wheat and forage
crops would make possible the efficient utilization of Mexico's winter
water allotment under the existing International Water Agreement which
would otherwise not be utilized beneficially.
7.03      The diversification of the cropping pattern would promote the
production of such oil-bearing crops as soybeans and safflower in line
with the Governmentts agricultural policy. The livestock industry would
benefit from the increased production of grain sorghum and forage, espe-
cially in the conditioning of beef cattle for export and in the growing
dairy industry. The proposed crop changes would be brought about by the
water and credit controls which SRH exercises through the District's Ad-
visory Committee. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SRH,
in cooperation with the Iviinistry of Agriculture, would undertake continuous
studies to determine the cropping patterns which would be most advantageous
within the limits of available water.



- 17 -
Increased Crop Yields
7.o4      The District now has the highest average cotton and wheat yields
in Mexico, though still lower than in the neighboring Imperial Valley in
the United States. Crop yield increases after the completion of the Pro-
ject and the on-farm works would result mainly from improved water con-
veyance and field application and relocation of farmers to best-suited areas.
Irrigation of individual plots would become more efficient after land
leveling. Better land utilization and increased use of fertilizers and
improved seeds would also contribute towards higher productivity.  A fur-
ther important contribution of the Project would be the prevention of a
decline in productivity due to increasing soil salinity. Without the Pro-
ject, a large part of the District would revert back to a desert.
7.05      In the calculation of economic benefits, cotton and wheat prices
are assumed to remain unchanged. Mexicali Valley cotton is high quality,
long staple and, while cotton prices in general have declined, the world
demand for better cotton is expected to remain strong. Prices used for
other crops are the support-price by CONASUPO where these apply, or aver-
age market prices.
7.06      No problems are envisaged for the marketing of Mexicali cotton
since its superior quality puts it in high demand. CONASUPO provides a
ready market for wheat. The growth in the area's population and per capita.
income would absorb the increase in production anticipated after rehabil-
itation. Forage is in short supply in Mexicali and currently livestock
farmers have to import part of their feed from the United States. The
expansion of forage production would meet current demands and at the same
time, enable the fuller utilization of winter water and promote expansion
of livestock in the area.
7.07      In calculating the benefits, wages paid to hired workers are in-
cluded in production costs, but no cost is assigned to hand labor provided
by members of the farmer's family. At present there is a surplus of this
type of labor.
7.08      The estimated direct return on the investment in the Project,
based on the above assumption, would be about 11 percent (Annex 9). Since
the Project involves the rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage
works serving a highly developed area, there is a high degree of certainty
that the above rate of return will be realized. The benefits include the
incremental net values of production over the decreased levels that would
prevail without the Project. Due to excessive overpumping of groundwater
and water losses, and because of the lack of sufficient water to leach the
soils, a gradual decline in yields due to increasing soil salinity is fore-
seen without the Project. The prevention of these reductions in output is
an important component of benefits. Net farm incomes after rehabilitation
would be increased on the average by about 9,000 pesos per farm.
7.09      In addition to the primary benefits taken into account in the
calculation of the above rate of return, the Project would result in far-



- 18 -
reaching indirect benefits.   The 11 percent annual return from the Project,
shown above, does not take into account indirect benefits to the economy as
a whole resulting because the Project would avoid additions to unemployment,
both of manpower and of existing capital facilities in the region, which
would otherwise occur.   The primary benefits and the substantial indirect
benefits give a highly satisfactory overall economic return for the Project.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The Project has priority in the national program of rehabilitating
and expanding existing irrigation districts.   The rehabilitation of the Rio
Colorado District, which the Project comprises, would contribute not only
to the agricultural economy of the District in particular and of Mexico in
general, but also to the more effective utilization of the country's water
resources.
8.02      The Project would be carried out by SRH, which has had long ex-
perience and high competence in the field of irrigation.   SRH has an ade-
quate staff of able personnel to properly design and construct the works
within the construction period and to operate them afterwards.   The cost
estimates are realistic.
8.03      The Project is economically justified and is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$ 25 million for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of
seven years.   The 20-year term was used on the three previous rehabilitation
loans and appears appropriate for this type of Project.   The Borrower would
be the Nacional Financiera, S.A., an agency of the Government of Mexico.
8.04      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
a.   the Ministry of Agriculture and SRH will continue and
strengthen technical service to farmers (para. 5.10);
b.   soil studies will be continued to the satisfaction of
the Bank and SRH will provide farmers with technical
and such other assistance as may be required to enable
them to install on-farm drainage when it becomes
necessary (para. 5.11);
c.   adequate financial resources will be provided for
medium and long-term credit (para. 5.13); and
d.   the Government will take all necessary legal action
to establish the rehabilitation charges and water
rates to be paid by the farmers (para. 6.06).
December 21, 1967



LAiD TEN-RE AIM SIZE OF FARMS IN RIO COLORADO DISTRICT
AS OF FEBRUARY, 1967
Farm holdinas
grouped by size           Ejidatarios            Private   Farmers             All T½rns
T5ha    -            flo.A. Area (ha)                 Area (ha)           Jo.   Area (ha)
0.1 to   5.0          1,082      2,017            448       1,645          1,530      3,662
5.1 to  10.0            308      2,593          1,009       8,927          1,317     11,520
10.1 to  20.0          5,527    109,355          3,0l4     56,018           8,Shi    165,373
20.1 to  30.0             27        650            160      4,103             187      4,753
30.1 to  40.0              1         hO             83       3,104             84      3,144
4O.1 to  50.0              2         97             53       2,537             55      2,634
50.1 to  60.0              -          -             25       1,436             25      1,436
60.1 to  70.0              -          -               9        607              9        607
70.1 to  80.0              1         72               9        691             10        763
80.1 to 100.0              -          -             22       2,100             22      2,100
100.1 to 12O00              -          -               2        216              2        210
150.1 to 260.0              -          -              3         572              3        572
TOTiLL             6,948    114,824          4,837      81,956         11,785    196,780
Source: Special study made by District for Bank mission.



ANNEK 2-
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Short-Term Credit
The principal source of credit to farmers in the Rio Colorado
Irrigation District is the lending by the twelve cotton ginning companies,
mainly for annual cotton production costs. Two official banks, the Banco
Ejidal and the Banco Agricola, extend loans to the ejidatarios and the
small landowners respectively. Although these banks serve an important
role in meeting the credit needs of farmers left out by the ginning com-
panies, their volume of credit is quite minor. A third official bank, the
Banco Nacional Agropecuario opened an officein Mexicali for its operations
in the northwest in September 1967. Private commercial bank participation
in agricultural credit at the present time is negligible.
Loans in cash and in kind (mainly seeds and fertilizers) are
granted by the official banks and the cotton companies. An average cost
of production is worked out each year as the basis for estimating the
amount of loan to be granted each farmer. Annual crop production credits
generally include an amount in cash for living expenses which is based on
the approximate value of the labor performed by the farmer and members of
his family. The normal practice of the cotton companies is to include
1,000 pesos per month in the loan contract expressly for family expenses.
In 1965/66, cotton loans by the cotton companies were about 5,000
pesos per ha. Costs of picking and trucking the cotton to the gins are
not included in the original loan for cultivation. Additional loauns of
30 to 35 pesos per bale are sometimes granted to cover these costs.
The Banco Agricola loans to private landowners on the basis of
1,700 pesos per ha for wheat, 1,650 pesos for sorghum and barley, 2,500
pesos for alfalfa, 2,h55 pesos for safflovwer, and 3,500 pesos for cotton.
This bank's recovery rate for cotton loans over the past year was 80.h
percent, while for wheat it was 92.0 percent. Because of the basically
social-welfare purpose of this bank, very few borrowers are dropped and
although many others would like to obtain credit, only a very small number
of new borrowers are accommodated each year. The Banco Agricola requires
its borrowers to present title to land, permit to use water, certificate
that land is free of mortgage, and certificate that all taxes have been
paid.
About 10 percent of the cultivated ejidal lands, representing
900 ejidatarios, are financed by the Banco Ejidal. Like the Banco Agri-
cola, this bank is socially oriented and its borrowers are mainly those
whom the cotton companies have rejected.  In addition to its annual crop
loan operations, this bank also guarantees credit for machinery purchases
for 3-year periods. Repayment on machinery purchases is assured from the
amounts to be lent to the farmers during the three ensuring years. The
Mexicali Branch of the Banco Ejidal owns and operates a cotton gin and all
its borrowers must bring their cotton to this gin. After the equipment
for the gin is fully paid for, it will be turned over to a cooperative of



ANNEX 2
Page 2
ejidatarios. In addition, the Banco Ejidal ow-ns a fertilizer company and
a cottonseed oil mill. Among the requisites for obtaining credit from the
Banco Ejidal are a good past record, water rights, contract that cotton
will be delivered to the Banco Ejidal cotton gin and that wheat crop will
be delivered to CONASUPO (which makes payment to the bank), and to carry
official insurance on crops (Aseguradora Nacional Agricola)..
The interest rate charged by the official banks is 11 percent
per annum. The Banco Agricola levies a penalty of 2 percent for late pay-
ment; the Banco Ejidal does not impose such a charge. The cotton companies
charge 12 percent interest; 18 percent on delinquent amounts. No inspec-
tion fees are collected by the official banks, while the cotton companies
charge between 20 to 40 pesos per ha per year. The principal source of
funds for the two official banks is the Federal Government. The banks have
their own capital, but other than this, and whatever deposits they receive,
the funds needed annually for lending operations have to be appropriated
by the Government, which also recuperates annually all repayments by farmers.
Thus, no significantly important revolving fund is available to these of-
ficial banks. Any delays in obtaining Mqinistry of Finance appropriations
result in late credit extension to the farmers. The cotton companies ob-
tain funds by borrowi-ng from 70 to 80 percent of needed funds from United
States' banks at about 6 percent interest and the remainder from commercial
banks in Mexico at 12 percent interest.
Along with the periodic inspection performed by agents of the
two official banks and the cotton companies, a considerable amount of tech-
nical assistance is given to the farmers. The companies maintain an aver-
age of one inspector for every 50 farmers, each inspector making one or
two visits to each farm per week. The local branch of Banco Agricola has
four agronomists and five other inspectors with extensive experience who
make approximately 20 inspections of each farm per year. The Banco Ejidal
has 13 agronomists and 60 field inspectors in its Mexicali Branch.
Mledium and Long-Term Credit
The Banco Nacional Agropecuario came into existence in March,
1965. It has seven regional autonomous branches, including the Banco Agro-
pecuario del Noroeste, located in Mochis, Sinaloa State, which has opened
an office    in Mexicali. Both short and medium to long-term credits are
covered by the Banco Agropecuario lending activities. Short-term credits
to meet the financial needs during the production cycle run between one to
two years, the longer period applying to livestock and special crops.
Medium and long-term loans are from 2 to 10 years, and are intended for
land leveling, drainage, machinery, rehabilitation works, livestock and
perennial crops. The interest charges per annum are 9 percent for short-
term loans and 10 percent for medium to long-term loans. In addition to
its capital, the Banco Agropecuario secures funds from the Bank of Mexico
and private banks in the United States. Funds have been made available
to the Banco Agropecuario from IBRD Loan 430-ME to cover lending operations
of their Southeast Branch. In the future, they expect to get additional



ANNEX 2
Page 3
funds from international lending agencies. Like the two other official
banks, this bank provides technical assistance through continuous checking
of the crop activities and general farm inspections,
The office of the Banco Agropecuario in the Rio Colorado Irrigation
District will bring a more stable source of medium and long-term credit to
farmers. Although the District is not now critically in need of this type of
credit, the anticipated expansion of livestock production, increased emphasis
on mechanization, and the need for drainage, may be expected to create con-
siderable demand for loans from the Mexicali office of the Banco AgropecuariO
This office is now undertaking a study to determine the type and amount of
lending that will likely be required,
The amounts of short-term credit made available by lending in-
stitutions in recent years are as follows:
Lending Agency          1963/64       1964/65       1965/66       1966/67
- In Millions of Pesos -
Cotton Companies         447.2         496.8         504.7         533.6
Banco Ejidal              44.7          42.2          40.1          39.4
Banco Agricola            42.5          41.6          39.2          43.1
Commercial Banks           4.8           8.2           0.1           5.2
Total                    539.2         588.8         584h1         621.3



CROP PRODUCTION AND VALUE, N1ICALI VALLY - 1963/64 - 1965/66
1963/64                                                1964/65                                                1965/66
Average                    Value of                   Average                     Value of                    Average                    Value of
Area       Yield     Production     Production         Area       Yield    Production      Prduction         Area        Yield     Production     Production
Crop                         (Ha)     (Tons/Ha)    (Tons)     (Tbousand Pesos)     (Ha)     (Tons/Ha)     (Tons)     (Thousand Pesos)     (Ha)     (Tons/Ha)     (Tons)     (Thausand Pesos)
Seed Cotton                     105,262       3.96      416,665        718.511        105,160        3.88      408,546        741,450        110,335        3.87      L27,246        7141,604
Wheat                            45,613        3.71     169,375         186.313        45,617        3.63      165,524        182.916         33,916        3.50      118,706         104,082
Alfalfa                           4,873       7.12       34,700         10,700          4,795        8.00       38,360         13,810          5,611        8.64       48,500         16,732
Barley                              350       3.00        1,050            735            490        3.00        1,470          1,030          4,827        3.00       14,081         10,875
Sorghum                            -           -            -              -              -           -            -              -            1,332         -            -              -
Oats (Forage) )18                                                                                                                                            -            -              -
Safflower                           -          -            -              -              -           -            -              -            2,494        2.00        4,988          7,482
Water lMelon                         18      33.06          595            238             20       29.00          580            235             58       30.00        1,740          4,270
Asparagus                           217       2.93          635          1,802            217        3.12          678          2,030            257        3.00          770          2,306
Garlic                              65         7.46         485          1,450             25        6.68          167            465             38        6.84          260            724
Other vegetables                    -          -            -              -               18       20.00          360            -               28       35.oo          980            -
Source: Direccion de Economia Agricola, Delegacion Mexicali, Baja Califomnia.
Li



ANNEX h
Page 1
THE EXISTING IRRIGATION SYSTEM AND PROPOSED NEW WORKS
Existing System
The existing irrigation system, which has evolved over 60 years,
consists of a net area of about 110,000 ha under gravity irrigation provided
with 1,500,000 acsft (1,850 Mm3) per year (diverted by the Morelos Dam on
the Colorado River), under the 1944 Treaty between the United States and
Mexico, and a net area of about 65,000 ha under pump irrigation from 625
deep wells.
The Morelos Dam is a Mexican structure with the left abutment in
the UoS.A. (Arizona) and the right abutment in Mexico (Baja California).
It was constructed in 1948-51 of concrete with a spillway capacity of
9,000 m3/sec. Since construction of the several large storage dams in the
Upper Colorado Basin, maximum flows of only 2,000 m3/sec. are probable.
The Morelos Dam is capable of diverting all of the normal flows of the
river. The structure and its appurtenances are operated by the Mexican
Section of the Boundary Commission and maintained by the Colorado River
Irrigation District.
From Morelos Dam the water is diverted by gravity on the right
side of the river into the Alamo Canal (also called the Todo Mexicano Canal),
which has a maximum capacity of 250 m3/sec. The first 7 km of the Alamo
Canal, between the Morelos Dam and the Matamoros diversion structure, has
a very flat slope and is used as a sediment basin, with silt deposits re-
moved by drag-lines. Upstream river control in recent years, however, has
largely alleviated the necessity of this function. From the Matamoros
structure, the water is diverted into the irrigation system comprising about
3,000 km of main canals, laterals and distributaries, commanding a gross
area of about 330,000 ha.  One of these main canals, the Connection Canal,
extends to the Sanchez Mejorado Siphon under the Colorado River near San
Luis, to serve that part of the District located in Sonora State. The Alamo
Canal also carries the water supply for Mexicali (about 40 Mm3 per year for
a population of 220,000).
Interspersed in the central part of the District, along both banks
of the Colorado River, 625 deep wells have been drilled since 1950 and are
now producing about 1,150 Mm3 of water per year.
The drainage system includes about 1,600 km of main drains and
secondary or tertiary ditches, scattered over a gross area of about 300,000
ha. This system was established without a coordinated plan prepared in
advance, and its maintenance is poor. A protective levee system for preven-
tion of Colorado River floods was undertaken in 1907 on the right bank of
the river, after the river had broken over to the Salton Sea. These levees
have been reinforced several times to prevent flood damage to the lower
zones of the District.
Under the present system, water losses are an estimated 50 percent.
Soil salinity is increasing in about half of the irrigable area due to



ANNFJ( 4
Page 2
inability to properly leach the soils with the present system. The unco-
ordinated way in which the construction of the different irrigation units
was originally carried out has made the District complicated and difficult
to operate.
The existing road system is inadequate for proper operation and
maintenance of canals and structures.
The Proposed Project
Upon completion of the Project, the gross area under the canal
system would be reduced from 330,000 ha to about 250,000 ha, but the net
irrigated area would be increased from about 175,000 ha to 203,000 ha. The
acreage nowJ irrigated from deep wells (65,000 ha) is included in the project
area. Thle area irrigated by pumping water would be interspersed within the
gravity irrigation system. This integrated system would provide flexibility
for efficient water management. The main engineering works, comprising the
Project, would be as follows:
2,334 km concrete lined canals;
4,685 canal structures;
1,181 km of existing drain improvement;
334 km of new drain construction;
1,702 drain structures;
555 Im of road construction or improvement;
81 houses for ditch riders;
486 deep well rehabilitation;
107 new deep wells drilled and equipped;
221 observation wells drilled;
178,000 ha of land leveling;
467 km of telephone lines constructed'
1 district office building; and
1 repair shop.
Distribution Network. From Morelos Dam it is intended to line all
the irrigation system down to turnouts for each 60 ha block of 3-farm units.
This would involve the building of 2,334 km of concrete lined canals pro-
vided with gauging stations, check structures and turnouts. As irrigation
is required year-round, the new lined canals would be located with as little
interference as possible with the existing system. No special effort will
be made to reclaim land of the abandoned canals or ditches as land is not
a limiting factor, but most of them would be filled. Only some existing
important concrete structures would be retained in the new system and they
would be connected to new canals during winter periods when water require-
ments are at a minimum.
Roads. It is proposed to improve and construct 555 Iaa of roads,
mainly on canal banks. Most of these roads will be surfaced with compacted
gravel and connected with the existing road system. These roads will



ANNBIN 4
Page 3
facilitate inspection and maintenance of works, as well as the transportation
of farm materials and products. The roads would be maintained by the Dis-
trict until the State is able to progressively pave them and then assume
their maintenance.
Wells. There are presently operating in the District, 239 pri-
vate and 38S federal wells. Of these, it is proposed to abandon 35 private
and 57 federal wells, mainly to eliminate sources of high salinity and
sodium. All of the remaining private wells and most of the federal wells
will be rehabilitated for better management of groundwater supply. Rehabi-
litation work on existing wells would include repair of pumping equipment
and repair of broken doun and caved in wells. A total of 107 new federal
wells are to be constructed, including the necessary electric transmission
lines. The Project, therefore, would have 640 operating wells, 436 of which
would be federal wells operated and maintained by the District, and 204 pri-
vate wells rehabilitated by the District, but operated and maintained by
their oumers under strict regulations and water laws imposed by the Federal
Government and enforced by the District in the same manner as for all other
wells within the Project.
Of the 107 new federal wells, 47 will be located in the project
area and contribute directly to the project water supply. However, 60 are
outside the project area along the international border east of San Luis.
If these wells are successful, their production will increase the project
water supply by exchange for gravity water now delivered to Sonora section
of the project area through the Sanchez Mejorado Siphon.
In addition, the Project includes the drilling of 221 observation
wells (piezometers) with an average depth of 20 meters. Most of these
wells would be located southeast and south of Mexicali for recording the
water level changes of the aquifer during and after rehabilitation, and for
facilitating the preparation of on-farm drainage works.
Drainage. Most of the existing drains within the District's re-
duced gross area would be rehabilitated. Construction of new drains would
be concentrated in the southern area where soils are more saline and also
in the heavy soil region west of Mlexicali. Drainage will not be necessary
in irrigated areas served by deep wells and along the Colorado River where
sandy soils predominate. On-farm drainage may eventually become necessary
on about 18,000 ha of heavy clay soils. Experiments are presently being
conducted by SRH to investigate on-farm drainage requirements and to deter-
mine the best suited and most economic drainage methods. If tests carried
out should indicate the necessity of providing drains for some of the lands,
SRH would supply farmers with construction designs and prepare field layouts.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
WATER REQUIREMENTS
Water requirements have been established according to a standard
ccnsumptive use formula with adjustments based on the findings of a research
station in neighboring El Centro, California. The proposed cropping pat-
tern, consumptive use requirement, leaching requirements, farm losses and
total farm delivery requirements are given in the attached table.
The International Boundary and Water Commission, Mexican Section,
operates Morelos Dam on the Colorado River which diverts the project's
gravity water supply. They check the soluble salt content of the diverted
water daily and make necessary adjustments in diversions and bypasses to
maintain 1,500 ppm or less. Records of recent years show such adjustments
plus other operational wastes result in a total annual bypass of about 39 Mm3
which has been deducted from the estimated project water supply.
The quality of well water is checked and maintained by SRH who
operate the federal wells and supervise the operation of, and enforce
federal regulations for the operation of, private wells.



CALCUIATION OF WATER REQUIREMENTS
Conauwptive    Total Con-    Field       Leaching        Conveyance   Total Farm
Crop              Hectares   Use (Depth)   sumptive Use   Loss 1/   Requirements 2/    Losses I/    Delivery
Requirement     ___                                    Requirement
amn           Nm3         Mm3          Mm3              MM333           3
Cotton             99,000        90           856.6       215.0        265.4           3I12.5       .1,449.5
Grain Sorghum      10,000        67            67.0        13.0         16.0             12.8          108.8
Wheat              50,000        47           233.8        46.7         56.5             44.7          382.7
Safflower          15,000        60            89.5        18.0         21.5             17.1          146.1
Alfalfa             8,700       166           144.4        29.0         34.6             27.6          235.6
Soybeans           10,000        68            68.0        13.7         16.3             13.0          111.0
Oats Forage        23,000        21            47.9         9.6         11.5              9.3           7.8.3
Total                                       1,507.2       345.0        421.8            237.0        2,511.0
Flow by-passed                                                                                          39.0 4/
TOTAL                                                                                                2,550.0
1/  Eighty percent irrigation efficiency assumed.
2/ Twenty percent.
13.5% for gravity water; 4.0% for well water.
/    ater with salt in excess of 1,500 ppm plus operational waste.



ANNEX 6
ESTIMATE OF COSTS
Local        Foreign        Total
Item                                    Costs         Costs         Costs
- US$ Million Equivalent -
Canal rehabilitation and construction    4.0           5.6           9.6
Canal lining                            13.7           4.7          18.4
Related structures                       3.0           0.2           3.2
Canal base preparation                  0o6            0.9           1.5
Sub-total                          21e3          11.4          32.7
Rehabilitation of drains                 1.0           1.3           2.3
Related structures                       1.7           0.1           1.8
Construction of drains                   0.5           0.7           1.2
Related structures                       0.8           0.1           0.9
Sub-total                           4.0           2.2           6.2
Rehabilitation of wells                  2.2           0.3           2.5
Well construction                        2.4           o.4           2.8
Sub-total                           4.6           0.7           5.3
Roads                                    2.2           1.0           3.2
Telephone and gauging stations           0.2            -            0.2
Buildings                                1.0          0o.7           1.7
Land Leveling                            5.7           5.8          11.5
Sub-total                           9e1           7.5          16.6
Relocation of farmers                    0.8            -            0.8
Sub-total, civil works excluding
cement and steel                   39.8          21.8          61.6
Cement and steel, local purchase        10.5            -           10.5
Total, civil works                 50.3          21.8          72.1
Engineering and supervision @ 12.5%      9.0            -            9.0
Equipment, local purchase                1.4            -            1.4
Total, construction, engineering
and equipment                      60.7          21.8          82.5
Contingency 15%                          9e3           3.2          12.5
Overall Total, including
contingency                        70.0          25.0          95.0
NOTE: The Project includes only minor structures which would be put to
immediate use as completed. Interest during construction, there-
fore, has not been included as a project cost.



ANNEX 7
OPERATION AI%D MADITENANCE COSTS AFTER REHABILITATION
Total annual
Irrigation District Service -       Pesos/liter/      cost in       Percent
150,000 ha                          sec/24 hours*   million pesos   of Total
Administration and management           0.23             5.20         10.9
Water distribution and delivery         o.84            19-15         40.2
Maintenance                             0.94            21.37         44.9
Irrigation and drainage extension
service                                  .05             1.24          2.6
Sub-total                          2.06            46.96
Total annual
Private Well Supervision -                           cost in       Percent
23,000 ha                           Pesos per ha   million Pesos   of Total
Supervision and regulation of
operation                                30              0.69        l14
TOTAL                                              47.65       100.0
* One liter per second for 24 hours = 86,4 cu.m
(1,000/86.4) x 2.06 = 23.89 pesos/l,OOO cu.m
46.96/.18 = 261 pesos/ha.



Estimated Increase in Net Value of Annual Production Following Rehabilitation
Average        Total                       Gross Value         Cost of Production -        Net Value
Crop                    Area Planted    Yield        Production        Price     of Production      Per Ha.         Total        of Production
(Ha)         (Tons/Ha)      (Tons)       (Pesos/Ton) (Thousand Pesos)    (Pesos)    (Thousand Pesos) (Thousand Pesos)
At Present
Seed Cotton                    127,500          2.9        369,750         2,200         813,450         4,256         542,6h0          270,810
Wheat and Barley                43,000          2.9        124,700            900        112,230          1,810         77,830           34,400
Alfalfa                          5,000          9.0         45,000            390         17,550          2,360         11,800            5,750
Others                             500          -             -                            8,387          2,218          1,109            7,278
Total                      176,000                                                   951,617                       633,379          318,238
After Rehabilitation
Seed Cotton                     99,000          3.5        346,500          2,200        762,300          5,224        517,176          245,124
Wheat and Barley                50,000          3.8        190,000            900        171,000          1,810         90,500           80,500
Alfalfa                          8,700         15.0        130,500            390         50,895          2,313         20,123           30,772
Sorghum                         10,000          4.0         40,000            568         22,720          1,405         14,050            8,670
Barley and Oats Forage          23,000         15.0        345,000            100         34,500            793         18,239           16,261
Soybeans                        10,000          2.5         25,000          1,600         40,000          2,180         21,800           18,200
Safflower                       15,000          2.25        33,750          1,500         50,625          2,034         30,510           20,115
Total                      215,700                                                  1,132,040                       712,398         419,642
Thousand Pesos
Net Value of Future Production                            419,642
Net Value of Present  Production                          318,238
Increment in Net Value of Annual Production
at Full Development                                     101,404
1/ Excluding water charges and taxes.
0D



ESTIMATED COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Basic Data for Calculating the Internal Rate of Return)
C O S T S                                                                 B E N E     F I r S
Difference
Increase in                         Increase in         Replenishment         Prevention                           between
Project            On-farm            Operation &                         Net Value of            of Lost               of                               Benefits
Year        Investment        Investment 1/        Maintenance        Total             Farm Output            Water 2/          Salinity 3/        Total            and Costs h/
- in thousands of pesos -
1968          207,500                                    -          207,500                   -                 25,11                 -            25,11b              -182,386
1969          172,500                                 1,720         17b,22o                                     25,11-                             25,111              -l9,106
1970          201,250                                  3,190        20h,hhO                   -                 25,11L                -            25,11h             -179,326
1971          152,500                                  h,880        157,380                21,653               25,11h              2,080          h8,8h7              -108,533
1972          152,500                                 6,160         158,660                38,L18               25,11h              b,161          67,693               -90,967
1973          IL5,000                                  7,030         152,h30               56,923               25,11L              6,2hl          88,278               -61,152
197L          156,250            10,000               8,620         17L,870                72,51L               25,111±             8,322         105,950               -68,920
1975                             10,000                9,770         19,770                87,511               25,11L             10,102         123,027               103,257
1976                             10,000                9,770         19,770                88,900               25,11L             12,h83         126,197              106,727
1977                             10,000                9,770         19,770                90,290               25,111             1h,563         129,967              110,197
1978                             10,000                9,770         19,770                91,679               25,11h             16,644         133,037              113,667
1979                             10,000                9,770         19,770                93,068               25,11W             19,903         138,085               118,315
1930                             10,000                9,770         19,770                91,b58               25,11h             23,162         lL2,73h              122,961
1981                             10,000                9,770         19,770                95,8h7               25,114             26,422         1L7,383               127,613
1982                             10,000                9,770          19,770               97,236               25,111             29,681         152,031               132,261
1983                             10,000                9,770         19,770                98,625               25,11b             32,940         156,679               136,909
1981                             10,000                9,770          19,770              100,015               25,111             36,200         161,329               11±,559
1985                             10,000                9,770         19,770               1011OOh               25,11h             39,459         165,977               lh6,207
1988                             10,000                9,770          19,770              101,L4L               25,11L             L9,237         175,755               155,985
1998                                                  9,770            9,770              101, h1%              25,11h             5b,291         180,809               171,039
2008                                                   9,770          9,770               101,LOh               25,11h             78,376         20L,39L               195,12h
2017                                                   9,770           9,770              l0l,LOb               25,11h             78,376         20L,89L               195,12L
1/   This would cover the installation of tile drains in an area comprising about 18,000 ha, and the application of neutralizing chemicals to reduce soil salinity.
2/   Due to previous overpumping of groundwater, about 11,625 ha of pr-sently cropped cotton land would have to be taken out of cultivation without tne Project.    she annual
figure in this column represents the estimated net value of cotton grown on this land.   Continued cultivation of the area will be made possibl by the Project by
reducing water losses.
3/   The very arid climate and the heavy clay soil in the weste!rn se^tion of the prm.-ect area ^auses a substantial portion of irrigation waters to evaporate from the fields,
leaving behind a residue of salts.   Phe installation of drairns and increased availability of water will provide greater opportunitits for leaching and, hence, prevent
the accumulation of salts in the soil. The figures in this column are the estimated annual values of the net output on lands that would otherwise be retired from
cultivation if salinity is not checked.
LI   Zhi- column will add up to approximately zero when discounted at 11 percent.



MEXICO: RIO COLORADO
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
YEAR
WORK    ITEM                                                                     _             _.
FIRST         SECOND          THIRD         FOURTH          FIFTH           SIXTH        SEVENTH
CANAL REHABILITATION
AND CONSTRUCTION
DRAIN REHABILITATION
DRAIN CONSTRUCTION
WELL REHABILITATION
WELL DRILLING                 81 T                        7                         i 0
ROAD CONSTRUCTION
TELEPHONE AND GAGING
STATIONS
BUILDINGS
LAND LEVELING
18RD- 3354



COL ORA DO-               U    N  I   T  E  D         S  T A   T   E S
N,~~~~~~~~~~N
Cbih.ah..0
CIUDADV DEL/IC/AS
0                        k-
RIO A AQUI
0.O R   AI O
L A GUNERA
RIO FUERrE
X   w                                     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJO R/O,: vl,
QSAN JUANV                                              Matamoros
BA JO RIO BRAVO
RIO CU/IACAN
Gulf of
Mexico
BANK-FINANCED       PROJECTS AND
PROPOSED PROJECT
MEXICAN IRRIGATION
REHABILITATION PROGRAM
IRRIGATION DISTRICTS                                             SAN JUAN
0 DEL RIO
*      STAGE I (Loan 275-MiE)
0      STAGE II (Loan 336-ME)                                    MEXICO                Veracruo
0       STAGE III(Loan 450-nE)
STAGE IV
PACIFIC OCEANI
O   100   200   300  4O  5000 KM
OCTOBER  1967                                                                                   1 RD-2032RI



R10~~~~~       ~~~~          N IR  T E D      S T           T EV                                          OEO
*-. -. - Interoational boioidary ...
          ~~State booundary \L>-E  ;+g
Roads                                               )l        ... C         r    ;/
-4--o-4--$--4 Railroad 
0     5    10    15   20     25 Km                                                            l ,,
SEPTEMBER 1967  I                                                                                                       B \\3'S\
J, 
SEPTMBE 196    \MBRD-033



