M-  0    v           ~~RESTRICTED
Pi    i  t0PV7                Report No. P-578
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
OF MEXICO
FOR THE
RIO COLORADO IRRIGATION PROJECT
January 4, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVLOPMET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A., OF MEXICO FOR THE
RIO COLORADO IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in the amount in various currencies equivalent to US$25 million to
Nacional Financiera, S.A. of Mexico.
PART I: HISTORICAL
2.        Three of the eighteen loans made to date to Mexico were for irri-
gation.  They were Loan 275-ME of 1961 for $15 million, Loan 336-NTE of 1963
for $12.5 million, and Loan 45O-ME of 1966 for $19 million.
3.        The project for the proposed loan was appraised by a Bank mission
in February-MIarch 1967. Negotiations were held from December L to 8, 1967.
Negotiators were Lic. Victor Navarrete, Subdirector of the Nacional Financiera,
S.A., and Subsecretary of Hydraulic Resources, Ing. Salvador Aguilar Chavez;
they were assisted by four members of the staffs of their organizations.
4.        The proposed loan would increase the Bank's lending to Mexico
to $650.1 million (net of cancellations).  Mexico has received no IDA
credits.  The following is a summary of Bank loans to Mexico as at
November 30, 1967:



-2-
Loan       Year             Borrower              Purpose        Ar.ount Uindisbursed
($ million)
1949-1962  Loans fully disbursed                          386.6      nil
(less cancellations)
336-iE    1963       Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Irrigation         12.5      5.8
354-SE    1963       Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Roads              40.0      8.3
401-IE    1965       Caminos y Puentes Federales
de Ingresos and Niacional
Financiera, S.A.            Toll Transport     32.0    17.1
430-ME    1965       Nacional Financiera, S.A.    Agricultural
Credit            25.0    14.2
436-ICE   1965       Comision Federal de
Electricidad and
lNacional Financiera, S.A.  Power             110.0     20.5
450-oE    1966       Nacional Financiera, S.A.     Irrigation         19.0    18.9
Total (less cancellations)                     625.1
Of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                            119.1
Total now outstanding                          506.0
Amount sold                     45.5
Of which has been repaid       38.1              7.4
Total now held by Bank                         498.6
Total undisbursed                                       84.8
5.       Construction and procurement have been generally proceeding satis-
factorily. Delays have occurred in carrying out the 1965 power sector loan
without leading to shortages of supply and the Closing Date of loan 836-ME
is being extended from June 30, 1967, to March 1, 1968, following approval
by the Executive Directors of my recommendation in R67-137. A part of the
construction in one district financed under the 1963 irrigation loan has
been postponed pending completion of studies to improve drainage and crop-
ping patterns. Construction under the 1963 highway loan is now expected



- 3 -
to be completed in late 1968, two years behind schedule, because of delays
caused by unusually heavy rains, limited budgetary allocations, and a larger
volume of work than had been estimated on the basis of the preliminary en-
gineering.
6.        Loan negotiations for a third highway project have been completed
and the loan is expected to be ready for presentation very shortly. Mexico
has also requested further Bank financing for the power sector and appraisal
is awaiting additional information; in the meantime a general understanding
is being worked out with major supplying countries for joint financing for
the power sector project and for three projects in Colombia.
7.        Up to December 26, 1967, IFC had committed a total of $21.7 million
in Mexico, of which $4.2 million was still held by IFC at that date. As a
continuance of IFC's longstanding relationship with Compania Fundidora de
Fierro y Acero de Monterrey, S.A., a recommendation has been made to the
IFC Board for financing a further expansion, which would involve maximum
potential commitments of about $7.3 million.
PART II: DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.     BORROWER:             Nacional Financiera, S.A., a financial agency
of the Mexican Government which, under the
existing Iexican legislation, has to be the
borrower or co-borrower under Bank loans.
GUARANTOR:            United Mexican States.
AMOUNT:               The equivalent in various currencies of
$25 million.
PURPOSE:              To assist in the rehabilitation of the Rio
Colorado Irrigation District.
AMORTIZATION:         20 years, with no repayments during the first
73!7½ years; semi-annual installments beginning
August 1, 1975, to retire the loan on February
1, 1988.
INTEREST RATE:        6-1/4 percent per annum.
COMMITMENT CHARGE:    3/4 of 1 percent.
PAPT III: THE PROJECT
9.        An appraisal report entitled:  T1Rio Colorado Irrigation Project -
Mexico" (TO-613a) is attached.



10.       Nearly one-half of Mexicols population derives its livelihood from
agriculture.  Because of arid or semi-arid climatic conditions and a large
proportion of mountainous terrain, the cultivable area is limited to about
30 million hectares or less than one hectare per inhabitant. A continued
increase in production requires a more intensive use of available land.
The Government has for a long period concentrated its investment in agri-
culture on new irrigation works and the rehabilitation of existing works.
In an effort to attack the problem of low productivity and incomes of
the vast majority of the rural population the Government has in recent years
been strengthening credit institutions and accelerating its efforts to
expand research and extension services.
11.       Major irrigation works are planned, executed and operated by the
Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRE). This Ministry, existing since
1947, has a well qualified and experienced staff, both at headquarters and
in the field, and maintains adequate laboratories for studies in hydraulic
and soil mechanics. Considering that SRH has successfully carried out
much larger projects, the proposed project should be well within its
capabilities.
12.       The project is the rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage
facilities of the Rio Colorado District to assure more effective use of the
available water and provide better control of salinity. Water supplies and
better water management would be assured for approximately 203,000 hectares
of which 12,700 hectares would be double cropped.
13.       The total cost of the project is estimated at the equivalent of
about $95 million. The proposed Bank loan of $25 million represents the
presently estimated foreign exchange component of the civil works portion
of the project, as explained in the appraisal report. The balance of the
project cost would be financed from the Federal budget.
14.       The proposed loan would cover payments relating to civil works
under international competition with Mexican contractors participating.
The only exceptions would be emergency construction and small items of
construction work which would be carried out better by government forces
or local contractors. The total of all of these exceptions would not
exceed 20 percent of all the construction work financed by the Bank, as in
the case of the previous irrigation loan to IIexico.
15.       The benefits of the proposed rehabilitation would justify the
cost. Annual economic benefits arising from the increased net value of
agricultural production are estimated at US$16 million, taking into account
the decline in production which would occur in the absence of the project
because of increasing salinity. The internal rate of return would be about
11 percent.  In the absence of the project, employment in the area would
probably decline and leave existing resources unused; hence, by stimulating
economic activity in the area, the project would yield additional, although
not easily measurable, economic benefits.



16.       Water users would pay water charges sufficient to cover all operating
and maintenance costs and approximately one-half of the investment cost of
the rehabilitation works including interest.
PART IV: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Nacional Fi-
nanciera, S.A., the Draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican
States and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Art. III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
18.       The provisions of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements are similar to
those contained in loan documents for the previous Mexican irrigation proj-
ects and for other projects of this kind. As in previous Mexican irrigation
loans, the Nacional Financiera, S.A. acts only to channel the loan proceeds
to the Government which through the SRH is to carry out and execute the
project. Hence provisions relating to the project which are normally in
the Loan Agreement are in this instance in the Guarantee Agreement. Special
features are:
(a) According to Section 7.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement an
effectiveness condition is that the Government takes
action initially satisfying the requirements of Section
3.11 of the Guarantee Agreement concerning the establish-
ment of water charges as agreed upon and summarized in
paragraph 16 above.
(b) According to Section 3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement the
Government will make available or cause to be made avail-
able medium- and long-term credit on reasonable terms to
farmers in the project areas to enable them to carry out
the necessary on-farm works and make full use of the proj-
ect facilities.
(c) According to Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement the
Government will provide or cause to be provided agricul-
tural extension and other technical services needed in the
project area.
PART V: THE ECONOMY
19.       In October 1967 a Report on Recent Economic Performance of Mexico
was submitted to the Executive Directors (R67-160). The report noted that
fiscal, monetary, and external payments matters continued to be handled
satisfactorily and that the economy was growing at a high rate. The maturity
structure of the external debt has been somewhat improved, but the debt
service still weighs heavily on the balance of payments. The report con-
cluded that continuation of the Government's policies to further "stretch-
out" debt maturities, to limit the amount of new external borrowing and



- 6 -
improve its terms, and to strengthen the current account of the balance of
payments should progressively reduce the debt service burden and maintain
M4exicols good credit standing. No developments have taken place subsequently
which call for a change in the major conclusions of the report. Mexico's
performance continues to be satisfactory. Mexico should be considered
creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART VI: COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII: RECOMMENDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following re-
solution:
"RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A.
in an amount equivalent to U.S. $25,000,000
to be guaranteed by United Mexican States.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A.
to be guaranteed by United Mexican States, in an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to twenty-five milli4on United States dollars
(U.S.$25,000,000), to mature on and prior to February 1, 1988, to bear
interest at the rate of six and one-fourth percent (6-1/4%) per annum, and
to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Rio Colorado Irrigation Project) between the Bank and Nacional
Financiera, S.A., and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Rio Colorado Irri-
gation Project) between United Mexican States and the Bank, which have
been presented to this meeting."
George D. Woods
Attachments                                       President
by J. Burke Knapp
Wgashington, D.C.
January 4, 1968



