Douet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USiE ONL Y
Report Nb. 11851
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1384-BD)
MAY 14, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
At Appraisal (FY83) US$1 - Tk 23.00
FY84 US$1 - Tk 24.08
FY85 US$1 - Tk 25.09
FY86 US$1 - Tk 27.08
FY87 US$1 - Tk 30.85
FY88 US$1 - Tk 31.21
FY89 US$1 - Tk 32.18
FY90 US$1 - Tk 32.94
FY91 US$1 - Tk 35.63
At Completion (FY92) US$1 - Tk 38.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha) - 2.47 acre (ac)
1 metric ton (mton) - 2.205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
BADC        Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BB          Bangladesh Bank (Central Bank of Bangladesh)
BRDB        Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BSS         Bittyaheen Samabaya Samity (Assetless Cooperative Society)
DG          Director General
DTW         Deep Tubewell
GOB         Government of Bangladesh
HYV         High Yield Variety
IMP         Irrigation Management Program
KSS         Krishi Samabaya Samity (Farmers' Cooperative Society)
LGEB        Local Government Engineering Bureau
LLP         Low Lift Pump
MIS         Management Information System
p/m         person/month
p/d         person/day
PP          Project Proforma
RCS         Registrar of Cooperative Societies
RMB         World Bank Resident Mission in Bangladesh
RPP         Rural Poor Program
SB          Sonali Bank (Government-Owned Commercial Bank)
STW         Shallow Tubewell
UCCA        Upazila Central Cooperative Association
URDO        Upazila Rural Development Officer
UTDC        Upazila Training and Development Center
FISCAL YER
July 1 to June 30



FOR,OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Genoral
Operations Evaluation
May 14, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Rural Development II Project (Credit 1384-BD)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report on Bangladesh - Rural
Development II Project (Credit 1384-BD)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office.
Only a third of the ambitious minor irrigation and crop production credit targets were
achieved due to continued subsidized public programs and weak credit delivery systems. On the other
hand, irrigation management support services were improved and a skill training and loan program
targeted to the rural poor yielded encouraging results. The project was restructured and the closing
date extended four times to allow full use of the credit but this did not yield decisive measures to
improve project management. A variety of institutional development actions achieved partial results
but failed to tackle the fundamental weaknesses of the Bangladesh Rural Development Board and
of the rural cooperative system. Loan recoveries remained very low and cooperative autonomy did
not materialize.
Although the project did not achieve its objectives, it had a substantial effect on production
and incomes, and is likely to yield significant economic benefits.  In contrast, institutional
development goals were not achieved, and most project-related initiatives are not sustainable.
Project shortcomings include complex design; optimistic targets; a top-down approach to
project preparation and implementation, and weak eligibility criteria. Bank appraisal was not rigorous
and failed to identify the lack of borrower commitment to project objectives. Borrower performance
was weak.
The PCR is complete and informative. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distrlbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(Credit No. 1384-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze No,
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Project Objectives  and Description   .....  .                    .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .    .   2
Co-financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Implementation - General   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Project Implementation - Individual Elements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
IDA Performance  .......               ..   ..   ..    ...    ..    ..   ..   ..    ..   ..   .        .  12
Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Project Relationships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
PART II  - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . 15
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Credit Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Incremental Credit ........................ . 19
Minor Irrigation ......................... . 19
Rural Poor Program (RPP) ..................... . 19
Thana  (Upazila)  Civil Works  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Cooperative/Institutional  Training   .....  .                    .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .    . 20
Private Mechanics Program  .......                  ..    ..   ...     ..   ..   ..    .       .  20
Strengthening of BRDB  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Expansion of Irrigation Management Program  (IMP)   . . . . . . . . . . 21
Technical Assistance  (Consultancies) . .............. . 21
Marketing Program ......................... . 22
Strengthening of Audit   ........                   ..    ...     ...    ..    ..   ..         .  22
Promotion of Cooperatives ..................... . 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Costs and Financing . .24
Project   Costs    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  24
Project  Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
Project   Results    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  25
Direct   Benefits    .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  25
Economic Impact.. ...................... 26
Financial Impact.. ...................... 26
Studies  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   27
Status of Covenants ......................  .....  . 28
Use of IDA Resources  ................  .......  ...  . 30
World Bank Staff Inputs .........  ..  ...  ...  ...  ..   . 30
ANNEX 1
Table 1: Financial and Economic Prices (mid-1991) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Table 2: Crop Parameters (per ha) and Cropping Pattern. . . . . . . . . . . 32
Table 3: Farm Model A: New Shallow Tubewell (6 ha). . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 4: Farm Model B: New Deep Tubewell (19.5 ha). . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 5: Farm Model C: Application of IMP to Deep Tubewell. . . . . . . . . 34
Table 6: Farm Model D: Application of IMP to Low Lift Pump. . . . . . . . . 34
Table 7: Farm Model E: Application of IMP to Shallow Tubewell . . . . . . . 35
Table   8:  Farm  Build  up.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
Table 9: Re-calculation of Economic Benefits of RPP . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Table 10: Incremental Economic Costs and Benefits
and Re-calculation of the ERR. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .37



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(Credit No. 1384-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Rural
Development Project (RD-II) in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1384-BD in the amount
of SDR 92.8 million (US$100 million) was approved on June 14, 1983. CIDA, ODA
and UNDP provided grants of US$17.6 million, US$10.5 million, and US$1.6 million,
respectively.   The project was restructured in July 1989 and was closed on
June 30, 1991, three years behind schedule. The final disbursement was made on
November 14, 1991. There were four Credit cancellations: one of SDR 20 million
(US$26.1 million) in April 1987, another of SDR 4 million (US$5.1 million) in
July 1989, and a third one of SDR 8 million (US$10.6 million) in June 1990. The
undisbursed balance of SDR 3.18 million (US$4.4 million) was finally cancelled
in November 1991.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of the PCR were
prepared by an FAO/CP mission!/ (which visited Bangladesh in March 1992) and
were revised by staff of the World Bank Resident Mission in Bangladesh. They are
based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR: Report No. 4348-BD), the President's
Report, the Project Agreement, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, progress reports, mid-term evaluation report, project files, working
papers of consultants, discussions with officials and farmers, and field visits
carried out by the mission.   On July 3, 1991, IDA requested the Borrower to
prepare Part II by October 3, 1991. No response was received.
1/   J.M.  Caballero  (Team Leader),  R. Zheng (FAO Trainee),  M. Hossain
(Institutions and Cooperatives Specialist, National Consultant), and B.A. Khan
(Credit Specialist, Part-time National Consultant).






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(Credit No. 1384-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.        The primary objective of the project was to strengthen and expand
Bangladesh's rural cooperative system (consisting of the first-tier village
farmers' cooperatives (KSS) and rural poor cooperatives (BSS for men/MBSS for
women) and their second-tier federations - the Upazilagl Central Cooperatives
Associations (UCCA)) and to improve the capability and performance of its
promotional agency, the Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB). Additional
objectives were to:   streamline procedures for UCCA purchase of irrigation
equipment and credit distribution by Sonali Bank; diversify the activities of a
few selected UCCAs into crop and input marketing; and to expand BRDB's Rural Poor
Program.
Implementation Experience
ii.       The project was implemented between March 1984 and June 1991.  BRDB
was the main Government of Bangladesh implementing agency. Implementation was
slow compared to the excessively optimistic targets in the SAR. Additionally,
project implementation was hampered by inadequate implementation of minor
irrigation policy, and by poor agricultural credit policies.   The project's
institutional goals were affected by lack of strong support from the executing
Ministry. Overall, the project had to be extended three times for a total of
three years, and US$46.2 million of IDA credit had to be cancelled. Although the
project did not achieve its major objectives, it did improve the well-being of
the cooperators.
iii.      Implementation of the following components was successfully completed
within the extended period: civil works, Irrigation Management Program (IMP),
Rural Poor Program (RPP), training of private mechanics, strengthening of RCS'
audit  capabilities,  and  technical  assistance.        With  some  delays  the
cooperative/institutional training component was implemented according to the
SAR, but attendance at training sessions and training quality were low.
Achievements in the two larger components - the use of medium-term (MT) credit
for the purchase of minor irrigation equipment and the use of incremental short-
term (ST) crop credit - were limited; only 37% of the shallow tubewells and none
of the low lift pumps targeted in the SAR were sold, and annual average ST credit
disbursements were only 33% of the target.
2/ Upazila - lowest tier in the government's administrative unit.



iv
iv.       Based on a mid-term review carried out in October 1987, which found
that it was worth extending the closing date despite delay and unsatisfactory
implementation of some components, the project was reformulated in early 1988 by
an IDA supervision mission. The reformulation was approved by IDA in June 1988.
It greatly reduced the MT and ST credit components, used some of the savings for
the purchase of deep tubewells, and expanded the RPP.
Proiect Results
v.        While the project achieved the revised quantitative targets it was not
successful in strengthening the cooperative system. However, it succeeded in
increasing output and incomes through expanded and improved irrigation and off-
farm activities (para 7.3), with a good overall economic return.
vi.       Formation of new cooperatives under the two-tier system of primary
societies and UCCAs was fast but at the expense of quality, for many new
societies could not maintain the quality of operation necessary to qualify for
project inputs and few of the existing societies were upgraded. The autonomy of
UCCAs was not achieved.
vii.      Crop output increased due to: (a) expanded cultivation of high yield
variety (HYV) rice and wheat using the new irrigation facilities provided by the
project; (b) an increase of the command area and yields in the irrigation schemes
where IMP was applied; and (c) higher yields due to more use of inputs allowed
by the incremental ST credit.   The impact was less than expected in the SAR
because of the shortfall in achieving the targets for purchase of irrigation
equipment, ST credit and increase in the command area under IMP. Mainly because
of this the re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the overall project
is 47%,2/ compared with an SAR estimate of 79%.
viii.     It is estimated that the annual farm income of the farmers benefiting
from STW has increased by Tk 6,100 (US$160) per ha, which is 22% more than
anticipated in the SAR on account of an improvement in the input-output price
ratio. The off-farm income of the rural poor who received RPP loans is estimated
to increase by Tk 1,500 (about US$40), or only 45% of the SAR estimate, but the
number of loans given was more than double the SAR target.
Sustainability
ix.       The UCCAs are not financially viable institutions.  Without further
support, the great majority of UCCAs cannot absorb the personnel formerly paid
by the project, or continue the training and other services, and maintain and
eventually replace project buildings and equipment. Additionally, the two-tier
cooperative credit system supported by the project, which is crippled by
extremely poor repayments, is not sustainable. Most KSSs are heavily indebted
to the UCCAs, which in turn are heavily indebted to the Sonali Bank, and there
is little hope that the debts will eventually be repaid to any significant
extent.
i./   The re-estimation used 1990 price projections which gave higher
economic prices for paddy (11%) and wheat (23%) than those projected in the SAR.



v
x.        On the other hand and more positively, the achievements in the sale
of minor irrigation equipment are sustainable since the KSSs can generally self-
manage the equipment supplied by RD-II. The achievements of the RPP component are
being continued and expanded with the benefit of further assistance from the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), which is facilitated by the
comparatively high repayment rates of RPP credit.
Findings and Lessons Learned
xi.       RD-II was thwarted by problems of design which can be identified with
the benefit of hindsight: the project was too complex and had ambitious targets.
The project's approach was top-down, using cooperatives - without consulting them
- as a channel to push through agricultural equipment and credit to farmers. The
loan eligibility criteria, aimed at installing credit discipline through peer
pressure, were inappropriate when applied at the UCCA level. Many eligible KSSs
and individual farmers found their access to credit cut off because their UCCA
was ineligible. This de-motivated those affected from repaying their earlier
loans.
xii.      There were, nonetheless, some strong points in project design.  The
technical package chosen - minor irrigation plus HYV for paddy and wheat - proved
to be profitable, and RPP has been a good vehicle to help the rural poor.
xiii.     The main lessons to be learned from this project are that:
(a) implementing large, complex rural development projects involving many
components and agencies is a very difficult process;
(b) collective loan responsibility, which rests on group pressure to
ensure repayment, is unlikely to work outside a face-to-face society
context, and can backfire, discouraging timely repayments of loans by
those individuals or primary societies who are denied fresh loans and
thus penalized because of failure of others to meet their loan
repayment obligations;
(c) in undertaking certain elements of rural development strategy,
imposition of government programs or expanding the cooperative network
for the purpose of channelling production inputs and services are
inconsistent with the spirit of cooperative autonomy; and
(d) strengthening participatory management is a requisite for managerial
autonomy of the cooperatives.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(Credit No. 1384-BD)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANIKS PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name   :   Rural Development II Project (RD-II)
Credit No.           1384-BD
RVP Unit             South Asia
Country         :    Bangladesh
Sector          :   Agriculture
Sub-sector           Rural Development
2. Background
2.1       RD-II was conceived during the implementation of the Government of
Bangladesh's (GOB) Second Five-Year Plan (1985-90) as a more comprehensive
follow-up to Cr. 631-BD, which was a US$24.7 million project covering seven
upazilas in two districts. The Development Plan aimed at grain self-sufficiency
by 1985, irrigation expansion, and the introduction of a High Yield Variety (HYV)
input package. Rural development policy to support the Plan was laid down in
joint IDA/GOB reviews of cooperative development, minor irrigation and
agricultural credit4/, which contained the policy framework agreed in the early
1980s between GOB and IDA for RD-II and other IDA-assisted irrigation and
agricultural projects.
2.2       Within the framework of the rural development policy,  irrigation
expansion would be based on minor equipment, which would be sold by the private
sector, to exploit both surface and the very rich underground water resources,
and would be supported with training, medium-term (MT) and short-term (ST) credit
to buy the equipment,  and an HYV input package.   The joint review of the
cooperative system concluded that the two-tier cooperative model based on the
i./ Bangladesh Integrated Rural Development: A Joint Review by the Government
and the World Bank, October 1981;  Bangladesh Minor Irrigation Sector: Joint
Review by the Government and the World Bank, December 1982; Bangladesh
Agricultural Credit Review, A Joint Review by the Government and the World Bank,
August 1983.



2
Comilla experiment of the 1960s, which was also adopted by the RD-I project, had
demonstrated its potential role in increasing agricultural production and
incomes.   In pursuance of the recommendation of the review, and in order to
provide an institutional base for a national system of two-tier cooperatives,
Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB) was established in 1982 as an
autonomous agency to implement the Government's Integrated Rural Development
Program.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1       The primary objective of the project was to strengthen and expand
Bangladesh's rural cooperative system, consisting of the first-tier village
farmers' cooperatives (KSS) and rural poor cooperatives (BSS for men/MBSS for
women) and their second-tier federations - the Upazila Central Cooperatives
Association (UCCA) and to improve the capability and performance of its
promotional agency, BRDB. The project also aimed to: streamline procedures for
UCCA purchase of irrigation equipment and credit distribution by Sonali Bank;
diversify the activities of a few selected UCCAs into crop and input marketing;
and to expand BRDB's Rural Poor Program (RPP). Components were: (a) provision
of medium-term credit to UCCA/KSS members for the purchase of irrigation and
related equipment; (b) expansion of an on-going Irrigation Management Program
(IMP); (c) provision of medium-term credit to UCCA/BSS/MBSS members for various
income-generating activities; (d) provision of short-term credit to UCCA/KSS
members for crop production; (e) implementation of a UCCA-based crop and input
marketing program; (f) construction of upazila and UCCA facilities; (g)
strengthening BRDB and the audit capacity of the Registrar of Cooperative
Societies (RCS) through improved staffing and provision of vehicles and office
equipment;   (h) training of BRDB and RCS staff,  of staff and members of
cooperatives, and of upazila irrigation teams, and construction of training
facilities; and (i) technical assistance (TA).
4. Co-financing
4.1       The project was to be financed by an IDA Credit of SDR 92.8 million,
a UNDP Grant of US$1.6 million equivalent, a Canadian CIDA Grant of
US$17.6 million equivalent, a United Kingdom ODA Grant of US$10.5 million
equivalent, and GOB, Sonali Bank, and beneficiary contributions of US$30 million,
$12 million, and $6 million, respectively.
5. Proiect Desien and Organization
5.1       With some assistance from FAO/CP, GOB prepared the initial project
concept.  However, further preparation was required and this was merged with
appraisal of the project, which was carried out in September-October 1982 by
staff of the World Bank's Resident Mission in Bangladesh (RMB).



3
5.2       The basic project concept was sound, but, with hindsight,the design
suffered from four shortcomings:
(a)  Complex Design.   RD-II was a large and complex project.   The
project budget was US$177 million, to be spent in four years to
finance the implementation of many diverse components involving
several foreign development partners and numerous implementing
agencies. The development partners were noted above (para 4.1);
the implementing agencies were: BRDB (the lead agency); the Local
Government Engineering Bureau (LGEB); RCS; and the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC).
(b)  Optimistic Targets.  RD-II was national in scope, covering 13 of
the 20 greater districts, which was appropriate given the
institution-building  objective.    However,  the  project  had
excessively optimistic targets, particularly for the credit
components.   About 37% (approximately US$66 million) and 35%
(US$62 million), respectively, of the total project cost was
allocated  for  short  and medium-term  credit.    This  was  an
impossible target to achieve in four years.
(c)  ToR-down Approach.  The project design viewed the cooperatives
simply as a channel to push through agricultural equipment and
credit to farmers.  They were never consulted on whether they
wished to participate. This top-down approach was inconsistent
with  the  spirit  of  cooperative  society  autonomy.         The
cooperatives were widely perceived, even at the UCCA level, as
mere extensions of the machinery of the Government. UCCAs were
encumbered with project staff appointed by BRDB.  Selection of
Sonali Bank (SB) as the banker for the project, as well as for
the UCCAs, was not a satisfactory arrangement, but UCCAs did not
have the freedom to take their business elsewhere.
(d)  Loan Elizibilitv Criteria.   Loan recovery performance at the
individual, KSS and UCCA levels was used to determine borrowing
eligibility.   This was part of an attempt to instill credit
discipline through peer pressure.   However,  in practice this
turned out to have been a major mistake. Many eligible KSS and
individual farmers found their access to credit cut off because
their UCCA was ineligible.   This destroyed the motivation of
those affected to repay previous loans (para 7.9).
5.3       On the positive side, the right choice was made in putting irrigation
at the center of KSS development since irrigation is quite profitable in
Bangladesh. This permitted a substantial economic return on the project in spite
of implementation shortcomings. The expansion of the Rural Poor Program (RPP)
proved also to be a good choice, which has contributed to rural poverty
alleviation. Finally, the classification of UCCA/KSS in A,B,C and D performance
categories was an interesting way of monitoring quality in the cooperative
system.



4
6. Proiect Implementation - General
6.1       Credit effectiveness was delayed for 3 months because of difficulties
in meeting the conditions. Project implementation was hampered due to inadequate
Government support in terms of implementation of the privatization and
agricultural credit policies.  The project's institutional goals were affected
by lack of strong support from the executing Ministry.
6.2       Since  the  early  1980s,  the Government's  policy was  that  minor
irrigation equipment, other than deep tubewells (DTW), would be supplied through
the private sector. Subsidized sales and rentals through government agencies,
which would undermine the policy, would cease. Unfortunately, the latter did not
happen until the late 1980s and private sector involvement in equipment
distribution and servicing developed less well than anticipated. The Government
also intervened in the market, compelling the private dealers participating in
the project to sell at Government-administered prices.  As a consequence, the
farmer suffered, since neither public nor private supply functioned adequately.
During the life of the project the Government also imposed a ban on imports of
irrigation equipment and on fielding in many upazilas; this, too, impeded the
project.
6.3       Periodically, the Government instructed nationalized commercial banks
to launch credit recovery drives. This had an adverse consequence in that banks,
including the Sonali Bank, restricted credit disbursements, which starved good
cooperatives of loan funds to buy irrigation equipment and to finance other
farming expenses.   The Government's declaration to waive interest adversely
affected credit discipline, as farmers refrained from repaying in the expectation
of further credit relief measures. Interest was waived from short-term loans in
October 1986 and 1988, and in April 1991, 90% of the interest due on medium-term
loans and 100% of the principal and interest due on short-term loans of less than
Tk 5,000 were also waived.
6.4       Frequent  transfers  of Director  Generals  (DG)  of BRDB,  and  the
Government's lack of interest in taking actions to make the UCCA autonomous,
resulted in the failure of the project to meet the institutional objectives.
During the original project period of four years, the DG was replaced more that
eight times. In one instance, the DG was changed three times in one year. In
addition, frequent changes in other top positions of BRDB made it impossible to
carry through policy reforms with regard to improvement in BRDB management,
credit discipline, and building an autonomous cooperative system.
6.5       Prolect Reformulation.  A mid-term review was carried out under the
UNDP funded TA component of the project in October 1987.  This was late but
otherwise as programmed.  The overall finding of this review was that while the
project had fallen well short of achieving its major objectives it had,
nevertheless, improved the well-being of cooperators.  Furthermore, it found the
basic project design sound and worth pursuing for an extended period; the main
quantitative shortcoming, in the credit components, was attributed, at least in
part, to excessively optimistic targets. Based on the recommendation of this
review, the Government requested IDA to reformulate the project and to extend the
Credit closing date. Detailed reformulation proposals were developed by an IDA
supervision mission in February 1988. In the reformulation the credit component
was reduced and the unutilized funds were reallocated to the purchase of DTW



5
equipment; a pilot program to intensify homestead production by rural poor women
was introduced; the RPP under RD-II was extended to three new districts, while
CIDA continued the support to the original areas under a bilateral agreement with
GOB; and the TA component was extended. As part of the reformulation, GOB agreed
to take specific action to increase cooperative society autonomy and improve
credit recovery. The Government's Project Proforma (PP) was revised accordingly.
7. Project Implementation - Individual Elements
7.1       Medium-Term Credit for Minor Irrigation (35% of project cost).  Only
11,021 STW and no LLP were sold of the original SAR targets of 30,000 STW and
3,000 LLP.   The poor STW sales performance was the result of:   (a) over-
optimistic targets referred to above; (b) sharp reductions in new credit
disbursements, also referred to above; (c) the saturation of the STW potential
in the more easily accessible areas; (d) difficulties with on-lending credit
procedures (para 7.9); and (e) Government-imposed restrictions on the operations
of the private sector (para 6.2). The private sector found it impossible to sell
at full cost any LLP because of continued subsidized rental and sales programs
by BADC.  The Government, on the other hand, could not develop procedures to
compensate the private sector to enable them to sell LLP at subsidized prices.
7.2       Originally, this project did not provide for DTW development because
of the existence of the parallel Second Deep Tubewells II Project, which was
itself geared solely to supplying cooperatives.   However,  as a result of
accelerated groundwater development during 1987 and 1988, a shortage of DTW
equipment developed as the IDA-assisted DTW-II project was coming to a close.
The Government, therefore, requested IDA to include the provision of DTW in RD-
II. This was agreed and US$33.1 million was allocated for the procurement of
about 2,400 DTW. By June 1992 most of these had been sold. (Comments on credit
recovery and the operation of the Banking Plan are at paragraphs 7.8 and 7.9).
7.3       Irrigation Management Program (1% of project cost).  RD-II expanded
the successful elements of IMP in RD-I in a more routine manner by focussing on
training in irrigation management, funds for topographic surveys and loans for
physical works such as canal lining. It was oriented to KSS which already had
DTW or LLP, with the purpose of expanding the irrigation command area and
increasing yields through better water use. The program succeeded in meeting the
quantitative targets with regard to the coverage of tubewells.  After a slow
beginning an upazila irrigation manual was prepared, officers from the participa-
ting institutions and the UCCA were trained at Bogra Rural Development Academy
in the numbers targeted by the SAR, and the program was applied to 4,199 DTW and
2,886 LLP against an SAR target of 4,400 DTW and 1,100 LLP.
7.4       The allocation for credit for canal improvement and for topographic
surveys was not disbursed. The major reasons for lack of demand for credit were
inadequate financial returns for individuals (as against economic returns to
society) and the availability of grant funds provided by the Government to the
upazilas for this purpose. Topographic surveys were not carried out due to the
lack of coordination between BRDB, in charge of the organizational side of
IMP,and BADC, in charge of the engineering aspects. The program also did not
receive very strong support from BRDB headquarters and the Ministry.



6
7.5       Medium-Term Credit for Income Generating Activities (9% of project
cost). Generally known as the Rural Poor Program (RPP), this was an innovative
and successful component aimed at providing off-farm income earning opportunities
to the landless by means of skills training and loans in 6 of the 13 greater
districts covered by the project. Poor men and women were organized in village-
level primary cooperative societies - BSS for men and MBSS for women. The number
of loans under RPP reached 113,000 against a SAR target of 54,500.   Loan
recoveries of 71% were much better than under irrigation and crop loans, but
still insufficient for a sustainable credit scheme.  The training of private
mechanics, originally conceived as a separate RD-II component, was in fact
operated as part of the RPP.   This effective program trained 915 mechanics
(against a target of 1,1005/) enabling them to make a good living while
providing a much required service.
7.6       At the time of reformulation GOB requested CIDA, the cofinancier of
the RPP, to continue to finance RPP in the six greater districts on a bilateral
basis after June 1988, the original Credit closing date. CIDA agreed to assist
RPP for a further period of five years starting July 1988.  In addition, the
reformulation exercise programmed the organization of RPP activities in three
additional districts. It also introduced a pilot homestead production program
for rural women in three upazilas for the extended project period.  With the
exception of some training of cooperators the RPP activities under the extended
RD-II did not progress much because of lack of managerial support from BRDB
headquarters.   Under the homestead production program 150 rural women were
trained in intensive vegetable cultivation and poultry raising. Many of them
eventually received loans.
7.7       Short-Term Credit for Crop Production (37% of project cost).   On
average the annual disbursements of ST credit were only 33% of the SAR target.
Causal factors were low irrigation equipment sales, ineligibility to borrow
because of poor repayments, and the impact of the recovery drives referred to
above (para 6.3).
7.8       Credit Recovery. Credit recovery performance was very bad.  At project
closing recovery of short-term loans was only 20% compared to 29% in FY90 and 55%
in FY89. The recovery performance of medium-term loans was worse. In FY91 it
was 14% compared to 18% in FY90 and 37% in FY89. Major reasons were a general
indiscipline in the financial sector, the perverse impact of the eligibility
criteria (para 7.9), expectations of payment waivers by Government (para 6.3),
and failure to act against defaulters on managing committees as required by
cooperative rules.
7.9       Operation of the Banking Plan.  To improve credit operation procedures
for the cooperatives, two Banking Plans were prepared by BRDB, Sonali Bank and
Bangladesh Bank; one for medium-term and short-term credit for UCCA/KSS, the
other for the RPP. The Plans specified borrowing eligibility criteria at three
levels: individual, KSS and UCCA. These were intended to safeguard financial
viability of the system.   The criteria at the KSS and the UCCA level were
2/   The original SAR target was 2,300 in the 13 greater districts covered
by RD-II. When the program was confined to the 6 greater districts covered by
RPP, the target was revised downwards to 1,100.



7
intended to create credit discipline through peer pressure.   However, during
implementation it was observed that the peer pressure did not materialize at the
UCCA level, where the membership is widely dispersed and heterogeneous, unlike
at the KSS level, where the group typically is small. In effect, the eligibility
criterion at the UCCA level did more harm than good, since many eligible KSS and
individual borrowers were refused credit when their UCCA was defaulting. There
were instances when such individuals and KSS ceased to repay dues in frustration
because they were cut off from new credit. The Banking Plan was amended during
the later part of the project period to allow eligible KSS under ineligible UCCA
to receive loans.
7.10      Marketing (1% of project cost).   This component consisted of loan
facilities for UCCA to build fertilizer and produce godowns and technical
assistance for crop and input marketing activities. The loan facilities were not
used because the cooperatives were not able to generate enough business to need
construction of godowns. Technical assistance from FAO/UNDP and availability of
ST marketing credit from SB resulted in some UCCAs undertaking crop marketing in
some years with reasonable financial success and good credit repayment rates.
Participation was limited, but this has served to show that UCCAs can profitably
undertake crop marketing, although they face so many financial and managerial
problems that few are likely to venture into it without external support. Input
marketing declined substantially during the project because the UCCAs were not
trained by the BRDB to compete with the private sector sale of fertilizer.
7.11      Construction of Facilities (7% of project cost).  The physical targets
were substantially achieved within the allocated budget, although with delays
which led to difficulties as the buildings were needed for the project. BRDB had
problems claiming reimbursements because the Local Government Engineering Bureau
(LGEB), which implemented this component, was not prompt in getting expense
statements from the upazilas. There was also a problem in that some buildings
were allocated to non-project officials.
7.12      Stren2theninx BRDB and the Audit Capacity of the RCS (4% of project
cost). The project proposed to strengthen BRDB by providing incremental staff,
vehicles and equipment, and technical assistance to improve its organization and
management. Incremental staff were recruited and vehicles and equipment were
procured, albeit with some delay. A number of studies were undertaken under the
TA to improve the organizational structure and management systems of BRDB, but
there was no effort, on the part of senior management of BRDB or the Ministry,
to act upon any of the recommendations.   Major recommendations  included:
changing BRDB's organizational culture from a bureaucratic to a performance-
oriented one; clarifying BRDB's objectives and priorities; and delegating
decision-making to field officers.   The Management Information System (MIS),
established after a long delay, failed to produce satisfactory indicators of
performance of BRDB.   This was mainly because of the lack of vision of BRDB
management about the role of the organization; hence, ineffective guidance was
provided to the TA team to design the MIS around management needs.



8
7.13      Project implementation suffered from low staff commitment and weak
morale because of the lack of career development opportunities and job
instability. Uncertain of eventually being included in the revenue budgetW,
many project officials devoted a good part of their effort, particularly in the
last years of implementation, to searching for fresh employment.
7.14      The  component  to  strengthen  RCS'  audit  capacity  consisted  of
incremental personnel, vehicles, equipment, training and technical assistance for
the audit wing of the RCS. The aims were to get rid of the backlog of KSS and
UCCA audits, to keep up with the increased audit needs following the planned
expansion in the number of societies, and to improve the quality of audit.
Implementation by RCS was successful; the incremental staff were appointed, the
vehicles and equipment were procured, and a new audit manual was prepared.
Training, however, lagged behind, partly because the final version of the new
audit manual, on which it was to be based, was delayed.  The main aims -- to
clear the audit backlog and to devised new auditing methods -- were achieved.
Indeed, it is remarkable that RCS managed to keep up with the UCCA/KSS/BSS audit
needs in spite of the big increase in the number of societies. On the other
hand, little progress was made in the quality of audit. ODA, which financed this
component, has continued its support to RCS. The additional personnel recruited
under the project have been absorbed into RCS' revenue budget.
7.15      Autonomy of the UCCA.  The primary objective of the project was to
strengthen and expand the two-tier cooperative system (SAR para 3.01).   The
cooperatives were meant to be autonomous, self-managed and financially viable.
Little progress was made toward improving society autonomy and viability in the
project's early years. Therefore, during the extended project period BRDB agreed
to take the following actions to increase autonomy of the UCCAs: (a) rescind
official circulars that contradicted autonomy of the UCCAs; (b) survey of 14
UCCAs to determine their financial viability; (c) training in business management
to selected UCCAs; and (d) withdraw BRDB staff posted in the UCCAS in phases.
These actions were taken, but it is too soon to gauge their long-term effect.
7.16      Training (5% of project cost).  This component, for the training of
BRDB and UCCA staff and KSS leaders, included the construction of training
facilities and provision of equipment, salaries of training staff, training
materials and other operating costs.   The civil works and the provision of
equipment were successfully implemented with some delay. However, on the whole,
the impact of the training effort on the functioning of the cooperatives seems
to have been minimal. The quality of weekly courses programmed for KSS leaders
(chairman, manager and "model farmer") was bad, and, as a result, attendance was
low and the training messages not passed on to members. Quite often, the quality
of upazila-level training was also disappointing. Training materials were not
adequate; cooperation from other government agencies was weak; there was not
enough curriculum guidance; and trainers were not always properly prepared. The
weakness of BRDB's Training Directorate and the lack of a clear allocation of
training responsibility at the district and upazila levels are largely
i/   Bangladesh has two budgets.  Development activity is funded under the
development budget; the revenue budget funds the regular, recurrent activities
of government.  If, at the end of a development activity, staff are needed to
continue routine operations, they must be absorbed into the revenue budget.



9
responsible for this, in spite of the merit of the technical assistance financed
by ODA.   During the last 18 months of the project, the TA team prepared a
training manual to equip BRDB's field staff to carry out participatory, needs-
based, cooperative training, and to manage the training inputs provided by other
agencies, but it is too soon to say what impact this will have.
7.17      Technical Assistance (1% of project cost).   TA was envisaged for
marketing (UNDP/FAO), training (ODA), RPP (CIDA), monitoring and evaluation
(UNDP/FAO), and audit (ODA). The consultancies programmed in these fields were
carried out and the quality was satisfactory. The studies programmed in the SAR,
and some more, were competently produced and many recommendations were given.
7.18      Procurement.   Except for some initial delays in the procurement of
vehicles and equipment, there was no major problem.
7.19      Proiect Costs.  The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$
176.98 million. The actual cost was US$ 93.81 million. (Part III, Section 5A).
The decrease in cost is mainly due to depreciation of the Taka value against
dollar (US$1 is now equivalent to Tk 38.14 compared to Tk 23.0 at appraisal).
Project cost is also less because the disbursement of incremental short-term
credit was far lower than estimated at appraisal (para 7.20).
7.20      Disbursements.   IDA:  After allowing an additional four months for
disbursement after Credit closing date to enable submission of disbursement
claims against eligible expenditures incurred before the Credit closing date, the
Credit finally closed on November 14, 1991 with an undisbursed balance of SDR
3.18 million. The total amount canceled from the original Credit was SDR 35.18
million. ODA disbursed GBP equivalent 3.24 million at the time of Credit closing
out of the total allocation of GBP equivalent 6.66 million. CIDA disbursed CAD
equivalent 11.88 million as of March 31, 1990 out of the total allocation of CAD
equivalent 20.08 million.
7.21      Co-financine.  Relationship with the cofinanciers has been generally
cordial, except CIDA. Soon after Credit negotiations, CIDA raised concerns about
the design of the Rural Poor Program.  IDA revised the design as much as was
possible within the project scope negotiated with the government.   During
implementation, CIDA expressed concern about the limited role of the cofinancier
in discussing project implementation issues with the government. In 1986, a mid-
term operational review, conducted by independent consultants, appointed by CIDA,
found serious difficulties in the co-financing relationships with respect to
policy, strategy, operations and communications. Ultimately, CIDA decided not
to extend the cofinancing arrangement after June 30, 1988 and signed a bilateral
agreement with the government to finance a five year project.
7.22      Prolect Risks.   The appraisal correctly predicted that the project
faced no major, overall economic risk because of the high returns to investment
in irrigation. The risk of delay to the irrigation program was foreseen but the
causes were not. The delays were due to Government's failure to aggressively
pursue liberalization in equipment supply, not from slow response from the
private dealers, and from failure to establish a sound, sustainable credit
delivery  system.    However,  the risk of politics  interfering with  credit
activities,  as happened,  was correctly foreseen.   The appraisal correctly
indicated that the institution building objective of the project would depend on



10
the performance of BRDB.   Government's failure to use the available means,
including the contributions from the project, to strengthen BRDB and the two-tier
system, was not anticipated.
8. Proiect Results
8.1       The  project,  while  it  fell  well  short  of  achieving  its  major
objectives, nevertheless improved the well-being of the cooperators in the two-
tier cooperative system.   The main quantitative shortfall in the MT credit
component for minor irrigation stemmed, at least in part, from the excessively
optimistic targets. While the project achieved the revised quantitative targets,
it was not able to strengthen and develop a self-reliant two-tier cooperative
system which could serve as a vehicle for rural development.   However,  it
succeeded in increasing output and incomes through expanded and improved
irrigation and off-farm activities, and has thus contributed to improving the
economic life of beneficiary families.
8.2       Strengthening of the Cooperative System.  Many new UCCA/KSS/BSS were
created, but the number of them in categories "A" and "B", i.e. with "acceptable"
functioning standards and hence eligible for project inputs, was much smaller
than targeted and declined over time. Quantity was achieved at the expense of
quality. UCCAs are heavily indebted to SB and are not financially viable. KSS
were in turn heavily indebted to UCCA and on the whole unable to repay their
debts even if they wished to do so.  The only noticeable strong point is the
accumulation of KSS savings and shares which have become the main source of
income of the UCCA. But, on the one hand, accumulated savings and shares are far
from enough to cover the debts, and, on the other, they are not a reflection of
the cooperative commitment of KSS members. In fact, members must save and pay
shares in order to obtain loans, and they see this building up of assets more as
a tax than as part of their wealth. This is understandable since they find it
difficult to access their savings and rarely collect any interest or dividend
income.
8.3       Irritation Expansion.  It is estimated that, at full development, the
irrigated area will increase by some 106,300 ha: 67,000 ha on account of the new
STW; 14,700 ha from the 750 DTW sunk in the last year of the project, and 24,600
ha from the application of IMP. This expansion of the irrigated area is only 35%
of the 305,600 ha targeted at appraisal, but is nonetheless a rather impressive
figure; in retrospect, it is quite obvious that the SAR estimates were far too
optimistic.   IMP had a significant positive impact at a moderate cost;  it
increased command areas by an estimated five acres per cusec (against an SAR
target of eleven) in DTW schemes and three acres per cusec (against an SAR target
of seven) in LLP schemes, and increased HYV paddy yields between 10% and 20%.
8.4       ImRact on Farm Production and Employment.  Crop output increased in
three ways as a result of the project: (a) from the production of HYV paddy or
wheat during the dry season using the new STW and DTW; (b) from the increase in
the command area and yields of DTW and LLP where IMP was applied; and (c) from
higher yields due to the purchase of inputs with the incremental ST credit. The
annual incremental production of paddy at full development is estimated by the
mission at some 393,700 tons and that of wheat at some 73,300 tons. Because of
the change in the cropping pattern with irrigation, the production of oilseeds



11
and pulses is estimated to fall by a total of 11,700 tons each. The incremental
impact on farm employment is estimated at 23 M p/d (against an SAR estimate of
45 M p/d). Altogether, the incremental value of crop output at full development
is estimated at Tk 2.7 billion (some US$59.0 million at the 1991 exchange rate),
which is close to 50% of the SAR target7/. The impact of RD-II on agricultural
production is therefore important, though much less than expected in the SAR.
8.5       Economic Return.   The economic rate of return (ERR) for directly
production-oriented activities has been re-estimated to be 47%, compared with an
SAR estimate of 79%.   The revised ERR remains impressive, especially for a
project with flaws in its design and considerable implementation difficulties.
The reason is that the technological package promoted by the project, consisting
of small irrigation plus HYV for paddy and wheat, is highly profitable. IMP is
also extremely profitable since, with a modest expense on organization and
training, the command area is expanded and yields are increased.   Also, the
shortfalls on the targets for irrigation and ST crop credit were accompanied by
a parallel reduction of project cost.  An improvement of 11% and 23% in the
economic prices of paddy and wheat also contributes to this acceptable re-
estimated ERR. The RPP, though a successful component, contributes little to the
ERR because its aggregate impact on output and income is small compared to that
of irrigation.
8.6       Impact on Incomes.  The new STW are estimated to increase net annual
farm income of beneficiary groups by Tk 36,700 i.e. Tk 6,100 per ha.  This is 22%
more than anticipated in the SAR, the reason being the improvement in prices.
The increase of farm incomes in irrigation schemes due to IMP has been estimated
at Tk 84,000 for DTW and Tk 57,000 for LLP. These figures are, respectively, 62%
and 72% of the corresponding SAR estimates8/, the shortfall being due to a
smaller increase in command area than expected; yields increased more or less as
expected.
8.7       It has been estimated that the annual off-farm income of the rural
poor benefiting from RPP increased by 15%, or around Tk 1,500, only 45% of the
SAR projection. However, the number of beneficiaries was more than double the
SAR estimate.
8.8       No  analysis  has  been  done  of  the  impact  of  RD-II  on  income
distribution.   RPP must have had a positive  impact, but there are doubts
concerning irrigation in view of the evidence that the better-off farmers are
more involved in the purchase and management of irrigation equipment.   Since
these farmers are also more involved in the management of the KSS, they got most
of the benefit of training. Project implementation paid little attention to the
income distribution aspects of irrigation.
7/   The estimate of the value of output is in 1990 prices.  For the
comparison with the SAR estimate, the latter was recalculated in 1990 prices.
J   All comparisons have been made in 1990 prices.



12
9. Project Sustainability
9.1       With few exceptions, the UCCA/KSSs of the two-tier cooperative system,
which RD-II aimed to strengthen, are not self-sustainable, and the very poor loan
repayment rates have rendered the project's credit system unsustainable. The
majority of the UCCAs cannot absorb into their own budgets the BRDB personnel
financed by the project and seconded as Upazila Rural Development Officers
(URDO), Assistant Rural Development Officers (ARDO), or accountants, or to
maintain and replace project vehicles, equipment and facilities supplied to them
by BRDB. Nor can they continue on their own the training and other activities
(such as IMP) financed by RD-II and carried out with BRDB support. Finally, they
are very heavily indebted to Sonali Bank and are not likely to be able to repay.
UCCAs survive today mostly on the spread between the interest rate they collect
from SB (currently 13%) and the rate they pay to KSSs (currently 6%) for the
shares and saving deposits that the latter have to make to receive loans (5% and
20% of the value of the loan for MT and ST credit, respectively).
9.2       More positively, most of the KSSs benefitting from new irrigation
equipment under the project are able to maintain and manage it without outside
support.  On the other hand, in view of evidence that the command area in IMP
irrigation schemes tends to decrease after the expansion in the initial years,
the presumption is that IMP benefits are not fully sustainable.
10. IDA Performance
10.1      With 13 supervision missions, including a mid-term review mission, and
active involvement of the RMB, the project received sufficient attention from
IDA. Several evaluation studies of particular aspects were also carried out,
which resulted in many recommendations.
10.2      Most of the problems faced during implementation were identified by
the supervision missions and solutions were proposed, but not always carried out,
or not with the required timeliness.   This was due to:  (a) the managerial
weakness of BRDB; (b) the absence of a separate RD-II management cell to
implement or monitor the implementation of the recommendations; and (c) GOB
reluctance to implement the recommendations, even if agreed with the supervision
missions, particularly if these had political consequences, as in the case of the
eviction from office of defaulting co-op leaders and the initiation of legal
action against willful defaulters.
10.3      Various positive changes were made, however, at the insistence of the
supervision missions, such as: the sharing of civil works responsibility between
the LGEB and BRDB; the de-linking of the eligibility criteria for KSS from that
for UCCA; and the surveying of 14 UCCAs to establish their financial viability,
which led to some concrete action in three of them.
10.4      The main lessons to be learned from this project, which are equally
relevant to IDA and GOB, are that:
(a) implementing large, complex rural development projects involving
many components and agencies is a very difficult process;



13
(b) collective loan responsibility, which rests on group pressure to
ensure repayment, is unlikely to work outside a face-to-face
society context, and can backfire, discouraging timely repayments
of loans by those individuals or primary societies who are denied
fresh loans and thus penalized because of failure of others to
meet their loan repayment obligations;
(c) in undertaking certain elements of rural development strategy,
imposition of Government programs or expanding the cooperation
network for the purpose of channelling production inputs and
services is inconsistent with the spirit of cooperative autonomy;
(d) strengthening of participatory management is a prerequisite for
managerial autonomy of the cooperatives.
11. Borrower Performance
11.1      On the whole, project management by GOB was weak.  BRDB lacked the
strength and managerial capacity necessary to administer such a large and complex
project, and other projects were coming up from other agencies which further
taxed this capacity. The cooperation of BADC and the Directorate of Agricultural
Extension in the implementation of IMP and some UCCA-level training activities
was not always adequate. GOB showed little evidence of commitment towards the
autonomy of UCCAs, and its late and lukewarm attempts to evict credit defaulters
from cooperative office, in accordance with cooperative regulations, and to take
legal action against willful defaulters, weakened the two-tier credit system
supported by RD-II.   The political decisions to waive some of the dues on
agricultural loans was also a big blow to the credibility and sustainability of
the cooperative credit system.  All this, together with project reformulation
(para 6.5), led to the closing date being extended four times.
11.2      On the positive side, LGEB carried out its civil works assignment
satisfactorily, and the management of the audit component by RCS was successful.
12. Proiect Relationships
12.1      Notwithstanding pressure by IDA to improve project implementation,
IDA's relationship with GOB and the implementing agencies was satisfactory
throughout the project, with continuous dialogue between the implementing
agencies, particularly BRDB and IDA.   The presence of the RMB in Dhaka was
helpful in this respect.
13. Consulting Services
13.1      Under  the  project's  co-financing  arrangements  (see  para  4.1),
technical assistance was provided in the fields of training (ODA), audit (ODA),
RPP (CIDA), marketing (FAO/UNDP) and monitoring and evaluation (FAO/UNDP). Some
of the specific studies carried out were: a bench-mark survey of the RD-II
project area, three studies of the IMP experience, an evaluation of the ST credit
component, three studies of the financial viability and performance of UCCA, an



14
evaluation of the impact of RPP, a review of the ODA component, and a mid-term
evaluation review.
13.2      There was delay in recruiting the consultants but, once recruited,
they performed competently and played an important role in organizing training,
setting up the MIS, preparing new auditing procedures and organizing crop
marketing.    The  evaluation  studies  were  useful  to  quantify  and  assess
implementation weaknesses or impact deficiencies and propose solutions, more than
to identify shortcomings. They also served to bring to the attention of COB in
a documented and well argued manner some of the issues arising during
implementation such as, for instance, lack of UCCA autonomy and low credit
recovery.
14. Proiect Documentation and Data
14.1      The SAR and legal agreements provided a satisfactory framework for the
implementation of the project by GOB. The covenants in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) and Project Agreement (PA) were generally observed, although with
some delays. Main exceptions were the commitment to carry out an analysis of all
UCCAs in operation for more than six years, and the obligation to cause UCCAs
with a volume of credit of more than Tk 2 million to bear a proportion of the
cost of BRDB seconded staff.
14.2      In  spite  of  the  fact  that project  implementation  records  were
maintained by BRDB, not all data relevant to the preparation of the Project
Completion Report were readily available. This was partly because of the lack
of a separate RD-II monitoring and evaluation cell, which prevented the keeping
of detailed records, and partly because the mission visited the country nine
months after project completion.   There was some discrepancy among different
sources of data, particularly between the credit records of BRDB and SB.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(Cr. 1384-BD)
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Borrower did not submit Part II.)






- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(Credit 1384-BD)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related IDA Credits
Title and Credit Number                  Purpose                             Approval   Status
1. N.W. Tubewells                        Irrigation                            1972    completed
Cr. 341-BD
2. Agricultural & Rural Training         Training                              1976    completed
Cr. 621-BD
3. Rural Development I                   Rural Development                     1976    completed
Cr. 631-BD
4. Shallow Tubewell                     Irrigation                             1977    completed
Cr. 724-BD
5. Agricultural Research                 Research                              1978    completed
Cr. 828-BD
6. Low-lift Pumps                        Irrigation                            1980    completed
Cr. 990-BD
7. 2nd Deep Tubewell                    Irrigation                             1982    completed
Cr. 1287-BD
8. Agricultural Credit No.1              Agricultural Credit                   1981    completed
Cr. 1147-BD
9. National Minor Irrigation             Irrigation                            1991    on-going
Cr. 2246-BD
10. Shallow Tubewell & Low Lift Pump     Irrigation                            1991    on-going
Irrigation Project
Cr. 2253-BD



- 18 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                    Planned Date          Revised Date           Actual Date
Identification                 -                     -                      -
Preparation                    -                     -                    04/81
Appraisal                      -                     -                    10/82
Negotiation                    -                     -                    05/82
Board Approval                 -                     -                  06/14/83
Signature                      -                                        09/16/83
Effectiveness              12/15/83               03/16/84              03/16/84
Closing                    06/30/88               12/30/88
06/30/89
06/30/90
06/30/91              06/30/91
Completion                 12/31/87               06/30/88
12/30/89
12/30/90              10/31/91
3. Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92
Appraisal Estimate    9.0   45.0  68.0  88.0  100.0
Actual                3.59  11.09  17.20  20.05  25.02  31.0  41.02  65.04  69.15
Actual as % of
Estimate              39.9  24.6  25.3  22.8  25.0  31.0  41.0  65.0  69.0
Date of Final
Disbursement         November 14, 1991



- 19 -
4. Project Implementation
A. Incremental Credit
(Tk M)
........... Short-Term Credit ..........  .............. Medium-Term Cedit .
ALocation  . Disbursement /        Recove     . ... Allocatin . .  . Disbursement 1/   Rec      Rate
SAR  Rate 27                                        M(*)
Amount       (%)                  SAR    Revised      Amount    (%)
rp
1984/85                160        499         312         64       137                    38        28
1985/86               426         416         98          46       137                    80        58          65
1986/87               882         350         40          66       137                    30        22          8
1987/88               1,526       464         30          63       137                    33        24          2
1988/89               1,526       326         21          79                 100          13        13          28
1989/90               1,526       261         17          13                 94           1          1          8
1990/91               1,526       193         13          10                 54           10        18          4
Todal/Average       7,572       2,509        33          37       548      248          205        26         10
t Source: Sonali Bank
2/ Percentage of recovery against demand. Source: Sonali Bank.
B. Minor Irrigation
Saes of Equipment         Unit     SAR Target        Revised (PP) Target        S6         Actual             V.
SIW                          No.         30,000                13,782              46           11,021           80
LLP                          No.          3,000                  0                  -             0               -
DTW                          No.          2,900                  -                  -           2,400            75
1/ Source: BRDB/BADC
C. Rural Poor Program (RPP)
Unit          SAR Target             Actual 1/%
Society Formation 2/
- BSS formed                                             No.               2,500                3,028             121
- MBSS formed                                            No.                 400                1,703             426
RPP Credit 2/
- No. of Loans                                           No.              54,500             113,000              207
- Disbursement                                       Tk million              177                187.6             106
- Repayment Rate                                          %                                        71
l/ Up to July 1988 when RPP became a separate project.
2/ SoUrce: CIDA's Canadian Resource Team.



- 20 -
D. Thana (Upazila) Civil Works
. . Unit Cost (II000) 
Type of Building   Unit   SAR Target    Rcvised (PP) Targ-    %    Actual1l  %             2/    Act1al l/
UCCA Offices      No.        100               120          120       120      100          789        NA
Twin Quarters     No.        200               200          100       200      100          973         890
UTDC Extension    No.         20               23            115      22        96         1,719       1,670
UTDCs New         No.         -                27            -        27       100            -       3,534
1/ Source: Local Government Engineering Bureau.
2/ Includes physical and price contingencies.
E. Cooperative/lnstitutional Training
Type of Trainee                   ......... Number of People Trained .
SAR       Revised (PP)    %       Actual V,    %
Target        Target
Ofilcers
- DD/PD/DPD                                           156              156    100           72      46
- URDO                                                 89               89    100           89    100
- ARDO                                                389              389    100          294      76
- Accountant                                          189              189    100          127      67
- UCCA Dir.                                         1,200             1,200    100         500      42
KSS Leadership
- Manager                                          68,050           48,860      72      48,773     100
- "Model Farmer"                                   93,165           48,860      52      48,649     100
- Chairman                                         93,165           48,860      52      48,062      98
/ Source: BRDB.
F. Private Mechanics Program
SAR Target        Revised (PP) Target 1/       %      Actual 2/      %
No. of Mechanics Trained             2,300                   1,100               48        915         83
1/ Revised target reflects a reduction from 13 to 6 districts.
2/ Source: CIDA's Canadian Resource Team.



- 21 -
G. Strengthening of BRDB
Recruitment of Officials    SAR Target    Revised (PP) Target    %         Actual V      %
DPO                               11                  13             118        13        100
ARDO (RPP)                        89                  89             100        89        100
ARDO (IMP)                       301                 301             100       301        100
URDO                              89                  89             100        89        100
Accountants                       89                  89             100        89        100
/ Source: BRDB.
H. Expansion of Irrigation Management Program (IMP)
Type of Scheme           Unit   SAR Target    Revised (PP)        %      Actual      %
Targ.
Application of IMP 1/
- DTW Schemes                    No.       4,400            4,636        105     4,199      90
- LLP Schemes                    No.       1,100            2,336        212     2,886      123
- STW Schemes                    No.         -                -           -        621       -
Increase in Command Area 2/
- DTW Schemes                   Acres    20 (40%)           NA.                10 (21%)    50
- LLP Schemes                   Acres    10 (25%)           NA.                 6 (17%)    60
1/ Source: BRDB.
2/ Source: Final Evaluation Report of IMP (September 1988); 1 acre = 0.405 ha.
I. Technical Assistance (Consultancies)
Revised
Technical       Unit      Donor       SAR Target  (PP) Target    %         Actual 1/   %
Assistance Fields
Marketing           p/m    FAO/UNDP            36            24           67      24        100
Training            p/m        ODA             48           572        1,192     514         90
RPP                 p/m        CIDA            60            60          100      60        100
Accounts & Audit   p/m         ODA             24            56          233      50         89
M & E               p/m    FAO/UNDP            72           190          264     182         96
1/ Source: RCS for Accounts and Audit and BRDB for the rest.



- 22 -
J. Marketing Program
Unit    SAR Target    Revised       %      Actual       %
(PP)
Target
Construction of Infrastructure
Produce Godowns                 No.          10          NA.                   0
Fertilizer Godowns              No.          15          NA.                   0
Marketing Credit 1/             Tk M          0           NA.                  17
Training of Officials 2/
Crop Marketing                Persons      NA.           700                648        93
Fertilizer Marketing          Persons      NA.           438                338        77
Training of KSS Leaders 2/
Crop Marketing                Persons      NA.         64,700             60,741       94
Fertilizer Marketing          Persons      NA.          1,057               920        87
1/ Source: Sonali Bank.
2/ Source: BRDB.
K. Strengthening of Audit
Unit    SAR Target          Actual               %
Staff Appointment
Registrar Officers                  Persons        59                59               100
Inspectors                          Persons       362               362               100
Support Staff                       Persons        90               105               117
Audit Reports
UCCAs                                 No.         NA.              1,224
KSSs                                  No.         NA.            107,200
/ Source: Registrar of Cooperative Societies.



- 23 -
L. Promotion of Cooperatives
Type of Society         1984     1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991
Number of Eligible
UCCAs 1/
SAR Target             301       301      301      301       301      301       301      301
Actual                 196       193      203      208       239      230       271      268
%                       65       64        67       69        79       76       90        89
Number of Eligible
KSSs 1/
SAR Target           18,465   21,680   24,900   28,120   28,120   28,120   28,120   28,120
Actual                3,394    2,748    1,571      701       920     1,388      933      391
%                       18        13        6        2         3        5        3         1
Number of Eligible
BSSs 1/
SAR Target             300       400    1,025    1,830    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500
Actual                2,781    2,098      785      316       313      287       658      788
%                      927       524       76       17        13       11        26       32
/ Source: BRDB. Eligible societies are those in categories A and B according to a composite performance
index which takes into account loan repayment, financial standing, accounting, statutory meetings, training
activities and member coverage. Only eligible societies qualify for project inputs.



- 24 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ Million)
SAR Estimate                             Actual
Minor Irrigation Program      23220          38468         61688           15745         24627         40372
Rural Poor Program             13900          2300         16200            8935          1370         10305
Incremental ST Credit         35826          30512         66338            7988          3742         11730
Marketing                       391            87            478            221             49          270
Civil Works                    9130           4251         13381            9199          4531         13730
Strengthening BRDB and
Audit Capabilities             6043           1512          7555           11711          2746         14457
Training                       8043            826          8869            1116            13          1129
TA                               87           2348          2435             55           1765          1820
TA                             9640          8030          176994          54970         38            9381
B. Project Financing
Planned                                   Final
Source                     US$ Million        Percent               US$ Milo           Percent
IDA                          100.00              56                   69.15             74
CIDA                          17.19              10                   10.27             11
ODA                           10.48               6                    5.14              5
UNDP                           1.61               1                     1.26             1
GOB                          29.60               17                    5.68              6
Sonali Bank                   12.06               7                     131              2
Beneficiary                    5.99               3                     1.00             1
TOTAL                        1-76 931110



- 25 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Unit      SAR Estimate   PCR Estimate          %
1. Expansion of Irrigated Area at
Full Development
- From New STWs                      ha           206,550       66,980 1           32
- From Application of IMP            ha            99,000       24,617 2/          25
- from New DTWs 4/                   ha                 -        14,684
2. Expansion of Crop Output at
Full Development
- Paddy                              ton          788,648      393,717 3/          50
- Wheat                             ton           169,844       73,333 3/          43
- Oilseeds                           ton          -27,076       -11,691 3/         43
- Pulses                             ton          -27,076       -11,691 3/         43
3. Incremental Value of Output
at Full Development in
1990 Prices                     Tk M             4,574         2,260            49
4. Generation of Additional
On-Farm Employment             p/d M                45           23             51
1/ Command area per STW of 12 acres rather than 15 acres estimated at SAR, and 13,782 STWs sold rather
than 30,000 estimated at SAR.
2/ Increase in command area of 10 acres per DTW rather than 20 acres estimated at SAR and 6 acres
per LLP rather than 10 acres estimated at SAR; increase of 3 acres per STW (not considered in SAR).
3/ Assuming the same crop pattern, yields and cropping intensity as in SAR models.
4/ Originally not considered in the project.



- 26 -
B. Economic Impact
SAR Estimate                  PCR Estimate
ERR                                        79%                           47  1/
Assumptions:
1. Evaluation in 1990 constant prices.
2. Project life = 21 years.
3. SCF = 0.8
4. Economic value of hired unskilled labor = Tk 20/day.
5. Economic value of family labor = Tk 15/day.
6. Economic price of paddy = Tk 6.04/kg.
7. Economic price of wheat = Tk 7.94/kg.
8. Crop parameters and cropping pattern as in the SAR of RD-II.
9. 1990 prices of inputs and outputs as in the SAR of the "STW and LLP Irrigation Project".
10. Annual costs adjusted to 1990 prices using the MUV Index for FE costs and the Dhaka Cost of
Living Index for domestic costs.
11. Expansion of irrigation command area and increase in yields in schemes where IMP was applied
obtained from IMP impact evaluation studies.
12. Income increase of the rural poor from the application of RPP obtained from the socioeconomic
evaluation of RPP impact. It was assumed that: (1) 70% of the loanees have started successful
off-farm activities which will last for the whole project's life; (2) 20% of these received credit twice;
and (3) the imputed value of self-employed labor is 50% of income.
l/ See supporting Tables 1 to 10 in Annex 1.
C. Financial Impact
(Tk)
SAR Estimate         PCR Estimate                %
1. Increase of Net Farm             30,082 1/           36,700                 122
Income per Irrigation
Scheme in STW Schemes
at Full Development in
1990 Prices after
Financing
2. Increase of Net Farm             137,400             84,000                  62
Income per Scheme
due to IMP in DTW
Schemes in 1990 Prices
after Financing
3. Increase of Net Farm              78,800             57,000                  72
Income per Scheme due
to IMP in LLP Schemes in
1990 Prices after Financing
4. Average Income Increase           3,310 V,           1,500                   45
of RPP Beneficiaries in
1987 Prices 2/
1/ Price actualization to stated date using the rural consumer price index.
2/ Weighted average of the various activities. PCR estimate based on 1987 evaluation study of socio-
economic impact of RPP.



- 27 -
D. Studies
Study                         Status                       Comment
Expansion and Impact of IMP            Completed             Two interim and one final
evaluation studies completed in
1987 and 1988.
Impact of RPP                          Completed             A study of socio-economic
impact completed in 1987.
Evaluation of Credit Program           Completed             Evaluation study of ST credit
conducted in 1988. No study of
MT credit.
Fmancial viability and                 Completed             Evaluation study of UCCAs
performance of                                               done in 1987.
UCCAs/KSSs/BSSs                                              No study of KSS.
Study done in 1988 on the
accounting practices of UCCAs
and primary societies.
Study done in 1988 to derive
recommendations for assisting
selected UCCAs to achieve
autonomy.



- 28 -
7. Status of Covenants
Description of Covenant                 Sector Applicable    Status            Remarks
Open a special account in BB to         DA 2.02 (b)         Complied
deposit credit fund and make
payment as per provisions of
Schedule 5 of the agreement.
GOB to enter into Subsidiary Loan       DCA 3.03 (a)        Complied
Agreement with BB.
BB to enter into Participation          DCA 3.03 (c)        Complied
Agreement with SB for on-lending
to TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS.
Borrower will make available            DCA 3.04 (a)        Complied
foreign exchange to private dealers
for importation of engines for minor
irrigation equipment.
Establish & Maintain a District         DCA 3.05            Complied           But delayed.
Coordination Committee in each Project
District by September 30, 1983.
Make adequate provision for the         DCA 3.06 (a)        Complied
insurance of the imported goods to
be financed out of the Credit.
Goods and Service financed out of       DCA 3.06 (b)        Complied           Sane prtbns wth
the Credit to be used exclusively                                              Upazila residential
for the Project.                                                               quarters.
Land of TTDC to be made available       DCA 3.08            Complied
to BRDB to carry out Part C of the
Project.
Review and if necessary adjust the      DCA 3.09            Complied
interest rate level to make it
consistent with Joint Agricultural
Credit Review and meanwhile positive
in real terms to ultimate borrowers.
Prepare and furnish a Banking Plan      DCA 3.10            Complied
to implement Part A of the Project.
Maintain and operate the Project        DCA 3.11            Complied           Changed in revised
Engineering and Construction Unit                                              DCA. LGEB
within Borrower's PWD created under                                            responsible for
Cr. 787-BD.                                                                    Upazila facilities
and BRDB for the
TIU, U)CA dlis
and RDTI.



- 29 -
7. Status of Covenants (cont.)
Description of Covenant               Sector Applicable    Status         Remarks
Issue promptly import licenses to     DCA 3.12             Complied
the suppliers of minor irrigation
equipment to be financed under the
Credit.
Open separate accounts reflecting     DCA 4.01 (b)         Complied
all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals can be requested from
credit a/c on the basis of statement
of expenditures.
Provide annual audit reports not      DCA 4.01 (c)         Complied
later than nine months after the
end of each financial year.
Ensure that as from Dec. 31, 1983     DCA 4.02             Complied       With old auditing system
audit of all UCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS are
carried out in accordance with
revised manual. Furnish quarterly
progress reports of audit of
UCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS.
Ensure that only those                PA 2.07              Complied
UCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS meeting
eligibility criteria participate
in the Project.
Prepare and furnish by 9.30.83        PA 2.08 (a)          Complied
Project implementation guidelines.
Prepare and furnish by 6.30.84 and    PA 2.09 (a)          Not            A survey was
annually thereafter an analysis of                         Complied       carried out of
the financial performance of those                                        14 UCCAs after the
UCCAs in project area operating for                                       extension of the
at least 6 years.                                                          Project.
Cause UCCA with volume of Credit      PA 2.09 (b)          Not            Measures started to
more than Tk 2 M to bear a proportion                      Complied       be taken in 3 UCCAs
of cost of BRDB seconded staff.                                           before the closing of
the Project.



30  -
8. Use of IDA Resources
A. World Bank Staff InRuts
Stagc of the Poject       Month/Year    Duat          Numbero    Speeiaatiom         Perfommane      1pes of
Pemoa      Rpreted 1/   Ratin Statu   prklmsV
Appraisal and               10/1982         30?           9         E,F,CrAMt
Supervision Missions        10/1983          31           2            PA/I             (1)
03/1984         11           6            M,E,Cr            (2)           d,p,r
09/1984         20           7        FA,IrMtT,P,Cr         (2)         f,d,p,r,mt
03/1985         20?          7               "              (2)            H
09/1985         20           6               "              (2)          d,f,mt
04/1986         67?          6                              (3)           mtst
11/1986         20           8          T,M,Cr,lr,R         (3)          f,mt,im
06/1987        45?           7               "              (2)          f,p,mt
04/1988         20?          4          Mt,Cr,D,A           (3)          mt,im
11/1988         15           4           Mt,Cr,D,P          (3)
09/1989         25           4               "              (3)
07/1990         21           1              Mt              (2)          p,mt,t
02/1991         35           1              Mt              (2)         au,t,p,f,mt
1/ A-agronomy; Au-auditing; Cr.-credit; D-disbursement; E-economist;
F-financing; I-industry; Im-impact; Ir-irrigation; M-monitoring; Mt-management;
P-procurement; R-reporting; St-staffing; T-training;
2/ au-auditing; d-disbursemcnt; f-financing; mt-management; p-procurement;
r-reporting; st-staffing; t-training;



ANNEX 1
- 31 -                                Page 1 of 7
Table 1
Financial and Economic Prices (mid-1991)
(Taka)
Unit      Financial    Economic
Outputs
Tradditional Aman (paddy)              Kg             5.36         6.04
HYV Aman (paddy)                       Kg             5.36         6.04
HYV Boro (paddy)                       Kg             5.36         6.04
HYV Wheat                              Kg             4.82         7.94
Oilseeds (mustard)                     Kg            12.06        13.08
Pulses                                 Kg             5.36         4.45
Inputs
Seed Traditional Aman                  Kg             7.04         7.55
Seed HYV Aman                          Kg             7.04         7.55
Seed HYV Boro                          Kg             7.04         7.55
Seed HYV Wheat                         Kg              6.7         9.93
Seed Oilseeds                          Kg            15.08        16.35
Seed Pulses                            Kg              6.7         5.36
Ferilizer Urea                         Kg               5          5.25
Fertilizer TSP                         Kg             4.75        10.47
Fertilizer MP                          Kg               4           7.6
Pesticides                             Kg/It          300          390
Draught Power                        pair/day          45           45
Hired Labour                        person/day         25           20
Family Labour                       person/day                      15
Irrigation Costs
Investment in STW                     Unit          35000        43750
Investment in DTW                     Unit          61000        76250
Irrigation 0 & M - STW               l.s./year      16000        16000
Irrigation 0 & M - DTW               l.s./year      13500        13500



Table 2
Crop Parameters (per ha) and Cropping Pattern
Without Project                   With Project
Unit   Trad. Aman    Oilseeds     Pulses  HYV Aman   HYV Boro  HYV Wheat
Yields
New Irrigation        Kg         1850         550        550        3200       3000        2300
IMP Application       Kg         1850         550        550        3500       3600        2300
Input Use
Seed                  Kg           50          20         20          40         40         100
Pesticides           Kg/it         0.6          0          0           4          4           2
Fertilizer- Urea      Kg           80           0          0         180         180         90
Fertilizer - TSP      Kg           15           0          0          62         62          50
Fertilizer - MP       Kg            0           0          0          25         25          25
Draught Power      pair/day        40          40         30          50         50          50
Family Labour     person/da       100          62         74         160         160         74
Hired Labour      person/da        50          25          0          85         75          50
Unirrigated             Irrigated
Cropping Pattern         ................. Cropping Intensity (%) .
Trad. Aman                   100                      0
HYV Aman                      0                     100
HYV Boro                      0                      50
HYV Wheat                     0                      30
Oilseeds                     20                       0
Pulses                       20                       0



- 33                               ANNNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
Table 3
Farm Model A: New Shallow Tubewell (6 ha)
Project Year - Future With Project
Without ----------------------                  -------------
Area/investments     Project     1        2        3       4 - 10     11     12 - 21
Crop Area (in ha)
Traditional Aman          6.0      6.0       3.0      1.5      0.0       0.0      0.0
HYV Aman                  0.0      0.0       3.0      4.5      6.0       6.0      6.0
HYV Boro                  0.0      0.0       1.5      2.2      3.0       3.0      3.0
HYV Wheat                 0.0      0.0       0.9      1.4      1.8       1.8      1.8
Oilseeds                  1.2       1.2      0.6      0.3      0.0       0.0      0.0
Pulses                    1.2      1.2       0.6      0.3      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total                     8.4      8.4       9.6     10.2     10.8      10.8     10.8
Cropping Intensity (5)  140.0    140.0    160.0    170.0    180.0    180.0    180.0
Farm Investments (in TK)
STW Investment Cost       0.0  43750.0       0.0      0.0      0.0  43750.0       0.0
STW 0 & M                 0.0      0.0  16000.0  16000.0  16000.0  16000.0  16000.0
Table 4
Farm Model B: New Deep Tubewell (19.5 ha)
Project Year - Future With Project
Without  -----------
Area/Investments     Project     1        2        3       4 - 10     11     12 - 21
Crop Area (in ha)
Traditional Aman         19.5      19.5      9.8      4.9      0.0       0.0      0.0
HYV Aman                  0.0      0.0       9.8     14.6     19.5      19.5     19.5
HYV Boro                  0.0      0.0       4.9      7.3      9.8       9.8      9.8
HYV Wheat                 0.0      0.0       2.9      4.4      5.9       5.9      5.9
Oilseeds                  3.9      3.9       2.0      1.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Pulses                    3.9      3.9       2.0      2.0      1.0       0.0      0.0
Total                    27.3     27.3      31.2     33.2     35.1      35.1     35.1
Cropping Intensity (5)  140.0    140.0    160.0    170.0    180.0    180.0    180.0
Farm Investments (in TK)
STW Investment Cost       0.0  76250.0       0.0      0.0      0.0  28750.0       0.0
STW 0 & M                 0.0      0.0  13500.0  13500.0  13500.0  13500.0  13500.0



ANNEX 1
- 34 -                              Page 4 of 7
Table 5
Farm Model C: Application of IMP to Deep Tubewell 1/
Project Year - With Project
Without    -------------------------
Area                        Project             1           2 - 21
Crop Area (in ha)
Traditional Aman                   4.0           2.0          0.0
HYV Aman                          19.5          21.5         23.5
HYV Boro                           9.8          10.8         11.8
HYV Wheat                          5.8           6.4          7.0
Oilseeds                           0.8           0.4          0.0
Pulses                             0.8           0.4          0.0
Total                             40.7          41.5         42.3
Cropping Intensity (%)           173.0         177.0        180.0
1/ Irrigation expands from 19.5 to 23.5 ha in two years without further farm investments.
Table 6
Farm Model D: Application of IMP to Low Lift Pump 1/
Project Year - With Project
Without    -------------------------
Area                         Project            1           2-21
Crop Area (in ha)
Traditional Aman                   2.5           1.2          0.0
HYV Aman                          14.5         15.8          17.0
HYV Boro                           7.2          7.8           8.5
HYV Wheat                          4.4          4.8           5.1
Oilseeds                           0.5           0.3          0.0
Pulses                             0.5          0.3           0.0
Total                             29.6         30.1          30.6
Cropping Intensity (%)           174.0         177.0        180.0
1/ Irrigation expands from 14.5 to 17.0 ha in two years without further farm investments.



ANNEX 1
- 35 -                              Page 5 of 7
Table 7
Farm Model E: Application of IMP to Shallow Tubewell 1/
Project Year - With Project
Without    -------------------------
Project          1            2 - 21
Crop Area (in Ha)
Traditional Aman                   1.0           0.5          0.0
HYV Aman                           5.0          5.5           6.0
HYV Boro                           2.5          2.8           3.0
HYV Wheat                          1.5           1.7          1.8
Oilseeds                           0.2          0.1           0.0
Pulses                             0.2          0.1           0.0
Total                             10.4          10.6         10.8
Cropping Intensity (%)           173.0         177.0        180.0
1/ Irrigation expands from 5.0 to 6.0 ha in two years without further farm investments.



ANNEX 1
- 36-                                  Page 6 of 7
Table 8
Farm Build up
Type of Farm                 PY 1   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5   PY6    PY7 TOTAL
Model A                     3837   3399    767   1425   1096    269    228  11021
Model B                                                                     753    753
Model C                      433    737    808    595    513    920    193   4199
Model D                      341    419    696    485    391    327    221   2880
Model E                               32    132      84      48    325             621
Table 9
Re-calculation of Economic Benefits of RPP
Item                        PY 1   PY2   PY3  PY4+
Number of Loans (in 1000)    41.0   63.0   95.0  118.0
Number of Loanees (in 000) 1/   32.8   50.4   76.0   94.4
No. of Successful Enter-     24.6   37.8   57.0   70.8
prises (in 000) 21
Gross Income (in Tk M) 3/    36.9   56.7   85.5  106.2
Gross Income Adjusted
to 1990 Prices (in Tk M) 4/  30.7   49.3   85.5  114.2
Net Income (in Tk M) 5/      15.4   24.7   42.8   57.1
Economic Benefit (in Tk M) 6/    12.3   19.7   34.2   45.7
1/ 80% of the number of loans; the other 20% are assumed to have received
credit more than once. 2/ 70% of the loanees. 3/ Average annual income of
Tk 1,500 (1987 prices) according to impact study. 4/ Using the rural consumer
price index. 5/ 50% of the income is assumed as imputed cost of
self-employed labour. 6/ Net income e SCF of 0.8.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
Table 1 0
Incremental Economic Costs and Benefits
and Recalculation of the ERR
(Taka million)
Total Net
Incremental    Incremental     Incremental     Incremental
Economic    Farm Economic    RPP Economic      Economic
Year      Cost          Benefits        Benefits        Benefits
1           482.0           -231.0             12.2        -700.8
2           236.0            -67.0             19.7        -283.3
3           268.0            336.0             34.2         102.2
4            167.0           577.0             45.7         455.7
5            133.0           796.0             45.7         708.7
6            79.0           1006.0             45.7         972.7
7            66.0           1132.0             45.7        1111.7
8            40.0           1330.0             45.7        1335.7
9            40.0           1376.0             45.7        1381.7
10           40.0           1418.0             45.7        1423.7
11           40.0           1250.0             45.7        1255.7
12           40.0           1270.0             45.7        1275.7
13           40.0           1385.0             45.7        1390.7
14           40.0           1356.0             45.7        1361.7
15           40.0           1370.0             45.7        1375.7
16           40.0           1406.0             45.7        1411.7
17           40.0           1391.0             45.7        1396.7
18           40.0           1418.0             45.7        1423.7
19           40.0           1418.0             45.7        1423.7
20           40.0           1418.0             45.7        1423.7
21           40.0           1418.0             45.7        1423.7
ERR                                                          46.6%






IBRD 17Q4
_ ~   . J0                                                                                        BANGLADH9-                             92               MARCH 1983
, .                                                                     ~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
lr .  t.                                                                   RURAL DEVELOPMENT 1I PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS AND TRAINING FACILITIES
(       r     Gouhow,
J   RURAL DEVELOPMENT I AREAS           TRAINING FACILITIES:               ROADS
26.           ) hku goo                                                                 FLOOOGRAIN U MARKETING AREAS    (    B.A R.D                -        RAILWAYS           26-
FAO FERTILIZER MARKETING AREAS         R.D.A.                       RIVERS
ActRos,h-, I. aL    ?\t }      ~          1             \      \n            ; . . 4 CHTP                             *   T.T.U.                        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
NWRP AREA IADB)                        R.D.T.I.                     INTERNATIONAL
NAROF AREA II                                     ~~~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIES
.   @\    0            /             ffi ~~~~~~~~~SWRDP AREA DIFADI
>    t-\              t-              E  ~~~~~~~~~~NIRDP AREA IDANIDAI
-254                                                                                                                                       C h      '              R. i         25'-
S     o S,1khor
3~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CE.nV                                                                                           I                  232
I                                          BARISAL                      i             J
24's                                                                                              puL ha24 tHae t                               \ \*..   
)orene aneewenleorere}                          PAT UAKHALI  z                )              CHITTAGON N            D    I
23'       he Ot,f1Var* 2- _-,
CJ'pyao,a f  h efnffl                                         
Dart U w*&p w    O dP , ,dhe                                                                                                                                 . j
SL~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~U Nt   KHALIses
DI,k
CA.
I N D I A                          >
BANGLADESH\
o             25              50             75 MILES                                                MA
o                 50                 100 KILOMETERS
SRI LANKA                                                                                           9
90-                                   9                                    92-



