Document of
The World Bank                                FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3592-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 92.8 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 20, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation
to a basket of reference currencies, with the US Dollar serving as interven-
tion currency. On January 11, 1983, the official exchange rate was set at
Tk 24.48 buying and Tk 25.52 selling per US Dollar. Throughout this report
the rates shown below have been used:
US$1            -       Tk 23.0
Tk 1           -        US$0.0435
Tk 1 million   -        US$43,500
PRINCIPAL ABBR.EVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP       - Annual Development Plan
BADC      - Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BB        - Bangladesh Bank
BRDB      - Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BSS       - Bittyaheen Samabaya Samiti
CCC       - Cooperative College in Comilla
CIDA      - Canadian International Development Agency
DG        - Director General
DTW       - Deep Tubewell
EFF       - Extended Financing Facility
FAO/CP    - Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product
GOB       - Government of Bangladesh
ICB       - International Competitive Bidding
IDA       - International Development Association
IMfP      - Irrigation MIanagement Program
IRDP      - Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS       - Krishi Samabaya Samiti
LLP       - Low Lift Pump
MISS      - Mahila Samabaya Samiti
MITFPP    - Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan
NCMRD     - National Committee for MIulti-Sectoral Rural Development
NGO       - Non-Governmental Organization
NMS       - New Marketing System
ODA       - Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PECU      - Project Engineering & Construction Unit
PWD       - Public Works Department
RCS       - Registrar of Cooperative Societies
RDA       - Rural Development Academy
RD-I      - First Rural Development Project
RDTI      - Rural Development Training Institute (Sylhet)
SACP      - Special Agricultural Credit Program
SB        - Sonali Bank
SFYP      - Second Five Year Plan
STW       - Shallow Tubewell
TCCA      - Thana Central Cooperative Association
TTDC      - Thana Training & Development Center
TTU       - Thana Training Unit
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANCLADESF
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB"
Beneficiaries:        The Thana Central Cooperative Associations (TCCA),
Krishi Samabaya Samities (KSS), Bittyaheen Samabaya
Samities (BSS), and Mahila Samabaya Samities (MSS)
Cooperative System. and its members.
Amount:               SDR 92.8 Million (US$100.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Relending Terms:      GOB would transfer as grants US$15.3 million to the
Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB) for incremen-
tal staff, equipment, vehicles, civil works and train-
ing. GOB would on-lend to the Bangladesh Bank (BB)
US$84.7 million in accordance with the following terms:
For Agricultural Mfedium Term (MT) Credit:  COB to BB
at annual interest rate of not less than 3% for re-
financing up to 90% of BB refinancing of Sonali Bank
(SB); repayment period up to 12 years including up to
two years grace period; foreign exchange risk to be
borne by GOB. BB to SB at annual interest rate of not
less than 4% for up to 90% refinancing of loans to
eligible TCCA. SB to TCCA at annual interest rate of
not less than 6 1/2% for financing up to 100% of loans
to eligible KSS; TCCA to KSS at annual interest rate of
not less than 10 1/2% for financing up to 100% of loans
to eligible members. KSS to Members at annual interest
rate of not less than 14% for financing up to 90% of the
cost of eligible items; repayment in semi-annual
installments over 10 years including up to one year
grace period.
For Agricultural Short Term (ST) Credit:  GOB to BB at
annual interest rate of not less than 5% for refinancing
up to 75% of BB refinancing of SB; repayment period up
to 25 years including up to 5 years grace period; for-
eign ekchange risk to be borne by GOB. BB to SB at
annual interest rate of not less than 6% for refinancing
up to 90% of loans to eligible TCCA. SB to TCCA at
annual interest rate of not less than than 7 1/2% for
financing up to 100% of loans to eligible KSS. TCCA to
KSS at annual interest rate of not less than 14 1/2 or
financing 100% of loans to eligible nembers. KSS to
Members at annual interest rate of not less than 17 1/2%
with repayment according to schedule established by
TCCA.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
For Mfarketing Godowns Owned by TCCA: GOB to BB at
annual interest rate of not less than 5% for refinancing
up to 90% of BB refinancing of SB; repayment period up
to 10 years including up to 2 years grace period; for-
eign exchange risk to be borne by GOB. BB to SB at
annual interest rate of not less than 6% for refinancing
up to 90% of loans to TCCA. SB to TCCA at annual inter-
est rate of not less than 14% for financing up to 90% of
cost of godown; repayment period of 10 years including
up to 2 years grace period.
For Rural Poor Program*: GOB to BB at annual interest
rate of not less than 3% for refinancing 100% of BB
refinancing of SB; repayment period up to 10 years
including up to 2 years grace period; foreign exchange
risk to be borne by GOB. BB to SB at annual interest
rate of not less than 4% for refinancing 100% of loans
to eligible TCCA; SB to TCCA at annual interest rate of
not less than 7 1/2% for financing 100% of loans to
eligible BSS/MSS. TCCA to BSS/ASS at annual interest
rate of not less than 14 1/2% for financing 100% of
loans to eligible members. BSS/MSS to Members at annual
interest rate of not less than 17 1/2 % for financing
100% of loans for eligible activities.
Project Description: The overall objectives of the project are to increase
agricultural production and generate employment and
higher income for the rural poor. To achieve these
objectives the project would: (a) provide medium-tern
credit for the purchase of irrigation equipment and
incremental short-term credit for agricultural inputs;
(b) strengthen and expand the TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS Coopera-
tive System and improve the capacity and performance of
its promotional agency, the Bangladesh Rural Development
Board (BRDB); (c) streamline procedures for the pur-
chase of irrigation equipment and for the distribution
of credit; (d) expand the Irrigation MIanagement Program
(IMP) and implement a limited crop input and marketing
program; and (e) assist BRDB in providing a special
package of inputs to the rural poor through
TCCA/BSS/MSS.   The project faces no unusual risks.
.
* The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) would finance this
program.



Estimated                                                 Local  Foreign  Total
Project Costs:                                          (----US$ million----)
Medium-Term Credit for
Minor Irrigation Equipment            18e5    30.1    48.6
Irrigation Management Program            2.2    0O1       2.3
Private Mechanics Program                1.5     0.5      2.0
Rural Poor Program                       9.9     0.9    10.8
Incremental Short-Term
Credit for Crop Production            25.0    21.3    46.3
Thana Civil Works                        6.9     3.4    10,3
Marketing Program                        0.3     0.1      0.4
Institutional Strengthening              3,5     1.2      4.7
Strengthening of Audit                   1.2     0.2      1.4
Cooperative Training                     6.0     0.7      6.7
Technical Assistance                     0.1     2.0      2.1
Base Cost                        75.1    60.5   135.6
Physical Contingencies                   1.6     0.6      2.2
Price Contingencies                     24.1    15.0    39.1
Total Project Cost               100.8    76.1   176.9
Taxes and Duties                         8.4    ---       8.4
Project Cost
Net of Taxes and Duties        92.4    76.1   168.5
Financing Plan:
IDA                                     29.0    71.0   100.0
TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS                         6.0     ---      6.0
SB                                      12.0     ---    12.0
BB/GOB                                  29.6     ---    29.6
CIDA                                    14.9     2.3    17.2
ODA                                      9.2     1.3    10.5
UNDP                                     0.1      1.5     1.6
100.8    76.1   176.9
Estimated
Disbursements:  (IDA Fiscal Year)         FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87   FY88
(    ---     US$ Million   …-        )
Annual                   9.0    36.0    23.0    20.0    12.0
Cumulative               9.0    45.0    68.0    88,0   100.0
Economic Rate
of Return:      79%
Staff Appraisal
Report:         Bangladesh:  Rural Development II Project,
Report No. 4348-RD, dated May 17, 1983



.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BAIGLADESH FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 92.8 mil-
lion (equivalent to US$100.0 million), on standard IDA terms to help finance
a Second Rural Development Project. The Government of Bangladesh (COB) would
on-lend US$84.7 million of the proposed credit to the Bangladesh Bank (BB)
for medium- and short-term credit in accordance with the relending terms
given in the Credit and Project Summary. GOB would transfer as grants
US$15.3 million of the proposed credit to the Bangladesh Rural Development
Board (BRDB) for incremental staff, equipment, vehicles, civil works and
training.  It is expected that parallel financing in the form of grants to
GOB would be made by the Canadian International Development Agency (US$17.2
million equivalent), the Overseas Development Administration, United Kingdom
(US$10.5 million equivalent) and the United Nations Development Program
(US$1.6 million equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Trends and
Medium-Term Development Issues," (Report No. 4277-BD, dated March 4, 1983)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration.  The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Energy Efficiency and Refinery
Project (Report No. P-3529-BD), dated April 21, 1983.



-2-
be scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Program" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite
several setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing rose by
about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place
outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain sup-
plies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deterioration
in the balance of payments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade wit-
nessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures to
attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation in the second half of the past decade has
been followed by a period of economic difficulties. Bangladesh experienced
serious budgetary and balance of payments problems in FY81 which continued
into FY82. The external and domestic resource constraints led to some
decline in investment, in real terms, and some loss of momentum in the
development effort. The management of domestic food situation, due to poor
crops, has also posed considerable problems. Although GDP at market prices
increased by 6% in FY81 (as favorable weather and stepped-up provision of
agricultural inputs helped to increase foodgrain production to a record 14.8
million tons), growth of the economy became negligible in FY82 due to
poor crops, lagging rural incomes and consumer demand and the decline in
investment. A recovery in winter crops (wheat and boro rice) due to improved
weather and the Government's efforts to expand minor irrigation facilities,
however, is expected to increase value-added in agriculture by 3.4% and
overall growth of the economy by 2.5% in FY83.
6.      The economic difficulties experienced in the last few years is
indicative of major constraints to sustained economic development in
Bangladesh in the near term. These are (a) a severe balance of payments
problem; (b) an extremely tight public finance situation; and (c) a food
production and management problem.
7.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
are currently less than 30% of the import bill and over 50% of these limited
export earnings is derived from raw jute and jute goods. Although export
earnings doubled over the second half of the past decade due to a significant
strengthening of export prices, and remittances from abroad increased
rapidly, the current account deficit over the past decade averaged over 10%



-3-
of GNP annually, financed by external aid inflows, provided mainly on conces-
sional terms by external donors. In FY81 and FY82, however, Bangladesh was
adversely affected by (a) a severe deterioration in its terms of trade and
(b) a simultaneous stagnation in external aid inflows. A sharp decline in
export prices of raw jute and jute goods and of major non-traditional exports
(notably leather and fish products), combined with a 14% increase in average
import prices (partly reflecting significantly higher petroleum prices), led
to a 16% deterioration in Bangladesh's terms of trade in FY81. While import
prices remained relatively stable in FY82, export prices declined by a fur-
ther 16% due to continued stagnation of demand for raw jute and jute goods,
and the terms of trade deteriorated further by 17% in FY82. At the same time
external aid inflows, which rose steadily until FY80, stagnated or declined;
aid disbursements in FY82 were only 4% higher than in FY79 in real terms, and
in FY81 were 7% lower than FY79 levels. During FY81 the Government attempted
to cope with this reduction in the availability of external resources by
resorting to short-term commercial borrowing, short-term deposits from and
currency swaps with friendly countries, some run-down of reserves and assis-
tance from the IUIF under an Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement
concluded in December 1980. However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in
July 1981, as the Government's budgetary problems led to a large
bank-financed budget deficit and to the violation of credit ceilings agreed
with the IMF. In FY82 the Government attempted to slow down the growth of
imports through a variety of measures. Nevertheless further short-term
borrowing of $226 million and a run-down of Bangladesh's meager foreign
exchange reserves to about US$100 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) were necessary to finance the reduced level of imports.
8.      The balance of payments situation in FY83 will benefit from a
significant improvement in the terms of trade, a substantial increase in
workers' remittances to about US$600 million and a 9% increase in total aid
disbursements due to an improved response from donors to Bangladesh's recent
requests for more food and commodity aid. The Government is also drawing
upon assistance from the IMF under a Standby Arrangement in an amount of SDRs
68.4 million covering the period up to August 1983. Rising medium- and
long-term debt service payments (from US$98 million in FY82 to US$155 million
in FY83) will, however, claim part of this increase in external resources;
Bangladesh will be also making net payments of about $100 million on out-
standing short-term debts.
9.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate had a major adverse
impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government's receipts of
local counterpart funds--a principal source of taka resources--were reduced,
as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes, which account for
nearly 60% of total tax revenues. These budgetary problems were exacerbated
by weak financial planning and inadequate domestic adjustments in the face of
generally reduced availability of resources. The Government's development
programs were predicated on the basis of overly optimistic assumptions
regarding resource availabilities; and the poor financial performance of
public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and delays in increasing



-4-
their sales prices added a further drain on the budget. A budget deficit of
Tk 5 billion or about 2.5% of GNP emerged in FY81 even though the Annual
Development Program (ADP) was cutback by 12% in the second half of the fiscal
year. In FY82, the cutbacks in imports noted earlier sharply reduced govern-
ment revenues; and this caused serious difficulties in implementing the ADP
which was again initially set at ambitiously high levels. Although the Taka
component of the ADP was cutback by 15% in the third quarter of FY82, it was
possible to avoid a deficit in the overall government budget only because a
sharp run-down in government's food stocks as a result of poor domestic crops
helped to produce a substantial cash surplus on the food account.
10.     Although considerable progress has been made in the past ten years
in increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs and improving
agricultural policies, foodgrain production-and supply in Bangladesh remains
heavily dependent on the vagaries of the weather. Prolonged drought since the
summer of 1981 adversely affected the FY82 and FY83 rice crops. The short-
fall in foodgrain production in FY82 (0.4 million tons or 5% below FY81
levels) led to high food prices in FY82, low government procurements,
increased demand for foodgrain distributed through the ration system and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to about 600,000 tons
by end-June 1982, far below the levels considered to be sufficient for food
security purposes. In order to replenish stocks the Government made substan-
tial commercial imports, thereby imposing further strain on the balance of
payments.
11.     The Government endeavored to cope with the intensifying problems
facing the economy by placing restrictions on imports, public sector expendi-
tures and bank credit, reducing various subsidies, and allowing the Taka to
depreciate. In FY82 the Taka was depreciated by about 10% in relation to a
basket of currencies to which it is pegged and by about 22% in relation to
the US dollar. 1/ However, the rate of domestic inflation, spurred on by
sharp increases in foodgrain prices in mid FY82, the adjustments in the
exchange rate and rapid expansion of domestic liquidity in late FY81
accelerated and the consumer price index increased by 15% over the 12 month
period ending June 1982.
12.     Faced with continuing prospects of unfavorable terms of trade and
stagnating resource availabilities, the Government, in the FY83 budget (in
July 1982), introduced a wide range of policy measures designed to adjust the
economy to the country's serious resource constraints. Projected development
expenditures for FY83 were reduced by nearly 20% in line with resource
availabilities, while the increase in recurrent expenditures was limited to
14%, only slightly above the forecast inflation level. The Government also
introduced new tax measures expected to yield Tk 1.17 billion (about 0.5% of
GDP) in FY83. In addition, a number of substantial subsidy and pricing
1/ Change from end-June 1981 to early June 1982.



-5-
adjustments aimed at reducing consumption and protecting investments were
made. Ration prices of wheat and rice were increased by 11% and 8%, respec-
tively and fertilizer prices were increased by 14% on average. The Govern-
ment also recognized the need to improve the financial performance of public
sector enterprises and utilities; and product prices and rates were raised
substantially in the case of petroleum products (41%), electricity tariffs
(40%) and natural gas (13%).  These measures are expected to channel resour-
ces from private consumption to public investment and, together with a cash
surplus on the food account noted earlier, will help improve the overall
budgetary position, and restore a greater measure of financial stability.
External Debt
13.     Debt service payments on medium- and long-term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total
debt service payments: because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
14.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in tray
1980, accords high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the
population growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate
to unity by 1990; (iii) progress towards mass literacy through free universal
primary education; and (iv) emphasis on energy development, particularly
through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
15.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains.  This target is now being scaled
down in view of the country's resource constraints. The achievement of even
this revised target will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient
resources to provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private
sector to play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern



-6-
agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are ade-
quate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension
services and training, and appropriate producer incentives.
16.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
17.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The Government recognizes that achievement of the goal will take
longer than five years, but it has set itself the ambitious target of intro-
ducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. IDA has assisted GOB in preparing a medium-term
plan for the education sector.
18.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual
basis. The Government has recently revised the draft SFYP, and this revised
Plan includes some welcome new initiatives, for example increased emphasis on
rural development, energy development and addressing the problem of rural
unemployment. Some of the targets of the revised Plan and especially its
macro-economic framework are, however, still ambitious and will need to be
adjusted; more work and considerable discipline are also needed to identify
core programs and projects and protect them to the extent possible in a
situation of resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to
which project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and rural development should be carried out in a
decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation.
19.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations has concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and



-7-
planning. The Government's flew Industrial Policy, announced last year, also
provides for a greater role of the private sector in economic development.
Many of the key elements of this policy are already being implemented,
including the divestment of major segments of the jute and textile industries
to the private sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANCLADESH
20.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$146.76 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million and credit
of US$31.04 million to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in 1974. As of
Mlarch 31, 1983, 66 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,215.70
million; of these, US$867.2 million have been for import credits (eleven
imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of March 31,
1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976,
Bangladesh became a member of the International Finance Corporation (IFC),
and two investments (for a shipbuilding company and an investment promotion
company) have been approved.
21.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(20 of the projects approved as of Mlarch 31, 1983, and two fertilizer imports
credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Government's
priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, credit and storage facilities. In
addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com-
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is assisting in rural
electrification and in the elimination of shortages of generation capacity
and distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to the
utilization of existing industrial capacity. Assistance for developing
telecommunications is designed to improve the efficiency of a wide-range of
economic and social activities. Recent IDA lending has also recognized the
increasing importance of the early development of the hydrocarbon sector
aimed at relieving the burden of oil imports on the country's balance of
payments through substitution of domestic natural gas for imported oil, as
well as assisting Bangladesh to realize the foreign exchange potential of its
substantial resources of domestic natural gas.
22.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eleven imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the



-8-
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several Development Finance Company and small-scale industry projects, and
two IFC investments.
23.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
24.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureauc;atic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
25.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
General
26.     Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for roughly
55% of GDP, 75% of employment, and over 80% of exports. Out of a total land
area of 35 million acres, about 22.5 million are under cultivation at a
cropping intensity averaging 150%. Rice, the most important crop, accounts
for over 80% of the cultivated area; jute, the principal export and
industrial raw material crop, for 6%; and other crops, including wheat,
pulses, tobacco, oilseeds, sugarcane and vegetables, for the balance.
27.     Though growth in production has accelerated in recent years,
Bangladesh suffers from a chronic shortage of foodgrains, with annual produc-
tion varying considerably. While the technology for achieving the goal of
foodgrain self-sufficiency by the late 1980s exists, and has been employed in
some areas since the mid-1960s, its expanded utilization has been hampered by
physical, socio-economic, institutional and resource constraints.  With



-9-
practically all cultivable land fully utilized, any increases in production
must come from intensification efforts.
28.     Nearly two thirds of the cultivable area is subject to flood and
drainage problems, with only 4 million acres protected by physical works such
as embankments and drains. Dry season irrigation is available for only 4
million acres. About 70% of farms are smaller than two acres and are often
fragmented into as many as ten parcels. About 25% of farm families own less
than one acre, and about 40% of all land is sharecropped. Rural areas are
physically isolated and lack both the basic infrastructure needed for the
development of rural industries and effective provision of essential inputs,
credit, technical advice and price incentives.
29      Overshadowing the problem of small a-nd marginal farmers is that of
the landless. More than one third of the rural households have no land under
cultivation; a large proportion of households (20%) are seeking employment
opportunities outside of the farm sector. Using a daily calorie intake of
2,100 as an indication of the poverty line, the percentage of the rural poor
increased from 65% in 1964 to 87% in 1977 and this trend has continued.
30.     Under the Second Five Year Plan (SFYP) and the MIedium Term Food
Production Plan (HTFPP), 85% of physical investment is concentrated on the
provision of water control and dry season irrigation facilities, supply of
complementary inputs, and an increase in market access. Supportive rural
institutions, credit and supply mechanisms, and extension and research
activities are being strengthened, and greater reliance is being placed on
the private sector with a concommitant reduction of GOB subsidies.
Rural Institutions and the TCCA/KSS System
31.     An integral element of Bangladesh's rural development plan--the
"Comilla Model"--was the establishment of Thana Central Cooperative Associa-
tions (TCCA) located at the headquarters of the 450 thanas into which
Bangladesh is divided administratively, and of Krishi Samabaya Samities (KSS)
located in the 68,000 villages in Bangladesh. After a decade of experimenta-
tion in 20 thanas, the TCCA/KSS system was expanded nationwide under the
aegis of the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), an agency of GOB's
Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives. A joint GOB/IDA review of
IRDP in 1982 found that the TCCA/KSS system has played a useful--though far
below potential--role in furthering GOB's agricultural and rural development
plans. As recommended by the Joint Review, IRDP has recently been recon-
stituted as the autonomous Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB).
32,     The TCCA/KSS system has expanded rapidly in recent years and now
includes 350 TCCA, 49,000 KSS and a total membership of 1,690,000. This
growth has been achieved despite a difficult environment in which the system
has been unable to guarantee the flow of services most in demand by its
members--minor irrigation equipment, medium- and short-term credit, fer-
tilizer and seed--because of the inability of the public sector agencies



-10-
controlling their supply to meet the TCCA demand. At least half of the KSS
which have been organized are not active. About two-thirds of the membership
of "A" and "B" class KSS 1/ do not participate in the system's credit
program, in part due to cumbersome procedures and in part because about 55%
of these KSS do not yet offer irrigation equipment which tends to stimulate
credit demand.
Irrigation
33.     Minor irrigation development is a key component of the IITFPP, and its
expansion has been generally encouraging. Given the small size and fragmen-
tation of holdings and the relatively high cost of minor irrigation equip-
ment, farmers have to work in groups to optimize the use of such equipment.
TCCA/KSS participation in the national minor irrigation program has been
important and supported by IDA. During FY81 and FY82, TCCA purchased
approximately 54% of all the shallow tubewells (STW) sold in Bangladesh and
64% of all the deep tubewells (DTW). An important aspect of minor irrigation
development is GOB's decision to replicate, on a national basis, the Irriga-
tion Management Program (IMIP), which was introduced under the first Rural
Development Project in 1979-80 to address the problem of underutilization
of minor irrigation equipment. Essential features of the IMIP are:
(a) preparation of action plans; (b) organizing KSS meetings to explain water
management; (c) training of managers, chairmen of KSS, TCCA inspectors,
village accountants, block leaders, fieldmen, and tubewell operators;
(d) preparation of land maps and land registers; (e) laying of irrigation
channels; and (f) preparation of irrigation budgets. During 1981/82, IMP
covered 43 TCCA and 430 irrigation units and on average increased command
areas by 53%, farmer participation by 35% and yields by 15%.
Rural Credit
34.     In 1976 the Special Agricultural Credit Program (SACP) was launched
to provide short-term crop credit, particularly to smaller farmers without
adequate collateral. Under SACP, Bangladesh has operated a multi-agency
approach in providing institutional credit to farmers in which the six
Nationalized Commercial Banks, the Bangladesh Krishi Bank and the Bangladesh
Samabaya Bank Ltd. have participated. The Bangladesh Bank (BB) has supported
SACP by supplying liberal refinancing, on average refinancing 40% of total
agricultural lending. However, the TCCA/KSS system was excluded from SACP
and received its financing from Sonali Bank (SB), a nationalized commercial
bank without access to refinance from BB. Loan recovery performance of the
TCCA/KSS system is satisfactory, although there has been some decline in
recovery rates recently. GOB is taking action, which would be supported
1/ KSS are classified on the basis of their performance in achieving their
objectives. "A" and "B" class KSS are judged to be active and viable
KSS.



-1 1-
under the proposed project, to arrest this trend. Current TCCA/KSS lending
terms and conditions allow sone flexibility for delayed recoveries at the
TCCA level, but are essentially strict at the KSS and member level where 100%
repayment of past loans is a condition for further loans. In Bangladesh,
with its complex cropping systems, inputs for a next crop are often needed
before a farmer is able to sell off and repay loans for a preceding crop.
Such requirements and cumbersome loan sanction procedures have tended to
restrict the growth in lending volume. These and other factors constraining
the credit program of the TCCA have been addressed in the GOB/IDA joint
reviews of IRDP and of Agricultural Credit.
Input Supply and Marketing
35.     Before 1978, the supply of farm inputs was the monopoly of the
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) which owns, rents and
operates 1,124 storage godowns totalling 360,000 tons capacity and currently
markets 850,000 tons of fertilizers annually. Under a New Nlarketing System
(NIS), introduced in 1978, BADC has withdrawn from its Thana Level Sales
Centers to about 110 Primary Distribution Points, except in "remote" thanas
where the response from private sector dealers has been poor. Prior to the
introduction of NMIS, BADC had allocated wholesale distribution rights in
about 65 thanas to TCCA which either owned or rented godowns.  Under NIS,
these TCCA lost exclusive distribution rights and have faced a loss in their
market share from 55% to 17%.  More seriously, in these thanas total sales of
fertilizer have declined by 35%. BRDB has now taken steps to remedy this
situation by providing credit and training support to TCCA and by encouraging
TCCA to extend fertilizer marketing to the KSS level using the experience of
an FAO/UNDP assisted fertilizer marketing pilot program, which has demon-
strated that fertilizer sales increase significantly when supported by credit
made available at the KSS level. BRDB has also developed a pilot TCCA/KSS
based paddy and rice marketing system.
Special Programs for the Rural Poor
36.     It is expected that the agricultural sector can absorb at best only
about 20% of the increase in the rural labor force anticipated by 1987. In
an attempt to alleviate the problem, a number of programs designed to address
the needs of the rural poor have been initiated by GOB, including several
special programs under BRDB. Since 1977, BRDB has established about 2,500
special cooperatives for the landless, including 400 Bittyaheen Sambaya
Samities (BSS), which had a total membership of 69,000 by 1982. In 1979,
BRDB also instituted a special program for promoting rural women's coopera-
tives, MIahila Samabaya Samities (MSS), under the IDA supported Population
Planning and Health Project (Cr. 921-BD). To date, about 100 such coopera-
tives have been financed. Major problems faced in the implementation of the
BRDB programs have been slow registration of new societies, delays in the
flow of credit and a lack of training and extension support.



-12-
37.     Non-Government Organizations (NGO), which get no financial support
from GOB, have also been assisting the rural poor of Bangladesh since inde-
pendence. Small but successful programs have been carried out by Bangladesh
Rural Advancement Committee, Proshika, Grameen Bank, and Small Farmers
Development Project of FAO. The NGOs have focused their credit program on
landless workers, marginal farmers and disadvantaged women. About 37% of the
beneficiaries are women.
The First Rural Development Project, Credit 631-BD
38.     The first Rural Development Project (RD-I) began in 1976 to test the
replicability of the Comilla model in seven selected thanas in two districts
in northern Bangladesh. After an encouraging start in training field staff
and reorganizing existing cooperatives into TCCA/KSS, the supply of inputs,
such as irrigation equipment, fertilizers and technical advice, ran into
serious problems. For example, procurement of minor irrigation equipment was
delayed for three years due to BADC's inability to follow the Bank's procure-
ment guidelines. Thus, KSS membership did not expand in the project area.
Except fir the rural works program, there was little physical evidence of the
usefulness of the project. In 1980, GOB and IDA took a number of steps to
correct these problems, and by early 1981 the project's performance had
improved noticeably. Provision of credit to eligible KSS and farmers
increased to Tk 13 million from Tk 2 million in FY79, while the number of
borrowers owning less than two acres increased to 76% from 57% in 1978.
Credit recovery of 85% was achieved. Two of the seven TCCA achieved a level
of accumulated savings that exceeded their annual short-term loans, 110
landless fishery cooperatives were organized and made operational, and a
pilot project for improving utilization of DTW was successfully undertaken
(the precursor of IMP). Sale of 5,000 hand tubewells, and all available STWs
(730) and DTWs (90) was completed. Training programs for KSS managers and
TCCA staff were revitalized and the backlogs of audits and elections for the
managing committee for all 'A' and 'B' class KSS were cleared. The original
closing date (June 1982) was extended one year to finance 250 DTWs for the
1,000 KSS located in Mymensingh District. Several important insights were
gained from the project.  The first is that, if the principal objective is to
provide farmers with the means to adopt new technology and undertake effi-
cient irrigation development, it is counter-productive to implement a wide
range of activities not relevant to the basic program. The second is that
confining an intensive development program to relatively few thanas creates
local tensions and is administratively confusing at the district level.
Finally, it is apparent that institutional development cannot be undertaken
in the absence of an assured supply of inputs responsive to the demands made
by farmers. The proposed Second Rural Development Project takes into account
these experiences.



-13-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.     The proposed project was prepared by GOB with assistance from FAO/CP
and IDA and appraised in September 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 26 to flay 6, 1983. The Government of Bangladesh was
represented by a delegation led by H1r. Khanadakar Asaduzzaman.  A staff
appraisal report (Report No. 4348-BD, dated May 17, 1983), is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors. A timetable of key events
relating to the project and special conditions of the credit are listed in
Annex III.
Objective
40.     The overall objectives of the project are to increase agricultural
production and generate employment and higher income for the rural poor. To
achieve these objectives the project would strengthen and expand the Thana
Central Cooperative Association/Krishi Samabaya Samiti/Bittyaheen Samabaya
Samiti/l4ahila Samabaya Samiti (TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS) Cooperative System and
improve the capability and performance of its promotional agency, the
Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB). The project would streamline
procedures for the purchase of irrigation equipment by TCCA, and for the
distribution of credit by Sonali Bank (SB). Efforts would be made to diver-
sify the activities of a limited number of selected TCCA into crop and input
marketing. The project would assist BRDB in providing a special package of
inputs through the TCCA for members of BSS/MSS cooperatives of the rural
poor. About 90 new TCCA, 8,000 new KSS and 3,000 new BSS/MlSS are expected to
be formed during the project's four year implementation period.
Scope
41.     Certain project activities such as training and audit would be
national in scope. Others, such as provision of credit for irrigation and
agricultural inputs, would-be concentrated in 13 districts (out of a total
of 20) since other donors are financing similar programs in the remaining
seven districts. Because of BRDB's limited implementation capacity, the
rural poor and marketing components would initially be confined to six of the
13 districts. Eligibility for the participation of individual
TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS in project activities would be based on established criteria
which take into account minimum performance standards (Section 2.07 of the
Project Agreement).
Description
42.     The principal components of the project would be:  (i) provision of
medium-term credit to TCCA/KSS members for the purchase of minor irrigation
equipment; (ii) expansion of the ongoing Irrigation lManagement Program (IMP);
(iii) implementation of a program for private mechanics; (iv) implementation
of a program for the rural poor; (v) provision of incremental short-term



-14-
credit to TCCA/KSS members for crop production; (vi) implementation of a TCCA
Crop and Input Marketing Program; (vii) construction of basic thana
facilities; (viii) strengthening of BRDB; (ix) strengthing of audit;
(x) institutional training; and (xi) technical assistance.
43.     Minor Irrigation Equipment.  National demand of the TCCA/KSS system
for STW is estimated conservatively at 15,000 per annum and that for LLP at
1,500.  The project would finance the purchase by KSS of 30,000 STW and 3,000
one-cusec LLP through medium-term credit provided by TCCA. The balance of
the TCCA demand for STW would be met from other sources such as the IDA
financed Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1147-BD). By 1987, 90% of 'A' and
'B' class KSS are expected to have some irrigation facilities.  Project STV
and LLP would be imported, retailed, installed and serviced by private
dealers.
44.     Irrigation Management Program (IMP).  The project would meet the cost
of expansion of the IMP from 430 DTW/LLP units to about 5,500 DTW and STW/LLP
clusters. The expansion would include: (a) strengthening of the irrigation
faculty at Rural Development Academy (RDA) at Bogra, (b) training of thana
level IMP teams; (c) training of irrigation group leaders, and (d) a limited
program of improved canal construction or lining.
45.     Private Mlechanics Program.  The project would provide training and
medium-term credit for the purchase of simple tool boxes and bicycles for
the 2,300 private mechanics who would be needed to service the minor irriga-
tion equipment.
46.     Rural Poor Program.  The project would provide training, equipment,
administrative costs, and medium-term credit for economically productive
activities to the rural poor through BSS and IHSS cooperatives. The major
activities, to be supported include pond fisheries, beef fattening, weaving,
cane and bamboo work, and pottery. Of the approximately 3,000 rural poor
cooperatives to be formed under the project, about 400 would be ISS
exclusively for women. Total membership in BSS/MSS is expected to increase
by over 100,000.
47.     Incremental Short-Term Credit for Crop Production.  Failure to
provide adequate short-term credit has been a serious constraint to TCCA/KSS
development. With the expanding use of irrigation equipment by KSS and the
increasing efficiency of its use under IMP, the demand for short-term credit
will increase significantly. The project would provide for the incremental
requirements (estimated at Tk 1526 million over the four-year project period)
of short-term credit to KSS members in the 13 districts to finance agricul-
tural inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides, diesel fuel and labor.
48.     Marketing Program.  The project would provide medium-term credit to
TCCA for the construction of about 10 produce marketing godowns and about 15
fertilizer godowns, each of an existing low-cost design of 200 tons capacity.
A set of moisture testing and weighing equipment would be allocated to each



-15-
of the 20 TCCA participating in the crop marketing program. The ongoing
FAO/UNDP fertilizer marketing project would provide training and logistic
support to the TCCA.
49.     Thana Civil Works.  It is GOB policy to establish at each thana a
Thana Training and Development Center (TTDC). The TTDC complex is owned by
the Thana Council and typically consists of office space for Government
officials posted to the thana and a training hall plus 15-25 ac of land to
accommodate housing, demonstration plots, TCCA buildings, workshops, godowns,
diesel fuel tanks, and other facilities.  The project would provide for the
construction or completion of TTDC at about 20 thanas in the 13 project
districts and about 100 TCCA offices and 200 TCCA staff quarters.
50.     Strengthening of BRDB.  All 13 BRDB district offices would be
strengthened by the addition of a Deputy Project Director. For all TCCA
taking up the IMP or Rural Poor Programs, an additional Deputy Project
Officer would be appointed. Additional technical and support staff would
also be required for the 90 new TCCA to be established under the project.
The project would help finance these incremental staff together w7ith vehicles
and equipment.
51.     Strengthening of Audit.  The project would provide incremental staff,
vehicles and equipment for a separate wing in the Registrar of Cooperative
Societies (RCS) to audit the accounts of TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS. RCS staff have
not increased as the cooperative network has grown. As a result, as of
October 1982, audits of 83 KSS and 12,000 TCCA were more than one year over-
due. Performance of preliminary steps satisfactory to IDA for the estab-
lishment of this wing, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(e) of the Development Credit Agreement).
52.     Training.  Training under the project, 85% of which would be at the
KSS level and all of which would be in country, would focus on cooperative
management, accounts, credit procedures, irrigation management, operations
of the Rural Poor Program, crop marketing and audit. BRDB operates a Rural
Development Training Institute (RDTI) at Sylhet which would be improved under
the project. Various training programs would be conducted at RDTI, at the
two RDA at Comilla and Bogra, at the Cooperative College at Comilla (CCC), at
17 Thana Training Units (TTU) built under the Agricultural and Rural Training
Project (Cr. 621-BD), and at approximately 300 TTDC. The project would
provide for the construction of five additional TTU so that each district
office would have one such facility.
53.     Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 240 manmonths of
technical assistance at an average cost of US$8,500 per month (about 160
manmonths of foreign consultants at about $12,000 per month and about 80
manmonths of local consultants at about $1,000 per month) for marketing,
training, the Rural Poor Program, evaluation and audit.



-16-
Implementation and Management
54.     BRDB, which would be responsible for the overall implementation of
the project, is managed by a Governing Council, with the Minister of Rural
Development and Cooperatives as Chairman. A Director General (DC), a GOB
official with the rank of Additional Secretary, is the Chief Executive,
supported by three Directors responsible for implementation, monitoring and
evaluation, and finance and administration. Under the project, a second
Director for implementation would be appointed to handle training and the
Rural Poor Program primarily. To ensure continuity of staff, BRDB Directors
would be given three-year appointments. The DG's responsibilities would
include: (a) coordinating the activities of BRDB with those of other GOB
agencies through the liaison officers designated by them; (b) developing and
distributing to TCCA a Banking Plan agreed with BB and SB for effective
execution of the TCCA credit programs; (c) executing contracts and agreements
with GOB and private agencies, including NGOs, for providing essential train-
ing and other services to TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS; (d) contracting with the Project
Engineering & Construction Unit (PECU) of the Public Works Department (PWD)
to administer project civil works, (e) preparing a master plan for training
at RDTI, TTU and TCCA; (f) recommending the issuance of import licenses to
private importers of STW/LLP engines; and (g) monitoring the performance of
TCCA. The DG would delegate considerable administrative and financial
authority to District Project Directors who would have primary responsibility
for project activities in their districts.
55.     Under the project, other key participating agencies would have the
following functions and responsibilities:
(a) RCS for (i) registering new TCCA, KSS, BSS and MISS; (ii) timely
conducting of their annual statutory audit; (iii) holding of
Annual General Meetings at which new management committees
are elected; (iv) training of audit staff at CCC; and
(v) inspection of TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS to see that cooperative laws
are enforced;
(b) BB for (i) approving the Banking Plans; (ii) establishing
terms and conditions for TCCA lending; (iii) operating the
Special Account (para 64 below) and releasing the foreign
exchange for import of STW/LLP by private importers; and
(iv) refinancing loans made by SB under the project;
(c) SB for (i) refinancing credit programs of eligible TCCA; and
(ii) establishing detailed banking plans to be used by branch
banks;
(d) BADC for (i) providing field level support in the expansion of
the IMP; and (ii) training of private mechanics;



-17-
(e) Directorate of Agricultural Extension for providing extension
support to farmers and KSS especially for IMP;
(f) Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation, Bangladesh
Handloom Board and selected NGOs for providing, under contract
with BRDB, training and marketing services for BSS/MSS related
activities; and
(g) RDA (Bogra) for organizing training of BRDB staff for the
Irrigation Management and Rural Poor Programs.
Under the project, private dealers would be responsible for (i) obtaining
import licenses and foreign exchange releases; (ii) importing, retailing and
installing STW/LLP engines and coupling them with pump accessories; and
(iii) providing after sales maintenance service to users. PWD's PECU, estab-
lished under the Foodgrain Storage Project (Cr. 787-BD), would be responsible
for overseeing the construction of the TTDC, TCCA offices and TTU (Section
3.11 of the Development Credit Agreement). By September 30, 1983, BRDB would
prepare guidelines for the implementation of the project and, after incor-
porating IDA's comments, enter into agreements with participating agencies
outlining their participation in the project (Section 2.08 of the Project
Agreement).
56.     Inter-Agency Coordination.  A District Coordination Committee, with
BRDB's District Project Director serving as Member Secretary, would be estab-
lished in each district of the project area by September 30, 1983 and be
responsible for Inter-Agency Coordination at the district level (Section 3.05
of the Development Credit Agreement). Operational problems with other agen-
cies, which cannot be resolved by BRDB through agency Liaison Officers, would
be dealt with by the National Committee for Multi-Sectoral Rural Development
(NOCRD), which is headed by the Secretary of Rural Development, with the
Secretary of Agriculture as Co-Chairman and includes senior representatives
of relevant ministries and agencies.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
57.     BRDB's Director of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation would be
responsible for M&E functions under the project. Evaluation activities would
include special performance studies, executed through contracts with local
and foreign consultants, focusing on ITP expansion, the Rural Poor Program,
credit operations and the financial viability and performance of
TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS.
Costs and Financing
58.     Total project costs are estimated at US$176.9 million, including
duties and taxes estimated at US$8.4 million. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$76.1 million, 43% of total project costs. Base cost
estimates are expressed in mid-1983 prices. Physical contingencies are



-18-
estimated at 10% of civil works costs, and 5% of all other costs, except
those for minor irrigation equipment and incremental short-term credit for
which no physical contingencies have been provided. Price contingencies are
based on expected price inflation of 7.5% annually for foreign costs, and 13%
in FY84, 11% in 1985 and 10% annually thereafter for local costs.
59.     An IDA credit of US$100.0 million is proposed which would finance 59%
of total project costs, net of duties and taxes, (93% of foreign exchange
costs and 31% of local costs). Twenty-three per cent of total project costs
less duties and taxes would be financed from local resources as follows: GOB
and BB, US$21.2 million; SB, US$12.0 million; and TCCA/KSS, US$6.0 million
for down payment on items financed through medium-term credit. Other exter-
nal financing totalling US$29.3 million would be provided by CIDA (US$17.2
million for Rural Poor and Private Mechanics Programs and related technical
assistance), ODA (US$10.5 million for institutional training, strengthening
of audit, and related technical assistance) and UNDP (US$1.6 million for
technical assistance). Execution of the CIDA Memorandum of Understanding,
the ODA Agreement and the UNDP Project Document would be conditions of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). GOB
would on-lend US$84.7 million of the proceeds of the credit to BB in accord-
ance with the terms and schedule given in the Credit and Project Summary.
The final lending rates for both medium-tern credit (14% per annum) and
short-term credit (17.5% per annum) would be positive in real terms based on
an estimated medium-term inflation rate averaging about 10% per annum. The
remainder of the proceeds of the credit (US$15.3 million) would be trans-
ferred by GOB as grants to BRDB for incremental staff, equipment, vehicles,
civil works, and training. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GOB and BB, and execution of a Participation Agreement between BB and SB with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, would be conditions of
credit effectiveness (Sections 3.03 (a) and (c) and 6.01 (b) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Approval of the Project Proformas by GOB 1/ would be
a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(f) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement
60.     Equipment.  Procurement by TCCA/KSS and members would involve rela-
tively small investments and would be based on farmers' choice through local
dealers and contractors. Typical items would be STW, LLP and simple locally
made equipment. For STW and LLP there are a number of approved makes of
engines, all but one imported, whose dealers are setting up retail and main-
tenance networks. The engines (US$14.6 million) together with spares (US$2.5
million) would be procured by private dealers through normal commercial
channels, based on farmers' demand for their model. GOB would issue licenses
1/ The Project Proforma is an internal GOB document, the approval of which
is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-19-
to private dealers for the import. GOB would also allow import of other
engines which are appropriate for operation in Bangladesh, and for which
importers have developed an adequate distribution network with spare parts
and repair facilities (Section 3.12 of the Development Credit Agreement). It
would be a condition of credit effectiveness that import licenses had been
issued for at least 5,000 STW/LLP engines (Section 6.01(d) of the Development
Credit Agreement). Locally manufactured centrifugal pumps for STW/LLP
(US$9.1 million) would also be supplied by private dealers on the basis of
farmers' choice, as would simple pipes, brass strainers and accessories
(US$19.0 million) which are fabricated by local suppliers using imported raw
materials. Transport and drilling services (US$8.1 million) would be
provided by local contractors working with the dealers.
61.     Civil Works.  Contracts for civil works (UIS$15.3 million) would be
awarded following local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Since these would be small in size (maximum US$75,000) and widely dispersed,
they would not afford opportunities for the use of ICB. Of the 350 bidding
packages anticipated for contracts let under the project, most would be for
civil works which would be administered by the PECU. Documents for all
bidding packages estimated to cost over US$50,000 (about 30% of total
estimated contract value) would be subject to prior review by IDA.
62.     Other Goods and Services.  Project vehicles costing US$0.5 million,
which would be needed immediately and require local servicing facilities,
would be procured by local competitive bidding from suppliers of foreign made
vehicles and equipment who have a service network in Bangladesh. Motorcycles
and bicycles (US$1.6 million) would be sold to about 7,500 GOB and TCCA staff
on hire purchase. Price quotations would be invited from local and foreign
manufacturers who have a service network in Bangladesh. Small items amount-
ing to less than $15,000 per purchase and not exceeding US$1.0 million in
aggregate would be purchased following prudent shopping procedures.
Disbursements
63.     Disbursements would be made as follows:  (a) 90% of BB refinance to
SB for its medium-term lending to eligible TCCA for (i) purchase by KSS and
farmers of STW and LLP; (ii) construction of lined irrigation canals and
control structures; and (iii) construction of godowns; (b) 75% of BB
refinance for SB's incremental short-term lending; (c) 90% of the costs of
all civil works contracts for construction of additional thana facilities;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory, and
60% of local expenditures for project vehicles and equipment; (e) 100% of
training costs; and (f) 100% of BRDB's cost of incremental staff in FY84 and
FY85, 90% in FY86, 80% in FY87 and 70% in FY88. Full documentation would be
required for disbursement against items (c) and (d) above. Certified state-
ment of expenditures would be required for disbursement against other items.
All documents in support of statement of expenditures would be retained for
review by IDA missions. Conditions of disbursement would be: (i) for items
(a)(ii) and (b) that SB had appointed a Deputy General Manager to handle



-20-
exclusively all aspects of its credit operations with TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS; and
(ii) for item (a)(iii), that GOB had secured external financing to provide
training and logistical support to TCCA engaged in fertilizer marketing
(Schedule 1, 4(c) and (d) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Special Account
64.     To ensure initial availability of foreign exchange for importers of
STW and LLP, GOB could, at its option, open a Special Account in BB not later
than December 31, 1983, whereupon IDA would make an advance to cover the
import of 5,000 STW/LLP engines (Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 5 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
65.     TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS are required to maintain accounts according to a
system prescribed by BRDB. By December 31, 1983, RCS would prepare a revised
audit manual satisfactory to the Association for use in auditing the accounts
of TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS (Section 4.02(a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Within nine months of the close of each financial year, BRDB, BB, SB and RCS
would submit to IDA certified copies of their project accounts and financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01(c)
of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 4.02 of the Project Agree-
ment).
Credit Arrangements
66.     To make the credit operations more responsive to the needs of
eligible farmers while maintaining sound credit practices, paperwork con-
nected with loan applications would be reduced, procedures would be stream-
lined, loan eligibility criteria would be refined, and loan approval criteria
would be established at each lending level. These modifications in credit
procedures and the salient features of the different credit operations of
TCCA would be incorporated in a Banking Plan. Its approval by the Management
Boards of SB and BRDB would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Sections
3.10 and 6.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
67.     The interest rate level and structure for medium- and short-term
credit would be reviewed annually by GOB and, if necessary, adjusted to
ensure that they are consistent with the findings of a joint GOB/IDA Review
of Agricultural Credit, the recommendations of which are expected to be
finalized in a few months' time. Until the recommendations of the Joint
Review are implemented, GOB would ensure that interest rates to ultimate
borrowers remain positive in real terms and ensure the financial viability of
TCCA (Section 3.09 of the Development Credit Agreement).



-21-
Financial Analysis
68.     The impact of the project on farm incomes has been analyzed on an
irrigation group basis on a one acre farm. Internal financial rates of
return for STW and LLP irrigation groups, at full development in year 5, are
estimated at 38% and 56% respectively. Net farm incomes are calculated to
increase by 53% for STW groups and by 68% for LLP groups.  Cash flow projec-
tions show that members of STW and LLP groups would have no difficulties in
servicing their loans.
69.     Cash profiles for activities under the rural poor program show that
beneficiaries' total net cash inflow would increase significantly. In all
cases, except pond fisheries and beef fattening, total net earnings would be
able to meet the minimum subsistence requirements of a typical rural family.
Financial rates of return on resources used (except family labor) would be
high, ranging from 31% in the case of handloom weaving to over 160% in the
case of cane and bamboo work. Cash flow projections indicate that, for all
proposed activities, borrowers would be able to service their loans.
70.     To evaluate the performance of a participating TCCA, income and
expenditure projections have been prepared for a typical existing TCCA and
for a new TCCA expected to be developed under the project. These projections
show that a new TCCA should be able to cover all its expenditures by year 6.
About 90% of the income for a new TCCA would be from margins earned on short-
and medium-term credit operations, compared to 85% for an existing TCCA. The
remaining 10% and 15% respectively would be from interest earned on deposits.
By June 30, 1984, and annually thereafter, BRDB would furnish to the Associa-
tion an analysis of the financial performance of TCCA which had been operat-
ing for at least six years, and cause TCCA whose annual volume of credit
exceeds Tk 2,000,000, or such other amount as IDA agrees, to bear a portion
of the cost of BRDB's staff seconded to TCCA (Section 2.09 of the Project
Agreement).
71.     Economic Analysis.  The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) estimated to be
79% (Net Present Value of Tk. 12,505 million at a 12% discount rate). Though
very high, this rate is consistent with the ERR of other Bangladesh projects
involving irrigation development. ERR of the rural poor program is estimated
at 37% (NPV of Tk. 55 million, at a 12% discount rate). Since returns from
IMP are expected to be very high in relation to costs, an ERR has been calcu-
lated for the total project, excluding the benefits from IMP. This is
estimated to be 72%.
Benefits
72.     The principal benefits from project investments would be increased
agricultural production, employment, and income for the rural poor including
women. The increase in annual on-farm work is estimated as 45 million days
at full development. The rural poor component is expected to create an



-22-
additional 5 million days of annual employment at full development. Tem-
porary employment estimated at 6 million days over the project period would
be created due to construction works.
73.     Based on the farm models prepared for STW and LLP groups, the average
net farm income per acre would go up from Tk. 2,100 to Tk. 3,300.  For a
family of six, holding 1 ac of land, the latter would amount to Tk. 550 per
capita annually, and for a similar family owning 3 ac of land, to Tk. 1,650.
In addition, an estimated 59,000 families are expected to benefit from the
rural poor program. A large majority of direct beneficiaries under the
project would be among the lowest income group in the rural economy.
74.     Increased grain production would result in reduced grain imports.
The gross value of annual incremental grain production at full development is
estimated at US$195 million. Direct foreign exchange expenditure (fer-
tilizer, pesticides, diesel), excluding debt servicing and other secondary
foreign exchange expenditure, is estimated at US$35 million annually, at full
development.
Risks
75.     While the project faces no major overall economic risk, there is some
risk of delayed irrigation development, as in the case of the first Rural
Development Project, associated with the possibility of slower development of
TCCA as effective institutions. Since the success of the project depends on
an effective procurement system for minor irrigation equipment by private
dealers who have had only one year to develop a mechanism to deal with the
TCCA, the project incorporates measures to expedite licensing procedures and
to improve the processing of credit and payment to dealers by TCCA. Equally
important are GOB efforts to monitor and remove administrative obstacles to
the development of an effective private sector import and retail system for
minor irrigation equipment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.     The Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic of
Bangladesh and the Association and the Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the Bangladesh Rural Development Board and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of credit effectiveness are: (a) execution of the
UNDP Project Document, the CIDA Memorandum of Understanding and the ODA
Agreement (para 59); (b) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GOB and BB and of a Participation Agreement between BB and SB (para 59);
(c) approval of a Banking Plan by SB and BRDB (para 66); (d) issuance of
import licences for at least 5,000 STW/LLP engines (para 60); (e) performance



-23-
of preliminary steps for the establishment of an audit division within RCS
(para 51); and (f) approval of the Project Proformas (para 59).
77.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.     1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
-Say 20, 1983



-24--
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                       Page  1
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEJAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. "M.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            144.0                                 MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      97.3              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0         70.0     130.0              261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         .        24.9       39.7              448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0     68117.0   88513.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1           7.6      11.0               17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      141.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        321.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      371.5       473.0      600.7              158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9       703.0      889.0              355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION -AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.3        46.3       42.8               36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        51.0       54.6               59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         2.7        2.6                3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9          2.4       2.6                2.0                      2.3
URBAN                              3.6          6.3       6.5                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    53.5         49.2       45.3               29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.1          22.7      18.2               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.6          3.4       2.9                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        373.0    1607.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..        8.9/c             19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0        101.0      97.0              108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                   87.3        84.7         ..               97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.9        42.7                          56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.1          8.7        ..               20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     24.8        23.0       20.0               10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.3         41.6       46.3               57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0        150.3     136.1               89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        45.0      53.0/d             32.9                     32.0
URBAN                               ..         13.0      15.0/i             70.7                     51.9
RURAL                               ..        47.0       55.0/i             22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          6.0       5.0/e             18.1                     37.7
URBAN                               ..          ..       40.0/i             72.7                     65.7
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..      8427.2/f 12691.9/c            3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..    76808.3  40489.7/i             4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               ..       7021.5/g  4499.3/c           1100.4                   1047.5
UKBAN                               ..       818.57-  627.4/c              301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                ..         ..   23362.4/c            5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..                  ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.9/h      5.8
URbAN                               ..         6.17    6.1
RURAL                               ..          5.976     5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCLES TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..       3.5
URBAN
RURAL                                . .



-25-;
Anrnex I
TANLZ 3A
_ ALUGLWESH -SCCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEEZ
3415 CLADZSN                  UFEZNC2  QWoPS (WEIGHTED A   ,RS
~~~~~  ~MTRECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST UCEhwT           -ICOM IS EFS             <      NCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /lb    ASIA   PACIFIC             ASIA A PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSS_D ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PR ?IUY:     TOTAL                 47.0        52.0       65.0               97.4                      96.2
MALE                 66.0         68.0      79.0               101.0                     99.8
FEMALE               26.0         34.0      49.0                87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  E.0        19.0       25.0                53.0                    37.6
MALE                 14.0         29.0      38.0                63.8                     41.1
PFNLE                 1.0          8.0      11.0                41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL EROL. (2 OF SECOND'RY)   1.0           0.8        0.7                 1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEACMR RATIO
PIMARY                               ..        45.1       43.8               37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                            ..        26.4       24.9     -         20.2                     25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21.6        23.0/h    26.0/c               52.1                     73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSEMER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           .,         0.4        0.4                1.5                      9.8
AD10 RECEIVEIS PER THOUSANID
POPULATION                           ..         6.0        8.2               35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVELS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..        0.5                3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER (-DALY GZNERAL
INTEREST-) CIRC'Jl.ATION PER
TNOUSAND POPUIATION                    ..           ..       4.7                16.4                     53.7
CI.NEMA ANNUAL ATTENDCE PR1 CAPITA   ..             ..        .,                3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCZ
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUSANDS)    19251.6      23611.0   31477.4
PZKALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        16.6       17.5               29.3                     33.6
ACKICULTURE (PERCENT)              87.0        86.0       74.0                70.0                    52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0         3.0       11.0               15.C                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0        34.7       35.6               40.0                     38.5
MALE                                 58.7        55.9       56.9                51.8                    50.5
PE4ALE                               11.4        11.9       12.9               23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DZPENORNCY RATIO               1.3         1.4        1.3                 1.0                      1.1
INCOMH  DISTRIBUTION
PERCSNT OF PIVATE INCoME
RECZIVED BY
NIGEEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEBOLDS   18.3/1         ..       14.6/k
HICGEST 20 PERCENT OF UOUSEROLDS  44.57T       44.1k    42.2/tV
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF NOUSEROLDS    6.97!        8.I7    - 6.971.
LowzST 40 PZRCENT OF NOUSUIOLDS   17.97T       19.67      18.27.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTITED A3SO9UTE POVZRTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URAN                                 ..           ..     139.0/c            133.8                    194.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      l11.Otc            111.1                    155.1
ZSTIATED  SlATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LZVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URAN                                 ..           ..        ..                 ..                    178.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 ..                    164.9
ZSTDIATED POPUATION BELOW ASOLUE
POVERTY ICOM LUVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       86.0/c             43.8                     24.4
RURAL                                ..          ..       86.0/i             51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
'e She group averagsc for each indicator are population-weighted arittuetic macns.  Coverage of countrioa
eaong the indicatoro depeds on avaOlability of data and Is not uniform.
lb   Lnlasa otherwise noted, dat for 1960 refer to any  ear betien 1959  and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moet Rc in        a Estiat, boten 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /a 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing iD the country; /j 1972; /b 1973; /1 1964;
/.I 1967, /L 1974.
May 1982
I



-26-
P.mp 3
Dgmuos OF aCra ILANN
hue:  Althon.gh the data are dr-  foe           nt gneraly jodge  th. a me   s riafsad reiLdal.,I if .."eld                    l.a inaia  thee they may nat he lott-
satiaaly tewarble bacoa  of the lack of st-daedfad deLaIitm   end   -Pt.pt  oM by dMfasE-   oterssf   siet    the dct..  The Sease. 
ehtto.L . orf uS t  describe orders of mantd.iadfate treds. cawhaatein creLs major differetoes beten  ostie
The rafe-ee .e rops are (11 the sam .aooo.ty droop of the sobject coo..try and (2) a coutry grop with s ma  higher... aveag  Incm   tha  the toetry grasp
of tho subject I .uofry (socept for   'Sigh I.co..   Oil tUportar" f roo  share 'Middle le-m  North Africa  -Ad Middle Soar" is chan  becau    of etroeer
eci-clorlaflitiwa).  In the ref-r-o  groop dato the   -cage  are papolnlon weighted arithmti  means for .-hb tdicotor ea  ehw  arty whe
mjority ofthe cutrtea toe .  coop ta- daft for chef idicato.C Snc  the cvrgof ucotrie  a-on  the iLdfoators dependa on the nrnilobllity of dota
aod.Iaenoioncuco   -mt he  -Ieri-rd in  .I ro ig Iaeae   f ore jultano  to sother.  These ererage  are  ely  -tfol to c ain   he vale  of
on  tdoso  atals  tn  the. coo...   en d referwoce. groope.
AREA (ch-oso   ,-.b.)                                                                           Peculationea  NsLt.  Nod- tot,  rbt.-ed rural - Popolatto  (total.
Tota  - TofoL co ac  c00csiso   leod area end icleodnoter..  1979 data.                         orhan  Me  .cora) divided by thtair repote  tote     t hospital heds
E.toloe-tatmc  o.f  gicultu-n  ore  used  -oporoil  orpowe tly                          acllbe  to p.kli  act                p .ien genra  an  specie1feed heepita1 end  s-
too cropo. pseur.aektnd kiuchee gordac  or c lie IL             lo   1979 dais.              hebifinatio  ceetera C    optl   reetbihnr amnanyna a
by an leant one phylici.  Intehlishmtta proridieg priveiplip carte-
GNP PfR CAPITA (US)) -GNMP pro ospita reints at -ur-rt  arket pricer, .al-                        diaf .car  era not iac1odd.  Loaf1 heepitels, bonnet  inclde hwLtb
co br   y an   cc...r..Lot method so World Sank Atlas (197W-ft0 heels); 19W0,              at,:d medIca  cantee  out pemootly stoffed by afphyaLlciet (.be  by 
1970, od 1990 date,                                                                             medIca.ass        ,ven. midwife, etc.) whih afta   n-P,ton  soco-
Action and provide o limited rageot f   diosl f-olitlen.  For statLc-
fNESGY _CONSUMPTION _ff5 CAP.ITA - nuA-1oacpio   f --mco  enegy (...I                             ticl  pr1    e  orbe  h-apitols Lo Loda WM. prLliopsl/ganral heis
and lipglte,,etoot   aua   o   c  hydr-, nolored 0etrro   lw-ad ICor1 hespitola, bo-e or roo1 honp"irel  an  mdiosi an  maferwity
ticity) Icklgan   fca  ronln  pep capita; 1960. 1970, sod 1979                               oAdntara.  SpecWia-d hespitslf e se  inclded only rader nonel.
data.                                                                                        Adfeivaor   opifal Bod - TotaL -.t- of  WdmLssn  ft.o  discharge
trmhopt ls  iided by the voe     f hede.
.PUPOLATION AND5 VITAL STATISTICS
Tonal Pocolafti., Mid-Y-s  (thoooudel -. hof July 1; 1960. 1970. and 1990                   Wousilg
dens.                                                                                      Aveoo  Sit  of INoaahId (r            re   oahld) -totl ora,  n  rrl
Oca   oylton(ecefo  tc)  - Rtat I f ot  to  Cc total population;                               A henebad'cnaet  ofa  rep of leiidenet    hr   lfgq-ater.
difawf  eiitoao  urbon ao  say efface  -p-acbilily of dat                                     and their maLt meals.  A hoar.der or loder ma rmy eat he foclodd ta
earin  conciet; 1961,1970, and 1960 dote.                                                     the hoahold forettetcl  op-se...
PorolaiocPoenhn                                                                              Avwroee voter et       = ueet  a   ot-ttl   rban. and rurl.  -averge te-
PPoplation in roa  2000 - Cur-ro  popuIlaionportoeoebsd  n18.e   fpro pper-rom i  allochn, an                                                 'Iorl occpied ctnto
cof   population hy of e ad sac end choir nonlyed  rotlIftyrte.deaLioge. re-pe-tin-ly.  rorelliegp ..cod  ea-rmnt  nrco                                                n
Pooj-ction poramacer  too  Ctorcloty cares  oapriso oftre   ecl  enuc                       uopied pane.
ing lire  opo.cta-y at bir.1th -orsing1 tIthoo          y'oper -opif. income             Ao..a to Electricito  r-anct of deaLlio) -. toul. orba. aodror1 
re. ad fatalt li   opcec    btoilIega   77.) vr.  77cr. p000-                          Convetional dIelgs eithrbItctlnp~ ho living quCto  an  -arCeage
"Icre for  ervlity rtC. ale  ho cv  hroO  1-tlaautt   drolino It                       o   toa.rh.  _an Crra  de-llin    ons          nioy
fetlicycoc-o-rdit0  ft income lr-1 end yt family 'Il..city perfornc.-
tact c-otry is that tan. goed coo of cvet vi-o -obinatioo  ft mafitfy                  DUftATlI<
oud fertility frods t00 pr-jeci-n pu-pore.                                               Adiuat.d Sn-oleen  tacic
Iteloorypoolaio   -Itafetty popl.at-o chore it  c front alto                           PrIar scoo  - totol. mal and tamlr - lG-s  totaL, male and ftot1l
rho hioch rco La aqol to the deoth race  and olac ch. .fO scocoe   r                          er) t of all ogre at the primary le-e  -  prceatagos of canv
some  __-toc   ThuIc Lorthiord oulyoftor focilioy Iatee d-el ic  to                           Primay shc-g  Ppopletiot; oumaly  ealudee childre  agd 6-fl
th   ryoetn l_vol_          f IIu t c  -ep-odoettn core. e  oath denr.oetlon                 Y---. bat ad td  too. difttr.w.. lengths of pri-ep edo..ntive; for
otetrrpf caiol  enact_Il.y The etatico.ry populatico  ilec  ancutIlla sith ou--rel edoc..o "                                        orlle   my enceed 100 percent
-ci-efd ut the hotiy of the pr-joca    haocrirc f the pcpalfc                                  ic   oepapila are hl1s or shon  the otola1 school ag..
It the yaur 2100D  oud the rcel of drolit  of ftrllylcprocrcorrplaca-                      Orcondiry anheol - rte.l. sale and tesaIe - Co,wotrdasthone;se-andey
Yro  stattocry ppyulotic Ia coached - The y-a thou otar ..noy popu.lation                       ponnide   geeol   octocl  or teacher croitic   itct-loo  too popils
cior will ho cr0 od                                                                            noll   f 12 to 17 yearn". org ; onorespoodea-a aresa era generally
Per so  ko. - Mid-poo  pcpuIliothFot poqoaro kilo-te  (100 h-octare If                     V-ncaf      :ionlerl!ls pt  ..rceo  o~f ncod-of) - OncatiaL-   isctt1o
Pe gn r.acclturo_l lood - Coou-daothbne fc agIicultura  lend                          ouclyora  deotet   f eaccedar.           oaiuto
onyl90   91ad 1979 data.                             ~pll-tr.ho  rotCo - piay  Nd  nudary  - TotaL etdets enrolld Lv
Poplucon  pe trutar   (P.-onc  - Childroo  10-14 poor). rooklcd-ear 115-                  primary and necord.erYlov-eto ditided byctr   otreahers in the
64 foam.), and rotired It5 yearn ond  orla    rcttaof nd-year pcpu-                           -,r-eP,ni0aea
I.ttoc; 1960. 1970. -vd 10980 dat.-                                                        Adolf ieaort   orat    Literate edale  able tored and mt
Peultontreh  otc (porcot)  -        1tta  - -...Iul 0oh roc   f  -ntL mid-                oop-cueoeg   of total adolf popolatico etd 15 pear  andavr
yea populatlco. for 1950460. 1960-70,..ad 1970-go.
Populotino Grooh E, tac   (percet  - -urhon- oo-ul crouh ce         f uchan pope-          fOfNiUMPTION
Ili...n for 1950-60, 196D-70. -td 1970-80.                                                 Poonertr  (per fhoad  .poruition) -  asege lcr  copofr mato
frodr Sloth tat  fpchcunotd( -Fdca.ln            ,irh   e  thoune.d of nid-po-                  coe  e tn  It  ta  rIgh  pernn;  -nloden esbol-nra  barwe dc
poplc"   oI16.1970  on          890 dtt.                                                     nil icary n-hfcr.
Crudo Deah Rac   (           .rtouad  --Ootu1 d-ath  pFr  h.....rd  of  itd-yrar             tadintcveo R      eer  h-oad pcrlloio    -All tye  otC -aeor  for radio
PpopolcIc; 1960, 170, an  lot  dae                                                             raoof   ognea   ulcte  hood nf  poplcoc   aloe 
hro n-1a -rp-od-ii- prricd if the  orico  yr Ert  g-nP  ifi  fer-                             netrectot  dt   o   ecc   ecespnt  ecprbla  since
rllityr--o ..u.uolyp filv-ycar on-rogrn-dir0  it 1960,1 1970, ard 1900.                       motoctrleieahblished Iio-neig.
ofhr-cnrldotic    nder aupi-r  ci neioo  tail                     ..nrn   prga.I              geea   uie  e   tato  pplto;eclodee oIlicnn..d TV recivers
Petly Pla...olno- yoorn (poren  of. I orriod oue)- P-rcentag   fi grrid                         Lnconrluod in y-ror  then r-g.ittaltof9sest 1efet
roe  of child -horhtgt ..(15-44 yraro) vh. u boiirh--cu 1n  donicee to                      Wveeeeprr Circlat lea (per thoot.n .oueil-i eFh.vreeoe
oILoridvoc _n  o    gc group.                                                       coIIn of ."dily ge-rl n1          re  neespaper", defined saperiodico1
pohblio-in  docotd primarily forIot.rding osra  evs.I  te co...idered
FWD0 A00 NUTRITION                                                                                to hr "doily'' if it appeasatlst  or .a  snob.
Inden cf pood PrnduccicnprCyt   16-110                  Indo cfpcpitaontoal                  Cinem  aeno.. Alttedance per Cfita per Yea-feard on the toter of
yr-d-i-o of oll fond' coadicice.  P                 -dotc  cold- tod cod food a-d             tiok-t  oId during oh. pear. ci-odin  adisnio.. to dolr-an elte-
i_atad of o_rI) rhif are edihie and cott            -ntio-t  (og, coffer and
tca are  -1.ldod).  Aggeeac.     podcto  of roh  -o-ty In heard ot                       1.91  FO0ff
norone  aneag  producer ypl-o eahlgt; 1961-65. 1970, and 19fi data.                        Tor .01crb Forte Irheu...ndal    fcoicl11  -tti-eproo  inclodLnE
Per _Pito torEly of caorr         -fcrccIt  f  -rnulr....nt) - Coaruted illv                   s-ed foer  ad ...Wloyed but  -aloding housenbve, etue_t.ec-.
enorgy aquil-ar  of  _e  ro  ouep ionS_. onellal  I0 country P., o pica                      cotrie5 population of alt ages.   efiitio-  ho trioot co-trie  err
Poe doy.  nA-ilable  -upplicu  -oprie  d.-Cictl  y-duclo-. reports lotono  oosparabl; 1960. 1970 an  190dae
roore.an  eatr  In etook. o,     uyio nld  anma-fr .urdn,                            Freole (prrcr) .- female labor torte             .. pectge of Ctota  labor foane.
qo_ntIte ond inLoo  yrcroug  ond lnc   ndtnrluin.tqoio-                                      Aotrttreeecr 1I - Lao   oc  l   snt-    oeco  h-ntnfou
tot  00   ncotd hb 'PhO hated on  hyvlo.io-ic  teods for nomlauObithttaeperatag                                f tota lohor.!' forro,;1960. 1970 and 1990 data.
nity end heltcul daiYicnrnatcltepra_o,hoy_coru  arlotr  frcot  - gtahoe forIco in sL                                                    u,  onsro,         -motfa Ctoind
andll   d lblgtihrio  of popolatt. en  lb n 1        01 ID ecr__  for _oec  onadoeerelp,rtred   gas atpcrff f tota  lahe  fce
cnoodI_eol; 19015  1970 anO 1977 date.                                                     1910  197  ac.  190doa
Pot cop inc -n lyl ofco    -it(goe  -er day) - Porrei.l..coten  of pot capita                Participotion Rtat  lpereret) - total wl., aod femalo - Petrticpatiea or
ro" upI       orodpray.  tat -opply of focd Ia dofi-ed  a  bhv. O-                           actlIvity ratee are  -oputd ai  .tote,-mal, and fCte  labor terrain.
quiromanonY Ifor ul untIIt rn-alluhod by USDA yr-ndo for  lniatt                             pretgaottl, male an  tonlr popuatico of al lget renpetively;
elin...ncon of 60 groen oftoa  ytco  e  day and 20 grao of annel ood                         1960, 1970   ndIOt dae.Theeor  bated 00 01.0' parIc Ipatio  "af
poee proctOr, of rhich IO grEn uhoud ho acma  proely   Theccad-                              r-flo-clgage.-o         stutr   f thepopulation, and  eg tILe tren.  A
ordn oro bo  ch.t those of 75 gSa   of tctcl protin at   3 gEla o                            foeeti r  are trot natioa ...         tt...
annu yi oei    ananr- gcfor the  -Id, propun..d hy PAD In the Third                        teonesit DcoPndetor N'tlo - Ratio of populotlt.  utder 15 end 65 aed oe
.old Po.  Surey  19645  197  and 1977 doto.                                                   tthe totl Ibt- foe.
Pet _arita prtrin  _upply fLronola  odcb   - Pr oct10 supply of food de-
rirod fc-  animalt-ad pule-  ho oroope  day  19615, 1970 ond 1977 dafa.                  INCiOc DISTRoI'BUTON
Child facto  -I_    ohRt   rtrhuod       euldet0ptcoendi                                       ecreoo Y_ri-- Incm  (bth In ...h cod kiod) - ceelved hryrches
ogr 5ru  14.  yer.tphide   nt                go group. for  -o  dn-lopingoou-                    percent. cloheot 20 pret po       2s   0 po-cet. end pCean  40prca
riodata doric   fron  Iferbe;1960, 1970 and 1900 doto.                                    of ho...eho1da.
ffEAL10                                                                                      POVERTY7 TARGET GR0L0S
Life fponeo.a.oya -Olrh (y-ar-  - uncrog   -b-r of yours of life  -oauing.                   The following  nt Lt--  ore voCy appronimaro acarnofpn             -y ec
atbiot; 1960, 1070 od19   aa                                                                and a.hould he Interpreted wih coadrb_           cuit
lofact Mortlity Oac  (tochouond) - hnA-1 doothe of ifcenfoodor one yea                      fteioted AheIute Povrrty Ieen  Level (Uit err ..Pn ) -urhat end ral.l -
ofag hpt ..ootd lIre hirtho; 161I. 170 end1960 date.g~   ... AbouepnrY, Lncoc len.. Ia thnL tr l                                         evel-- -   helo  which aI minima
1teon  IaeWtr(oco   fyplto -ttl   ra,adccl-fo-                                                 nclih,el  adeqete dirt plunen....tvial eon-food r...uirntut  Is ean
her of pr-pla (coro. utht, and roo) vithreaoohleeconcner                                     of-dehl-
outer supply (hoIudeanrrtcedoopfaoarntoe   or uotreorrd.hut o- -n letd                     Entimatd clClc Ponety Incm  Level (US$ pee raial -arbor and rurL-
rotr moohe the   foot protcted bhoroholv. eplig.  en  snior  nl) aturaa  plotCir  poverty L-tm   levelI   o-hird of average Pee cepif
'h.ui   esados   otdntse  thn  1               rototahos  map hr-eve  with edjuetmet for high- o-t of living lot orearas
roov idrodo hbln  virhin re-oulo atee  of that h.....  In coral arn                        ftinae   Parlatic Salve Absolute P-verv  Incm  Levl(pren)-  r
reaoohocoseold iwly tho  the hooa-effetop  shore of .he .e.nhed                     Fv ol- .Pr ,o of population(ra   n  crl  loar   anlt
feilpe eae   ede.
Accen  to tarret  Dipeoo ..    errutf Ppoe'it;oL - total. orben  an  cral -
Smrof Pe""i  ftta    boe, end rurl) nerve   h           -vct, diapoaaO  en
petetge    f  hlos'tv   populaticos.  Eacrets dinp.saI nap  lood
ehe collti-a nod dinpee..  rutih 00 rit-,so   tramt              - fhn  eorst
an   nte-"ar  hysae-o t.    -Yniwe  or the  -e  of pit privies and! sim-
Feenlothon per Physlolan - Pplato  divide  by tdbrr of prntlateg physi-                                                            SE.-L. and Seoto1 DoC. D1iviiv
elate q_lified fre  a medIcal school at anl-c.tiy level,                                                                    tEot-ie dA-lpea end Projeeti-t Depart-
froltion  ap domlino Peron - PopulacILI dIvded hb  eb.t  of pra.teleaa(                                                                      May 1952
mal  and OntLe grduae  oeon  anie             non. prcehoa.l time. se



-27-                                                      Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita:  US$120 (FY81)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (X)          Share of GDP at Market Prices (70)
(million US$            (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indicator                                       FY81               FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81         FY60        FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                        11,989                 4.0      -0.6         6.0         100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture /a                                  6,423                3.1       -1.3        4.3           59.9       56.9       62.5      53.6
Industry /a                                     1,680                7.9       -3.2        6.0            7.7        9.6       11.3      14.0
Services 7a                                     3,887                4.9        3.3        8.8           30.1       30.0       26.2      32.4
Consumption                                      11,701                4.4       -0.7         5.7          92.4       92.8       99.1      97.6
Gross domestic investment                         2,064               10.9      -10.9        20.2           6.9       11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                               859               0.8      -11.7         5.7          10.0        8.3        3.2       7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                            2,635                8.8      -12.0         3.6           9.3       12.5       10.4      22.0
Gross national savings                               639               26.5     -17.7       -8.4            0.9        6.1        1.0       5.3
Amount                                                  Composition of Merchandise Trade (x)
(million USS                                                        (in current prices)
in current prices)
PY81                                                   FY73      FY75      FY80      FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                  710.8                                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                         165.2                                                 40.4      29.6      24.3      23.2
Manufactures                                       545.6                                                 59.6      70.4      75.7      76.8
Merchandise imports                               2,524.0                                                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                              342.4                                                  44.1      41.5      29.1      13.6
Petroleum                                         490.1                                                   3.2      11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                              580.0                                                 13.8       9.6      20.0      23.0
Other                                           1,111.5                                                  38.9      37.8      35.1      44.0
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73.100)
GDP Deflator                                                  140.6       240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      249.2      264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                        7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                            103.7       123.5      107.1      111.8      127.7      167.5      200.9      178.6
Import price index                                            152.8       194.8      186.2      183.1      179.4      218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                           67.9        63.4       57.5       61.1       71.2       76.8       80.3       62.9
As x of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73     FY75       FY77    FY80      FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                    .                                       5.0       5.4      9.5      10.6      12.0
Current expenditure                                                        6.5       4.5      7.8       7.8       7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                        -1.5      +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
"apital expenditure                                                        8.8       3.1      9.5      13.5      12.1
Foreign financing                                                          7.1       2.4      6.0       8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (x)                                                           4.2        -0.7         5.8         7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                                                1.5        -3.3         3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (x)
.    not available
not applicable
/a At market prices.
7i Raw jute, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



- 2.8-
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS, in current prices)
BALANCE OFP_AYMENTS
Actual                                                    Projected
FY74       FY75        FY76       FY77        FY78       FY79        FY80       FY81          FY82       FY83
Net exports of goods                                   -551    -1,050         -885       -454        -859       -946    -1,645       -1,813        -1,780     -1,938
Exports of goods                                      374        352         381        411         490        610         727        711           640         732
Imports of goods                                    -925       1,402     -1,266        -865     -1,349     -1,556      -2,372      -2,524       -2,420      -2,670
Net exports of services                                 -21          12        -24        -29         -32        -27           3          11          -70       -120
Workers- remittances                                     19          34         62         81         113        143         210        377           400         450
Current account bilance                                -553     -1,004        -847        402        -778        830    -1,432       -1,425        -1,450      1,608
Direct private investment                                            ..                     ..         ..
MLT loans (net)                                         276        498         498        238         398        420         581        481           501
Grants S grant-like flovs                               174        382         245        265         393        553         591        616           650    -1,608
Other capital flows (net)                                45        275          52        -20         -38        -19         141        304           199
Change in reserves (- - increase)                        58       -151          53        -81          25       -124         119          24          100         -
International reserves (end of period)                  115        266         213        294         269        393         274        250           150         150
Reserves as months of imports of next year             0.98       2.52        2.95       2.62        2.07       1.99        1.30       1.24          0.67       0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75         FY76         FY77        FY78         FY79        FY80         FY81
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                       173.8       382.3        244.7        264.8       392.6        553.2       590.8        616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                      287.4       518.9        563.5        268.3       435.3        476.8       631.4        531.0
Concessional                                       201.4        458.4       533.0        244.1        400.8       456.4        601.6        509.6
Bilateral                                        150.4        342.8       389.9        144.0        261.9       212.6        272.7       255.2
IDA                                               51.0        112.5       127.8         86.1         88.2       152.5        152.1       170.9
other multilateral                                 -            3.1         15.3        14.1         50.7        91.3        176.9         83.4
Non-concessional                                    86.0         60.4         30.4        24.1         34.5         20.4        29.8         21.4
Official export credits                           40.6         45.2        16.5          5.6          1.7         3.3         16.8          2.0
IBRD                                               -            -            -           -            -           -            -            -
Other multilateral                                 5.4          0.3          1.1         0.5          0.5          0.1         0.3          0.8
Private                                           40.0         14.9        12.8         18.0         32.3        17.0         12.7         18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8            1,352.6      1,795.9     2,051.5      2,569.2     2,949.2      3,215.6      3,584.8
Official                                           383.3      1,232.8     1,689.0      1,939.8      2,435.6     2,808.3      3,068.8      3,462.1
IBRD                                               -           54.9        54.9         54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9         54.9
IDA                                              105.6        255.3       379.8        465.9        554.2       706.7        858.8     1,028.5
Other                                            222.8        922.6     1,254.3      1,419.0     1,826.5      2,046.7      2,155.1     2,378.7
Private                                            109.5        119.8        106.9       111.6        133.6        140.9       146.8        122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                      580.8     1,019.4        947.5     1,015.8      1,335.4     1,659.1      1,716.7      2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                            18.0 '       31.3        87.4         58.5        69.2         95.1         93.7        92.0
Interest                                             7.3         10.1         21.9        28.4         32.1         38.1        43.3         42.0
Payments as X of export earnings                        4.8          8.9        22.9         14.2        14.1         15.6         12.9        12.9
Payments as X of GNP                                    0.2          0.2         1.2          0.9          0.8         1.0          0.8         0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (X)                  3.2          2.0         1.7          1.6          1.5         1.4          1.4          1.6
Official                                              2.9         2.0          1.6          1.5         1.3          1.4          1.2         1.5
Private                                               5.1         2.3          7.8         6.4          6.2          6.1         6.9          7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)                  26.1         35.5        41.6         40.1        37.7         35.9         33.6        35.9
Official                                            28.3         35.8         42.2  -     40.8         38.6         36.3        34.2         36.2
Private                                              13.3        15.3         11.3         11.0         9.5         14.8         19.3        18.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (X)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                      -           4.0          3.0          2.6          2.1         1.8          1.7         1.5
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements            -           -            -            -           -            -            -           -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                    -            -           1.8          5.6         4.8          4.1          3.7         4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                      21.4        18.8         21.1         22.7        21.6         24.0        26.7         28.6
IDA disbursezents/total gross disbursements            17.7        21.7         22.7         32.1        20.3         32.0         24.0        32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                     1.3          3.1         2.5          5.3          5.4         4.6          6.0          7.3
As X of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Maturities due within 5 years                                            13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                           36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (X)
Interest due within first year                                            1.6
not available.
ASADD
April  15, 1982



-29-                         ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1983)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                      US$ Million /a
Credit
Number *Year   Borrower                Purpose            Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 25 credits fully disbursed                   54.90   823.70       -
341     1972  Bangladesh  Tubewells (replaces Credit
No. 208-PAK of 1970)          -       14.00      0.55
408     1973  Bangladesh  Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)           -       25.00      0.91
487     1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II             -       20.00     3.11
527     1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer               -       62.00     1.85
533     1975  Bangladesh  Population                        -       15.00     2.23
542     1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                -       27.00    10.88
605     1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation              -       22.00     6.80
621     1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training  -          12.00     2.76
631     1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                 -       16.00     5.91
632     1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shipla Bank            -       25.00     3.54
724     1977  Bangladesh  Shallow Tubewells                 -      -16.00     1.92
725     1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                 -       21.00    11.43
729     1977  Bangladesh  Extension and Research            -       10.00     1.39
735     1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II         -        5.00     1.82
765     1978  Bangladesh  Jute                              -       21.00    13.12
787     1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II              -       25.00    15.37
825     1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II           -        7.00     3.09
828     1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research             -        6.00      1.27
864     1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control          -       19.00    12.52
872     1978  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance III          -       10.00     2.85
890     1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries             -        6.00     4.54
912     1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training               -       25.00    19.34
921     1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II  -          32.00    28.63
934     1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00    27.30
941     1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                   -       22.00      8.81
955     1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                 -       25.00    21.30
964     1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                       -       10.00      8.55
990     1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                    -       37.00    20.85
1001    1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II        -       20.00    18.70
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
-30-                        Page  2
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                      US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower                Purpose            Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1023    1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -       29.00    26.09
1032    1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -       20.00    14.91
1042    1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation            -       11.00     7.85
1054    1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -       40.00    35.06
1065/c  1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III          -       35.00    33.26
1091/c  1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development         -       85.00    38.34
1096/c  1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport Project   -          25.00    18.52
1117/c  1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II         -       50.00    36.49
1124/c  1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV           -       16.00    15.87
1140/c  1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                    -       18.00    15.64
1147/c  1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit               -       40.00    39.68
1184/c  1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II    -          27.00    26.00
1194/c  1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X                 -      100.00    32.92
1204/c  1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer        -       15.00    15.00
1205/c  1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry
Rehabilitation                -       30.00    30.00
1215/c  1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II           -       27.00    27.00
12477c  1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                   -       60.00    60.00
1254/c  1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power            -       92.00    92.00
1262/c  1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification             -       40.00    40.00
1287/c  1982  Bangladesh  Second Deep Tubewells             -       68.00    68.00
1300/c  1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                -      110.00   110.00
1301/c  1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                -        6.00     6.00
1318/c  1983  Bangladesh  Business Management Education
& Training                    -        7.80      7.80
1321/c  1983  Bangl'adesh  Telecommunications III           -       35.00    35.00
Total                                                 54.90 2,393.50 1,092.77
of which has been repaid                              -       0.40      -
Total now outstanding                                 54.90 2,393.10 1,092.77
Amount sold                                 0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                        54.90 2,393.10
Total undisbursed                                       -   1,092.77 1,092.77
/a  Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of principal
are calculated at the rate of exchange at time of negotiations; amounts
undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange on March 31, 1983,
and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed IDA 6th credits is calculated
at the rate of exchange on the date of disbursements.



-31-                        ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor              Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co. Ltd.    Shipbuilding          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and        Development
Development Company of         Finance
Bangladesh Ltd.                 Company              -      1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                     1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -          -        -
Total now held by IFC                                       1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                           0.65      -      0.65
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341      Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972;
Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982 and necessary steps are being
taken to cancel the undisbursed balance of the credit account.
Cr. No. 542      Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27.0 Million Credit of
April 29, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Barisal Irrigation Project I (BIP) was completed on June 30, 1981 and
taken over on maintenance. Barisal extension was taken up with the savings of
BIP 1. Farmers response for the dry season (Boro) cultivation has been much
below expectation due to socio-economic and agro-climatic conditions in the area
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



-32-                        ANNEX II
Page 4
and probably also due to deficiencies in the agricultural support services.
These factors are currently under study. However, there has been some increase
over previous years cultivation. Good progress is maintained on civil works
construction in the extension area. Procurement preliminaries for the primary
pumps, gates and low lift pumps have been completed and deliveries have started.
Agricultural demonstration farms are in operation in the extension area. Due to
insufficient Annual Development Program (ADP) funding completion of the project
will be delayed until the end of 1984.
Cr. No. 605      Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation which was about 2.5 years behind schedule has
shown good progress in the last two years and except for flood embankments the
project is expected to be completed by the end of 1983. Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) proposes to delete the embankments for technical and social
reasons which IDA is currently examining. The trend on agricultural development
is encouraging and expected benefits would probably be attained.
The fisheries component is completed.
Cr. No. 631     Rural Development Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Extended credit closing date is June 30, 1983. Project as envisaged
is virtually complete, except for the provision of 250 Deep Tubewells (DTWs).
Due to GOB's new standardization requirements, the procurement will not be
completed by credit closing, which is likely to result in about US$3 million
of the credit remaining unutilized at that time.
Cr. No. 724      Shallow Tubewells Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of July 1,
197,; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982. Only payment for commit-
ments in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 725     Muhuri Irrigation Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project implementation has been further delayed because of delays in
finalizing the design and tender documents for the closure dam work. Other
consultants have been recruited to assist Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB) with the design and construction of the dam. Construction of the Feni
Regulator is nearing completion. Agricultural and Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP) activities are commencing in 1982/83. Farmer's response for
adoption of improved agricultural practice and group formation is expected to be
good. A cost overrun is expected due to a likely increase in the cost of the
closure works. A supplementary credit is being considered.



ANNEX II
733-                        Page  5
Cr. No. 729     Extension and Research Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The credit was closed on June 30, 1982. Necessary steps are being taken
to cancel the undisbursed balance of the credit account.
Cr. No. 765     Jute Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The jute intensification program has suffered as a result of the recent
consolidation of extension services, whereby Jute Extension Officers will be
shifted from one location to another and trained for other crops. Credit sanc-
tioned from Sonali Bank has been only 25% of the requirement and this has
affected crop production. The Government has initiated an evaluation of its
jute intensification program.
Cr. No. 787     Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
165,000 MT storage construction program has gained momentum and is now satisfac-
tory. The storage rehabilitation component has been reduced from 25,000 MT to
10,000 MT as a result of implementation delay. Contracts for rehabilitation
have been awarded for 7,750 MT. Quality control equipment has been procured,
but considerable additional efforts are required in the area of grain quality
control and inspection. The project is now anticipated to be completed by
June 30, 1983. The Government has decided to eliminate the project's paddy
drying component.
Cr. No. 828     Agricultural Research Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Almost
all research station buildings are now complete and only farm development
remains to be finished at the Jessore and Hathazari stations. Research programs
on research stations and those supported by the research grant scheme are being
vigorously pursued. The technical monitoring scheme is now operating well and a
monitoring and evaluation cell, established at Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council (BARC) headquarters, will now apply techniques pioneered under the
project to all grant-supported research. The major constraint to project
implementation is the lack of operating funds.
Cr. No. 864     Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$19.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three subprojects financed under the project construction work
in Chenchuri Beel (CCB) and Kolabashukhali (KBK) will be completed by June 30,
1983. Implementation of Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) is progressing



ANNEX II
-34-                            Page  6
satisfactorily and will be completed before the closing date in June 1984.
Procurement of vehicles and construction of civil works for the agricultural
extension services has been delayed due to procedural problems, however, the
matter has now been resolved and completion is anticipated by June 1983.
Project management during the operation of the completed subprojects requires
now the attention of the Government.
Cr. No. 890      Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The basic concept is to intensify carp production in a cluster of six
oxbow lakes, currently underexploited, by the introduction of new composite fish
culture techniques and improved lake management technology. Construction of a
central hatchery started in January 1982, some 12 months behind schedule. The
delay was caused primarily by managerial and administrative weaknesses but also
by shortage of counterpart funds. Work at central hatchery complex is now in
full progress and hatchery is expected to become partly operational in first
part of 1983. Land acquisition procedures are proving difficult and are holding
back construction at satellite lakes. Despite delays and problems in project
implementation, the objectives of the project are expected to be fulfilled.
This will, however, require intensive supervision by IDA headquarter-s staff.
Cr. No. 955      Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
At the end of the second year of implementation, out of a total of 40
subprojects under construction, 15 have been completed, 4 substantially com-
pleted and the progress on the remaining 21 has been retarded due to late
commencement, lack of cement and inadequacy of funds in the revolving fund.
Forty-one new subprojects have been approved for 1982/83 for which adequate
provision has been made in the ADP. Fifteen completed subprojects have been
taken over on operation and maintenance.
Cr. No. 990      Low Lift Pump Project; US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs under the Phase I
sales program under public aegis have been procured. While all one-cusec units
have been sold, two-cusec pump demand continues slow. Orders have been placed
for the remaining 4,000 Low Lift Pumps (LLPs) to be sold by private dealers,
with investment credit provided to purchasers by the Bangladesh Bank. A
mechanics training program continues well. Compliance with Credit covenants is
satisfactory and Credit disbursements, on schedule.
Cr. No. 1042    Mangrove Afforestation Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Overall project performance is good. The establishment of plantations
was carried out according to SAR targets. The current progress indicated that



ANNEX II
-35-                        Page  7
the 1982/83 target will also be achieved. The procurement of essential equip-
ment and materials has been completed. Staffing remains behind the SAR target.
The implementation of the Plantation Trial Unit Program has been delayed. No
activity on the Public Relations Component has been started. Disbursement is
behind the SAR targets; however, it will improve when the documents for launches
and boats imported are received.
Cr. No. 1140    Hand Tubewells Project; US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1981; Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
The initial financial and administrative problems regarding procurement
are now over. The pro ject is now building momentum. Raw material for 90 000
Hand Tubewells (HTWs) gas been procured. Work order for first lot of 31,80O
HTWs has been placed with 14 foundries. Incremental staff has been appointed
and HTW selling price tentatively announced to farmers. Major problem is
shortage of ADP allocation and the Government is looking into the matter.
Cr. No. 1147    Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of June 9,
1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to farmers for
investments in minor irrigation and other agricultural development, and to
private borrowers for grain storage facilities. Progress in privatization of
shallow tubewells is proceeding satisfactorily. Import licenses had been issued
to authorized private dealers and letters of credit have been opened. Shallow
Tubewell (STW) prices between private and public sectors are now comparable.
Appointment of consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation agency,
is now in process.
Cr. No. 1184    Second Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Effective Date: July 14, 1982;
Closing Date:. June 30, 1987
Initial progress on construction work is slower than expected due to
reductions in the 1982/83 ADP budget.
Cr. No. 1215    Second Extension and Research Project; US$27.0 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
This credit became effective in October 1982 and progress on project
implementation has so far been slow.
Cr. No. 1287    Second Deep Tubewells Project; US$68.0 Million Credit of
August 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



-36-                          ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 527      Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of
June 18, 1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19,
1975; Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project was cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, Federal
Republic of Germany, (KfW), EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Govern-
ments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million
equivalent, in addition to the IDA credit. Because of the additional site
works, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing was neces-
sary and has been obtained. The project has now been mechanically completed.
Even-though production of urea was started in December 1981, about six months
later than anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, the project
continues to face operating problems. Further assistance by donors is required
to enable the plant to achieve production stability and also to provide staff
training and expatriate technical assistance to help in operating the plant.
Total foreign exchange cost of the Fertilizer Plant is likely to be about US$15
million higher than that approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632       Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date:  November 8, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Institutional upgrading programs instituted under the credit are still
under implementation, continuing the improvement on BSB's loan accounting and
staff training. However, because of declining collection BSB' sfinancial posi-
tion has weakened significantly. This area of operational weakness is receiving
close GOB/IDA attention, and IDA is coordinating closely with ADB and KfW to
implement an action program to restore BSB's financial viability.
Cr. No. 825       Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978, Effective Date:  September 15, 1978; Closing
Dat.:  March 30, 1984
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementating
banks developed rapidly, with significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks.  Staff of the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) completed a number of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion, and some improvement iii BSCIC-s promotion and
extension services were achieved. The project was fully committed by the com-
mercial banks in July 1980; due to some cancellations, the closing date for the
project was extended.
Cr. No. 1023    Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$29.0 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate fer-
tilizer manufacturing companies have been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contiacts approved. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily though with some delay.



ANNEX II
-37-                        Page  9
Cr. No. 1032    Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been mixed. After some initial delay,
procurement of rehabilitation and preventive maintenance spares is proceeding
well. The establishment of the Jute Strategy Cell and work related to policy
and strategy formulation is delayed. Thirty-three of 66 mills which are
beneficiaries of the project are in the process of denationalization. Arrange-
ments for rechanneling US$3.55 million to these (now private) mills are under-
way. One consultancy assignment (production incentive) is now complete, while
the other two (accounting/financial, organization) are being reformulated to
reflect changed circumstances.
Cr. No. 1065    Small Scale Industry III Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
October 17, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The US$30 million credit component is moving somewhat behind schedule,
with US$12.5 million committed in 317 subprojects, as of December 31, 1982;
major product groups have been food processing, engineering, textiles, ice
plants for the fishing sector and transport. Project eligibility has been
expanded slightly and promotional services by Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and coordination with the banks are being
improved. Technical service components -- for handicraft exports, rural
enterprises, and selected organized SSI subsectors were slow in initiation, but
are now proceeding.
Cr. No. 1117    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project; US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
As of December 31, 1982, BSB was facing considerable financial difficul-
ties due to the deterioration in its portfolio. This deterioration resulted
from devaluation of the Taka in the late 1970--early 1980s, low collection
levels and the impact of the world recession on Bangladesh industry.  GOB, with
assistance from ADB and IDA, has initiated a program of financial restructuring
of BSB and arrears recovery. The initial restructuring has been completed and
BSBs liquidity/financial position has been improved. The final stages of the
arrears recovery program have been implemented and a short list of consultants
has been prepared for a UNDP funded institutional review and portfolio audit,
which is expected to be completed in June 1984. IDA is coordinating closely
with KfW and ADB. The latter is the executing agency for the action program.



ANNEX II
-38-                         Page  10
Cr. No. 1194    Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982. As of March 31, 1983
US$67.08 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1204    Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Effective Date:  January 19, 1983
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit became effective on January 19, 1983. The bids for the
general contracting services are expected to be received by March 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1205    Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$30.0 Million
Credit of February 10, 1982; Effective Date: October 27,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
After initial delay, the credit became effective on October 27, 1982.
The first set of tender documents related to six mills have been prepared and
approved by IDA. However, nine of the original list of 15 mills are being
denationalized. Balancing, Modernization and Replacement (BMR) plans for 17
substitute mills are at an advanced state of preparation with IDA review planned
for April 1983. The terms of reference for the Industrial Economist have been
prepared and reviewed by IDA. Fielding of consultants is expected by July 1983.
Cr. No. 1300    Eleventh Imports Program; US$110.0 Million Credit of
December 10, 1982; Effective Date: March 4, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on March 4, 1983.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621      Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil wbrks have virtually been completed except for construction
of two new Thana Training Units (70% complete) which has been slow to complete
due to lack of Taka funds. IDA has asked GOB in December 1982 to provide the
needed funds. The latest estimate (December 1982) for completion of all works
is June 1983. Staffing is adequate and all Agriculture Training Institute (ATI)
instructors have received in-service training under the project. The course to
train project managers and those civil servants directly concerned with
implementation of IDA financed agricultural projects has been successful and an
extension of the course to June 1983 has been recently approved by IDA. At the
request of GOB, extension of the closing date from June 30, 1982 to June 30,
1983 has been granted by IDA to allow enough time to complete all remaining
civil works and project activities.



ANNEX II
Page  11
Cr. No. 912       Vocational Training Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Progress continues to be evident in several areas of project activity.
Contracts have been awarded for the five new TTCs and the National Council for
Skill Development and Training (NCSDT) building. Equipment procured by the
International Labor Organization (ILO) has arrived in Bangladesh and is being
installed in existing workshops. Instructor and in-plant training programs are
operational. Most of the technical assistance team (ILO) with the exception of
the evaluation expert are in post. Trade standards and tests in several areas
have been completed and await formal NCSDT approval. Quarterly Progress Reports
are being submitted on time, and the rate of disbursements has improved con-
siderably. The continued failure of GOB to replenish the Revolving Fund has
slowed some project components, however, IDA is now considering advance payments
into the Fund to make it operational. Finally, the second-shift programs have
been sporadic and not well organized. The Government will shortly decide on an
incentive package for instructors which can overcome the major problem with this
program.
Cr. No. 1054    Fourth Education (Primary) Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date:  December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
With the appointment of a new Project Director in June 1983, project
management has shown considerable improvement. The majority of staff for the
PIU and Regional Project Units Regional Project Units (RPUs) have been
appointed. Civil works is also showing improvement. Contracts for the con-
struction of additional classrooms at 178 schools, 594 latrines, 286 tubewells,
hostel extentions to 6 Primary (Teacher) Training Institutes (PTIs) and improve-
ments to 648 schools have been awarded. Learning kits have been distributed to
200 schools. Textbooks already have been distributed to over 443,000 Class I
and Class II students, and requisitions have been finalized for 1983 distribu-
tion to Class I, II, and III. No uniforms were distributed in 1982 in line with
new Government policy, however, two sets will be distributed to all students
(not only girls) in Class II in 1983 and then Class II and Class IV each year
thereafter under the new policy. The Recurrent Teacher Training Program started
in mid-December, slightly behind schedule. The Training of Education
administrators started in June 1982. The Project IMPACT experiment is on
schedule, the opening of a demonstration school and final testing of training
modules. All UNESCO experts are in post, and the four Education Studies under-
taken by British Council consultants have been completed.
Cr. No. 1318    Business Management Education and Training Project; US$7.8
Million Credit of March 28, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.



-40-                        ANNEX II
Page 12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533      Population Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The credit was closed on September 30, 1982 and payment for commitments
in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 921      Second Population and Family Health Project; US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center's component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily, the
civil works- components of the service delivery and training parts of the
project are significantly delayed. Their completion within the original four
year implementation period (July 1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing
not only to the initial implementation but also to weak implementation capacity
of responsible agencies. The impact of budget cuts and the Government's de
facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal will result in significant
savings. An extension of the project implementation period is currently being
discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408      Highways Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The Credit was closed'on December 31, 1982. Final disbursement of
US$1.7 million has been made and steps are being taken to cancel the undisbursed
balance remaining under this credit.
Cr. No. 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978; Closing
Date: August 15, 1983
Spare parts for Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA)
vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and cargo handling have been ordered.
Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels and BIWTA service vessels have been
delivered and are on order. Also, orders have been placed for telecommunication
equipment. Consultants appointed to carry out studies on Inland Water Transport
(IWT) sector, fleet scheduling of Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
(BIWTC) and accounting systems for BIWTA and BIlWTC have submitted their reports.
Implementation of the recommendations of the accounting studies has been sub-
stantially completed. At the request of the borrower the closing date has been
extended to August 15, 1983.



-41-                        ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No. 964      Second Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the borrower's
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted in increased project cost due to inflation. The problem appears to
result from factors outside the control of Roads and Highways Department (RHD),
e.g., the inability of the "Procurement Committee" to take timely decisions and
standard Government procedures which are in conflict with IDA procurement prin-
ciples. However, the earthworks contracts now appear to be progressing well,
although the two bridge and culvert contracts are moving more slowing due to the
financial difficulties and illness of the contractor.
Cr. No. 1096    Fertilizer Transport Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and the results of
the survey are encouraging in that less lighterage is taking place resulting in
lower transport costs. Also dredging work at the inland river port of Baghabari
has been completed and pontoons are in place. Contracts for procurement of
railway material have been issued. Progress on other project components has
been slow, but regular supervision missions are providing assistance to speed up
implementation. Disbursement of funds, consequently are lagging behind.
Cr. No. 1247    Chittagong Port Project; US$60.0 Million Credit of May 21,
1982; Effective Date: November 17, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Bids for the civil works contract for multipurpose berths have been
issued to prequalified bidders and are due March 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1301    First Highway Project (Supplemental); US$6.0 Million Credit
of December 10, 1982; Effective Date: March 17, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on March 17, 1983. However, the contract
for repair work is expected to be signed shortly, as is the contract with Valen-
tine, Laurie and Davies to supervise the repair work. The contract with the
local consultant is still pending.
Cr. No. 487      Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous delays
in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone cables
and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced in com-
pleting the local construction and installation of the systems. Telegraph &
Telephone Board (TTB), a Government board since April 1979, is making sig-
nificant progress in organizing its finances and accounts, and in managing its
operations and development. TTB funds had until recently all been deposited



-42-                       ANNEX II
Page 14
in an overall Government account. Since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank
account to which all funds are deposited and withdrawn and the accounting func-
tions have been transferred from Controller's Auditor General to TTB. The
overhaul of accounting functions, staff and methodology is proceeding very well.
Recruitment of staff has been completed and TTB now has an established and
trained cadre of financial staff.  Commercial accounts will be prepared from
FY82/83 onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good.
Thus, TTB is gradually achieving a level of financial autonomy that will permit
it to adjust its development program within the overall framework of the agreed
budget. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. Since May
1981, TTB has taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under
the project. Works related to last procurement, including national trunk and
international electronic telephone exchanges, will be completed by June 1983.
Actions as required to further improve TTB's management, operations and develop-
ment capability, were considered and have been included in the third telecom-
munications project.
Cr. No. 1321    Third Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
March 28, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872     Third Technical Assistance Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Thirty-nine subprojects, totalling about US$12.6 million have been
approved. The credit is about half disbursed. Twenty subprojects have been
completed. The remaining subprojects are proceeding smoothly. In several
instances, however, consultant contracts have not been finalized.
Cr. No. 1124    Fourth Technical Assistance Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing
Date: April 30, 1985
Eleven subprojects, amounting to 91% of Credit have been committed. A
number of proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being
taken to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934     Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project; US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been appointed
as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about one year
behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps for the
project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Development Board)
to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To improve the
situation, local consultants have beeppointed in September 1981 and conditions
have been created to recuperate part of the delay.



-43-                        ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1091    Bakhrabad Gas Development Project; US$85.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The well drilling program has been successfully completed with all five
wells testing as excellent producers. Work on the pipeline project was started
in mid-October when the right-of-way became accessible after the monsoon. After
a slow start, good progress is now being made by the pipelaying contractor.
Chances appear good that the pipeline can be completed before the monsoon rains,
assuming a normal monsoon. The main distribution ring is scheduled for comple-
tion by December 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1254    Ashuganj Thermal Power Project; US$92.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1262    Rural Electrification Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Effective Date: November 30, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
This Credit became effective in November 1982.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941     Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$22.0
Million Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by early 1983. Physical works are
expected to be completed by December 1983, about a year behind schedule. Early
delays resulted from slow startup and sluggish procurement but are currently due
to land acquisition problems, which have recently been mostly overcome, and
shortage of local currency with which to pay civil works contractors.
Cr. No. 1001    Second Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$20.0 Million
Credit of April 4, 1980; Effective Date:  April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm is in
place and design is now almost complete. Selection of a second consultant for a
sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial adviser has
proved effective. Procurement is now progressing well but implementation will
be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. Recent tariff increase is not sufficient
and another increase by July 1, 1983 is expected. While there has been improve-
ment in the collection of arrears from Government departments, further improve-
ment is still necessary.



ANNEX III
Page I
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
Twenty-two months.
(b)  Agency preparing the project:
Government of Bangladesh with the assistance of
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and IDA.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first
mission to consider the project:
January 1981; April 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 1982.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 6, 1983.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
October 1983.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None.



-45-                             ANNEX III
Page 2-
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a)  Execution of the UNDP Project Document, the CIDA
Memorandum of Understanding, and the ODA Agreement
(para 59);
(b)  Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and
BB and of a Participation Agreement between BB and SB
(para 59);
(c)  Approval of a Banking Plan, satisfactory to the Association,
by the Mianagement Boards of SB and BRBD (para 66);
(d)  Issuance by GOB of import licenses for at least 5,000 engines
necessary for the shallow tubewells and low lift pumps to be
financed under the credit (para 60);
(e)  Performance of preliminary steps necessary for the
establishment of a wing in RCS to audit the accounts
of TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS (para 51);
(f)  Approval of Project Proformas by GOB (para 59).
Other Conditions are that:
(a)  BRDB would ensure that only those TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS which meet
established criteria would participate in the project (para 41);
(b)  GOB would maintain and operate a PECU within PWD to handle
the construction of additional thana facilities (para 55);
(c)  GOB would establish, by September 30, 1983, and maintain a
District Coordination Committee in each district of the
project area (para 56);
(d)  GOB would issue licenses for STW and LLP engines for which
importers have developed acceptable plans for repair and
service (para 60);
(e)  RCS would prepare a revised audit manual satisfactory to IDA
for use in auditing accounts of TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS (para 65);



-46-                              ANNEX III
Page 3
(f) GOB would annually review and, if necessary, adjust the
interest rate level and structure (para 67);
(g) BRDB would, by June 30, 1984, furnish IDA with an analysis
of the financial performance of TCCA operating for at least six
years and would cause TCCA with annual credit volume of over
Tk 2,000,000 to bear a portion of the cost of BRDB's staff
seconded to TCCA (para 70).



