OFFIC'Al
CREDIT NUMBER 1384 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                         6     , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1384 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 /6          , 1983, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BAN ADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from United Nations
Development   Program   (hereinafter   called   UNDP)  a   grant
(hereinafter called the UNDP Grant) in an amount equivalent to
one million six hundred thousand dollars ($1,600,000) to assist
in financing Part G (i) and (iv) of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the UNDP
Project Document) to be entered into between the Borrower and
UNDP;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Canadian
International Development Agency, an agency of the Canadian
Government (hereinafter called CIDA), a grant (hereinafter called
the CIDA Grant) in an amount equivalent to seventeen million two
hundred thousand dollars ($17,200,000) to assist in financing
Parts A.1 (a) (ii), A.2, B.2, F (iv) and (v) and G (iii) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called CIDA Memorandum of Understanding) to be
entered into between the Borrower and CIDA;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Overseas
Development Administration, an agency of the British Government
(hereinafter called ODA), a grant (hereinafter called the ODA
Grant) in an amount equivalent to ten million five hundred
thousand dollars ($10,500,000) to assist in financing Parts E, F
(ii) and (iii) and G (ii) and (v) of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an exchange of letters (hereinafter
called the ODA Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and IDA:
(E) UNDP, CIDA, ODA and the Association intend to enter
into  an   agreement  (hereinafter  called   the  Memorandum  of
Agreement) regulating certain matters of common interest in
connection with such financing;


﻿- 2 -
(F) Parts B, C, D, F and G of the Project will be carried
out by the Bangladesh Rural Development Board (hereinafter called
BRDB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to BRDB part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "BRDB" means the Bangladesh Rural Development Board
established by BRDB Ordinance No. LIII of 1982;
(b) "BB" means    the   Bangladesh  Bank  established  under
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 127, 1972);
(c)  "SB" means the Sonali Bank established and operating
under c_he laws of the Borrower;
(d)  "TCCA" means a Thana Central Cooperative Association
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(e)  "KSS" means a Krishi Samabaya Samiti established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower;


﻿- 3 -
(f) "BSS" means a Bittyaheen Samabaya Samiti established
and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(g) "MSS" means a Mahila Samabaya Samiti established and
operating under the loans of the Borrower;
(h) "IMP" means    the  Irrigation Management Program, a
national program with the participation of Bangladesh Agricul-
tural Development Corporation (BADC), Directorate of Agricultural
Extension (DAE), Rural Development Academy and BRDB;
(i) "Rural Poor Program" means a program of BRDB designed
to promote income generating opportunities to members of BSS/MSS
who own less than 1/2 acre of land and earn their basic
livelihood by casual labor;
(j) "Private Mechanics Program" means a program under the
Project to train and equip mechanics to repair minor irrigation
equipment;
(k) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BB pursuant to Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from tiae to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(1) "Participation Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between BB and SB pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this
Agreement, as said Agreement may be amended from time to time;
(m) "Project Area" means the area comprising the following
districts: Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra, Khulna, Patuakhali, Barisal,
Dhaka, Tangail, Mymensingh, Jamalpur, Sylhet, Comilla and
Chittagong, or such other districts as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association;
(n) "Sub-Project Area" means the area comprising only the
districts of Bogra, Mymensingh, Jamalpur, Khulna, Dinajpur and
Barisal, or such other districts as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association;
(o) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;


﻿-4-
(p)  "Minor   Irrigation   Equipment"   means   the   shallow
tubewells and the low lift pumps to be financed under the
Project; and
(q) "Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to ninety-two million and eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 92,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Aosociation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower may, at its option, but in any event not
later than December 31, 1983, for the purposes of Part A.1 (a)
(i) of the Project, open and thereafter maintain in taka a
special account in BB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such  later date as    the  Association  shall  establish.     The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1993, and ending December 15,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and
E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate agricultural, administrative and finan-
cial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,


﻿-6-
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause BRDB to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable BRDB to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) Without any limitation to the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, the Project substantially in accordance with an implementa-
tion schedule satisfactory to the Association, such schedule to
include, inter alia, the activities to be undertaken, the dates
for appointment of key staff and the dates for complet-3n of
technical reports.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to BRDB as
grants the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts B, C, D and
F of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend to BB for
purposes of Part A of the Project: (i) the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9 of paragraph 1, Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and (ii) the proceeds of the CIDA Grant
allocated to Parts A.1 (a) (ii) and A.2 of the Project, under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BB upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associatioa
which shall include those set forth in Part I of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall cause BB to enter into a
Participation Agreement with SB providing for the on-lending to
(i) TCCA/KSS, (ii) TCCA/BSS/MSS, and (iii) to TCCA of the funds


﻿-7-
lent to BB by the Borrower for purposes of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3
of the Project, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, which shall include those set forth in Parts II A,
II B and II C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, respectively.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) make available foreign
exchange as and when needed by private dealers for the
importation of the engines necessary for the minor irrigation
equipment to be refinanced under Category 3 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b) in the event the Special Account is opened pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, furnish to the Association at
quarterly intervals evidence satisfactory to the Association that
the foreign exchange has been made available and has been used in
accordance with, and for the purposes specified in paragraph (a)
above.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall establish, by September 30,
1983, and thereafter maintain and operate, in each district of
the Project Area, a District Coordination Committee with
representatives of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
concerned with the implementation of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
cause to be insured or adequate provision to be made for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Parts A and E of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.


﻿- 8 -
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and E of
the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in Part A of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing Parts A and E of the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to allocate within the Thana Training and
Development Centers as and when needed all such land as shall be
required for BRDB to carry out Part C of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall annually review and, if
necessary, adjust the interest rate level and structure under the
Project to ensure that: (a) such interest rate level and struc-
ture are consistent with the recommendations, satisfactory to the
Borrower and to the Association, of a Joint Review of Agricul-
tural Credit being carried out by the Borrower and the Associa-
tion; and (b) until such time as said recommendations of such
Joint Review are implemented, interest rates to ultimate Bor-
rowers remain positive in real terms and ensure the financial
viability of TCCA.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause SB, in consultation
with BB and BRDB, to prepare and furnish to the Association, a
Banking Plan which shall include, inter alia, the role of SB,
TCCA, KSS, BSS and MSS in the implementation of Part A of the
Project, criteria and procedures for loan processing, coordina-
tion arrangements, and supervision, monitoring and reporting
requirements.
Section 3.11. For the purposes of assisting BRDB in the
carrying out of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall main-
tain and operate the Project Engineering and Construction Unit
within the Borrower's Public Works Department, established under
Development Credit Agreement No. 787 BD (Second Foodgrain Storage


﻿-9 -
Project) entered into between the Borrower and the Association
on April 12, 1978.
Section 3.12. The Borrower undertakes that, when requested
by suppliers who have established, or who have developed a plan
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association for the estab-
lishment of, an adequate distribution network of minor irrigation
equipment in the Project Area, with spare parts and repair facil-
ities therefor, the Borrower shall promptly issue import licenses
for the engines necessary for the minor irrigation equipment to
be financed under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Pro-
ject, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause BB, SB and the Registrar of
Cooperative Societies: (i) to have their accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) in respect of the Project for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) to furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including without


﻿- 10 -
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided; and (iii) to furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts, records and expendi-
tures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) ensure that, as of December 31, 1983, all audits of
TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS  are  carried   out  in  accordance  with   the
provisions of a revised manual, satisfactory to the Association,
for the auditing of the accounts thereof; and
(b)  quarterly furnish to the Association progress reports
on the auditing of TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained the facilities constructed under the Project in
accordance with sound engineering and maintenance practices, and
shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, all
funds and facilities required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) BRDB shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement  or   in  the  Participation  Agreement   without  the
Association's consent;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BRDB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;


﻿- 11 -
(d) BRDB Ordinance No. LIII, of 1982 establishing BRDB
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of BRDB to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BRDB or for the suspension of its operations; and
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the   terms  of   the  agreement   providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and BRDB;
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and


﻿- 12 -
(c) the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 *of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
agreement referred to hereunder (other than, if applicable, the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled:
(i) the UNDP Project Document;
(ii) the CIDA Memorandum of Understanding; and
(iii) the ODA Agreement;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Participation
Agreement have been entered into pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) and
(c) of this Agreement;
(c) a Banking Plan, satisfactory to the Association, has
been furnished to the Association pursuant to Section 3.09 of
this Agreement;
(d) the Borrower has issued import licenses in respect of
at least 5,000 engines necessary for the minor irrigation
equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(e) the Borrower has taken all preliminary steps, satis-
factory to the Association, for the establishment of the separate
wing referred to in Part E of the Project;
(f) the Project Proformas for carrying out the Project have
been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿- 13 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BRDB, and is legally binding upon BRDB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date U t&4.A- /)     /983      , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs
(b) and (c) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the External
Resources Division in the Ministry of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                        65886
Dhaka                              SETU BJ


﻿- 14 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works              8,340,000       90%
under Part C
of the Project
(2) Vehicles and             1,620,000       100% of foreign
equipment (other                        expenditures,
than Parts A,                           100% of local
B.2, E, F (ii),                         expenditures
(iii), (iv) and                         (er-factory
(v)                                     cost) and 60%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Refinancing             31,520,000       90% of BB's re-
under Part                              finance
A.1 (a) (i)
of the Project
(4) Refinancing             34,770,000       75% of BB's re-
under Part A.1                          finance (as speci-
(b) of the                              fied in Part A of
Project                                 the Annex to this
Schedule)
(5) Refinancing                280,000       90% of BB's re-
under Part A.1                          finance
(a) (iii) of
the Project


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Refinancing                 180,000       90% of BB's re-
under Part                                finance
A.3 of the
Project
(7) Training under            1,850,000        100%
Parts F (i)
and (vi) of
the Project
(8) Staff salaries,           1,160,000       Amounts specified
and allowances                            in Part B of the
under Part B.1                            Annex to this
of the Project                            Schedule
(9) Advance to                3,710,000       Amount due under
Special                                   Section 2.02 (b)
Account                                   of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated              9,370,000
TOTAL              92,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or


﻿- 17 -
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or sup-
ply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or in-
creases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
Category as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) expenditures under Category (1), on account of reten-
tion money, amounting to 10% of the contract price, initially
withheld by the Borrower from the payment due to the contractor;
(c) expenditures under Categories (4) and (5) until SB has
appointed a Deputy General Manager to handle all aspects of its
credit operations with TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS;
(d) expenditures under Category 6, until the Borrower fur-
nishes the Association with evidence satisfactory to the Associa-
tion that the Borrower has secured external financial assistance
to provide training and logistic support to the TCCA which will
carry out fertilizer marketing; and
(e) subject to the provisions of paragraph 5 below, ex-
penditures under Category (9), until the Borrower has opened the
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
5.   In the event the Borrower has not opened the Special Account
as of the date specified in, and in accordance with, the provi-
sions of Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement,
the Association shall, promptly after such date, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate to Category 3 the proceeds of the Credit
initially allocated to Category (9).
6.   Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 5 above,
and notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures


﻿- 18 -
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
iture for such item shall be fiaanced out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
ANNEX
Short-term Credit
Part A
For the purpose of Category (4) IDA will disburse against
75% of BB's refinance of SB's "incremental ST loan disbursements"
in the Project Area. For this purpose the term "incremental ST
loan disbursements" means the increase in lending in any fiscal
year over that in the previous year. For the first fiscal year
(1984) it would be the increment over the loans made in fiscal
year 1983 by SB in the Project Area, pursuant to a statement of
loan disbursements from SB, certified by BB.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX
Staff Salaries 1/
Part B
1.   For the purpose of disbursements under Category (8), sala-
ries of incremental staff will be calculated using the following
base figures:
District - Deputy Project Director (DPD) ......      13
TCCA - Thana ProjecL Officer (TPO) ...      ..    . 212
TCCA - Deputy Project Officer (DPO) ....*....... 212
TCCA - Deputy Project Officer (IMP) (DPO-IMP)..       0
TCCA - Accountant    ............................212
2.     IDA will disburse against the cost of hiring up to the
following totals of additional District and TCCA staff:
DPD  .. ....................  13
TPO  . ....................  89
DPO  . ....................  89
DPO  (IMP)  ...  .........  301
Accountant ............. 89
3.   Disbursements shall be made in the following proportions:
FY 2/ 84 ............... 100% of incremental salaries
FY 85................... 100% of incremental salaries
FY 86 .................... 90% of incremental salaries
FY 87 .................... 80% of incremental salaries
FY 88 .................... 70% of incremental salaries
4.   Disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures by BRDB certified by the Director General of BRDB
indicating the number of incremental staff who have been in post,
and showing the amounts that have been paid to said staff as
salaries. Disbursements will be made quarterly on this basis.
1/   For the purposes of this annex the term salaries includes
allowances.
2/   "FY" means a fiscal year commencing July        1 and ending
June 30.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Provision of credit by BB through refinancing of loans made
by SB as follows:
1.   to TCCA/KSS members in the Project Area:
(a) as medium term credit for (i) the purchase of minor
irrigation equipment, (ii) the purchase of tool kits and bicycles
and (iii) the construction of lined irrigation canals and control
structures; and
(b) as short term credit for crop production.
2.   to  TCCA/BSS/MSS   members  in   the  Sub-Project   Area  for
productive activities such as weaving, handicrafts, livestock,
cane and bamboo work, oil milling, rickshaw pulling and fish
cultivation (Rural Poor Program).
3.   to  TCCA  for   the  development  of  marketing   facilities,
including the construction of marketing and fertilizer godowns.
Part B:
1.   Strengthening  BRDB  through  the  provision   of  additional
staff, equipment and vehicles therefor.
2.   Provision of staff, equipment, vehicles and operating costs
of: (i) the Rural Poor Program including BRDB's costs for the
development of Marketing Systems for such Program; and (ii) the
Private Mechanics Program.
Part C:
Construction of additional thana facilities (including Thana
Training and Development Centers).
Part D:
Expansion of the IMP in the Project Area.


﻿- 22 -
Part E:
Establishment of a separate wing under the Registrar of
Cooperative Societies responsible for auditing the accounts of
TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS.
Part F:
Carrying out training program for TCCA/KSS/BSS/MSS members
and for the staff of BRDB and of the institutions or agencies
concerned with the implementation of: (i) IMP; (ii) account and
audit; (iii) cooperative development; (iv) Rural Poor Program;
(v) Private Mechanics Program; and (vi) other activities under
the Project.
Part G:
Provision of technical assistance for purposes of the
carrying out of: (i) marketing; (ii) cooperative training; (iii)
Rural Poor Program; (iv) monitoring and evaluation; and (v)
account and audit.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1987.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded under local com-
petitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Except as'provided in paragraph 3 below, vehicles and equip-
ment may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally under procedures satisfactory to the Association;
provided, however, that items costing less than the equivalent of
$15,000 each, not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 in the
aggregate, may be procured by prudent shopping through normal
commercial channels.
3.   Minor irrigation equipment may be procured through normal
commercial channels.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower or BRDB, as the
case may be, shall furnish to the Association, for its comments,
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as
the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower or BRDB, as the case may be, shall, before a final decision
on the award is made, inform the Association of the naAe of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall fur-
nish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Association shall


﻿- 24 -
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Scheaule, promptly inform the Borrower or BRDB, as the case
may be, and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower or BRDB, as the case may be, shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or BRDB, as the case may
be, and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower or BRDB, as the
case may be, shall inform the Association of the proposed modifi-
cation, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons there-
for. The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform the Borrower or BRDB, as the case may be, and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Terms and Conditions
Part I
AGRICULTURAL MT CREDIT
Borrower to BB
(a) Annual interest rate of not less than 3% for BB
refinancing SB;
(b) repayment period up to 12 years including up to 2 years
grace period;
(c) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower; and
(d) refinancing up to 90% of BB refinance.
AGRICULTURAL ST CREDIT
Borrower to BB
(a) IDA disbursements to be kept in a special fund to be
used to refinance SB for its ST lending to TCCA/KSS;
(b) annual interest rate of not less than 5%;
(c) repayment period up to 25 years including up to 5 years
grace period;
(d) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower; and
(e) refinancing up to 75% of BB refinance.
MARKETING GODOWNS OWNED BY TCCA
Borrower to BB
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 5%;
(b) repayment period up to 10 years including up to 2 years
grace period;


﻿- 26 -
(c) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower; and
(d) refinancing up to 90% of BB refinance.
RURAL POOR PROGRAM
Borrower to BB
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 3%;
(b) repayment period up to 10 years including up to 2 years
grace period;
(c) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower; and
(d) refinancing 100% of BB refinance.
Part II
PART II A
AGRICULTURAL MT CREDIT
1.   BB to SB
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 4% for on-lending
through TCCA/KSS;
(b) installment repayment to coincide approximately with
agreed collections from ultimate borrowers;
(c) refinancing up to 90% of loans made to eligible TCCA;
and
(d) SB to pass loans to its branches at not more than 1%
above interest rate charged by BB for refinancing.
2.   SB to TCCA
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 6-1/2%;
(b) installment repayment to coincide approximately with
agreed collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) financing up to 100% of loans made to eligible KSS
within the overall limit established for the TCCA.


﻿- 27 -
3.   TCCA to KSS
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 10-1/2%; and
(b) financing up to 100% of loans made to eligible members.
4.   KSS to Borrowers
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 14%;
(b) repayment in semi-annual installments over 10 years
including up to 1 year grace period for minor irriga-
tion equipment, private mechanics, and canal lining
including control structures; and
(c) financing up to 90% of the cost of eligible items.
AGRICULTURAL ST CREDIT
1.   BB to SB
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 6% for on-lending
through TCCA/KSS;
(b) installment repayment to coincide approximately with
agreed collections from ultimate borrowers;
(c) refinancing up to 90% of loans made to eligible TCCA;
and
(d) SB to pass loans to its branches at not more than 3/4%
above interest rate charged by BB for refinancing.
2.   SB to TCCA
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 7-1/2%;
(b) installment repayment to coincide approximately with
agreed collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) financing up to 100% of loans made to eligible KSS,
within the overall limit established for a TCCA.
3.   TCCA to KSS
(a) -annual interest rate of not less than 14-1/2%; and


﻿- 28 -
(b) financing 100% of loans made to eligible members within
the overall limit established for a KSS.
4.   KSS to Members
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 17-1/2%; and
(b) repayment according to schedule established by TCCA.
PART II B
RURAL POOR PROGRAM
1.   BB to SB
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 4% for onlending
through TCCA/BSS/MSS;
(b) repayment to coincide approximately with the agreed
collection from TCCA, but to be at intervals of not
less than one year;
(c) refinancing 100% of loans made to eligible TCCA; and
(d) SB to pass on loans to branches at not more than 1%
above interest rate charged by BB for refinancing.
2.   SB to TCCA
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 7-1/2%;
(b) repayment   to   coincide  approximately  with   agreed
collections from borrowers; and
(c) financing 100% of loans made to eligible BSS/MSS.
3.   TCCA to BSS/MSS
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 14-1/2% for ST
and working capital loans;
(b) repayment   to   coincide  approximately  with   agreed
collection from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) financing 100% of loans made to eligible members.


﻿- 29 -
4.   BSS/MSS to Members
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 17-1/2%;
(b) repayment according to schedule established by TCCA for
each activity; and
(c) financing 100% of loans made for eligible activities.
PART II C
C.   MARKETING GODOWNS OWNED BY TCCA
1.   BB to SB
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 6%;
(b) repayment to coincide approximately with agreed collec-
tion from ultimate borrowers;
(c) refinancing up to 90% of the loans to TCCA; and
(d) SB to pass loans to branches at not more than 2% above
interest rate charged by BB for refinancing.
2.   SB to TCCA
(a) annual interest rate of not less than 14%;
(b) repayment period of 10 years including up to 2 years
grace; and
(c) financing up to 90% of the cost of the godown.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for Part A.1 (a)
(i) of the Project and to be refinanced out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to Category (3) in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "advance" means an amount in taka equivalent
to the amount allocated to Category (9) and to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the advance.
4.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect of
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   When the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
Category (3) for Part A.1 (a) (i) of the Project shall be equal
to the equivalent of twice the amount of the advance, withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to Category (3) shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and
shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made
only after and to the extent the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the


﻿- 31 -
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account was made for any
expenditure other than eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such payment;
or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  /6        day of
198  S.T
FOR SECRETARY


