                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 34554

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (TF-25182 SCL-42140)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$32 MILLION LOAN

                         TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN




                                             FOR A

                        SECOND TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                         December 22, 2005




Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective October 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)



                         JD 1.0 = US$ $1.40
                        US$ 1.0 = JD 0.71

                        FISCAL YEAR
                            July 1 -
                            June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
 ASEZA      =      Aqaba Special Economic Zone Authority
 CAS        =      Country Assistance Strategy
 CBA        =      Cost-Benefit Analysis
 DOA        =      Department of Antiquities
 ERR        =      Economic Rate of Return
 GEF        =      Global Environment Facility
 GNP        =      Gross National Product
 GDP        =      Gross Domestic Product
 ICB        =      International Competitive Bidding
 JICA       =      Japan International Cooperation Agency
 JTB        =      Jordan Tourism Board
 MOF        =      Ministry of Finance
 MOPIC      =      Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
 MOTA       =      Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
 MPWH       =      Ministry of Public Works and Housing
 NCB        =      National Competitive Bidding
 NGO        =      Non-Governmental Organization
 PAD        =      Project Appraisal Document
 PMU        =      Project Management Unit
 PRA        =      Petra Region Authority
 PRC        =      Petra Region Planning Council
 RSCN       =      Royal Society for Conservation of Nature
 RTC        =      Rum Tourism Cooperative
 SOE        =      Statement of Expenditures
 UNESCO =          United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
 USAID      =      United States Agency for International Development



                 Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
             Country Director:      Joseph P. Saba
               Sector Director:     Hossein Razavi
               Sector Manager:      Hedi Larbi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Mohammed D.E. Feghoul

                       THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                    SECOND TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REVIEW


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              40
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            52
Annex 10. Borrower's Comments                                                    56
Annex 11.Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                             59

Project ID: P035997                                                  Project Name: JO-SECOND TOURISM DEV.
Team Leader: Mohammed D. E. Feghoul                                  TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: December 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: JO-SECOND TOURISM DEV.                                   L/C/TF Number: TF-25182; SCL-42140
   Country/Department: JORDAN                                                             Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (45%); Roads
                            and highways (45%); Sub-national government administration
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Infrastructure services for
                            private sector development (P); Rural non-farm income generation
                            (S); Environmental policies and institutions (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/09/1995                                     Effective: 11/04/1997                10/17/1997
     Appraisal: 03/27/1997                                         MTR: 10/31/1999                  10/24/1999
      Approval: 07/31/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF TOURISM
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Joseph P. Saba                                 Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:                Hossein Razavi                                 A. Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:             Mohammed D. E. Feghoul                         Mohammed D.E Feghoul
ICR Primary Author:             Kingsley Robotham


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Jordan Second Tourism Development Project (STDP) was presented to the Board in July 1997 and
became effective in October of that year. It was due to close in December 2002 but was extended and
eventually closed two and one half years later, in June 2005. STDP built on the foundation of the earlier
Bank-supported Jordan Tourist Development Project (1976-81), and on two other successful
Bank-implemented environmental projects: the Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan (GEF/UNDP
1996-99) and Dana Wildlands Project Phase I (GEF/UNDP 1994-96). It also built on series of three
successful Bank-supported Urban Development Projects implemented during 1980-95.

The objectives established at appraisal were to: (a) create the conditions for an increase in sustainable and
environmentally sound tourism in Petra, Wadi Rum, Jerash and Karak; and (b) realize tourism-related
employment and income-generation potential at project sites.

These objectives were relevant and the intervention was timely. The potential of the industry had been
highlighted by a 30 percent increases in visitation during the 1994-95 period, a partial by-product of the
optimism engendered by the 1993 Peace Agreement between Israel and the Palestinians . In addition, by
                                                                                            1


1997 tourism had become Jordan's second highest foreign exchange earner after remittances, and
accounted for about 10 percent of GDP . Moreover, contemporaneous studies sponsored by UNESCO ,
                                           2                                                                  3


USAID , the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and others strongly supported the case for
        4
                                                                  5


tourism development. Finally, having recognized the value of its historical and natural assets as well
tourism's potential for contributing to urgent employment and economic development objectives, the
Government of Jordan (GOJ) was keen to accelerate the sector's development .     6




3.2 Revised Objective:
The STDP's objectives remained unchanged throughout the life of the project. However, during
implementation the focus appeared to shift more towards infrastructure and environmental concerns
somewhat away from policy reform and capacity building. This shift seems to have occurred, at least in
part, because of revealed weakness of the institutional environment at both national and local levels (see
later discussion).

3.3 Original Components:
In support of the above objectives, the project originally comprised the following four components:

1. Petra Region infrastructure development and environmental management physical (Total cost:
    US$27.4 million, 62 percent of total project costs). Includes: road rehabilitation and improvement;
    urban infrastructure development; visitor facilities and management at the Petra Sanctuary;
    environmental management; and developing capacity of the Petra Region Authority.

2. Wadi Rum development and environmental conservation (Total cost: US$9.2 million, 21 percent of
    total project costs). Includes: Wadi Rum infrastructure development; protected area management plan
    and tourism management plan; and Wadi Rum income generating activities support;

3. Karak and Jerash Tourism Development Pilot Program (Total cost: US$ 5.2 million, 12 percent of
    total project costs). Includes: technical assistance and feasibility studies; and Kerak and Jerash priority
    tourism development projects.

4. Sector Development Support (Total cost: US$ 2.2 million, 5 percent of total project costs). Includes:
    technical assistance and training for MOTA; equipment for MOTA (computers and vehicles); and
    technical assistance to the Project Management Unit.




                                                      - 2 -

The estimated total project cost including contingencies was US$ 44 million equivalent. The distribution of
project cost by component and procurement category is presented in Annex 2.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no major revisions in project components during implementation. However, there were modest
changes in scope and relative costs among components (see Table 1 below and Annex 2). In addition, there
were a number of relatively minor amendments to the Legal Agreements (see Annex 1-B).

Table 1: Original and Revised Project Components, Costs and Output Rating

                                                                    Appraisal      Actual/     Actual/         Original     Actual/
                       Project Component                            Estimate        Latest    Appraisal        Appraisal    Latest      Output
                                                                     (Total )      Estimate*                   Estimate     Estimate    Rating
                                                                    (US$m)         (US$ m)       (%)          (% of Total) (% of Total)
1. Petra Region Infrastructure Development and                        27.4          24.0        88%              62%          57%        S
   Environmental Management
2. Wadi Rum Development and Environmental Conservation                9.2           10.1       110%              21%          24%       MS
3 Karak and Jerash Tourism Development Pilot Program                  5.2            7.5       144%              12%          18%        S
4. Sector Development Support                                         2.2            0.8        35%              5%           2%        MS
  Total Project                                                       44.0          42.4        96%            100%         100%         S
* To end September 2005.       Rating Key: HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, MS=Moderately Satisfactory,
                                        MU=Moderately Unsatisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality was not formally reviewed through the QAE process. However, in retrospect the project is rated
satisfactory (S) overall. The following is a brief assessment:

     (a) Consistency with country strategy: The project's development objectives at appraisal were wholly
     consistent with and supportive of the overall Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Jordan.
     Particularly, STDP was designed to help create an enabling environment for outward oriented private
     sector growth by improving infrastructure and relieving the constraints to sustained growth ­ key
     objectives of the 1995 CAS for Jordan.

     (b) Project Design: STDP built on a set of earlier studies and projects. In particularly, the Petra
                                                                                                  7


     components built on the Petra Sanctuary Management Plan study undertaken by UNESCO during
     1994-95. By focusing on Petra and also initiating development at Wadi Rum, Jerash and Karak, the
     project responded well to GOJ's priorities to increase as well as spread the benefits of tourism. The
     urgent need for infrastructure and environmental improvements had been highlighted in the sector
     studies and in the 1995 CAS. The physical and environmental components were generally well
     designed, though some modifications were required during implementation--particularly to the roads in
     Wadi Musa.      8  Design faltered somewhat in the institutional area however. While there was some
     acknowledgement of the complexities involved, there was insufficient analysis of the local
     communities in Wadi Musa or Wadi Rum--key stakeholders. As a result, insufficient provision was
     made for monitoring and managing the parochial pressures that were to later emerge.

     (c) Participation and dialogue during preparation: Discussion with MOTA, MPWH, ASEZA, DOA
     and RSCN seem to have been extensive. There was also dialogue with UNESCO, JICA and USAID
     who were then active in the sector.

     (d) Preparedness for Implementation: This was overestimated. The project procurement plan showed
     almost all actions/contracts beginning in 1998, and most being completed by 2000. In fact, no
     significant works contracts were launched in 1998, only a few in 1999, and most in 2000. This led to a
     significant delays in disbursements (see Annex 1-D).




                                                               - 3 -

    (e) Project Risk Evaluation: The risks were very well defined. Five of the seven risk identified were
    rated modest, and two were rated low. The overall project risk was rated modest. The risk mitigation
    measures were also appropriate, and proved effective during implementation. However, there was one
    miscalculation: the risk of "Political stability in the region". This was rated modest, a rating that was
    to be contradicted three years later by the outbreak of Palestinian Intifada in September 2000--with
    devastating consequences for the industry. Given the well-known fragility of the agreement between
    Israel and the Palestinians (Jordan's very close neighbors) and the well-established volatility of the
    industry, the assessment of political risk was not realistic (see Annex 1-C for data on visitation). On
    balance though, the project was well prepared.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of Objectives:
Overall achievement rating: S. 9




Objective 1-- Create the conditions for an increase in sustainable and environmentally sound tourism
in Petra, Wadi Rum, Jerash and Karak: Rating: S.
          10




Three success criteria were specified at appraisal. The first focused on strategy development and
institutional reform, the second on infrastructure, environmental and site management improvement, and the
third on tourism growth at Wadi Rum. Achievement against these criteria is assessed below.

Criteria 1.1 Approval of a long-term tourism sector strategy and accompanying investment, institutional
restructuring and regulatory reform programs by September 1999. Despite considerable prodding by the
Bank, the responsible agency (MOTA) did not produce an acceptable development strategy document until
February 2001. Even then, key physical, financial, managerial and institutional issues were not effectively
addressed in the document, the required investment program, restructuring and regulatory studies were
never undertaken, and the required endorsement of Cabinet was never obtained. Despite this, between
2001-04 MOTA did undertake a number of significant reform initiatives under the project. In addition, in
2003 MOTA acted (with assistance from USAID) to prepare a well-received and widely discussed National
Tourism Development Strategy. These actions indicate that MOTA did indeed make significant progress in
sector planning and management during, if not entirely because of, the project.

Criteria 1.2. Improved infrastructure, environmental protection and site management at the two primary
project sites of Wadi Rum and Petra. Implementation of the supporting infrastructure sub-components
(mainly roads and drains, but also including solid waste management) considerably improved accessibility
and cleanliness and significantly upgraded the physical and visual environment. This benefited both tourists
and locals in Petra and Wadi Rum. With respect to land use in Petra, the key supporting zoning
sub-components aimed at protecting the Park from degradation were, in the main, implemented by PRA.
Key intermediate objectives were also substantially achieved at Wadi Rum. These include establishing a
well-regarded environmental management and conservation plan; establishing a practical and workable
managerial regime for the two competing indigenous communities operating in the park; and building an
attractive and imposing visitors center.       On the negative side, implementation of the supporting
environmental sub-components in Petra was only partial due to problems with watering and private land
ownership. Moreover, while the implementation of the zoning was a very significant accomplishment, PRA
does not appear to fully appreciate its importance for protecting the Park and the Wadi Musa environment.
The sustainability of land use and environmental protection in Petra is thus by no means assured.
Nonetheless, the achievements here are significant.




                                                      - 4 -

Criteria 1.3. Growth of tourism by 75 percent at Wadi Rum. According to MOTA's data, visitors to Wadi
Rum increased from about 60,000 in 1997 to some 110,000 in 2000--an 80 percent increase in 3 years
and well ahead of target. However, visitation declined sharply in 2001 in line with the general national
pattern, but began to recover in 2003. It stood at about 70,000 in 2004. It is thus seems reasonable to
conclude that the objective would have been achieved had there not been a severe regional shock, and that
bar another major shock the target could soon be achieved once again.

Objective 2-- Realize tourism-related employment and income-generation potential at project sites.
Rating: S.

The criterion for assessing achievement of this objective was a 100 percent increase in tourism-related
employment at Wadi Rum. Because of the absence of baseline data and the unforeseen downturn in the
industry after 2000, it is difficult to reasonably assess the achievement of this objective. The few available
data on tourism related employment suggest that direct employment in hotels and tourist restaurants in
Petra probably decreased after 2000 in response to the general downturn in visitation at project sites. With
                                                                                                       11


regard to project specific or directly related employment, the data are weak but they suggest that the
impact was positive and welcomed by the local beneficiary communities (see Beneficiary Assessment at
Annex 8). Rum certainly has benefited. A handicraft center has been established and is functioning.
                                             12


Equally important, the project generated welcome and much needed new jobs for local women, and helped
spark other local economic activity. Particularly noteworthy are the increases in employment in the newly
established tourist camps within the Park area and entrepreneurial activity within the Disi traditional
community on the periphery of the Wadi Rum Park. However, this development needs to be carefully
monitored and if necessary guided to ensure that it does not degrade the Park over time. Overall, it has
been estimated by supervisory staff that employment at Wadi Rum has increased from about 390 in 1999         13


to some 560 in 2005, a significant achievement.

In sum, despite some serious shortcomings with respect to sector strategy and institutional reform (and to a
lesser degree with environmental protection), a number of key intermediate objectives were achieved. The
achievement on each objective and the overall achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory. It is now
generally acknowledged that because of the project Petra and Wadi Rum (and Jerash and Karak) are more
attractive, efficient and beneficial places for tourism as well as for the local community.      14 It is also
acknowledged that major strides have been made in protecting the local environment and the Archaeological
Park. The employment objectives were not fully realized due mainly to the downturn in the industry, but as
the regional situation stabilizes and the industry recovers, significant additional economic benefits should
accrue to the local communities.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Achievement of Outputs:
The overall output rating: S. (Supporting data are presented in Table 1 below and in Annex 1.)

Component 1.0: Petra Region infrastructure development and environmental management physical
(Total cost: US$ 24.0 million, 57 percent of total project costs). Rating: S

Component 1.1 Road rehabilitation/improvement works (about 60 km; responsibility MPWH and
MOTA): i) Unaizah-Shobak-Wadi Musa road (53 km): This is the primary access road to Petra from the
main national north-south Amman-Aqaba highway. Under the project, it has been transformed from a
narrow, winding, dangerous, poorly surfaced road, and an un-welcoming experience. The road has been
widened, partially realigned and completely resurfaced, and signage has been considerably upgraded. The
major benefits include a reduction in travel time from the highway to Petra by about one third (15-20



                                                      - 5 -

minutes); saving of fuel, reduction in the wear and tear on vehicles, leading to potential savings in vehicle
operating costs, fewer accidents and consequent injuries and loss of life. Moreover, the landscaping of
significant sections of the road under the project has improved environmental quality and (if adequately
maintained) will help reduce environmental degradation (visual as well as soil erosion). These benefits
accrue not just to tourists visiting Petra, but also to all the communities along and making use of the road.
Some     29    communities     housing    about    35,000    persons   should  benefit directly.  15 ii) Wadi
Musa/UmSeyhum/Little Petra Road (7.5 km): This road links the main tourist area to the local Bedouin
communities and gives access to the outer areas of the Archaeological Park. The road has been
considerably improved by resurfacing, but because of environmental concerns this had to be done within
the existing vertical and horizontal alignments. The main benefits are easier access for locals and tourists
alike while preserving environmental values. Against this must be set a possibly increased risk of accidents
due to increased speeding on the hilly winding road.

Component 1.2 Urban infrastructure development (urban spine roads, traffic management and parking,
street lighting and landscaping enhancements in Wadi Musa, Taybeh and Um Seyhum, including
improvements to the tourist arrival area, the Elgee traditional village (responsibility MOTA and PRA):
Infrastructure in the core areas of the project towns has been improved under the project (dramatically in
some cases). The main and collector roads have been repaved; traffic in the Wadi Musa Town center has
been rationalized; parking has been improved; street lighting has been installed; streets have been
landscaped; and pergolas with seating have been constructed strategically along the main thoroughfares and
at lookout points. In general, Wadi Musa and the other beneficiary towns are far more functionally and
environmentally efficient and attractive than before--a physical and environmental boon to locals and
tourists alike. In addition, the derelict Elgee traditional village in Wadi Musa has been well restored, but is
awaiting effective reuse for both local and touristic purposes.

Component 1.3       Site enhancement and visitor management at the Petra sanctuary (responsibility MOTA
and DOA): i) Visitors' Center: The center has not been redeveloped though some minor tidying up of the
existing center was undertaken. After deliberation, MOTA decided to undertake a detailed review of the
earlier designs, and thereafter to hold an international competition for design of a new center--with highly
promising results. However, these results have come too late to be implemented within the project and
must await support from other donors or future Bank-supported projects. Nevertheless, a foundation has
been laid for the development of a visitors' center worthy of Petra's importance. ii) Park Improvements:
Signage and interpretation has been improved; trails have been developed; some important remedial work
(retaining walls) has been executed; garbage containers have been installed; and the staff have been
provided with uniforms. Nevertheless, much more remains to be done to ensure safe, easy and informative
passage of visitors within the Park. For example, cleanliness needs to be further improved, and rest room
facilities for visitors' need to be more conveniently located. iii) Park Management: DOA were unable to
establish an effective organization to manage this vital national asset. This was so despite the very
extensive technical assistance, training and support provided to DOA under the project. The shortcomings
persisted despite the most patient and determined efforts of the Bank supervision team.

Component 1.4 Environmental protection and management (reforestation, Wadi valley terrace
regeneration, flood control measures, and solid waste management; responsibility: PRA, with assistance
from the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA): i) Flood control: The positive accomplishments here include the
construction of drainage channels, retaining walls and check dams. These measures have significantly
reduced if not eliminated flooding in Wadi Musa. Importantly, they have eliminated serious flooding at the
Siq, the very special entry point to the Archaeological Park and a major attraction in itself. ii) Landscaping
and Reforestation: Riding trails have also been developed, expanding the recreational options available to
visitors and locals. Moreover, several pergolas, lookouts, and family outing rest spots have been developed
in and around Wadi Musa, and these are being very well patronized by visitors and locals alike. iii) Solid



                                                       - 6 -

Waste Management: Wadi Musa and its environs are much cleaner due largely to the execution of an
annual garbage collection contract with a private contractor. Under this contract the project provided
collection vehicles, equipment and bins, while the private contractor has undertaken the task of actual
collection and disposal.

Component 1.5 Petra Region Planning Council capacity building to enforce local land-use plans and
environmental protection, implement urban development projects, and promote tourism (responsibility
for implementation: PRA): i) Land use and Environmental Protection: PRC declared Dara and the Wadi
Musa - Taybeh Scenic Road protected areas in 2001 and completed the necessary accompanying land use
code in December 2002. Both actions were major steps towards protecting the Park and its environs for
posterity. Also, GOJ moved expeditiously to purchase the Dara area adjacent to the Park, ensuring its
protection while diffusing tensions among local landowners who felt that their rights to use their land as
they wished were being abridged. ii) Implementation of Environmental and Urban Projects: Overall,
PRA have performed satisfactorily in implementing those infrastructure and environmental components
entrusted to them (collector roads, drainage channels and reforestation). The only issue here was their
seemingly insufficient attention to maintenance, and their preference for new construction when using their
own funds. iii) Organization, Staffing and Capacity Building: From a very early date, the Bank
supervision team concluded that PRA's interpretation of its mandate and its organization and staffing
requirements differed considerably from that envisaged in the PAD. The matter was addressed in depth by
the team during the mid-term review, with no discernable positive result. iv) Promotion of Tourism:
Though envisaged in the PAD, PRA did not establish a tourism promotion department or developed
capacity in this area. Thus, significant program of activities in this area were never launched.

The overall rating of the component is "S", reflecting the satisfactory completion of the important
infrastructure and urban sub-components (1.1 and 1.2) which together account for almost 90 percent of the
component cost and 50 percent of the overall project cost. The overall rating is satisfactory despite the
moderately unsatisfactory rating with respect to the small but important capacity building sub-component
(1.5) and the less than satisfactory rating on the others.

Component 2.0: Wadi Rum development and environmental conservation (Total cost: US$ 10.1
million, 24 percentage of total project costs). Responsibility: the Aqaba Special Economic Zone
Authority (ASEZA), assisted by Jordanian Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature (RSCN). Rating:
MS.

Component 2.1 Infrastructure development (upgrading of Rum village, infrastructure for a new village,
visitor center, and tourist access road: There have been major improvements in infrastructure and
environmental protection at Wadi Rum.         A new 4.4 km access road, a new visitors' center, a new
craft-training center, and a new police station have all been constructed. In addition, water supply, roads,
and property walls in the existing Rum village have been significantly upgraded. The visitors' center is a
particularly impressive structure, reflecting as it does the surrounding landscape. However, it is not
particularly well laid out. The new access road is also not well laid out. However, these are remediable
problems. The improvements have significantly benefited the local population through better services and
increased employment opportunities. They have benefited tourists through enhanced facilities and visitation
experiences. Moreover, they should benefit Jordan generally through enhanced preservation of a unique
environmental and historical asset,16 enhanced tourism product and increased tourism earnings, and better
distribution of the economic benefits of tourism.

Component 2.2 Protected area conservation management and visitor management services:              During
1998-99, RSCN inventoried the physical and biological assets of the Park, demarcated its boundaries, and
prepared a conservation plan with the first set of conservation management regulations. RSCN also helped
establish the Wadi Rum Administration (WRA) in 2001. In doing so RSCN helped WRA develop and


                                                     - 7 -

implement effective financial and operating systems and procedures, as well as conservation, visitor
service, and management plans. Further, RSCN succeeded in placing Rum's attractions on the international
eco-tourism tour circuit. Conservation and management systems now exist at this major Jordanian asset,
and the benefits are similar to those mentioned in the section above. However, there are still several issues
to be addressed by WRA. These include: continuing to amicably managing differences between the two
traditional groups providing tourist guide services in the Park; ensuring discipline in the use and parking of
tourism vehicles at the entrance to and within the Park; maintaining the integrity of the park from
encroachment by entrepreneurs from neighboring traditional communities; further enhancing Park services;
and maintaining financial viability. This will require continual vigilance by WRA and continued support
from RSCN.

Component 2.3 Development of income-generating activities for the local community, particularly
Bedouin women: A small handicraft center for women has been built and equipped under the project, and
local women trained by RSCN to operate the machines and produce various designs. Further, a recognized
Wadi Ram product was developed between 1999 and 2001, and craft outlet shops have been successfully
established at the new visitors' center. Six women are employed in the shops, and several young women are
currently undergoing craft training. While operations are still on a very modest scale, what has been
achieved to date is significant. The initiative demonstrates that meaningful employment can be created for
local women, particularly young women, with all the attendant benefits in terms of poverty alleviation and
reduction of gender bias. They also demonstrate that under the right circumstances traditional conservative
male-dominated Bedouin communities can be receptive to the idea of productive employment for their
women; and further that the assets of the Park can be mobilized for local economic and social development.
The challenge now is to sustain the effort through further product and business development, and a more
focused marketing effort.

The moderately satisfactory output rating reflects the relative weight of the infrastructure sub-component
(2.1) which accounts for about 70 percent of the cost of the component. The smaller management
component (2.2) was satisfactory, and the output of income generation component was mixed.--partly
satisfactory and partly unsatisfactory.

Component 3.0:        Karak and Jerash Tourism Development Pilot Program (Total cost: US$ 7.5
million, 18 percentage of total project costs). Responsibility for implementation: MOTA. Rating: S.

Component 3.1: Feasibility studies to identify urban regeneration and tourism-related projects and
cultural heritage conservation activities: Important cultural heritage preservation and tourism
development studies were undertaken in both Karak and Jerash during the period 2000-01. These studies
effectively laid the basis for pilot works in these two cities, and for initiatives to be undertaken during the
next (third) Bank-supported tourism development project. Similar additional studies were undertaken in
Madaba -- a city with significant historic and cultural heritage assets and considerable tourism
development potential, and in the Ajloun historical and ecological area in northwest Jordan. Further, these
studies helped MOTA assess the development potential of the towns and the options for controlling adverse
and haphazard development.

Component 3.2: Implementation of a pilot program of priority tourism-related projects and cultural
heritage conservation activities:     Pilot works were implemented in Karak and Jerash--historic plaza
improvement at both sites, and construction of a new bus terminal and shopping area in Jerash. These
initiatives not only improved the cultural and touristic assets and public services of the towns in question,
they also helped MOTA gauge the priorities, capacity and responsiveness of the local community. Although
some problems were encountered--mainly with design and contracting--the project initiatives were well
received by the host communities. They also provided valuable feedback that is helping MOTA and the




                                                     - 8 -

Bank to define the upcoming cultural heritage, tourism and urban development project.

The output on each sub-component and the component as a whole was satisfactory.

Component 4.0: Sector Development Support (Total cost: US$ 0.8 million, 2 percentage of total
project costs). Responsibility for implementation: MOTA. Rating: MS.

Component 4.1: Technical Assistance to MOTA to develop a longer-term tourism development strategy,
with an associated prioritized investment program, and for project management: MOTA did not produce
a development strategy document acceptable to the Bank until February 2001, some eighteen months later
than originally planned. Even then, key physical, financial, managerial and institutional issues were not
effectively addressed in the document. Nevertheless, during 2001-04 MOTA did undertake a number of
significant reform initiatives under the project. These include: i) amending the tourism and antiquities laws
to allow for greater private sector participation and to recognize the importance of natural and urban
landscapes and significant elements of the more recently built environment; ii) consolidating and
strengthening its project formulation and project management capacity by creating a Technical
Development Department (TDD); and iii) introducing e-government services in its Professions
Department--significantly simplifying industry access to licensing and supervision services. Moreover,
MOTA acted with the assistance of other donors to improve its data collection and analysis capability;
improve/commercialize site management; explore non-traditional tourism markets in Eastern Europe and
elsewhere in response to the tourism downturn after 2000; recognize the importance of regional tourism;
and to prepare a well regarded National Development Strategy for the sector. The above indicates that
MOTA did indeed make significant progress in sector planning and management during the project, if not
entirely because of the project.

Component 4.2: Project management services: After an initial delay, MOTA recruited and managed to
retain a cadre of qualified and highly committed staff for its Project Management Unit (PMU--now TDD),
and they installed effective accounting, procurement, monitoring and reporting systems. Moreover, the staff
of TDD is now playing the lead role in undertaking and managing preparatory studies for future Bank- and
other donor-supported cultural heritage and tourist development projects. In addition, the TDD staff have
provided and are providing valuable services to other departments in the Ministry, including Legal,
Information Technology, Professions, and Finance. Further, the head of TDD was promoted to the rank of
Undersecretary in MOTA, and has become the de facto chief technical officer of the ministry. Finally,
TDD is now being consolidated into the core technical and developmental arm of MOTA.

The output of this component is moderately satisfactory, reflecting the difficulties experienced with
sub-component 4.1. Having regard to individual component ratings and the overall output rating is
satisfactory. This largely reflects the importance of the infrastructure sub-components. The output of
capacity building sub-components was generally less than satisfactory, but this was not enough to negate
the overall satisfactory rating. It does have a bearing on project sustainability though (see discussion below
and rating details at Annex 1).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The benefits of the project included an unquantifiable increase in tourism-based income and employment,
enhanced environmental conditions, cultural and historical preservation, and increased safety and
attractiveness of public facilities related to major tourist destinations in Jordan. As stated in the PAD, the
project cannot be directly linked to a specific increase in tourism over the medium term, and therefore a
cost-effectiveness methodology was appropriately used to justify Project investments. At appraisal, each
project investment, except for the road rehabilitation sub-component, was examined in terms of its
appropriateness in the overall tourism strategy for the country, the effect of the investment on the individual
sites, and criteria for public sector investment. The two road rehabilitation sub-components and were



                                                      - 9 -

evaluated using cost benefit analysis at appraisal and then at Project end. Together they represented about
30 percent of project costs. The results of the analysis are shown below:

                         Road Section                       ERR At Appraisal           ERR At Project End
Unaizah-ShobakWadi Musa                                          16%                       15.60%
Wadi Musa Um Seyhun Little Petra                                 17%                       14.64%



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Rating: M.

The most significant impacts were at MOTA and Wadi Rum. The impact on PRA and DOA were
relatively small, though not for lack of effort on the part of the supervision team. At MOTA, the tangible
impacts included the formation of TDD, a unit which has considerably increased MOTA's capacity to
plan, manage, and monitor major, internationally funded projects. They also included the establishment of
e-government capacity in the professions department. This holds the promise of greatly simplifying the
licensing and approvals process for MOTA's main clients in the industry. Soon, most of their transactions
with MOTA will be able to be processed electronically. A somewhat less tangible impact was the revision
of the tourism and antiquities law. The latter removed many if not all of the barriers to private sector
participation in the industry; and for the first time it recognizes the value of natural landscapes and parts
of the more recently built urban landscape and enables their protection. Much less tangible, but potentially
no less important, is what seems to be the beginning of a cultural shift at MOTA. This is evidenced by their
increasing recognition of: i) the key role of the ministry as a facilitating agent of change; ii) the importance
of consulting and mobilizing the local community to participate in the development process; and iii) the
importance of carefully husbanding Jordan's very valuable cultural assets. All of these intangibles have
been on display over recent months during which MOTA has led the preparation of the third
Bank-supported tourism development project--a quite new development. At Wadi Rum, the institutional
development impact is evidenced by the existence of conservation, management, craft-training and
production capacity where none existed before. It is also evidenced by the groundbreaking involvement of
traditional Bedouin women in employment activities outside the house.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There was one significant (and ultimately critical) factor outside of government and implementing agency
control. This was the regional political crisis arising from the second Palestinian Intifada and the resulting
Israel response. This gave rise to a sharp fall in tourism visits to the region and, of course, in tourism
expenditure.   It also had a strongly negative effect on those project objectives and components that
depended on the sustained growth of the sector.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were two significant issues: the performance of PRA and DOA. As already noted, PRA did not
perform up to expectations; in fact they seemed to have substantially different understanding of their role
from that of the Bank supervision team. Matters came to a head when PRA approved the construction of a
university near the Dara site in contravention of their own zoning regulations. This decision was only
addressed after the Bank brought considerable pressure to bear. In the case of DOA, despite numerous
promises and the most determined efforts of the Bank supervision team, they did not effectively perform



                                                     - 10 -

their expected role of enhancing and managing the archaeological park. In both cases, corrective action was
necessary and should have been well within GOJ's power.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The factors noted in section 5.2 above are also relevant here. In all cases the implementing agency also had
the power to take corrective action, but they did not. The only other significant factor was PRA's
inattentiveness to maintenance.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As shown in Table 1 and Annex 2, only US$ 42.4 million or 96 percent of the original budget was
expended. This was due partly to the fact that the visitors' center at Petra was designed but could not be
constructed before the closing date established for the project. In addition, MOTA's expenditure on reform,
project management and capacity building was much less than originally planned. The savings were partly
offset by increased expenditure on studies and improvements at Jerash and Karak. With respect to
financing, the Bank disbursed about US$ 30 million out of a planned US$ 32 million. However, GOJ
disbursed about US$ 0.7 more than its planned US$ 12 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Rating: L

Bar another severe regional shock, the project should be sustainable. The case for sustainability rests on a
                                     17


combination of factors: i) Increased GOJ Awareness of the Value of the Industry: As evidenced by the
2004 Tourism Development Strategy, GOJ and MOTA are now far more aware than before to the value
and importance of the historic and cultural assets to the economy of the country and the need to protect and
enhance them; ii) Market Diversification: GOJ are also aware of the vulnerability of the industry and is
taking steps to diversify their markets (most recently to eastern Europe) and broaden the client base;   18iii)
Product Attractiveness: The assets themselves are major attractions. Petra in particular is unique, and has
major independent drawing power in any event; iv) Increased Local Awareness of Value of the Assets: The
local communities and local investors have a significant economic stake in maintaining the assets, and seem
increasingly aware of this due the sharp decline in employment and income experienced during the
downturn of the industry; v) Increased Financial Provision for Asset Maintenance: A share of the revenue
generated by tourism (25% of the gate receipts at Petra and 100% at Wadi Rum) has been earmarked by
GOJ for managing and maintaining the assets; and vi) Follow-on Investments: Planned follow-on projects
supported by the Bank, USAID, the European Union and others will help to consolidate some of the gains
made. These investments include additional improvements in infrastructure; further tourism product
development; increased private sector participation; and improvements in marketing, promotion and site
management.

On the negative side, while the organizations to manage the new assets are in place--and in the case of PRA
there is some capacity-- the commitment of these organizations to asset protection and maintenance is
suspect, and herein lies a problem. The situation with respect to the Archaeological Park is particularly
problematic. The land use code has never been fully endorsed or effectively embraced by the PRA
executive, and PRA itself has breached the code by its approval of a university adjacent to the protected
Dara site. Moreover, PRA seem unconvinced of the appropriateness of the legal measures developed under
the project to protect the Park and its environs, and show little enthusiasm for their implementation. Finally,
continued pressures on PRA from powerful local interests have been causing difficulties in fully achieving
protection objectives. In response to these pressures, PRA seems prepared to extend the existing zoned area
in Wadi Musa despite the fact that the area is far from being fully utilized--a measure that would place



                                                     - 11 -

premature stress on already thinly stretched local services. Park enhancement and management is also
problematic because DOA do not currently have the capacity to undertake these tasks effectively. Unless
GOJ urgently addresses these issues sustainability is at risk.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Progress is evidenced by the consolidation of the PMU at MOTA into TDD. Further evidence is the
appointment of the head of TDD to the post of deputy secretary at MOTA, where he has now become the
chief technical officer. Even more evidence is provided by the fact that many of TDD's staff render other
valuable services (finance, IT, etc.) to other departments of the ministry. However, while the physical
planning functions at MOTA are being integrated in its normal operations, because of capacity constraints
the strategic planning and policy making functions are unlikely to be integrated soon. In the case of
MPWH, the services provided under the project was always a part of their normal duties. Less certain is
the ability of PRA, WRA and DOA to effectively carry out their respective regular operations.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Rating: S.

Performance at appraisal was satisfactory in the following areas: consistency with country strategy;
participation and dialogue during preparation; and the design of the infrastructure and environmental
components. In addition, with the exception of regional political risks, threats were well assessed and
appropriate mitigation measures were proposed.        The key weaknesses at the lending stage were: i)
inadequate assessment of the local social and political milieu, particularly at Wadi Musa; ii) Lack of
adequate dialogue on and specification of the strategic development and institutional reform components to
be undertaken by MOTA; and iii) over-optimism with respect to the pace at which the project could be
implemented. These weaknesses, while by no means insignificant, do not outweigh the considerable
strength of the technical preparation at appraisal.

7.2 Supervision:
Rating: S.

Supervision performance was excellent on several counts: i) managing technical issues involving
infrastructure, environment and urban development in general; ii) providing guidance and being responsive
to client needs; iii) helping the client to solve complex procurement ant and procedural problems; iv) in
following up on key client obligations; v) ensuring client compliance with Bank rules and regulations
without being overly bureaucratic; vi) being open to new ideas emerging from the client and the situation ­
for example MOTA's E-government initiatives; vii) assisting the client to build a capable project
organization in TDD; viii) orienting the client to the tremendous historical, cultural and touristic value of
their assets, and to appropriate ways of enhancing and protecting them; and ix) helping lay the foundation
for future sector development through the initiative at Karak and Jerash initially, and subsequently at
Madaba, and Ajloun. For these reasons, the supervision team has earned the respect and trust of GOJ. To
the extent there were weaknesses, these as noted lay mostly on the institutional side. Under certain
circumstances, it may have been possible for the supervision team to compensate for some of these
weaknesses. However, these shortcomings should not be allowed to cloud an otherwise sterling
performance.




                                                    - 12 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rating: S.

On balance, the project was well designed technically, responsive to GOJ objectives and consistent with the
ruling CAS. Supervision was competent, proactive and highly responsive to client needs

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Rating: S.

The key agencies acting on behalf of the government of Jordan were MPWH and MOTA. Both were
deeply involved and participated actively during project preparation. In particularly, MPWH was
responsible for the identification and detailed preparation of the major roads components. MOTA played a
similar role with respect to the urban, cultural heritage, tourism and environment components. Both
ministries took active steps to ensure effective project selection, design and contract document action. In
addition MOTA helped secure GOJ's prior action on several key issues, including: i) the formation of PRC
as an area authority, with a mandate to coordinate the activities of the relatively weak municipalities,
enforce land use plans, develop projects, manage the environment, and promote tourism activities in the
Petra area; ii) the declaration of Wadi Rum as a protected area with special regulations; and iii) the
mandating of the Higher Council for Tourism to review tourism policy and propose steps to modernize the
laws and strengthen the institutional structure of the sector. Moreover, MOTA took effective steps to
develop an action plan to guide the development of Petra, and to strengthen their own accounting, financial
and project management capability in preparation for project implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Rating: S.

In general, GOJ (represented by the ministries of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC),
MPWH and MOTA) were highly supportive, and fulfilled their project obligations in an effective and
timely manner.     Four areas are particularly noteworthy: i) counterpart funding; ii) support for the
establishment of zoning regulations at Petra and          Wadi Rum; iii) funding the purchase of the
environmentally sensitive Dana site in Petra; and iv) approving revisions to the tourism and cultural
heritage laws, making them more flexible and encouraging private sector participation in the development
of the sector.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Rating: S.

There were five public agencies involved in implementing the project: MPWH, MOTA, DOA, PRA, and
ASEZA. MPWH was responsible for the major road components, and their performance here was highly
satisfactory. In particularly, they supervised the road contracts effectively, and were instrumental in
finding practicable solutions when the (international) contractor failed to perform and in fact had to be
replaced. These actions ensured the completion of the key roads contract, and the significant improvement
of the main road leading to Petra. ASEZA, for its part, was responsible for overseeing the implementation
of the Wadi Rum component, and they did so with the able assistance of RSCN. Despite some initial
missteps, performance was satisfactory: the main infrastructure component (including access road, new
visitors center and police station, etc) were completed; conservation and management plans and structure
were put in place and are operational; handicraft training and production capacity has been established; and
Wadi Rum has been effectively promoted as an international eco-tourism destination. The performance of
DOA and PRA, in contrast, was somewhat less than satisfactory. Despite considerable support under the



                                                    - 13 -

project, DOA were unable to significantly improve the facilities and services at the archaeological park on
to install effective park management. PRA, for its part, did establish effective land use and zoning
regulations at Wadi Musa, but as already indicated their commitment to enforcement is questionable. PRA
also took the lead on environmental improvement and control in the Wadi Musa area, but again their
commitment to maintenance is uncertain. Finally, MOTA, the main project implementation agency,
performed very well. They competently oversaw the implementation of the entire project as well as the
development components that were specifically entrusted to their. Also, MOTA developed a strong cadre of
relatively young Jordanian professionals who ably oversaw project development, procurement, accounting
and reporting. Moreover, this cadre had been molded into an effective TDD. This has greatly strengthened
MOTA, and given it the capacity to take on other major tourism development projects--including the
successor to STDP. MOTA's only misstep was its inability to deliver on its commitment to develop a
national tourism stately with attendant investment programming and policy and institutional reform
measures. But they later atoned for this, albeit with the assistance of other donors.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rating: S.

The client (MOPIC, MOTA and MPWH) participated fully in all project dialogue, and cooperated very
well with the project team at all stages. Further, they were responsive and proactive when problems arose
and creative in finding practicable solutions. The one major (and continuing) area of concern is with Petra,
specifically continuing to protect and enhance Park and its environs. This responsibility lies directly with
PRA and DOA. Here GOJ needs to take more forcefully steps to ensure the protection of Jordan's
patrimony.

8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons have been learned that should benefit the development of further projects. Some like the
importance of allowing sufficient time for public decision making, are mundane but worth repeating. A
sixty percent time over-run on a not overly complex project seems excessive in the absence of some major
intervening set of events. More substantive though, are the following lessons:

1. Sufficiently understanding the complexity of the local environment at appraisal, and makings
    adequate allowances for this complexity in project design and during implementation. Wadi Musa, in
    particular, turned out to be far more complex socially and politically than was realized at appraisal.
    This led to over-optimism at appraisal regarding the prospects for change and for protecting the
    archaeological Park and its environs. The complexity arose from a combination of mostly competing
    interests. These included powerful local and national elites with a financial stake in land development
    and speculation; relatively weak traditional groups with historical use-rights to areas in and around the
    archaeological Park; local mercantile groups with a narrow interest in trade; national bureaucratic and
    policy elites with a broad perspective on the importance of protecting and developing the Park; and
    local bureaucrats with more parochial views and subject to powerful local pressures. Insufficient
    understanding of these groups and their interests and the consequent absence of a strategy for managing
    them, led directly to problems with implementing the land use zoning measures. It also led to
    difficulties in conducting an effective dialogue with and consequently building capacity at PRA. A
    parallel case can be cited at Wadi Rum, though the details are quite different.

2. Accurately gauging the capacity of key participating agencies and their commitment to core project
    objectives both prior to and during project implementation. This second lesson is also evidenced by
    the disappointing experience with PRA and DOA. In the case of PRA, the lesson is evidenced by the
    reluctance and, in some instances, failure of PRA to effectively implement the land use and zoning
    regulations. It is also evidenced by their seeming inattention to maintenance. PRA's leadership now



                                                    - 14 -

     seem to have, and may always have had, different objectives, expectations and understanding of their
     role from that held by the Bank appraisal and supervision teams. Moreover, the incentives perceived by
     this leadership seem to have had far more to do with promotion to higher national office in Amman and
     elsewhere and with making accommodation with powerful elites than to any notions of protecting the
     Park and its environs. DOA presents a parallel case, but again the details are quite different. Their core
     focus seems to be custodial and to a lesser extent, research. Under the project, they were being asked to
     undertake developmental, managerial and service delivery tasks, tasks that they did not (and still do
     not) have the staff, skills, and financial or professional incentives to perform. More broadly though, the
     problem may have been partly one of a lack of exposure of PRA and DOA officials to effective
     environmental and cultural heritage preservation models elsewhere in the world.19

3. Establishing a clear consensus with the counterpart agency on the need for and relevance of
     strategic planning and programming, and ensuring that the agency has the will and capacity to
     undertake the task effectively. MOTA illustrates the point. Under the project, they were being asked to
     develop a coherent sector strategy with attendant investment, regulatory and institutional reforms
     programs and plans. It is now clear (and should have been clear at appraisal) that MOTA had neither
     the experience or the incentive to effectively undertake this task ­ one that in the past had always been
     undertaken by donors to underpin their own lending programs. That MOTA has now managed to
     develop a well-regarded national tourism strategy--albeit with the help of other donors-- is a tribute to
     skill and perseverance of their recent leadership.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The key sections of the Borrowers comments are presented at Annexes 10 and 11. The entire document has
been placed on the project file. The following is a summary of the main comments: i) The project fully and
partially achieved a wide range of outputs. ii) The physical intervention were more successful than those
related to social, institutional, regulatory and sector strategy. iii) The sustainability of the project
achievements requires attention and enhancement of the management structures that were established
and/or supported under the project, namely Wadi Rum Administration, Petra Regional Authority and Petra
Archeological Park. iv) In the case of Petra, coordination at national and central levels is required to ensure
efficient leadership and the efficient allocation of financial and human resources. v) To ensure
sustainability at Wadi Rum, ASEZA needs to remain alert in maintaining and fostering the rather delicate
existing achievements. iv) The STDP taught several lessons, the most important of which is the necessity of
properly assessing the local contexts in which interventions are being introduced. Social, administrative and
political networks and capacities need to be addressed effectively to ensure proper communication between
all the concerned stakeholders.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

A stakeholders' workshop was held on September 25, 2005. A brief summary of the meeting is presented in
Annex 9. The response of stake-holders to the project was generally very positive. However, there was a
consensus that more attention needed to have been placed on social (people as well as places), and on the
operational issues that were likely to arise upon project completion.




                                                       - 15 -

End Notes
 1. 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Jordan, Report No. 14999-JO, World Bank, p10.
 2. Jordan, Second Tourism Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report, July 11, 1997.
 3. Petra National Park Management Plan, UNESCO (1994-95).
 4. Jordan Sustainable Development/Sites Report, USAID 1996.
 5. Jordan National Tourism Strategy and Policy, Japan International Cooporation Agency, February 1996.
 6. See 1995 CAS op cit.
 7. Petra National Park Management Plan, UNESCO (1994-95); Jordan Sustainable Development/Sites Report, USAID 1996; Jordan National
    Tourism Strategy and Policy, Japan International Cooporation Agency, February 1996.
 8. The planned levels on the roads had to be modified in several cases in order to link to the work of an earlier USAID-sponsored contractor.
 9. Details on the achievement of objectives and components are presented at Annex 1. The Rating Key is: Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory,
    MS=Moderately Satisfactory, MU=Moderately Unsatisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory.
 1. Petra is sometimes referred to this review as Wadi Musa which is the name of the local town adjacent to the Archaeological Park. The latter is
    often referred to simply as the Park. Where the context is clear, the term "Park" is also sometimes used in reference to the Wadi Rum ecological
    park.
 2. The criterion itself is ambiguous--it does not adequately specify the source or type of employment expected. Moreover, there was no mention of
    employment objectives at Petra, the main project site. In addition, there are no comparable data for Wadi Rum.
 3. The Beneficiary Assessment results are themselves ambiguous, particularly at Wadi Rum. Here the respondents seem to be understating the
    benefits because of unresolved problems between competing ethnic groups on the site.
 4. 1997 data are not available.
 5. This was the consensus of the Stakeholder Workshop held in Amman in September 25, 2005.
 6. MOTA's population estimates based on latest census data.
 7. Lawrence of Arabia reportedly passed through.
 8. A key determinant of project sustainability and one that is beyond the control of MOTA and GOJ is, of course, regional political stability. Such
    shocks strongly impact visitation, and hence the entire local tourist economy.
 9. To some extent, the shocks can be cushioned by increases in visitors from the Gulf who are much less sensitive to them than the conventional
    European and North American tourist. However, regional visitors exhibit very different visitation patterns, accommodation requirements and
    spending habits from the typical extra-regional tourist, and hence are not direct substitutes for them. Typically, these seem to be family and
    shopping visits, with little impact on the historical, cultural or ecological sites and minimal use of large hotels. However, there is room for the
    project towns to tap a part of this considerable traffic.
10. Some DOA officials did visit the National Park Service in the US, but this was probably not an appropriate model given the huge economic and
    cultural gap between Jordan and the US. A regional or European model may have been more appropriate.




                                                                         - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                               Actual/
 Narrative Summary      Projected in PAD       Latest                                 ?Comment
                                               Estimate
    CAS Objective
 · Create an enabling   · sustained           Partially  Rating: MS
   environment for         increase in        Achieved   § Itwasnotpossibletofullyachieveobjectivesduemainlyto
   outward ­oriented       foreign tourists                events outside the control of the project, namely regional
   private sector       · sustained                        political instability from 2001 onward arising from the second
   growth, improve         increase in                     Palestinian Intifada. This reversed the previously increasing
   Infrastructure          revenues from                   positive trend of visitation figures in Jordan, and Petra and
   extent and              foreign tourists                Wadi Rum significantly. It produced a negative growth and
   efficiency to                                           reduced revenues at most of tourist sites. These negative
   relieve constraints                                     trends only began to change after 2003, but the 2000 levels
   to sustained growth                                     have yet to be regained. The rating of achievements here takes
                                                           account of these extenuating circumstances.
Project Development Objectives
1. Create the          Overall                Partially  Rating: S
   conditions for                             Achieved
   sustainable and     1.1 approval by        Partially  Rating: MS
   environmentally          September 1999    achieved.  § SectorstrategyonlypartiallycompletedbyMOTAinearly01.
   sound tourism in         and implementa-                Required investment program not prepared, and regulatory
   Petra, Wadi Rum,         tion by the end                reform and restructuring program not developed.
   Jerash and Karak         of the project of           § Despitelackofachievementoftarget,MOTAdidundertakea
                            a long-term                    number of reform initiatives under the project: to amend the
                            tourism sector                 tourism and antiquities laws to allow for greater private sector
                            strategy,                      participation and to recognize the importance of natural and
                            institutional                  urban landscapes and significant elements of the more recently
                            restructuring and              built environment ; to consolidate and strengthen its project
                            regulatory                     formulation and project management capacity by creating a
                            reform programs                Technical Development Department (TDD); to introduce e-
                                                           government in its professions department, significantly
                                                           simplifying licensing and supervision services to the industry.
                                                        § Moreover,MOTAacted:toimproveitsdatacollectionand
                                                           analysis capability (with the help of the EU); to begin to
                                                           address the issue of improved site management (with
                                                           assistance from the EU); and in response to the tourism
                                                           downturn after 2000, to begin to react to explore non-
                                                           traditional tourism markets in Poland and elsewhere, and to
                                                           recognizing the value and importance of regional tourism.
                                                        § Theaboveindicatesthebuildupofsubstantial"strategic
                                                           capability" at MOTA during, and partly due to the project.
                        1.2 improved          Achieved.  Rating: S
                            infrastructure,              ·  Considerable progress was made (see components below), but
                            environmental                   future maintenance management and hence sustainability still
                            protection and                  an uncertain issue.
                            site management
                            at the 2 primary
                            project sites
                            Wadi Rum and
                            Petra by the end
                            of the project
                       1.3 growth of          Partially  Rating: S
                            tourism by 75     achieved.  ·  Negatively affected by regional political instability after 2000,
                            percent at Wadi                 but recovering. Selected visitor data: Base yr. 1997=0.06m;
                            Rum by the end                  2000=0.11m, a 80% increase on base year; 2004=0.07m.
                            of the project               ·  Indicator of dubious value since project can only marginally
                                                            affect.
2. Increase tourism­   2.1 100 percent        Achieved.  Rating: S
   related                  increase in                  ·  Baseline not precisely determined. However, a considerable
   employment and           tourism­related                 number of jobs were created: 45 at the new VC; 25 at camps,
   income generation        employment at                   benefiting 50 families; 25 registered guides. Anecdotal
   opportunities at         Wadi Rum by                     evidence indicates that employment at site more than doubled
   project sites            the end of the                  as result of the project.
                            project                      ·  No indicator specified for Petra, the main development site.




                                                         - 17 -

  Narrative Summary         Projected in PAD          Actual/                                    Comment
                                                      Latest
                                                    Estimate
 OUTPUTS/ Indicators
 1.    Petra Region1                                              Rating: S

 1.1 Petra region        Overall                    Achieved.     Rating: S
     improved
     infrastructure to   1.1.2/3 main access        Achieved.     Rating: S
     support                 roads are                            · 53 km Unaizah-Shobak-Wadi Musa road, including
     environmentally         rehabilitated and                         landscaping, completed April 05.
     sustainable             maintained,                          · Delays mainly due to contractor performance. Contract had
     tourism                 including safety                          to be renegotiated.
     development             improvement, by                      · Street lighting is needed at entrance to Wadi Musa.
                             the end of the                       · 7.5 km Wadi Musa-Um Seyhun­Little Petra scenic road
     (Note: Outputs          project (Unaizah-                         completed.
     have been               Shobak-Wadi
     renumbered to be                                             · Delayed due to land acquisitions and archeological remains
                             Musa Road, and
     consistent with                                                   issues along its path.
                             Wadi Musa-Um
     project                 Seyhun­Little
     components 1.1 &        Petra scenic road
     1.2)                1.2 urban                  Achieved.     Rating: S
                              infrastructure                      · Start of urban roads generally delayed for 2 yrs by unforeseen
                              developed and                            completion delays with then existing USAID- supported
                              improved in Wadi                         sewage and water networks project in the area.
                              Musa, Taybeh and                    · Taybeh spine road, including landscaping completed Sep. 01.
                              Um Seyhun by                             Um Sayhun spine road completed Apr. 02. Wadi Musa spine
                              the end of the                           road (??km) including town center loop, urban collector road
                              project                                  phase I & urban collector road phase II completed Oct. 03.
                                                                       Latter road still at maintenance stage.
                                                                  · Street lighting and landscaping completed, but Wadi Mousa
                                                                       entrance still requires lighting.
                                                                  · Traffic management and parking at the town center
                                                                       completed.
                                                                  · Elge village construction completed Aug 02. Operation and
                                                                       management of the village is not in place yet due to the
                                                                       tourism crisis. PRA Currently waiting for investors.
 1.3 Improved visitor    Overall                    Partially     Rating: U
       infrastructure                               achieved
       and services at   1.3.1    redevelopment     Partially     Rating: MS
       the Petra             of the visitor center  achieved      · Maintenance works at the existing VC completed.
       Sanctuary             (VC) & site                          · Design Competition for a new VC and entrance development
                             entrance area                             completed Jun 05, however little actual improvement works
     (Note: Outputs          completed by the                          implemented.
     have been               end of the project
     renumbered to be    1.3.2 Sanctuary            Partially     Rating: MU
     consistent with            enhancement by      achieved      · Basic tour including signage completed.
     project                    the end of the                    · Trails through the sanctuary being developed together with
     component 1.3)             project                                landscaping.
                                                                  · Interpretive material at the visitor center and along the routes
                                                                       partially completed.
                                                                  · Basic interpretation is being developed and provided but still
                                                                       not adequate.
                                                                  · Also, complaints still being received from visitors on the
                                                                       inadequacy of basic sanitary services (toilets) inside the
                                                                       sanctuary.
                         1.3.3 visitor              Partially     Rating: U
                                management          achieved      · Visitor management study and operation plan completed in
                                plan developed                         2000 by the US National Park Service. NPS also provided
                                and                                    training and capacity building for PAP staff.
                                implemented by                    · Plan implementation delayed until PAP formally established
                                December                               in 2002. To date PAP staffing and site management unit is not
                                31.1998                                yet in place, effectively blocking plan implementation.




1The Petra outputs and indicators: The numbering here differs from that shown in Annex 1 of the PAD. It has been revised to conform
to the numbering of components in the project description and the cost tables in the SAR.



                                                                   - 18 -

                                                     Actual/
 Narrative Summary     Projected in PAD               Latest                                 Comment
                                                    Estimate
OUTPUTS/ Indicators
1.4 Improved           Overall                     Substantially  Rating: MS
    environmental                                  achieved
    protection in the  1.4.1      reforestation    Substantially  Rating: MS
    Petra Region          and Wadi terraces        achieved       · Reforestation on public land is complete, but planned
                          regeneration                              reforestation on private land only 50% completed. Under-
   (Note: Outputs         components                                achievement due apparently to by tedious procedures for
   have been              completed by the end                      obtaining private approval, and to lack of effective follow-
   renumbered to be       of the project                            up by PRA.
   consistent with                                                · Lack of irrigation water also an obstacle on private land
   project                                                          reforestation.
   component 1.4)                                                 · Responsibility for maintenance of public areas lies with
                                                                    PRA, but watering problematic placing sustainability at risk.
                       1.4.2      flood            Substantially  Rating: MS
                          protection measures      achieved       · Wadi Musa flood control measures including box culverts
                          implemented by the                        completed 01/02. Measures implemented have significantly
                          end of the project                        reduced if not eliminated the risk of flooding in critical
                                                                    areas (notably the Siq).
                                                                  · STDP measures were complemented by additional PRA
                                                                    earth dams.
                                                                  · PRA maintenance on-going but inadequate. This inadequate
                                                                    maintenance increases the risk of flooding and threatens the
                                                                    sustainability of the Wadi Musa components. (PRA argues
                                                                    for wider protection measures.)
                       1.4.3      solid waste      Substantially  Rating: S
                          management plan          achieved       · Annual contract for solid waste collection executed with
                          implemented                               private operator starting 97 through MOTA. Contracts since
                          (including monitoring                     03 are with PRA.
                          system of private                       · Management plan & monitoring system: Monitoring
                          sector operators) by                      system established but without a set management plan.
                          June 30,1998                            · Equipment and garbage containers purchased and supplied
                                                                    under project in 03.
1.5 Increased          Overall                     Partially      Rating: MU
    institutional                                  achieved.
    capacity of the    1.5.1      (i) PRC          Partially      Rating: U
    Petra Regional        Operating procedures     achieved.      · PRC operating procedures completed on schedule, but never
    Planning Council      completed by October     .                reviewed by MOTA or Bank.
    (PRC)1                31,1997 and staffing                    · Staffing completed but not as envisioned by project. Also,
                          completed by June                         new PRA departments (Admin., Finance, Engineering &
   (Note: Output          30.1998                                   Technical, and Planning) by formed by June 98, but not as
   have been                                                        recommended under project. Recommended Project
   renumbered to be                                                 Implementation, Environmental Management, and Tourism
   consistent with                                                  Promotion not formed, though some implementation,
   project                                                          planning, and development control capacity developed
   component 1.5)                                                   under the department actually established. The latter two are
                                                                    weak, and no tourism development capacity ever
                                                                    established.
                                                                  · Adequate PRA staffing and capacity a contentious issue
                                                                    with Bank throughout project. Several remedial proposals
                                                                    made by Bank (including at mid-term) but not acted on by
                                                                    PRA.
                       1.5.1       (ii) all Petra  Partially      Rating: MU
                          component project        achieved.      · Only Unaizah rd and reforestation projects launched by
                          including                .                12/98.
                          environmental                           · Main environmental management projects launched in 1999.
                          management and                          · Delays of starting the other projects due mainly to
                          tourism promotion                         unforeseen delays in progress of related USAID sewage and
                          activities launched by                    water networks project at that time.
                          Dec. 31.1998                            · Tourism promotion capacity never developed at PRA, and
                                                                    no significant program of activities launched.




1PRC changed to PRA in 2003. New Authority supplanted, and inherited staff from previous area municipalities.




                                                               - 19 -

                                                Actual/
 Narrative Summary   Projected in PAD           Latest                                 Comment
                                               Estimate
OUTPUTS/ Indicators
                     1.5.1  (iii) Petra      Not             Rating: U
                           tourism           achieved.       ·  Tourism promotion capacity never developed at PRA.
                           promotion                         ·  Some very limited local tourism promotion activities were
                           program                              initiated/coordinated by the PRA at Elge and the sanctuary.
                           (including new                       These were not sustained.
                           tourism
                           attractions)
                           prepared by
                           December
                           31.1998
                     1.5.1  (v) PRC          Partially       Rating: U
                           preparation of    achieved        ·  Annual reports started on 99, but stopped on 2001 due to
                           annual reports on                    breakdown in communication between PRC and MOTA
                           Petra Region                         PMU (according to PRA).
                           Tourism
                           Development,
                           involving all
                           local
                           stakeholders,
                           beginning in
                           1999
                     1.5.1 (vi) protected    Substantially   Rating: MS
                           areas defined and  achieved       ·  PRC (Council) declared Dara, Wadi Musa and Taybeh
                           protection                           protected areas in 2001.
                           mechanisms                        ·  Land use codes completed and became a regulation Dec 02
                           established by                       ­an important achievement. Significant compensation paid
                           December                             by GOJ for land in the key affected Dara area, also a major
                           31,1997                              step.
                                                             ·  However, Code never fully endorsed or effectively
                                                                embraced by PRA executive, and PRA itself breached the
                                                                code by its approval of building a university adjacent to the
                                                                protected Dara site.
                                                             ·  PRA not convinced of appropriateness of measures, and
                                                                show little enthusiasm for their implementation. In addition,
                                                                continued pressures from local community and other
                                                                stakeholders are imposing difficulties on achieving total
                                                                protection objectives.
                                                             ·  Current PRA development control practices unsatisfactory,
                                                                and contravenes Local Government Law. Continued weak
                                                                PRA practice could threaten MS sustainability of protection
                                                                measures.
                     1.5.1  (vii) Petra      Substantially   Rating: MS
                           Region detailed   achieved        ·  Key protection measures put in place in 01/02, and
                           land-use plans,                      implementation mechanisms developed.
                           including                         ·  GIS support provided, and capacity became operational in
                           environmental                        2003. Mapping on-going, but PRA need to upgrade
                           protection                           equipment.
                           requirements,
                           completed by
                           December
                           31,1997




                                                          - 20 -

Narrative Summary           Projected in PAD            Actual/
                                                         Latest                                Comment
OUTPUTS/ Indicators                                    Estimate
2. Wadi Rum                                                          Rating: MS
2.1Improved          2.1.1 infrastructure             Achieved       Rating: MS
   infrastructure to       development projects                      · New entrance road (4.4km) and a new gate. However,
   support                 implemented by the end                      road of dubious value and not often used by visitors.
   environmentally         of the project                            · Roads, water supply (including new reservoir and
   sustainable                                                         network), and property walls in Rum village successfully
   tourism                                                             upgraded. New Rum police station constructed.
   development                                                       · Construction of a new visitors' center and external works
                                                                       completed after much delay. VC impressive but not very
                                                                       efficiently laid out.
2.2(a) Improved      Overall                          Partially      Rating: S
   environmental                                      achieved
   conservation      2.2.1 detailed regulations and   Substantially  Rating: S
   and tourism             land-use plans for         achieved       · ARA approved the regulations in 1999.
   management              environmental protection                  · ASEZA, the successor to ARA, endorsed the regulations
                           and conservation                            in Jan. '01. Initial ARA managerial response was slow,
                           including land-use plans                    but since the transformation of ARA into ASEZA there
                           for Rum village, approved                   has been considerable improvement.
                           by ARA Board and                          · RSCN played a very positive role throughout, and
                           enforceable by June                         continues to provide advice and assistance to WRA.
                           30,1998
                     2.2.2 Wadi Rum environmental     Substantially  Rating: S
                           conservation management    achieved       · RSCN completed study of environmental conservation
                           and tourism management                      management on Jan 03. Public awareness, outreach and
                           plans implemented by                        training programs were also prepared and implemented to
                           June 30,1999                                serve local community and staff
                                                                     · Fees were doubled, and all fees allocated to Rum
                                                                       management and preservation.
2.2(b) Increased     2.2.3 Wadi Rum                   Partially      Rating: S
   institutional           Administration operating   achieved       · Wadi Rum project implementation unit PIU established in
   capacity of the         by March 31,1998                            July `98.
   Wadi Rum                (organizational structure                 · Administration Unit (WRA) not established until July `01,
   Administration          and staffing completed)                     staffing was completed (23 members) end `01. Financial
   (WRA)                                                               & operational procedures of WRA completed by mid
                                                                       2001.
                                                                     · RSCN managed operations and follow up prior to WRA.
                     2.2.4 all Wadi Rum component     Substantially  Rating: S
                           projects, including        achieved       · RSCN contracted by ASEZA to create and operate
                           environmental                               visitor's and conservation management plans in 7/98. The
                           conservation and income                     first set of conservation management regulations was
                           generation activities,                      prepared by mid `99. Environmental conservation and
                           launched by December                        visitor's management plans now in place.
                           31,1998                                   · Design of village infrastructure and VC was launched in
                                                                       `98.
                                                                     · VC construction was awarded by Oct. '00. Village
                                                                       infrastructure upgrading contracted in Jan `01.
                                                                       Construction awarding procedures and its arrangements
                                                                       took more than anticipated, but all works now complete.
                                                                     · Income generation: By mid `99 the Handicraft center was
                                                                       opened and operated by RSCN with a limited production
                                                                       line. Six women are currently employed through the
                                                                       handicraft center and two in the crafts shop.
                     2.2.5 Wadi Rum                   Partially      Rating: MS
                           Administration             achieved       ·   WRA was not established until `01. Quarterly reports
                           preparation of annual                         were being prepared since 99 by RSCN as an operating
                           report on Wadi Rum                            party. WRA have prepared two annual reports since its
                           tourism development and                       establishment.
                           environmental
                           conservation, involving
                           all local stakeholders,
                           beginning in 1999




                                                               - 21 -

                                                       Actual/
  Narrative Summary           Projected in PAD          Latest                           Comment
                                                      Estimate
OUTPUTS/ Indicators
2.3(a) Increased       2.3.1 regular issuance of     Not achieved  Rating: U
   efficiency of Rum          RTC accounts based                   · Accounts not issued as planned.
   Tourism                    on restructured                      · Administration and financial structure and
   Cooperative                accounting beginning                    operation of RTC were reviewed in 12/1998, but
                              fiscal year 1999.                       recommendations never put into action because
                                                                      RTC refused to accept.
2.3(b) Increased                                                   Rating: S
   tourism­related     2.3.2 recruitment of target   Partially     Rating: S
   income generation          population for         achieved      · Training and recruitment of Women.
   opportunities for          Women's Handicraft                   · Construction of a handicraft center& equipment
   women in Wadi              Center                                  and supplies purchase
   Rum area                                                        · Eight women are currently employed through the
                                                                      handicraft center. A new building is being
                                                                      constructed & provided to the project.
                       2.3.3 development of          Achieved      Rating: S
                              product line by June                 · Recognized product line developed between 1999
                              1999                                    and 2001.
3. Karak and Jerash Tourism Development Pilot Program              Rating: S
3.1Action plan for     Overall                       Substantially Rating: S
   tourism development                               achieved
   in Karak and Jerash 3.1.1 Tourism development     Substantially Rating: S
                           plans including projects  achieved      · Karak study launched in Dec.1999 and completed
                           preliminary design                         by Sept. 2001.
                           completed by March                      · Jarash study launched by June 2000 and completed
                           31,1999                                    by March 2004. Study duration expanded due to
                                                                      changing requirements.
                                                                   · Studies results beneficial in framing TORs of
                                                                      additional studies undertaken (under STDP) at
                                                                      Madaba and Ajloun, in preparation for proposed
                                                                      follow-on Third Tourism Project.
3.2Karak and Jerash    3.2.1 priority projects       Substantially Rating: S
   priority projects         implemented by the end  achieved      · Karak: Castle plaza upgrading & rehabilitation of
   (pilot program)           of the project                           vernacular buildings completed Sep 05.
                                                                   · Jerash: Upgrading of the urban space around the
                                                                      Roman Baths, rehab of the old Souq and the
                                                                      vernacular quarter completed Sep 05. A new bus
                                                                      terminal with a commercial complex was
                                                                      constructed outside the old city core to ease traffic.
                                                                      In general, the achievement here was less than that
                                                                      at Karak.
                                                                   · Delays were encountered in completing the
                                                                      projects due mainly to weak contractor
                                                                      performance and to some required design changes.




                                                           - 22 -

                                               Actual/
  Narrative Summary        Projected in PAD    Latest                               Comment
                                               Estimate
OUTPUTS/ Indicators
4. Tourism Sector Development                            Rating: MS
4.1Long-term tourism    4.1.1 tourism sector  Partially  Rating: MS
   strategy and               development     achieved   ·  Sector strategy only partially completed by MOTA in early
   accompanying               strategy                      01. Required investment program not prepared, and
   institutional              including                     regulatory reform and restructuring program not developed.
   restructuring and          institutional              ·  Despite lack of achievement of target, MOTA did undertake
   regulatory reform          regulatory                    a number of reform initiatives under the project: to amend
   programs                   reform                        the tourism and antiquities laws to allow for greater private
                              programs,                     sector participation and to recognize the importance of
                              completed by                  natural and urban landscapes and significant elements of the
                              March31,1999,                 more recently built environment; to consolidate and
                              approved by                   strengthen its project formulation and project management
                              September                     capacity by creating a Technical Development Department
                              30,1999, and                  (TDD); to introduce e-government in its professions
                              implemented by                department, significantly simplifying licensing and
                              the end of the                supervision services to the industry.
                              project                    ·  More over, MOTA acted: to improve its data collection and
                                                            analysis capability (with the help of the EU); to begin to
                                                            address the issue of improved site management (with
                                                            assistance from the EU); and in response to the tourism
                                                            downturn after 2000, to begin to react to explore non-
                                                            traditional tourism markets in Poland and elsewhere, and to
                                                            recognizing the value and importance of regional tourism.
                                                         ·  The above indicates the build up of substantial "strategic
                                                            capability" at MOTA during, and partly due to the project.
5. Additional components
5.1         Madaba      na                               Rating: S
   Study                                                 · Madaba urban regeneration study was launched in
                                                            November 2002, and completed by Aug.2003.
5.2         Ajloun      na                               Rating: MU
   Study                                                 · Ajloun urban growth control master plan was launched by
                                                            mid Dec. 2003; Ajloun study was initiated as part of the
                                                            development of Jarash region.
                                                         · Study not comprehensive enough.




                                                        - 23 -

Annex 1-B: Amendments to Legal Agreements

Feb 2, 98    Provision for force account procurement procedures with respect to the environmental component
             (tree planting), allowing the Ministry of Agriculture to implement this component.

May 25, 00   Inclusion in the project description of (1) Petra Component: Improvement of visitor facilities and
             management of the Petra sanctuary, Shobak Castle, and Little Petra; (2) Wadi Rum Component:
             a) Construction of a new handicraft center; (b) Planning of new village to accommodate in
             creases in the population of the existing village; (3) Karak/Jerash Component: Carrying out of
             feasibility studies for integrated tourism and urban development in Jerash, Karak and Madaba;
             (4) Sector Development Component: increase in the amount allocated.

April 4, 04  Reallocation of $0.6m to the Wadi Rum Component to help fund completion costs.




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 1-C: Tourism Statistics Source: Department of Statistics, MOTA.

                                                          Table 1 Jordan, Overnight Visitors (`000)

                                  Country/Receipts               1998           1999         2000         2001        2002    2003    2004
US                                                                     87         91           91           52           53      64      80
European                                                              209       233          223          138         116     133     151
Asia and the Pacific                                                   90        88           73           55          70      74     113
Israel                                                                 87        93          100          138         120     121     131
Other                                                                  11        10            9            9          11      10        9
Arab Countries/excluding Jordanian                                    719       690          580          703         861     868     786
Gulf Countries                                                        286        258          164          208         324     351     467
                                                                     1490      1463         1240        1304        1554    1621    1737

                                                 Table 2 Petra Park, Visitors (`000) and Gate Receipts (JDm)
Country/Receipts                                                   1998         1999         2000        2001         2002    2003    2004
Visitors
US                                                                     52        69           51           22          11      12      20
Europe                                                                189       197          268         113           69      76     163
Israel                                                                  9        28           18            1           0       0       1
Other Overseas*                                                        33        70           79           43          16       9      17
Arab                                                                    8         7           13            6           6       2      10
Jordan                                                                 57        59           52           47          57      61     100
Total                                                                 347       430          481         231          159     161     310
Gate Receipts( JD m)                                                  6.0       7.6          8.8          3.7         1.1     1.1     2.4

                                                   Figure 1: Jordan, Overnight Visitors ('000)

                           10 0 0

                            9 0 0

                            8 0 0


    ('000)                  700

                            6 0 0

                            500
          Visitors
                            4 0 0

                            3 0 0


                  Overnight 2 0 0

                            10 0

                               0
                                    19 9 8        19 9 9     2 0 0 0     2 0 0 1      2 0 0 2      2 0 0 3      2 0 0 4


                                  US                                               European

                                  Asia and the Pacific                             Israel

                                  Other                                            Arab Countries/excluding Jordanian

                                  Gulf Countries




                                                                                - 25 -

                                     Figure 2: Jordan, Non-Arab Overnight Visitors ('000)


250



200


150



100


                      50



                      0
                           1998      1999         2000          2001          2002           2003        2004




                         US      European               Asia and the Pacific                Israel         Other




                                        Figure 3: Petra Archaeological Park, Visitors ('000)



                      600

                      500
('000)                                                                                          US
                      400
                                                                                                Europe

      Visitors        300                                                                       Israel
              of      200                                                                       Other Overseas*

                      100                                                                       Arab

                Number                                                                          Jordan
                        0
                                                                                                Total
                           1998  1998    2000      2001     2002     2003      2004

                                             Calendar Year




                                                             - 26 -

Annex 1-D.                     Disbursement


                                                    Jordan Tourism 2 Disbursement

                    35.0

                    30.0

                    25.0

                    20.0
  (US$m)

                    15.0

        Disbursement10.0

                    5.0

                    0.0
                         Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1

                           1998      1999        2000          2001         2002     2003         2004       2005    2006

                                                                   FinancialYear


                                                   PlannedDisb.(US4m)                 ActualDisb(US$m)




                                                                   - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 Appraisal        Actual/Latest             Percentage of
                                                                                 Estimate             Estimate                Appraisal
                                Component                                      US$ million          US$ million
1. Petra Region Infrastructure Development and                                      22.00                  24.00                    109.1
Environmental Management
2. Wadi Rum Development and Environmental                                             7.40                 10.10                    136.5
Conservation
3. Karak and Jerash Tourism Development Pilot Program                                 5.00                    7.50                     150
4. Sector Development Support                                                         1.80                    0.80                   44.4

Total Baseline Cost                                                                 36.20                  42.40
  Physical Contingencies                                                              4.80
  Price Contingencies                                                                 3.00
                                    Total Project Costs                             44.00                  42.40
                          Total Financing Required                                  44.00                  42.40
To the end of Septmber 2005.

                          Table 2a.1: Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)*\

                                                              Appraisal  Appraisal     Actual /  Actual/        Original     Actual /
                                                                        Estimate (Total         Appraisal      Appraisal
                       Project Component                      Estimate                  Latest                               Latest
                                                                (Total)      incl                   (incl     Estimate (incl
                                                                        Contingencies) EstimateContingencies) Contingencies) Estimate

                                                               (USS m)     (US$m)      (US$ m)      (%)       (% of Total) (% of Total)
1. Petra Region Infrastructure Development and Environmental Management
1.1 Road rehabilitation/improvement works                        10.5       13.0        12.9       99%            30%         30%
1.2 Urban infrastructure development                             7.2         9.0         8.2       91%            20%         19%
1.3 Site enhancement and visitor mangt at the Petra sanctuary    2.0         2.5         1.2       48%             6%          3%
1.4 Environmental Management                                     1.3         1.6         1.2       75%             4%          3%
1.5 Petra Region Planning Council (PRC) capacity dev.            1.0         1.3         0.5       40%             3%          1%
                     Subtotal Component 1                        22.0       27.4        24.0       88%            62%         57%
2 Wadi Rum Development and Environmental Conservation
2.1 Wadi Rum infrastructure development                          5.6         7.1         7.2      101%            16%         17%
2.2 Wadi Rum protected area management and tourism mngt          1.5         1.7         2.2      129%             4%          5%
2.3 Wadi Rum income generating activities support                0.3         0.4         0.7      175%             1%          2%
                     Subtotal Component 2                        7.4         9.2        10.1      110%            21%         24%
3 Karak and Jerash Tourism Development Pilot Program
3.1 Feasibility studies                                          1.0         1.2         0.9       75%             3%          2%
3.2 Karak and Jerash priority tourism development projects       4.0         4.0         6.6      165%             9%         16%
                     Subtotal Component 3                        5.0         5.2         7.5      144%            12%         18%
4 Sector Development Support
4.1 Technical assistance including training to MOTA              1.0         1.3         0.7       51%             3%          2%
4.2 Equipment for MOTA (computers and vehicles)                  0.2         0.2         0.1       60%            0.5%        0.3%
4.3 Technical assistance to the Project Management Unit          0.6         0.7                                   2%
                     Subtotal Component 4                        1.8         2.2         0.8       35%             5%          2%
Total Baseline Cost (October 1996)                               36.2       44.0        42.4       96%           100%         100%
Physical Contingencies                                           4.8
Price Contingencies                                              3.0
Total Project Cost                                               44.0       44.0        42.4       96%           100%         100%
* To end September 2005.




                                                                 - 28 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB                 2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                       12.10          22.50          0.00            0.00         34.60
                               (7.90)        (14.70)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (22.60)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.00           1.70            0.00         1.70
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.70)           (0.00)      (1.70)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00           7.70            0.00         7.70
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (7.70)           (0.00)      (7.70)
4. Unallocated                  0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00         0.00
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00         0.00
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00         0.00
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                       12.10          22.50          9.40            0.00         44.00
                               (7.90)        (14.70)        (9.40)           (0.00)      (32.00)




                                           - 29 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 12.20             22.10              0.00             0.00             34.30
                                           (7.90)            (14.40)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (22.30)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              1.40             0.00              1.40
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.20)            (0.00)           (1.20)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              6.70             0.00              6.70
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.20)            (0.00)           (6.20)
   4. Unallocated                           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                12.20             22.10              8.10             0.00             42.40
                                           (7.90)            (14.40)            (7.40)            (0.00)           (29.70)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Petra Region                19.10         8.30                    16.30         7.70                  85.3      92.8
Infrastructure
Development
2. Wadi Rum Development         6.90         2.30                     7.30         2.80                  105.8    121.7
and Environmental
Conservation
3. Karak and Jerash             3.80         1.40                     5.30         2.20                  139.5    157.1
Tourism Development Pilot
Program
4. Sector Development           2.20         0.00                     0.70         0.10                  31.8      0.0
Support

   To the end of June 2005.




                                                           - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1. With the exception of the road rehabilitation component, cost-benefit analysis (CBA) was not
appropriate for this Project. This was because there is no realistic way to predict the increase in the
number of tourists visiting Jordan as a result of the Project, and hence the benefit of tourism to the
economy. At the same time, it was just as difficult at appraisal to estimate the decrease in tourism (over
the medium term) if the Project was not implemented. For those reasons, the benefits could not be
quantified monetarily and, except for the Road Rehabilitation sub-component, a cost effectiveness
methodology was used in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the economic analysis.

2. The Project's actual investments are shown in Table 1 of the main text, and in Annex 2. The biggest
component, approximately 30 percent (about US$12.9 million of actual cost) was for improvements made
to existing access roads to Petra. This sub-component was subject to CBA and the Project's end-results
are described starting at paragraph 4 below.

3. The Project's remaining 70 percent of investments (about 29.5 million of actual cost) were subject to
cost effectiveness methodology for the Project's economic analysis. During the Project: (a) there were no
new components added during implementation; and (b) actual costs turned out to be very close to those
estimated at Appraisal. Therefore, the cost benefit analysis presented in the PAD for these investments
remains valid at Project end.

4. As shown in Annex 2, actual costs for the Road Rehabilitation sub-component were very close to
appraisal estimates and, therefore, the Project end ERRs were almost the same as estimated at appraisal.
Results for the Road Rehabilitation sub-component at Project appraisal and closing are summarized in
Table 3 below.

Table 1. Road Rehabilitation Sub-Component: Summary of Economic Analysis

                          Road Section                                         ERR At Appraisal                    ERR At Project End
Unaizah-ShobakWadi Musa                                                               16%                                 15.60%
Wadi Musa Um Seyhun Little Petra                                                      17%                                 14.64%


5. For the road rehabilitation subcomponents, benefits were estimated for improved road conditions that
lower vehicle operating costs, decreased maintenance costs and benefits resulting from improved road
safety. As mentioned in the PAD, reduced vehicle operating costs, time savings for passengers and savings
in road maintenance following rehabilitation are important benefits. From a tourism viewpoint, long term
safety improvements after road rehabilitation may be even more valuable. As was the case at Appraisal,
benefits from improved road safety were estimated at US$15,000 per million vehicle kilometers.                                        1




6. Tables 2 and 3 present the "with" and "without" project scenarios for the two roads based on the World
Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-III).

1
    Based on a total cost of accidents in Jordan of about 2 percent of GNP for about 4.5 billion vehicle kilometers traveled per year.




                                                                       - 31 -

       Table 1 Economic Evaluation of the rehabilitation of the Unaizah ­ Shobak Wadi Musa Road


                                                Without Project             With Project

                    Year                 Economic Economic Economic Economic Economic EconomicEconomic Net
                                          Agency Total User    Total  Agency Total User Total   Benefits
                                           Costs    Costs      Costs  Costs   Costs     Costs
                   1998                    2.21     4.64       6.85   0.00     4.64     4.64     2.21
                   1999                    0.06     4.83       4.90   0.76     4.83     5.60    -0.70
                   2000                    0.06     5.04       5.10   1.36     5.00     6.36    -1.26
                   2001                    0.06     5.25       5.31   1.19     5.03     6.21    -0.90
                   2002                    0.06     5.47       5.53   1.95     5.34     7.30    -1.77
                   2003                    0.06     5.69       5.75   3.22     5.53     8.75    -3.00
                   2004                    0.06     5.98       6.04   0.04     5.32     5.35     0.69
                   2005                    0.06     6.28       6.35   0.04     5.68     5.72     0.63
                   2006                    0.06     6.60       6.66   0.04     5.81     5.84     0.82
                   2007                    0.06     6.93       6.99   0.04     6.07     6.11     0.88
                   2008                    0.06     7.27       7.33   0.04     6.34     6.38     0.95
                   2009                    0.06     7.64       7.70   0.04     6.63     6.67     1.04
                   2010                    0.06     8.03       8.09   0.04     6.94     6.97     1.12
                   2011                    0.06     8.46       8.52   0.04     7.26     7.30     1.22
                   2012                    2.21     8.93      11.14   0.04     7.60     7.64     3.50
                   2013                    0.06     7.87       7.93   0.04     7.96     7.99    -0.06
                   2014                    0.06     8.25       8.31   0.04     8.33     8.36    -0.05
                   2015                    0.06     8.65       8.71   0.04     8.73     8.77    -0.06
                   2016                    0.06     9.07       9.13   0.04     9.17     9.21    -0.08
                   2017                    0.06     9.51       9.57   -1.66    9.63     7.98     1.60
Total (undiscounted)                        5.54   140.38    145.93   7.31    131.84    139.15   6.78
Total (@ 12% discount Rate)                 2.78    45.66      48.43  5.02    43.03     48.05    0.39
        Road Rehabilitation Project Net Present Value @ 12% discount Rate (US$ million):         0.39
                                  Road Rehabilitation Project Internal Rate of Return (%):      15.6%




                                                 - 32 -

   Table 2: Economic Evaluation of the rehabilitation of the Wadi Musa Um Seyhun ­ Little Petra Road



                                                 Without Project             With Project

                    Year                  Economic Economic Economic Economic Economic EconomicEconomic Net
                                           Agency Total User    Total  Agency Total User Total   Benefits
                                            Costs    Costs      Costs  Costs   Costs     Costs
                   2003                     0.136   0.702      0.838   0.180   0.702     0.882   -0.044
                   2004                     0.003   0.668      0.671   0.539   0.725     1.264   -0.593
                   2005                     0.003   0.691      0.694   0.120   0.750     0.870   -0.176
                   2006                     0.003   0.723      0.726   0.003   0.611     0.614   0.112
                   2007                     0.003   0.756      0.759   0.003   0.639     0.642   0.117
                   2008                     0.003   0.790      0.793   0.003   0.669     0.672   0.121
                   2009                     0.003   0.826      0.829   0.003   0.698     0.701   0.128
                   2010                     0.003   0.864      0.867   0.003   0.730     0.733   0.134
                   2011                     0.003   0.903      0.906   0.003   0.762     0.765   0.141
                   2012                     0.003   0.944      0.947   0.003   0.797     0.800   0.147
                   2013                     0.003   0.988      0.991   0.003   0.833     0.836   0.155
                   2014                     0.003   1.035      1.038   0.003   0.870     0.873   0.165
                   2015                     0.003   1.085      1.088   0.003   0.910     0.913   0.175
                   2016                     0.003   1.137      1.140   0.003   0.951     0.954   0.186
                   2017                     0.136   1.193      1.329   0.003   0.994     0.997   0.332
                   2018                     0.003   1.224      1.227   0.003   1.040     1.043   0.184
                   2019                     0.003   1.279      1.282   0.003   1.086     1.089   0.193
                   2020                     0.003   1.337      1.340   0.003   1.138     1.141   0.199
                   2021                     0.003   1.397      1.400   0.003   1.205     1.208   0.192
                   2022                     0.003   1.460      1.463  -0.127   1.297     1.170   0.293
Total (undiscounted)                        0.326   20.002 20.328      0.760  17.407 18.167      2.161
Total (@ 12% discount Rate)                 0.165   6.414      6.580   0.678   5.768     6.446   0.134
         Road Rehabilitation Project Net Present Value @ 12% discount Rate (US$ million):        0.134
                                   Road Rehabilitation Project Internal Rate of Return (%): 14.64%




                                                  - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/7/1994                 6    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1) FINANCIAL
                                             OFFICER (1)
                                             TOURISM MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
                                             ENGINEER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/24/1996                7    MISSION LEADER (1)
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                             (2)
                                             SR. ENVIRONMENT. (3)
                                              URBAN SPECIALIST (1)
              4/8/1997                  1    SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              10/08/1997                1    SR. MUNICIPAL                    S               S
                                             ENGINEER - TTL
              12/03/1997                5    SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER -         S               S
                                             TTL (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); FMS AND AUDITING
                                             SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
                                             PLANNER (1)
              04/22/1998                1    SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER -         S               S
                                             TTL (1)
              11/20/1998                5    SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER -         S               S
                                             TTL (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); SR. SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1); URBAN
                                             PLANNER (1)
              06/02/1999                2    SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER -         S               S
                                             TTL (1); URBAN PLANNER (1)
              12/23/1999                5    SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER           S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SR. SOCIAL SCIENTIST
                                             (1); URBAN PLANNER (1)
              06/30/2000                5    SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER-          S               S
                                             TTL (1); FINANCIAL



                                              - 34 -

                      ANALYST (1); TOURISM
                      DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); URBAN PLANNER (1);
                      URBAN DEVELOPMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1)
      12/27/2000    3 SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER       S    S
                      TTL (1); URBAN PLANNER
                      (1); LEAD URBAN
                      SPECIALIST (1)
      06/28/2001    2 SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER -     S    S
                      TTL (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST
                      (1)
      12/27/2001    2 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER - TTL     S    S
                      (1); URBAN PLANNER (1)
      05/23/2002    1 SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER -     S    S
                      TTL (1)
      11/27/2002    3 SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER -     S    S
                      TTL (1); URBAN SPECIALIST
                      (1); URBAN PLANNER (1)
      04/17/2003    1 SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER -     S    S
                      TTL (1)
      10/31/2003    4 SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER       S    S
                      TTL (1); URBAN SPECIALIST
                      (1); URBAN PLANNER (1);
                      ENVIRONM. ENGINEER (1)
      04/30/2004    4 LEAD MUNICIPAL               S    S
                      ENGINEER - TTL (1); URBAN
                      MGT SPEC. (CONS) (1);
                      OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
      09/14/2004    4 LEAD MUNICIPAL               S    S
                      ENGINEER - TTL (1); URBAN
                      MGT SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                      OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL
                      ANALYST (1)
      02/20/2005    5 LEAD MUNICIPAL               S    S
                      ENGINEER - TTL (1)
                      URBAN MANAGEMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1)
                      URBAN PLANNER (1)
                      SOCIAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1)
                      FINANC. MGT SPECIALIST
                      (1)

ICR
      09/25/2005    4 LEAD MUNICIPAL               S    S
                      ENGINEER - TTL (1)
                      URBAN MANAGEMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1)
                      URBAN PLANNER (1)
                      SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1)




                      - 35 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                574
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     250
  Supervision                                                               606
  ICR                                                                        50
  Total                                                                   1,480


Include Trust Funds $ 172,000 for project preparation.




                                                 - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Jordan, Second Tourism Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report, July 11, 1997.

2. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Jordan, Report No. 14999-JO, World Bank,1995.

3. Petra National Park Management Plan, UNESCO (1994-95).

4. Jordan Sustainable Development/Sites Report, USAID 1996.

5. Jordan National Tourism Strategy and Policy, Japan International Coop0ration Agency, February
   1996.

6. Jordan, National Tourism Strategy 2004-2010, A Sustainable Development Approach, Revised Value
   Chain Process--March 18, 2004 (prepared for MOTA by USAID-supported consultants).

7. Jordan, Second Tourism Project, Evaluation Study of the Petra Region and Wadi Rum Infrastructure
   Development and Environmental Management Components, Sigma Consulting Engineers, Final
   Report, August 2005.

8. Various STDP Aide-Memoirs and Project Status Reports.




                                                - 39 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

A beneficiary survey and workshop were conducted as part of this Intensive Learning ICR. A survey team
recruited by a local consultant firm, Sigma Consulting Engineers, conducted a beneficiary survey under the
supervision of a Jordanian sociologist in July-August 2005 in Wadi Musa and Wadi Rum; the findings
were verified, reanalyzed and supplemented by additional field visits by MOTA staff and World Bank
missions. The stakeholder workshop was held in Amman on September 25, 2005.

Survey and population characteristics

In all, 262 direct beneficiaries were interviewed (150 in Wadi Musa, 112 in Wadi Rum) on their awareness
of the project, and the extent to they considered it had brought benefits to themselves, or more generally to
the area. No social baseline had been conducted at project inception. Therefore, and given the uniqueness
of the two sites, the only method available to measure project impact was recall. Stratified random
sampling was used for residents to ensure representativity by residence, gender and employment, with
attention paid to inclusion of categories of residents engaged in different aspects of the tourism industry.

The social characteristics of the sample are shown in Table 1. The sample reflected the high dependence of
the population on the tourism industry. In Wadi Musa, it was estimated from interviews that about half the
families derived significant income from some aspect of tourism, through the related employment of at least
one family member. Unemployed males other than students may have been underrepresented. In Wadi
Rum, there was a higher rate of unemployment and a higher dependence on tourism for employment than in
the Petra Region.

In addition, 175 tourists were interviewed in both sites. Although tourists were not considered, direct
beneficiaries, tourist satisfaction, whether local or international, is the primary long-term channel through
which the stream of economic benefits reaches the local population. Tourist satisfaction is measured both
by direct responses, but also by stated preferences on the extent to which they thought their visit was not
long enough, they would like to return, they would recommend the trip to friends and relatives, and they
would be willing to spend more, for example by diversifying their activities.             The national origins
correspond well with those in the annual official figures. The social characteristics of the tourist sample
(Table 2) provide indicative support to informal observations: that Petra tourists are predominantly
sightseers from Europe, with more males than females, and a minority coming for educational or adventure
motives. Three-quarters of them come on international tour packages and a quarter independently. Three
quarters are middle aged, and almost all are first-time visitors. Rum tourists show some differences from
those to Petra, with a wider range of national origins, a larger proportion coming on national packages or
independently, a more diverse age profile with a higher proportion of youth and seniors, slightly more
repeat visits, and a greater emphasis on adventure and a lower emphasis on education.

Since the vast majority of tourists are first time visitors, and no tourist baseline survey was undertaken at
project inception, the survey asked tourists for their reactions in relation to their expectations and degree of
satisfaction with different aspects of their trip.

Historical trends in tourist arrivals have an important bearing on the project outcomes and on beneficiary
perceptions. As the main report indicates, external events caused a sharp slump in regional tourism
accompanied the project, with no signs of recovery until the project approached closure. The trend, the
impact by nationality and the corresponding drop in tourist revenues is shown in Annex 1-D. Given the
dependence of Wadi Musa residents on tourist income, this was a heavy blow. By contrast, Wadi Rum
with its more diverse tourism profile, appears to have been less impacted by these events, and between
1998 and the first three quarters of 2005, officially-counted tourist arrivals increased from 41,000 to over
50,000.




                                                     - 40 -

Beneficiary awareness of and satisfaction with the project

Beneficiaries were asked the extent to which they were aware of the project, and the extent to which they
felt it had brought benefits to themselves and to the wider community or region. The overall results are
shown in Table 3. Awareness of the project was quite high, with almost three-quarters of Wadi Musa
respondents and almost two-thirds of Wadi Rum area respondents claiming to be highly aware of the
project, and only a small minority claiming ignorance. The more nuanced findings on impact require
interpretation in the light of observations and qualitative interviews.

Incomes and employment in Petra/Wadi Musa

The assessment of project impact on family quality of life in the Petra Region was generally positive.
Almost three-quarters of the respondents felt that they or their families had directly benefited; almost a
quarter reported no impact, and only 5 percent evaluated the project negatively. However, opinion was less
favorable on the project impact on the economy of the Petra Region (52 percent positive) and on Petra
tourism (21 percent positive): over a quarter of respondents evaluated the regional impact of the project
negatively. These lower evaluations are easily interpreted as the result of the decline in tourism, amplified
by the importance of tourism industry to the Petra region's local economy.

The differences between the evaluations on quality of life, local economy and the local tourism industry in
Petra region are highlighted when positive opinions are disaggregated by occupation (Chart 1, Table 4).
Those with the most favorable impression of the direct impact of the project on their or their families'
quality of life are in two categories. Some such as park guides, horse owners for PAP trips, directly
benefited from the project interventions. Half the guides interviewed had taken up that employment in the
last five years, a few in the last few months. The improved surfaces and spatial organization benefited the
horse owners, through increased and more regulated access to tourism and greater uptake. More favorable
views were also shared by those at the higher end of the educational or economic spectrum (students,
government and private sector employees), probably because of the improvements to the city. Those
feeling less beneficial impact are those at the poorer end of the spectrum, being most dependent on tourist
custom (low-end handcraft vendors, taxi drivers). There was anecdotal support However, the project also
contributed, although not intentionally so, through provision of public works employment to family
members hardest hit by the collapse in tourism (guides, vendors, taxi drivers), a finding confirmed by
personal interviews with beneficiaries. On both these topics, the range of favorable opinion was wide, from
40 percent up to 100 percent. By contrast, opinions of the impact on tourism were concentrated at the
lower end (0 to 40 percent favorable) for reasons explained above.

Incomes and employment in Wadi Rum

The survey findings for Wadi Rum area (Table 5) were significantly more negative. Only one third of the
beneficiary respondents reported that positive benefits as individuals or families, and almost half replied
that the project had a negative impact on the region's economy. These results are not to be taken at full
face value, but require re-interpretation in the light of additional evidence and context. A subsequent brief
investigation by a project social scientist to verify these results found that there is strong evidence that the
project has brought substantial financial returns to both communities:

1. The main source of revenue for Wadi Rum area local residents is still trips by jeep, shared primarily
    between Rum and Disi cooperatives on an allocation of routes determined by the protected area
    management. The significant increase in visitors 1998-2005, (41,000 to 50,000) has caused the
    number of registered jeep trips to increase significantly (Chart 2a). There is also a large unregulated
    volume of trips. The revenue per jeep has also increased significantly both in the high and low seasons
    (Chart 2b), although the benefits are partly offset by higher costs.




                                                     - 41 -

2. The benefits of this increase in Wadi Rum tourism activity are more widely shared than before. The
     membership in the two tourism cooperatives, Rum and Disi, has increased significantly since 1998
     from a total of 800 to 1,400, with a substantial share of the growth going to the Disi community (Chart
     3a). Minority tribes have also gained a small share (about 4 per cent) of visitors.

3. The numbers of tourist camps, employees in tourism, trained guides, camel riders, protected area
     management staff and vehicles servicing the tourist industry have all increased significantly in the later
     years of the project (Chart 3b), and as a direct result of project interventions. Great care has been
     taken by project management to ensure ethnic fairness in the award of employment opportunities.

Beneficiary satisfaction at Wadi Rum

The beneficiary survey response that the project has brought negative economic impact to Wadi Rum,
therefore, is not well founded in fact, but derives mainly from local stakeholder politics.             The low
community evaluation reflects a position taken by local communities and particularly certain locally
influential community leaders, whose antagonistic interests have not yet been reconciled by the project, and
who have yet to accept the protected area and sustainable tourism trade-off.        The informal opinion about
the project held by younger people, who tend to be more environmentally aware, with more social links
across communities, and more likely to have benefited from employment opportunities, is more positive and
optimistic.

Nevertheless, the survey and other observations showed some grounds for a nuanced response to project
benefits: some residents held that walling the village did not conform to local customs and is claimed to
have reduced cooling night breezes; some saw village street lighting as invasive of family privacy (it has
been modified accordingly); the large numbers of unregulated tourists paying no entry fees represents lost
income opportunities for local communities and needs attention; the location of the visitor's center,
unpopular with Rum residents, resulted in additional fuel costs for jeep owners but was compensated by an
increase in allocation of gate revenues to the Rum community. Perhaps these were minority views, but
clearly at the time of ICR, work was still required by the protected area management to ensure
sustainability of project achievements by gaining the confidence and support of the local communities and
demonstrating publicly and convincingly the local economic benefits of a sustainable tourism industry.

Tourist satisfaction with the project

Tourists were asked for their opinion on the importance and the quality of various facilities and services,
using a four point scale to encourage value choices. For Petra Region, questions covered the Petra
Archaeological Park, Wadi Musa Town, and road communications, For Wadi Rum, questions covered the
protected desert area, Rum village, and road communications. In each case, tourists were also asked for
their evaluation of the length of stay, their willingness to return, their willingness to recommend the trip to
friends or relatives, and recommendations for improvements, their local expenditures.

The key findings are represented graphically in charts 4 - 7. Chart 4 presents the tourist appreciation of
Petra Archaeological Park, in descending order of priority: (i) appearance and presentation; (ii) Guides;
(iii) official helpfulness; (iv) trails and signage; (v)   restaurants: food and facilities; (vi) Visitor Center.
Tourists were predominantly satisfied with their visit, and levels of satisfaction broadly corresponded with
their priorities. However, there were discrepancies evident between tourist priorities and levels of
satisfaction. General appearance and presentation is ranked top in importance, with about 85 percent
satisfaction and 15 percent dissatisfaction. Guides, officials and staff also got generally good marks.
However trails and signage, fourth in priority, did not do so well, with only a little over 60 percent being
satisfied and around 30 percent not satisfied. A similarly less favorable result was obtained for restaurants,
food and facilities. The existing Visitor Center received mostly favorable ratings, but it is not an item that
rates high on visitor priorities.



                                                      - 42 -

Tourist satisfaction with Wadi Musa town (Chart 5) is less marked, but the town attractions are generally
rated much lower in tourist priorities than the Park itself, which is the main attraction. Tourist priorities
were : (i) friendliness and helpfulness of the population; (ii) general presentation: appearance, greenery and
cleanliness    (iii) roads, sidewalks and street lighting; (iv) restaurants and facilities; (v) non five-star
accommodation; (vi) cultural activities; five star accommodation; (vii) shops and markets. No item had
more than 60 percent approval; five items received less than 40 percent approval, and five items were rated
poor or unsatisfactory by at least 20 percent of the visitors: these were general appearance, non-five star
accommodation, cultural activities, shops and markets and, somewhat surprisingly, roads, sidewalks and
lighting.

In Wadi Rum, protected area, three of the top four tourist priorities of friendliness of local population,
general appearance of the site, and restaurants were relatively well rated, with approvals of over 50
percent, and poor or unsatisfactory ratings by less than 20 percent. Items receiving relatively poor ratings
were accommodation, cultural activities, and shops and markets. The village itself, which did not rank high
on tourist priorities in any case, was not particularly well rated on any aspect, with only friendliness,
general appearance and roads receiving clear approval by more than 40 percent of the visitors and once
again shops, restaurants and cultural activities receiving a significant (20 percent) number of low ratings
(Chart 7).

Roads

The local beneficiary roads survey did not produce usable results owing to technical flaws in execution.
Fortunately, the findings of the tourist survey distinguished asked tourists to rate access from the desert
highway (part of the project); access from Aqaba (not funded by the project) and scenic and regional roads
(partially funded by the project). The results (Chart 8) show a clearly higher degree of satisfaction (67 to
90 per cent) with the main road funded by the Bank, with a lower degree of satisfaction for scenic roads
(58-72%). The relatively higher level of satisfaction by Rum tourists may result from lower expectations
for a remote desert trip.

Recommendations

Three simple recommendations arise from the beneficiary survey:

1. Beneficiaries have not yet seen significant economic advantage from the tourism industry as a result of
    this project. While this was beyond project control, increased benefits will not necessarily flow to local
    communities as tourist numbers rise, and responsible authorities (PRA and ASEZA) will need to act to
    ensure benefits and good communications, for sustainability of impact

2. The tourist survey points to areas where relatively light supplementary investments, suited to local
    initiatives, indicate potential for increasing tourist satisfaction; these include working with the local
    population to create a more welcoming environment, and better cultural and shopping facilities;

3. Continued and improved institutional management of community is necessary in both sites, in order to
    continue the start made by continued attention to site management and to reduction of the threats that
    remain to the integrity of the sites.




                                                     - 43 -

                        List of Tables                                                 List of Charts

1. Sample Characteristics ­ Jordanians                      1.    Tourist Arrivals at Petra, 1997 ­ 2004 by Origin

2. Sample Characteristics ­Tourists                         2.    Tourism Revenues: Petra Site Receipts.

3. Residents' Awareness and Assessment of Project Impacts   3.    Petra Region: Project's Positive Impacts, by Occupation

4. Positive Impacts on Petra Region, by Occupation          4.(a) Wadi Rum Jeep trips 2003- 2005;

5. Positive and Negative Impacts on Wadi Rum region         4 (b) Revenue per jeep, 1998 and 2005

6. Tourist Summary Responses.                               5.    Employment and services growth:

                                                            5(a)  Wadi Rum Area Cooperatives Membership 1998-2005

                                                            5 (b) Wadi Rum PA Tourism Services and Employment

                                                            6.    Tourist Satisfaction in Petra Park, by Subject

                                                            7.    Tourist satisfaction in Petra Region/Wadi Musa, by Subject

                                                            8.    Tourist Satisfaction in Wadi Rum PA, by Subject

                                                            9.    Tourist Satisfaction in Rum Village, by Subject

                                                            10.   Tourist Satisfaction with Roads

                                                            10 (a) Tourists to Petra Region

                                                            10 (b) Tourists to Wadi Rum region




                                                          - 44 -

                                                                  Table 1: Sample Characteristics - Jordanians

      Region                               Sex                                                           Age                                                                                                                          Educational Level                                                                                                                                                                          Residence

                                                                    20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            un

      Petra                                                                        29-                                39-                        49-                        50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Musa
                           Total       Male
                                                    Female                            20                                 30                         40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Seyh
                                                                      Under                                                                                                   Over                  None
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Primary                                                                                                                                                                                        Taybeh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Elementary                                                            Secondary                 Diploma                                  University                               Wadi                      Um
Petra Region (no.) 150                88           62             28             54                      29                             26                           13                            19                 6                                    26                              68                               9                               22                         110                                       27                  13
       (%)          100               59           41             19             36                      19                             17                           9                             13                 4                                    17                              45                               6                               15                          73                                       18                   9

    Wadi Rum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Rum                     Disi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shariya         Other

Wadi Rum (no.)      112               66           46              9             35                      37                             17                           14                            25                 19                                   26                              32                               4                               6                           50                                       31                  29                             2
       (%)          100               59           41              8             31                      33                             15                           13                            22                 17                                   23                              29                               4                               5                           45                                       28                  26                             2




                                                                                                                                  Table 1 [cont'd]
                                       Region                                                                                                                                               Employment category

                                                                                                           /                                          pvt
                                  Petra Region
                                                                                              Total         Shop                  hotel                                           Gov't                 Taxi           Guide                               Horse               owner
                                                                                                                                                         Other                                                                                                                              Vendor                      Male
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              student emaleF                   student
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Housewife
                           Petra Region (no.)                                    150 88                                                  62                          28                            54                 29                                   26                              13                          19                             6                                26
                                           (%)                                   100 59                                                  41                          19                            36                 19                                   17                              9                           13                             4                                17

                                      Wadi Rum
                                                                                                   Total                                    Other             Pvt                      Gov't                None
                                                                                                                           Tourism
                                Wadi Rum (no.)                                   112 66                                                  46                          9                             35
                                           (%)                                   100 59                                                  41                          8                             31



                                                                                                        Table 2: Sample Characteristics ­ Tourists
                                      Sex                          Age                                                                   Residence                                                                                                         Mode                                                                                                      Motive                                                                         Repeater

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                           30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               re
       Region                                                              60-          60

                      Total       Male       Female          nderU            30
                                                                                          Over                  uropeE                   USA                     NAEM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 time

                                                                                                                                                                      Region                 Jordan              Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ternationalnI Package            ationalN     Package                                                                                                                                                   Other                           epeatR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          First
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Independent             Sightseeing                Adventu                   Education                      Incidental

      Petra (no.)  106 65                  41       24             75            7                       86                            2                      0                             2       16                 74                                  6                               26                          78                            17                               17                             4                              104 2
          %        100 61                  39       23             71            7                       81                            2                      0                             2       15                 70                                  6                               25                          74                            16                               16                             4                              98                      2

   Wadi Rum (no.) 69            35         34       22             39            8                       34                            10                     6                             3       17                 40                                  14                              12                          49                            18                               2                              5                              61                      6
          %        100 51                  49       32             57            12                      49                            14                     9                             4       25                 58                                  20                              17                          71                            26                               3                              7                              88                      9
                 Source: Sigma Survey




                                                                                                                                                              - 45 -

                 Table 3: Residents' Awareness and Assessment of Project Impacts
                                   Awareness of project                                        Impact on families' quality of life                                                                                  Impact on region

       Region                      y

                           Total    ghliH                                       Not                                   ctap                                                                                                                   y
                                              aware          Aware                       aware               ositiveP                        No
                                                                                                                          im                    impact                         Negative            sitiveoP      on                                     no
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Regional     Econom        Positive          Tourism      veitageN
Petra Region (no.)        150     108                 33                        9                   108                                      35                        7                                           88                                  35                46
        (%)               100      72                 22                        6                            72                              23                        5                                           52                                  21                27
 Wadi Rum (no.)*          112      70                 38                        4                            37                              39                        35                                          33                                  24                52
        (%)               100      63                 34                        4                            33                              35                        32                                          30                                  22                48



                         Table 4: Positive Impacts on Petra Region, by Occupation

          Petra Region
                                         Total                                                                                     and                         es                      es                                                                                 Taxi
                                                       Female     Students         Guides       Male
                                                                                                     Students               Stores     hotels                     Gov't                                                     Horse
                                                                                                                                                      Housewiv          Employe            Private         Sector                      owners             Vendors                     Drivers
  Positive impact on family
      quality of life (%)          72                100                      100              90                                 80           76                      72                  64                               60                         53                40

 Positive impact on regional
         economy (%)               52                 73                       80             100                                 65           53                      41                  58                               60                         47                40

Positive impact on tourism (%)     21                 27                       20              0                                  30           19                      30                  19                               30                         13                40



                     Table 5: Positive and Negative Impacts on Wadi Rum region
                                                     Opinions of Residents
     Wadi Rum Region                                                                                                                                                                     No                                            Percent
     Positive impacts
     Family quality of life                                                                                                                                                            37                                                     33
     Local economy                                                                                                                                                                     24                                                     21
     Tourism                                                                                                                                                                           33                                                     30
     Role of ASEZA overall                                                                                                                                                             91                                                     81
     Negative impacts
     Family quality of life                                                                                                                                                            35                                                     33
     Local economy                                                                                                                                                                     52                                                     42
     Building restrictions                                                                                                                                                             69                                                     62
     Location of Visitor Center                                                                                                                                                        12                                                     10
     Walling of houses                                                                                                                                                                 15                                                     12
     Incomes of jeep owners, guides, horse and came owners (total 22)                                                                                                                  17                                                     77



                                                   Table 6: Tourist Summary Responses
                  Region                                                                                                              Intentions
                                                                          Visit was too                              Would like to                                     Would recommend to
                                   Total                                      short                                               revisit                                                 others
                Petra (no.)        106                                         31                                                     72                                                          96
                    %              100                                       29%                                                   68%                                                     92%
            Wadi Rum (no.)         74                                          31                                                     34                                                          34
                    %              100                                       42%                                                   46%                                                     46%




                                                                                   - 46 -

  Chart 1: Tourist Arrivals at Petra, 1997 ­ 2004                                               Chart 2: Tourism Revenues: Petra Site Receipts
                                    by Origin
                                                                                                10000000                                           AnnualSite
                                                           Jordan
            500000                                                                                                                         Receipts1997-2004(JD)
                                                           Europe

            450000                                         OtherOverseas                         7500000
                                                           NorthAmerica
            400000                                         Arab

            350000                                         Israel                                5000000
            300000

            250000

   housandst200000                                                                               2500000
            150000

            100000                                                                                     0
            50000                                                                                      1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
               0
                1997   1998  1999   2000    2001 2002    2003        2004
                                       year


                Source: World Bank, data from MOTA Statistics Department                               Source: World Bank, data from MOTA Statistics Department


                         Chart 3: Petra Region: Project's Positive Impacts, by Occupation (percent)



 Positive for Quality of Life                                    Positive for Regional Economy                            Positive for Tourism

                                 Female students                                               Male students                              Taxi drivers

                                 Guides                                                    Guides                                       Stores and hotels

                               Male students                                             Female students                                Horse owners

                              Stores and hotels                                       Stores and hotels                                 Govt employees

                            Housewives                                               Horse owners                                      Female students
                            Govt employees                                          Private sector employees                         Guides

                           Private sector employees                               Housewives                                        Housewives
                           Horse owners                                          Vendors                                            Private sector employees
                        Vendors                                                  Govt employees                                    Vendors
                      Taxi drivers                                              Taxi drivers                                     Male students

                            ALL                                                   ALL                                                ALL

 0 20 40 60 80 100                                                0     20 40  60  80   100                                0   20  40    60   80  100




Percentage of beneficiary category                            Percentage of beneficiary category                        Percentage of beneficiary category




                                                                             - 47 -

               Chart 4: (a) Wadi Rum Jeep trips 2003- 2005;                                                                4 (b) Revenue per jeep, 1998 and 2005


trips         3000                                                                                                                jeep                 1500
     of
              2500                                                                                                                    per


              2000
       Number                                                                                                                                          1000
                                                                                          Other                                          income
              1500                                                                        Diseh                                                                                  Low
                                                                                          Rum                                                  gross                             Peak
              1000                                                                                                                                  JD 500
               500

                 0
                                              2003    2004 (1-8)  2004 (9-  2005 (1-5)                                                                    0
                                                                  12)                                                                                          1998     2005



                                                     Source: MOTA, from ASEZA Rum PA Management data


                                                                 Chart 5: Employment and services growth:
                                                        (a) Wadi Rum Area Cooperatives Membership 1998 ­ 2005
                                                            (b) Wadi Rum PA Tourism Services and Employment



                                           1000

                                                                                                                         500


                 members

                                                                      Rum                      members
                                            500                       Diseh                                                                                                          1998
                        cooperative
                                   of                                                                                                                                                2005
                                                                                                      cooperative
                                                                                                                 of
                                     Number
                                             0                                                                            0
                                                                                                                   Number
                                                  1998     2005                                                               Camps                      Vehicles  Camel    PA
                                                                                                                                                                   riders   man
                                                                                                                                                                            age
                                                                                                                                                                            ment




                                                                                      - 48 -

                                                              Chart 6: Tourist Satisfaction in Petra Park, by Subject
                                                                                       (percent satisfied/dissatisfied)




                                               General appearance,
                                               presentation

                                                                Guides

                                              Staff, officials friendly,
                                              helpful

                        importance                    Trails, signage
                                  by
                                           Restaurants, food, facil-
                                    Item   ities

                                                        Visitor centre

                                            Other facility or service

                                                                          -40%         -20%          0%      20%    40%   60%   80%  100%

                                                                  Percent satisfied (right)/dissatisfied (left)




Seven items of park management are ranked by tourist priority with the highest at the top. The left side show those
satisfied or better on a four-point scale, and right those dissatisfied. With non-responses excluded, the longer the
line, the stronger the opinions, while a right shift shows greater satisfaction.

                                                   Chart 7: Tourist Satisfaction in Petra Region/Wadi Musa, by Subject
                                                                                     (percent satisfied/dissatisfied)




                                          Local people friendly,
                                          helpful
                                          General presentation
                                             Roads, sidewalks,
                                             lights
                                              Restaurants, food

        importance                        Accommodation, be-
                  by                      low 5 star

                    Item                       Cultural activities
                                            Accommodation 5*
                                            hotel
                                                Shops, markets

                                                   Other facility

                                                                   -40%            -20%              0%         20%    40%     60%

                                                             Percent satisfied (right)/dissatisfied (left)




                                                                                                           - 49 -

                                                   Chart 8: Tourist Satisfaction in Wadi Rum PA, by Subject (percent satisfied/dissatisfied)




                                                                      Guides

                                                        Gen. Presentation

                                                     Staff, officials friend-
                                                     ly, helpful
                   importance                               Trails, signage
                             by

                               Item                    Restaurants, food,
                                                       facilities

                                                              Visitor center

                                                      Other facility or
                                                      services

                                                                                  -40%         -20%          0%             20%  40%   60%   80%  100%

                                                                          Percent satisfied (right)/dissatisfied (left)




                                                    Chart 9: Tourist Satisfaction in Rum Village, by Subject (percent satisfied/dissatisfied)




                                                          Local people helpful
                                                         General appearance,
                                                         clean, green
                                                         Restaurants, facilities

                                                     Roads, sidewalks, lighting
   importance
             by                                               Cultural activities
               Item
                                                               Shops, markets

                                                         Accommodation other

                                                                 Other facility


                                                                                  -40%               -20%                  0%      20%     40%     60%

                                                                               Percent satisfied (right)/dissatisfied (left)



Chart 10: Tourist Satisfaction with Roads (a) Tourists to Petra Region (b) Tourists to Wadi Rum region


                                                                           Tourists to Petra                                                                   Tourists to Wadi Rum


                                                                    Road from Desert
                                                                    H'way


                                                                    Road from Aqaba
                                   importance
                                             by                   Scenic and regional

                                               Item               roads


                                                                                                -20%          0%            20% 40% 60%    80% 100%    -20% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%

                                                                Percent satisfied (right)/dissatisfied (left)                                               Percent satisfied (right)/dissatisfied (left)




                                                                                                                               - 50 -

- 51 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

The Intensive Learning ICR requires that during its preparation, a beneficiary survey and workshop be
conducted. This requirement was fulfilled through a one day ICR stakeholder workshop held in Amman
on September 25, 2005, followed by a late lunch for participants. About 50 participants attended (see list
attached). Present at the workshop were key officials, including the Minister of Tourism and Antiquities;
the Secretaries-General of MOTA and Planning; the Assistant Secretary-general of MoPWH; the
Directors-General of       ASEZA, PRA and the Department of Antiquities; the Director of Petra
Archaeological Park; the head of Karak Development Corporation; representatives of the local beneficiary
communities: the tour guides association of Petra; and the heads of the Rum and Disii tourism
cooperatives; representatives of NGOs in the fields of environmental conservation and cultural heritage
preservation; the project director (Assistant Secretary-General of MOTA);                 project staff and
representatives of the World Bank who had worked on the project and the ICR report.

The first workshop session set the scene, including introductions, expectations, a review of project activities
and achievements, and a video presentation to present the end-of-project status. The second and longest
session addressed project achievements and challenges site by site: Wadi Rum, Petra, and the cities of
Jerwas taken up with stakeholder responses and discussion from the Jordanian side. This lively session
included prepared and spontaneous interventions from all major stakeholder groups, including community
beneficiaries, and a question and answer session. A third short session comprised three presentations from
the World Bank covering, respectively, the overall evaluation of the project achievements, the social and
institutional aspects, including the findings of the consultant beneficiary assessment [see Annex 8], and the
key lessons learned, followed by a discussion. The summary draws on a 7-page report of workshop
proceedings and the individual presentations.

Conclusions

The workshop provided a forum and opportunity for exchange of views between different stakeholder
groups not customarily brought together, and for dialog between Jordanian stakeholders and the Bank on a
range of issues and lessons learned. Certain broad conclusions emerged, some by consensus and some
deriving from a productive exchange of different viewpoints.

The workshop focused on outputs, accepting that this was an ambitious project that covered four very
different sites and planned outputs that included infrastructural development, regulation, institutional
development and capacity-building, together with local economic development that included tangible
employment and income gains for local beneficiaries. The overall view from the Jordanian side, including
that of the beneficiary communities, was that the project was greatly appreciated, that it was well focused
and addressed relevant development needs, and that there was a clear wish for a follow on project that
would incorporate improvements and lessons learned from this Second Tourism project. The Bank agreed,
adding emphasis on the need to ensure sustainability through focus on operation and maintenance (O&M),
maintaining focus on continued institutional management capacity building for effective regulation, and
developing greater coherence of vision among stakeholders through demonstrated benefits.

The infrastructural work had been mostly completed, although significant delays in contracting had been
encountered. The quality of work was generally satisfactorily with the exception of some specific technical
issues on specific sections that pointed to some deficiencies in design. The central problem, however, was
how to ensure maintenance, without which the investment would be prejudiced. The Wadi Rum visitor
center had been completed and was in use as a tourist gate and center for protected area monitoring and



                                                     - 52 -

management.       However, the choice of location outside Rum village was still not accepted by all,
particularly the local tour operators of Rum village. In Wadi Musa, the renovation of Elgee had been
completed, but final design and agreement on the Visitor Center plan had come too late for works to be
undertaken. In Karak, the plaza infrastructure had been a successful initiative.

The extent to which benefits had begun to flow to beneficiaries, and the extent of consultation and
participation brought some diversity of assessment. Beneficiary representatives from all communities felt
that consultation should have been much greater. While consultation had taken place during project
preparation, this input suggested: a) that the intensity or effectiveness of consultation had not been
sufficiently maintained during implementation, particularly where the local community had not understood
or agreed with certain features of project actions or design; b) that there had been insufficient local
awareness and consensus on benefits accruing to the communities. This conclusion was reinforced by a
presentation of the findings of the beneficiary assessment [Annex 8] which indicated that the outcomes to
beneficiaries, including tourism-derived incomes and employment, were somewhat greater than
beneficiaries represented. Several participants pointed out that infrastructure would not secure long term
results unless it brought a change in mentalities, attitudes and behavior, which would take time and effort.
In this case, the lesson learned was that consultation had to be maintained throughout the project and indeed
beyond its life in order to ensure sustainability, with periodic opportunities during implementation to review
and fine tune project components without opening the door to constant challenges to its basic design
decisions. At the same time, it was important for managing institutions to maintain consistency of purpose;
the contrary example was cited in the case of Karak, where just at the time when initial local opposition to
pedestrianization of the area in front of the castle was being overcome, the decision to exclude private
vehicles was reversed.

The most substantive issues were raised on the institutional side in relation to project sustainability. The
National Park Service component had been implemented, but the continuing institutional and financial
weakness of the service was emphasized, including its inability effectively to regulate behaviors in the
protected area. Several participants spoke to continuing lack of clarity about the roles and responsibilities
of different institutions, including PRA and even ASEZA, and the role of the ministry itself, suggesting that
greater initial specificity of the nature and type of institutional development was needed. However, when
PRA complained about an institutional vacuum, it was pointed out that it was precisely that vacuum that it
had been created to fill. The conclusion drawn here was that both in the Petra and the Wadi Rum, there
was a continuing need to strengthen the institutions and for the institutions to gain the confidence and trust
of the public, an acceptance of their role, and a clear and enduring commitment to the integrity of the
concept of sustainable tourism development, through the implementation of regulations, and effective
protection of the natural and cultural heritage of the place. To do this effectively, there had to be a
concerted attempt to enhance and maintain the flow of economic benefits to local communities and key
stakeholders.

It was agreed that the key lessons learned would be fully taken on board in the preparation of the upcoming
successor project.




                                                      - 53 -

                                           Stakeholder Workshop
                                       Amman - September 25, 2005
                                            List of Participants

Name                 Organization
 Dr. Alia Bouran     Minister of Tourism and Antiquities
 Farouq Hadidi       MOTA Secretary General
 Mohamed Feghoul     WB, Task Manger
 Dr. Kamel Mahadin   Ex. PRA Director General, Ex. Minister of Water
 Abdallah Abu Ulaim Petra Region Authority (PRA), Director General
 Fawas Alkhraisheh   Department of Antiquities (DoA), Director General
 Shhadeh Abu Hdaib   Ex. PRA Director General, Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDC),
                     Director General
 Ihab Amarin         MOTA, Assistant Secretary General, STDP Project Manager.
 Ramez S. Habash     JTP Jordan Tourism Project
 Fares Hmoud         Department of Antiquities
 Malcolm Duff        EC/MoTA
 Aysar Akrawi        Petra National Trust (PNT)
 Abdelmajid Kabariti Ministry of Public Works and Housing
 Sa'ad Rawajfeh      Petra Region Authority (PRA)
 Saber Al-Jawazneh   Karak Development Corporation (KDC)
 Mahmoud Bdour       Aqaba Special Economic Zone Authority (ASEZA)
 Ahamad Jabri        Aqaba Special Economic Zone Authority (ASEZA)
 Diala Khana         Jordan Tourism Project (JTP)
 Caroline Haddad     Jordan Tourism Project (JTP)
 Nisreen Abdelhadi
 Shatha Kreaishan    Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MoPIC)
 Yousef Batshoun     Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MoPIC)
 Katia Massey        WB
 Rosanna Nitti       WB
 Kingsley Robotham   WB
 Keith Rennie        WB
 Akram Massarweh    MHS, Ex. MoTA Secretary General
 Eric Johnson        USAID
 Issam Balbisi       Consolidated Consultants (CC)Engineering Office
 Fawaz Hasanat       Petra Hotels
 Ahed Shamaseen
 Sulaiman A. Rewihe
 Suleiman Farajat    Petra Archaeological Park (PAP) Director
 Abdallah Hlalat     PRA
 Saleh F. Saleh
 Marah Khayyat       MoTA
 Ghada A. Said       MoTA
 Abeer Al-Saheb      MoTA
 Krayyem Al-Hashem MoTA
 Reem Bani Hani      MoTA
 Nemer Bitar         Bitar Consultants
 Bashar A. Bitar     Bitar Consultants
 RaeD Aldabbas



                                                   - 54 -

Mohammad Ayesh    Jordan Hotels Association
Hilal Zwebh
Bouran Kamal      Ministry of Municipal Affairs (MoMA)
Mohammad          MoTA
Abdelkader
Omar Al-Fanek     JTB
Kamal Jalouqa     SIGMA
Ms. Reem Al-Fayez MoTA
Reham Fakhouri    Al Rai News Paper
Mervat Ha'obsh    MoTA
Nisreen Najjar    MoTA
Walid Ghawi       MID Contracting
Mohammad          Rum Tourism Cooperative
al-Zalabia
Mazen Talhouni    MoTA
Nisreen Karyouti  MoTA
Hesham Abaddi     MoTA
Husam Hamdouni
Husam Maharmeh    MoTA
Jamal Shafaqouj   MoTA
Jeries Mdanat     Restaurants Association
Sameeh Akel       Restaurants Association
Omar al-Hayek     MoTA
Omar Basioni      MoTA
Yaser Najjar      MoTA




                                                 - 55 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Comments




                                      - 56 -

- 57 -

- 58 -

Additional Annex 11. Borrower Implementation Completion Report

                                     The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

                                The Second Tourism Development Project

                                  Implementation Completion Report, ICR
                                    Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
                                                 September 2005



                                        [Abridged Document]



          List of Abbreviations

          AMIR          Achievement of Market Friendly initiatives and results
          ARA           Aqaba Regional Authority
          CAS           Country Assistant Strategy
          DOA           Department of Antiquities
          GDP           Gross Domestic Product
          GOJ           Government of Jordan
          KPIKey Performance Indicator
          MOTA          Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
          PAP           Petra Archeological Park
          PRA           Petra regional Authority
          PRC           Petra Regional Council
          PMU           Project Management Unit
          RSCN          Royal Society for Conservation of nature
          RTC           Rum Tourism Corporation
          STDP          Second Tourism Development Project
          TDD           Technical Development Department
          TOR           Terms of Reference
          USAID         United States Agency for International Development
          WBWorld Bank
          WRA           Wadi Rum Authority

        Project Manager: Ihab Amarin, Assistant Secretary General
        Main authors:   Abeer Al Saheb
                        Ghada Al Said
       Planning Unit, Technical Development Department
       Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, Jordan




                                                      - 59 -

Executive Summary

The Second Tourism Project was initiated in June 1997 and completed by June 30th 2005. Its total
expenditure mounted to $42.4 millions. The Project implementing agency was the Ministry of Tourism and
Antiquities. It aimed at fostering sustainable and environmentally sounds tourism development in Petra,
Wadi Rum, Jerash and Karak destinations in Jordan, and tourism employment generation at projects sites.
The main components of the STDP entailed infrastructure development, sector and institutional reform,
institutional capacity building and, introduction of regulatory and environment protection regimes at
Petra/Wadi Musa and Wadi Rum..

The project fully and partially achieved a wide range of outputs. However, the three major achievements of
the project in terms of their impact on tourism in Jordan and contribution to the project objectives can be
summarized by:

   l Providing a well serviced accessibility network to Petra. Hence, achieving an important condition
         for enhancing tourism flows into the main tourism destination in Jordan. The evaluation results
         indicate an increase in the economic benefits of the intervention that presented itself in the
         reduction of traveling costs and time, and lowering of accidents risk along the main roads leading
         to Petra. The impacts also show in the new tourism potentials and tourism experiences created
         along the Taybeh ­scenic road, and the Um Seyhun-Little Petra road, in addition to the increased
         integration of the adjacent communities with the tourism activities in Wadi Musa.

   l The creation of a promising tourism management system in Wadi Rum that has the bases of
         environment protection, visitors services and management and employment generation.

   l Laying the bases of institutional, regulatory reforms within MOTA to assume more comprehensive
         tourism products development and management. This is represented in the creation and
         consolidation of expertise of the Technical Development Department in MOTA, the adoption of
         regional tourism development and the building on the STDP to prepare the Third Tourism
         Project on bases of public- private partnerships, hardware and software citywide interventions.

The STDP was more successful on the physical intervention side more than on the institutional, regulatory
and sector strategy development sides. Several factors contributed to this result, most important of which
are:

   l Tourism is still a growing sector in Jordan, tourism institutions and city management bodies were/
         are still, to a certain extent, premature to       respond fully to interventions such as strategies
         formulations, tourism promotion, and management of visitors services and protection of tourist
         environments. Local communities are also still unaware of tourism potentials of their destinations,
         which make them unwilling to give short term benefits that jeopardize tourism assets sustainability.
         Low capacity levels and lack of commitment and awareness were not fully addressed in the project
         to combat their negative impacts.

   l The availability of expertise needed to lead and achieve good levels of local governance over tourist
         destinations and their localities is very limited, hard to be acquired and maintained in remote cities
         far from major urban centers.

The sustainability of the project achievements requires attention and enhancement of the current
management structures that were established and/or supported under the project, namely Wadi Rum
Administration WRA, Petra Regional Authority PRA and Petra Archeological Park PAP. In the case of
Petra, national and central level are required to enable an efficient leadership to take place and to ensure
allocation of sufficient financial and human resources. In Rum, ASEZA is required to remain alert in
keeping and fostering the rather delicate achievements to secure sustainability and community buy-in of the


                                                      - 60 -

project outputs.

The STDP brought important lessons, the most important of which is the necessity of properly assessing
the local contexts in which interventions are being introduced. Social, administrative and political networks
and capacities need to be addressed well enough to allow proper communication between all the concerned
stakeholders.

This report in its following sections does not give full description of the project and its implementation, it
mainly points out aspects that are found of significance in shaping the project results. It is being supported
by some annexes to illustrate a general description and overview of the project. It also includes an annex
that covers the minutes of the ICR workshop that was held in Amman on September 25th 05. This
workshop is part of the production of a learning ICR, and intended to bring all the concerned stakeholders
and discuss the main lessons learned of the project.

Assessment of Development Objectives

The project's development objectives are to: (a) Create the conditions for an increase in sustainable and
environmentally sound tourism in Petra, Wadi Rum, Jerash and Karak; and (b) Realize tourism-related
employment and income-generation potential at project sites.

Considering the state of tourism in Jordan's economic context, both objectives are seen as clear and
justified. Tourism is crucial to Jordan's economy. It was ranked second in its               foreign currency
contribution to Jordan's GDP in 1995 mounting to (9.8) %, and ranking first in 2004 by a (11.6%)
contribution to the GDP. The objectives are consistent with the country assistance strategy CAS, with each
other and with Jordan's economic plans, which evolved during the project duration to target tourism as a
major activity to boost Jordan's economy. The state of tourism development in Jordan, which was and still,
in its initial phases, requires both; the development of basic infrastructure services around its main tourism
sites, and the creation of sustainable modes of development to protect and sustain the wealth of these sites,
which can be jeopardized if the random and insensitive development around these sites continues. The first
objective is clearly responding to these requirements, which aim at achieving well maintained and serviced
environments for attracting tourists at a continuously growing base. It also responds to the need of creating
the basic infrastructure needed to induce private sector investment and growth, thus achieving consistency
with CAS. The second objective stands by itself as an important objective and justifies the sizable
investment in tourism, taking into consideration that the targeted sites are located in areas where economic
activities are limited and employment opportunities are modest. This objective also can be looked at as a
direct goal of the first, in the sense that increasing sustainable tourism means increased demand on tourism
services.

The objectives were challenging for the following reasons:

    l Dealing with the conditions that comprise the tourism environment on a city level entails the
          involvement of many stakeholders (i.e. local authorities and communities, central government,
          service agencies and the private sector). To succeed, a system of city management that can engage
          the different actors to work together should be established. Such a system didn't exist before, and
          the common aspect among most of the stakeholders was the low capacity to handle such matters.
          Aside from MOTA, tourism was not deeply rooted or integrated in the work of any other public
          actor. Also, MOTA was not equipped enough to manage a city scale intervention, the capacity has
          to be established and Government support should be strong.

    l Creating the conditions of sustainable tourism in a locality and linking it with employment
          opportunities is difficult and hard to be measured due to the several forces that bring tourists and
          tourism activities to a locality. Many of these are beyond the limits of physical actions and the



                                                       - 61 -

         locality itself. They require understanding and response to the socio economic life of a locality,
         which sometimes can be hard to achieve within the scope of a time and intervention bound project.
         An exception to this, can be intervening in a location where the variables are limited and easier to
         be controlled. In this regard, Rum component was a good case, though it was not a common case
         that would achieve the employment generation objective in its totality.

Assessment of the Project Design and Implementation

Project Targeted locations

The selection of the targeted locations was successful in terms of diversity and balance. The relative size
of funds allocation versus tourism importance of the selected sites was also successful. Petra, which is the
most important tourist destination in Jordan, and in bad need for better services and management took the
biggest share of the focus. Wadi Rum, a prime location that forms a main pillar in the Jordan southern
tourism triangle (i.e. Petra, Aqaba and Rum) was severely under-utilized, and has significant lost
opportunities of economic benefits to its local communities and to Jordan as a whole. Karak and Jerash
represent supporting destinations to the main two chosen location. The choice of both cities contributes to
the geographic distribution of the project benefits .Jerash is located in the northern part of Jordan, close to
Amman and comes second in its tourism importance in terms of the no. of visitors to its Roman City.
Karak is located half way between Amman and the golden triangle with an asset represented in the
morphological structure of the old city and its castle that has promising potentials, if properly maintained.
In a later stage, Madaba and Ajloun were targeted due to their tourism importance in adding more diversity
to the Jordanian tourism product.

Nevertheless, the combination of the targeted sites may not be the ideal one if judged from tourism
development point of view merely, where other locations may have greater tourism potentials such as the
Dead Sea, the desert castles and salt. However, it can be argued that the project nature was directed
towards cities and localities of cultural significance that represent an opportunity for their local economic
development, which they wouldn't enjoy otherwise, considering their limited resources, and lack of other
economic activates within their reach..

Key Performance Indicators

Some of the adopted key performance indicators KPI's need revision. They do not enough justice to the
project impacts and achievements due to the following reasons:

    l The achievement of CAS objectives is measured by indicators that were impacted by the political
         instability in the region, which dramatically lessened the numbers of foreign tourist and foreign
         revenues from tourists between 2000 and 2004 (see annex 1), regardless of any impact the project
         might had on these indicators. In addition, it is difficult to link and isolate the project impacts,
         especially when related to infrastructure outputs directly to the numeric increase of economic
         revenues, where so many other factors inter into the equation. Alternate possible indicators may
         be:

              A set of indicators that measure the change in tourism laws and regulations that allow private
              sector growth, a qualitative measurement of the contribution of the project in shaping tourism
              development strategies in Jordan. Referring to annex (2) and to the above mentioned
              contribution of the STDP in the development of a longer sector strategy, positive contributions
              attributed to the STDP in achieving        CAS objectives can be an indication        of partial
              achievement of the objective.

              Measuring infrastructure impacts can be by comparing the percentage of change in tourists'
              numbers in Petra and Rum to the percentage of change in other tourist destinations in Jordan.



                                                     - 62 -

              Applying this indicator shows that 2004 tourist numbers in Petra, Rum, Karak ,Jerash Ajloun,
              and Madaba comprised 89%, 92%, 84%, 62%, 72%,62% of 1998 respectively. This indicates
              that Petra and Rum scored the highest, which can be considered an indicator that the project
              impacted tourism size in these locations versus other cities which weren't targeted.

The same can be said about the KPI's related to measuring the achievement of project objectives through
the growth of tourism in Wadi Rum, which can be replaced by the second alternate mentioned above.

The realization of 100% increase in tourism related employment can be discounted to cater for the
decrease in tourism growth in Wadi Rum due to the political instability in the region. Tourism only
increased by (5%) at the end of 2004, while it increased by 63% in 2000 before the political crises of 2001.
Tourism employment increased in Rum by at least (25% All Figures of the increase in tourism employment
couldn't be consolidated totally, however 122 new jobs were formally registered in the Visitor's Center records, which forms
25% of the total employment in 1997 which equals 477 jobs.) from base year in 1997. Such an increase can be
considered a good increase when compared to the marginal increase in tourism, thus indicating a moderate
achievement of the second objective.

   l The set KPI's of many of the project outputs were linked to a proposed date of starting the activity.
         A note can be made here about the late start of many components, which means that the project
         anticipated a level of readiness for launching many activities that didn't exist. Inability to meet dead
         lines doesn't necessarily indicate a failure or partial achievement of the output. Nevertheless, many
         of the outputs, other than infrastructure components, and Wadi Rum management plan and its
         operation,     had their studies launched later than anticipated and their implementation was not
         achieved fully or partially such as; tourism promotion activities of PRA,                         RTC accounts
         restructuring and reporting,        longer term tourism strategy, PRA operating procedures, PAP site
         and visitor's management plans. A conclusion can be made that these indicators were not enough
         to measure the final achievement of outputs. An alternate or additional result oriented set of
         indicators were needed.

Performance by the Bank

Bank lending

The Bank procedures were cleared to both PMU procurement and financial officers. The bank quick and
smooth response in approving certain contracts along with its variation orders due to their set guidelines
made it easier for the procurement officer to communicate with their needs. Few projects were needed to be
included under the STDP due to local communities requests. It was felt that long procedures were adopted
in verifying the reasons and objectives of such added projects.

The financing procedures followed were smooth and consistent. Initially when the STDP started, a private
company was hired to set a financial accounting system at the PMU. Annual auditing was conducted by
MOTA through an independent third party, which reports to MOTA and WB. During the STDP period the
WB arranged for one auditing through it directly.

Bank Supervision:

Throughout the project duration, the Bank team continuously engaged in managing and following up the
project. This is clearly seen from the aid-memoirs that painstakingly traced the project progress and
responded with actions to solve any obstacles or hinders when appeared. An example to this is the bank
reaction to the decision made about the construction of the university in the Dara Area in Wadi Musa (see
annex 2). The team kept a steady base of project monitoring in terms of risks and performance rating. For
example, the team identified the high rate of risks arising from the lack of Government support to PRA to
enforce regulation and environment protection since 2000 onward. The team also realized the



                                                         - 63 -

unsatisfactory progress of Petra site enhancement and visitors services. These were two main components
that had continuously been pointed out by the bank as pressing issues that required further attention.

There were two supervision missions each year. Missions included in addition to the task manager, three to
four consultants or bank staff that posses the required expertise to follow-up on the different tasks, In
addition, the Bank team core was always available for phone and electronic communications with the PMU
staff on permanent bases for any consultation or advice that might be needed. All this formed an adequate
base for follow-up from the bank side.

The Bank team provided a lot of technical assistance to the PMU . The team prepared TORs and reviewed
studies and designs of the sub-components and provided comments on them. It also advised on decisions
that have to be taken to keep the project on its track. Such a matter created a special work relationship
between the WB team and the PMU that can be characterized by continuous interaction and joint
responsibility over work follow-up and joint ownership of the project. The offspring to this is the
proceeding with the preparation of the Third Tourism Project with the same PMU core under the
institutional setup of the TDD.

Borrower Performance

Preparation

From the early stages of the STDP, the borrower assigned a counter part team within MOTA to engage in
the project preparation. The preparations were continuous and allowed adequate room for information
sharing and collaboration. MOTA showed commitment at this stage by dedicating a sum of 570 000 $ of
its budget to support preparation activities. Due to lengthy arrangement of staff hiring, some delays were
encountered in building the PMU, which made some of the project activities dragging behind schedule.

Government Performance

During the project implementation, Government support increased rapidly to the development of the
tourism sector. During the late years of the project, Government economic policies were focusing on
tourism development. In its 2004-2006 economic development plan, tourism was one of the main pillars
that local economic development and poverty alleviation relied on. The launching of the National tourism
strategy in 2004 shows the readiness and support of Government towards tourism development.

The Government allocated its share of the project funding in a smooth manner, and responded to the
requests made concerning the project in terms of approving the amendments to the tourism law and the
new laws and bylaws that were initiated by the project.

Government also approved the hiring of the PMU staff outside the civil service system, which allowed
bringing selected expertise and skills to MOTA . In 2004 Government also approved the creation of the
TDD within MOTA as a department that is entrusted with tourism product development and management.

The one critical decision that was made by the Government is the approving of PRA to became an
independent entity from MOTA, which had negative consequences on the outcomes of Petra management
components due to the decreased possibilities of coordination and follow-up between MOTA and PRA.

Implementing Agency Performance

Throughout the project duration, MOTA provided political and administrative support to the project and
enough power and autonomy to the PMU to manage it. However, the capacity of the Ministry of Tourism
and Antiquities MOTA as an implementing agency of the project was not built up at the beginning of the
project. The project preparations had to move parallel with the establishing of the PMU, which made it a
reactive management more than a management with a planned operation schedule. This is coupled with the
lack of sufficient staffing, which made it difficult to have a management structure with distributed



                                                   - 64 -

responsibilities among its members. Although this situation created a sense of responsibility and enthusiasm
within the PMU to handle the project matters and produced a strong attachment to the project, it created a
pattern of management that is dependent more on personal attitude and capacity.

It is apparent that the Project management unit (PMU) has always been under-staffed, through the course
of the project. The technical staff members who were engaged in following and managing projects and
studies were not more than two, an architect and a civil engineers who was also at most of the project
duration managing projects procurements. In addition, a financial officer, a secretary and an administrative
officer were also part of the team. At a limited period, there was also an economist. The PMU head has
been, for most of the project duration, the Secretary General Assistance, which meant that a considerable
share of his time was dedicated to matters outside the project scope. In average, about six projects and
studies were requiring follow up yearly, in addition to the overall follow up of various components that lie
outside contracted works. Considering the very limited staff no., it was difficult to sufficiently follow up
projects and coordinate with different entities as well as providing comprehensive monitoring and progress
reporting.

The PMU was acting as a separate unit with it own resources and responsibilities within MOTA. Even
with the existence of the projects directorate, where some expertise could have been exchanged and
integrated, no real collaboration was taking place. On the other hand , the STDP benefited the Ministry in
terms of bringing new skills and expertise , new scope of work with more diverse and comprehensive
approach towards tourism development, and better provision of office and computer equipment , which all
raised the capacity of MOTA. The creation of the TDD can be considered the major outcome of such an
impact.

Lessons Learned

In situations where development sectors are building up, and external forces can impact greatly their
evolution, projects should have a mechanism to assess sub components, their achievement and key
performance indicators versus the performance of the sector to respond to trends and changed situations.
This should not be looked at from a crises management point of view, but as a planned process impeded in
the follow up system. Indeed, the tourism sector in Jordan falls under this category. During the STDP, the
sector grew dramatically in a way that changed the position of the STDP and its contribution to the sector.

Both, the tourism sector and city management are complex and multi disciplinary. Projects that target both
should understand how their hardware and software components intervene. Areas of intersection between
the two should be understood. Aspects of sites management, tourism promotion, assets protection and
private sector investment should be addressed from a tourism sector perspective as well as urban.

Strategy formulation and launching can't be achieved within a project scope as one of its subcomponents. It
requires a different path of preparation, political support gaining, commitment and partnerships that lie
within policies formulation levels and sectors development frameworks. Strategies should be up-front, and
projects can be designed to implement their action plans.

National level support and higher management streamlining are essential when dealing of matters of
national interest or assets not to create conflicts, power games, and government changing mind in terms of
authorities. Therefore all anticipated parties in decision making shall be contacted and kept informed with
the progress to eliminate any probable conflicts.

Regulatory components which entail loss of individual rights to common benefits should be designed in a
manner that ensures:

    l Achieving a balance between community needs and national interests. A system that combines
        compensation for loss of development rights and application of a strong control mechanism



                                                      - 65 -

        should be adopted. It should be based on understanding of local contexts and their social networks
        to avoid manipulation of the system.

   l Commitment and understanding of the relevant administrative bodies by providing sufficient
        incentives, justification, power and capacity to implement and control.

   l Realization of the objectives to be achieved by regulations, and making them clear to the relevant
        communities and administrative bodies. More efforts should be paid to articulate and demonstrate a
        desired images rather than coming up with sets of procedures that might be difficult to
        comprehend.

   l An initial level of capacity to implement and manage projects should exist within implementing
        bodies and agencies that is sufficient enough to set the bases, otherwise delays and weak
        performance will be hard to eliminate. If this can't be achieved, then the best forms of capacity
        building are those that ensure continuous interaction and follow-up, by adequate technical expertise
        especially in cases of newly established entities and remote ones. The key success factor is to
        establish a structure and work procedures that are safe guarded by key staff members and well
        chosen leadership.

Management structures should be designed realistically to ensure that they can be filled. Projects should
seek to provide organized qualified personnel who is fully acquainted and committed to the targets with the
"know how" to be appointed in the upper management levels and key positions. Provisions of attractive
remuneration packages should be part of the institutional design of the project. They should be compatible
with public hiring systems to ensure their approval.

Open discussions and continuous communication between all parties is a must. Actions formulated shall be
the result of these discussions to gain commitment. Consulting the local community at one point is very
essential to sense their willingness and reactions towards a certain project / set up within their time current
formation.

Consultation with the local community and keeping them aware of things progress is very essential

Adopting international standards and models is great in terms of providing the know how, and the solid
base of things however, everything should be tailored to meet the local special requirements and acceptance
over time

Environmental related projects requires coordination with all entities to prepare a comprehensive plan to
eliminate the foreseen problems as well as its related cost implications

Prequalification mechanism should be carefully designed, rated and followed prior to awarding contracts
either consultancy or construction to ensure competence and understanding.




                                                    - 66 -

- 67 -

