Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4214 JO
Loan Agreement
(Second Tourism Development Project)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 6, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4214 JO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 1997, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by Aqaba Region Authority (ARA) 
with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the ARA part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ARA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"ARA" means Aqaba Region Authority, a semi-autonomous governmental agency 
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 7 of 1987, as amended; 
(b)
“Dollars” and “$” mean United States Dollars;
(c)
“MOTA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities;
(d)
“MPWH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and Housing;
(e)
“PRC” means the Petra Region Planning Council of the Borrower, created by 
Council of Ministers Decree of March 28, 1995, pursuant to Law No. 79, 1966, as 
amended;
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and ARA of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(g)
"RSCN" means the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature, a 
non-governmental organization registered under the Borrower’s Ministry of Interior; 
(h)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(i)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ARA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; 
(j)
“Petra Region” means the area, defined by Council of Ministers  Decree of 
March 28, 1995; 
(k)
“Dara area” means the Wadi Musa area defined in PRC’s map dated June 26, 
1997 and submitted to the Bank; 
(l)
“Petra Region urban and protected areas” means the urban areas of the 
municipalities of Wadi Musa, Um Seyhun and Taybeh, the Dara area, the wadi valleys and 
terraces within Wadi Musa, and the protected areas along the Wadi Musa - Taybeh Scenic 
Road and the Wadi Musa - Um Seyhun - Little Petra Scenic Road; and
Page  3
(m)
“Wadi Rum Protected Area” means the area defined by the Council of 
Ministers decision of March 13, 1997. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
thirty-two million Dollars ($32,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two separate special deposit accounts (the MOTA Special Account for Parts A, C 
and D of the Project and the ARA Special Account for Part B of the Project) in its 
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum. 
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
Page  4
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on February 15 and 
August 15  in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out through MOTA, MPWH and PRC Parts A, C and D of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental, and eco-tourism practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and (ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan 
Agreement, shall cause ARA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of ARA therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARA to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A, C and D of the Project, and cause ARA to carry out Part B of the 
Project, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, under a 
subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ARA and on terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, transfer the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Categories 1(b), 2(b) and 3(b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to ARA as a grant. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the 
Project shall be carried out by ARA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
Page  5
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and  
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
ARA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ARA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  6
(c)
Law No. 7 of 1987 of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
ARA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARA or for the suspension of its 
operations. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and  (b)
the events specified in 
paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and ARA.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ARA 
and is legally binding upon ARA in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and ARA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ARA in accordance with 
its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 555
Amman
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address: 
Telex:
Ministry of Planning
21319 JO
Amman
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
Page  7
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Marwan Muasher 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of 
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works:
65%
(a) under Parts A,
   15,400,000
C and D of the
Project
(b) under Part B
    3,400,000
of the Project
(2)
Equipment and
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 90% of local
expenditures for 
other items pro-
cured locally
(a) under Parts A,
600,000
C and D of the 
Page  8
Project
(b) under Part B
800,000
of the Project
(3)
Consultants' and
100%
training services
(a) under Parts A,
    4,800,000
C and D of the
Project
(b) under Part B of
    1,400,000
the Project
(4)
Unallocated
    5,600,000
TOTAL
   32,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures”. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $250,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts not exceeding $1,000,000; (c) 
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000; and (d) individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower: (i) to create the 
conditions for an increase in sustainable and environmentally sound tourism in Petra, 
Wadi Rum, Jerash and Karak; and (ii) to realize tourism-related employment and income 
generation, at potential project sites.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A.
Petra 
1.
Rehabilitation and improvement of access roads to the Petra Region.   
2.
Rehabilitation of key urban roads, improvement of street lighting, and other 
infrastructure improvements in Wadi Musa, Taybeh and Um Seyhun. 
3.
Improvement of visitor facilities and management at the Petra sanctuary. 
4.
Environmental management and protection within the Petra Region, including 
watershed management, reforestation and wadi terraces regeneration; flood control 
protection; and solid waste management.  
Page  9
5.
Provision of support to strengthen the institutional capacity of the PRC for 
land-use planning, enforcement, zoning, and licensing; environmental management; 
tourism promotion; and project implementation. 
Part B.
Wadi Rum 
1.
Construction of a new entrance road, entrance gate, solid waste management 
improvements, visitor and administrative facilities.
2.
Improvements of infrastructure at the Wadi Rum Village. 
3.
Planning and development of a new village to accommodate increases in the 
population of the existing village. 
4.
Provision of support to strengthen the institutional capacity of ARA to design 
and implement an environmental management plan for the Wadi Rum Protected Area, 
including a protected area management plan. 
5.
Strengthening the Rum Tourism Cooperative and development of a Women’s 
Handicraft Center. 
Part C.
Jerash and Karak 
1.
Carrying out of feasibility studies for integrated tourism and urban development 
in Jerash and Karak.
2.
Implementation of identified priority projects in Jerash and Karak chosen on the 
basis of: (i) increasing the attractiveness of the respective city to international 
and domestic tourists; (ii) increasing tourism-related activities, facilities, and 
services in the respective city; (iii) improving urban infrastructure and/or services 
that benefit both tourists and the local community; and (iv) encouraging 
private-sector investment and participation in the tourism sector. 
Part D.
Sector Development
1.
Carrying out of the following studies: (i) a long term strategy for the tourism 
sector and identification of priority investments; (ii) a policy and regulatory 
framework of the tourism sector; and (iii) a restructuring plan for tourism sector 
public institutions in order to improve their effectiveness. 
2.
Provision of support to MOTA for project implementation and the collection and 
analysis of tourism-related statistics.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 2002
830,000 
August 15, 2002
855,000 
February 15, 2003
880,000 
August 15, 2003
905,000 
February 15, 2004
935,000 
August 15, 2004
960,000 
February 15, 2005
990,000 
August 15, 2005
     1,020,000 
February 15, 2006
     1,050,000 
August 15, 2006
     1,085,000 
February 15, 2007
     1,115,000 
August 15, 2007
     1,150,000 
Page  10
February 15, 2008
     1,185,000 
August 15, 2008
     1,220,000 
February 15, 2009
     1,255,000 
August 15, 2009
     1,295,000 
February 15, 2010
     1,330,000 
August 15, 2010
     1,370,000 
February 15, 2011
     1,415,000 
August 15, 2011
     1,455,000 
February 15, 2012
     1,500,000 
August 15, 2012
     1,545,000 
February 15, 2013
     1,590,000 
August 15, 2013
     1,640,000 
February 15, 2014
     1,685,000 
August 15, 2014
     1,740,000
_______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $22,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  11
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000  or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in March 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for detailed engineering and construction 
supervision, estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for protected area management and tourism management in the Wadi Rum 
protected area under Part B of the Project may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
Page  12
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
2.
Individual Consultants
Individual consultants can be employed on assignments for which (a) teams of 
personnel are not required, (b) no additional outside (home office) professional 
support is required, and (c) the experience and qualifications of the individual are 
the paramount requirement.  Contracts awarded to individual consultants shall be in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Unit with staffing, terms of 
reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, not later than October 31, 1997 the land use plan  
and building regulations for the Petra Region urban and protected areas, except those 
for the Dara area, acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1997, the special zoning 
and building regulations for the Dara area, acceptable to the Bank; and
(c)
thereafter issue building permits in the areas referred to in 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above only in compliance with the aforementioned 
regulations.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
complete the studies refered to in Part D.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement not later than March 31, 1999;
Page  13
(b)
exchange thereafter views with the Bank on the outcomes and findings of 
said studies; and
(c)
ensure that its Council of Ministers approves, not later than September 
30, 1999, a long-term tourism sector strategy, including institutional restructuring 
and regulatory  reform programs, satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than October 31, 1997, PRC’s 
detailed operating procedures satisfactory to the Bank, including PRC’s coordination 
arrangements with other relevant ministries and agencies, and municipalities in the 
Petra Region.
5.
The Borrower shall and shall cause ARA to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in the case of MOTA Special Account 
Categories 1 (a), 2 (a) and 3 (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and in the case of ARA Special Account Categories 1 (b), 2 (b) and 
3 (b) set forth in the said table;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of MOTA to $1,500,000 and in the case of ARA to 
$500,000, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation for
(i)
MOTA shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000 until 
the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated 
to Categories plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Parts A, C and D of the 
Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000; and
(ii)
ARA shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the 
aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to 
Categories plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
Page  14
General Conditions for Part B of the Project 
shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to that 
Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for that Special Account. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories  for 
that Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
Page  15
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
