Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4214 JO
Project Agreement
(Second Tourism Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AQABA REGION AUTHORITY
Dated August 6, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4214 JO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and AQABA REGION AUTHORITY (ARA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between The Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the 
Borrower an amount equal to thirty-two million Dollars ($32,000,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that ARA agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ARA, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be made available to ARA on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS ARA in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ARA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, and tourism practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and ARA shall otherwise agree, ARA shall carry out Part B of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
the Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ARA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ARA shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and ARA a plan 
for the future operation of Part B of the Project; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with ARA on said plan; and (iii) thereafter, carry out 
said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. ARA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ARA shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving 
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ARA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
ARA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by ARA of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06.  ARA shall carry out the environmental and conservation components 
of Part B of the Project through RSCN on the basis of contractual arrangements 
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.07.  ARA shall adopt, not later than June 30, 1998, detailed special 
regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, required pursuant to the Council of Ministers’ 
decision designating Wadi Rum as a protected area, and shall not modify such 
regulations without the consent of the Bank. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  3
Management and Operations of ARA 
Section 3.01. ARA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and eco-tourism 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. ARA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, environmental and eco-tourism practices. 
Section 3.03. ARA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ARA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
ARA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ARA 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
a date twelve years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Loan Agreement terminates before the date specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify ARA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Aqaba Region Authority:
Aqaba Region Authority
P. O. Box 21
Aqaba, Jordan
Telex:
62316 A.R.A. JO
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ARA or by ARA 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its 
President, or by such other person or persons as ARA shall designate in writing, and 
ARA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
AQABA REGION AUTHORITY
By /s/ Marwan Muasher 
Page  5
Authorized Representative
