Report No. PID3684
Project Name                 Jordan-Second Tourism Development Project (@+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Tourism
Project ID                       JOPA35997
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities (MOTA)
Contact:
Mr. Akram Massarweh, Secretary General
Mr. Fouad I. Aghabi, Assistant Secretary
General for Technical Affairs
Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
P.O. Box 224
Amman, Jordan
Tel:    962-6-642 311
Fax:    962-6-648 465
Environmental Category           B
Date PID Prepared                September 18, 1997
Date of Previous PID             March 18, 1997
Appraisal (actual)               November 1996
Board Date (actual)              July 31, 1997
Signing (actual)                 August 6, 1997
Effectiveness (actual)           October 17, 1997
1.      Background.   Tourism receipts in Jordan have increased quickly
in recent years, mostly as a result of the continuing peace process,
which heightened international awareness of the country and opened
the borders with Israel. Accommodation arrivals grew on average
over 20 percent per annum between 1993 and 1995, reaching the one
million mark for the first time in 1995. According to the Central
Bank and Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities (MOTA), in 1996 1.1
million tourists visited Jordan (as measured by accommodation
arrivals), resulting in foreign exchange revenues of over US$750
million equivalent, or approximately 10 percent of GNP. Tourism is
Jordan's second largest generator of foreign exchange after
remittances, surpassing both potash and phosphates. Barring
unforeseen political upheavals in the region, tourism may continue
to grow over 15 percent per annum, a rate well above any other part
of the economy except construction and finance.
2.      Jordan is expected to continue its strong performance in
tourism into the new millennium. Initially sparked by new and
strong tourist demand from Israeli citizens, and coupled with
opportunities to capture an increasing percentage of package
tourists visiting Israel from abroad, a larger share of European and
North American markets is likely to be tapped. After the year 2000,



the tourism growth rate will probably stabilize at about twice that
of the 1993 growth rate. Even then, tourism will remain one of the
country's most dynamic economic activities and an important source
of growth.
3.      Given the important role of tourism in the economy, further
development of the sector needs to be carried out in a coherent
manner to ensure economic, social and environmental sustainability
and to maximize the benefits of donor financing of the sector. To
this end, the Government is formulating a medium- to long-term
strategy for the sector and is preparing an accompanying investment
program.
4.      Project Objectives and Description.   The World Bank project
intends to support the Government's initiatives in the sector. The
development objectives of the project are twofold: (i) to create
the conditions for an increase in sustainable and environmentally
sound tourism in Petra, Wadi Rum, Jerash and Karak; and (ii) to
realize tourism-related employment and income-generation potential
at project sites.
5.      To achieve these objectives, the project is financing: (i) the
development of urban infrastructure and an environmental management
plan for the Petra region; (ii) the development of Wadi Rum Reserve
as a site for eco-tourism; (iii) priority tourism and urban-
regeneration investments in Jerash and Karak and feasibility studies
for future investments for those cities; and (iv) support to MOTA in
developing its capacity as a regulatory and policy- and strategy-
formulation body for sectoral coordination. Follow up projects
would focus on Jerash and Karak and studies for projects to be
implemented in the medium- to long term.
(a)     Petra Region Infrastructure Development and Environmental
Management Component: This project component concentrates on four
areas: (i) developing urban infrastructure (roads, solid waste
management); (ii) improving environmental management (reforestation,
wadi terrace regeneration, urban landscaping, flood management);
(iii) improving visitor support services at the Petra sanctuary
(redeveloping the visitor center and the site entrance area,
improving visitor flow patterns, developing proper signage and
interpretation, formalizing ad-hoc trails and parks through the
sanctuary) and developing site management capacity; and (iv)
building the capacity of the Petra Regional Planning Council (PRC)
to enforce local land-use plans and environmental protection,
implement urban development projects, and promote tourism.
(b)     Wadi Rum Reserve Component:   The objectives of this
component are to: (i) conserve Wadi Rum as a protected area; (ii)
develop tourism in Wadi Rum in a manner that provides tourists with
a highly positive experience and ensures that visitor flows are well
managed in order to prevent negative environmental impacts; and
(iii) help local residents share in the benefits of tourism through
income-generation activities. To achieve these objectives, the
following will be financed under the project: (i) infrastructure
development, including the construction of a visitor center and
- 2 -



entrance facilities; (ii) improved protected area management and
visitor management services; and (iii) income-generating activities
for the local community, particularly Bedouin women.
(c)     Karak and Jerash Tourism Development Component: To support
the Government's efforts to spread the heavy tourist concentration
in Petra and Amman to other historic sites, this component will
include: (i) a tourism development pilot program to enable the MOTA
to implement priority urban-regeneration, tourism-related projects
and cultural heritage conservation activities in Karak and Jerash;
and (ii) feasibility studies and land-use plans for a follow-up
phase of the Government's Tourism Development Project.
(d)     Sector Development Support Component:   The focus of this
component will be on improving the basis for strategic, policy, and
institutional framework for the sector. Toward this end, three
studies will be conducted: (i) a longer-term tourism development
strategy, with an associated prioritized investment program; (ii) a
legislative and regulatory study that identifies impediments to
increased private-sector participation and proposes measures for
deregulation and for modernizing and streamlining the numerous
regulations; and (iii) a restructuring plan for tourism-sector
public institutions, with a view toward improving their
effectiveness and coordination with related line ministries and the
private sector as well as toward rationalizing their role in
tourism. The project will fund one long-term consultant and four
short-term consultants to assist a Tourism Task Force in conducting
and implementing the above studies.
6.      Project Cost and Financing.   The overall cost is US$44.0
million (including physical and price contingencies). The financing
plan includes an IBRD loan of US$32.0 million and a Government of
Jordan contribution of US$12.0 million. The Governments of Japan
and Italy have expressed interest in funding part of the project as
well. The project was submitted at the July 1996 donor conference
for Jordan.
7.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.   The Government's strategy is
to foster outward-oriented sustainable growth. In the tourism
sector, the realization of this objective requires that the
Government: (i) promote public/private sector interaction; (ii)
adopt a business strategy approach to tourism planning and, jointly
with the private sector, develop Jordan's tourism sites and
potential; (iii) create a competitive business environment by
deregulating the industry and removing bureaucratic red tape that
stifles investment; (iv) develop infrastructure essential to attract
the private sector; and (v) adopt measures necessary for creating a
cadre of well-trained tourism professionals. The Bank is already
assisting the Government under several ongoing operations in
achieving outward-oriented, private-sector led growth. The Export
Development Project, the Private Sector Assessment, and the Economic
Reform and Development Loans all focus on reforms to enhance
Jordan's competitiveness, expand the role of its private sector,
attract new and efficient investments, and mobilize savings. The
proposed project would complement these Bank activities in the
- 3-



tourism sector, as well as ensure environmentally sound management
of tourism sites and introduce strategic planning to the sector. As
a number of donors are currently focusing on tourism in Jordan, the
Bank's coordinating role becomes important in ensuring that the
investments are consistent with a well-defined business strategy for
the sector. Such coordination is already taking place with JICA.
8.      Project Implementation. The Ministry of Tourism and
Antiquities (MOTA) has overall project implementation coordination
responsibility and direct executive responsibility for the Sector
Development Support component and feasibility studies for Jerash and
Karak. A Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established at MOTA
with the mandate for overall management and monitoring of the
project and to serve as the focal point for all communication with
the Bank. The PRC, under the guidance of MOTA, will be the
implementing agency for the Petra component, with the exception of
the road rehabilitation works, which will be implemented by the
Ministry of Public Works. The Aqaba Region Authority (ARA) will
implement the Wadi Rum component.
9.      The project has been assigned an environmental category of
"B" in accordance with Operational Directive 4.01. Please see
Annex, Environmental Aspects, for a description of the proposed
project's environmental considerations.
Contact Point:           Mohammed Feghoul, Task Manager
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202)         473-2313
Fax: (202) 477-0348
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending November 14, 1997
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The project has received a Category B rating in accordance
with Operational Directive 4.01. The project was prepared by a
multi-disciplinary team, which included two Bank environmentalists
and several environmental consultants, and all infrastructure
development components have been subject to environmental analyses.
Mitigation measures have been developed where necessary.
The project aims to have a very positive overall environmental
impact on the target sites of the project. The project sites --
Petra and Wadi Rum -- have witnessed increasing environmental
pressures as their popularity has grown. It is not merely the
direct impact of visitors that affects the sites, but the associated
development of hotels and other service facilities that could result
in long-term degradation. The project, by fostering the
establishment and implementation of urban development plans that
promote rational development near the sites (e.g., strict zoning
regulations, building codes, environmental assessment requirements,
and waste management plans) will have a positive impact on the
surrounding environment. Furthermore, the project will support the
development of a park management plan for Wadi Rum and Petra, which
will, among other effects, control access to and within the site,
thereby limiting areas of possible environmental impact. The
formalization of ad-hoc trails and signage will undergo
environmental analysis prior to implementation to ensure that there
are no negative environmental impacts.
The project's proposed infrastructure development components,
e.g., the rehabilitation of urban and scenic roads in the Petra
region and the construction of a visitor center at Wadi Rum, have
been subject to environmental analyses, and mitigation measures have
been developed where necessary. In the Petra region, all road
improvement works will be implemented within existing road
alignments. All infrastructure rehabilitation in the Petra region
will take place outside the boundaries of the archaeological sites.
- 5 -



