tjitE COriY                              RESTRICTED
Report No. PTR-74a
This report is for official use only by tho Bank Group and spedfically authorzed arpnizations
or perons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Dank Group does not accept responibty for the accurcy or completenu of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTlON AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ISRAEL
June 21, 1971
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  - Israeli Pound (It)
US$1.00        = It 3.5
Iz 1.0         a US 28.6¢
It 1 million   - US$286,000
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Units of Weights and Measures
Metric
Metric: British/ITS-Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (a)           2  - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km') - 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)     = 0.98 lg ton
1 metric ton (m ton)     - 1.1 US short ton
Abbreviations  .
ADT      - Average Daily Traffic
BCEO(    - Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les
Equipements d'Outre-Mer
(Consultants - France)
FYB      - First Year Benefit
GNP      - Gross National Product
IER      - Internal Economic Return
IPA      -  Israel Ports Authority
PW:D     -  Public Works Department
SETEC      -  Societe de Etudes Techniques et
Economiques (Consultants - France)



I S R A E L
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................                                     i
I.    INTRODUCTION ...............................................                  1
II.  BACKGROUND .................................................                   2
A. General .................................................                  2
B. The Transport Sector ....................................                  2
C. Transport Policy and Coordination .......................    4
III. HIGHWAY SECTOR           ...................................5 
A. The Highway Network .....................................                  5
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic ....               ..........    6
C. Highway Administration ..................................                  6
D. Highway Financing and Planning ..........................                  7
E. Highway Engineering .....................................                  8
F. Highway Construction and Maintenance ....................    9
IV.  THE PROJECT ................................................    10
A. General Description .....................................   10
B. Highways to be Constructed or Improved ..................   10
C. Consulting Services for Construction Supervision .... ....   11
D. Testing and Laboratory Equipment ........................   11
E. Cost Estimates and Financing ............................   12
F. Disbursements ...........................................    13
G. Execution of the Project  ................................    13
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................................    14
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................................   17
This report was written by Messrs. P. C. de Man (Engineer) and B.
Shields (Economist), with the cooperation of Mr. G. McBride (Economist)
of the Special Projects Department. The project was appraised in December
1970.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEX
Highways to be Constructed or Improved
TABLES
1.   Consultants Employed for Feasibility Studies and Detailed
Engineering
2.   Distribution of Traffic between Road and Rail
3.   Revenues from Motor Vehicle Taxation
4.   Highway System by Jurisdiction
5.   Length of Paved Primary System Roads, by Width
6.   Motor Vehicle Fleet
7.   Truck Fleet by Load Capacity and Fleet Type
8.   Civil Motor Fuel Consumption
9.   Expenditures on Public Highways
10.   Standards for Geometric Design of National Highways
11.   Roads to be Constructed and Cost Estimates
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13.   Traffic on Project Roads and Economic Rates of Return
14.   Vehicle Operating Costs
CHARTS
1.   Organization of Ministry of Transport
2.   Organization of Ministry of Labor and Public Works Department
MAPS
1.   General Location Map
2.   Project Roads
3.   Tel Aviv - Ayalon Expressway



I S R A E L
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The very high rate of economic growth achieved by Israel over the
past decade has been accompanied by high rates of growth in vehicular traffic.
Israel is a small, densely populated country and depends much more on high-
ways than on other modes of transport. The motor vehicle fleet has grown
from 51,000 in 1960 to about 219,000 in 1970. From 1948 to 1962 the basic
structure of the national highway network was developed. From 1963 to 1970
the major emphasis was on completing the main inter-urban road network.
Between 1971 and 1975 efforts will be concentrated on ensuring that the addi-
tion of capacity keeps pace with rapidly increasing traffic and that major
bottlenecks are eliminated or avoided.
ii.       This report appraises a project for building or upgrading eight
road sections totalling 121 km and for the provision of four interchanges
on existing roads. The location of these roads and interchanges, mainly
concentrated in the heavily populated part of the country in and around Tel
Aviv, is shown on Maps 1-3. None of the project roads is in the occupied
territories. The project has been based on feasibility studies and detailed
engineering undertaken by the Public Works Department (PWD) of the Government
and by Israeli and foreign consultants. Detailed engineering for the project
is virtually complete. The cost estimates, including contingencies, are con-
sidered reliable.
iii.      The Bank made a first highway loan (US$22 million equivalent) to
Israel in 1q62. This project, comprising the construction of main and dis-
trict roads and a transnort survey, was satisfactorily completed in 1966.
It also led to improvements in highway planning and construction practices
which provided a basis for preparing the project now under construction.
iv.       The cost of the proposed Second Highway Project, including con-
sulting services for construction supervision and the procurement of some
materials testing equipment, is estimated at US$91.3 million equivalent with
an estimated foreign exchange component of US$37.5 million equivalent or
41%. The proposed loan of US$30 million would finance about 80% of the
foreign exchange cost.
v.        The project is technically and economically sound.  The internal
economic return of the different works ranges from 14% to 33%. The combined
yield is 22%.
vl.       Construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding. A first round of prequalification of contractors



- ii -
has already been carried out in an atceptable manner. E-xecution of the pro-
ject woild be the respt1insibility of the PWD, except for the Ayalon express-
way in Tel AViv, fot the planning and construction of which a special author-
ity, the Netivey Ayalon Ltd., has been created.
vii.      The ptoject is suitable for a Rank loan of US$30 million equival-
ent.  An a'pproytpiate term would be 20 yegrs, including a five-year grace
period.



I S R A E L
APPRAISAL OF -IE SECOND HIGHTWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Israel has asked the Bank to help finance its
1971-75 highway development program. 'rhis program has been designed to
improve and upgrade the main highway network so that it may handle rapidly
growing transport demands in the country. It comprises the construction
of expressways and four-lane divided highways, the construction of grade-
separated interchanges on existing roads and the reconstruction, improve-
ment or new construction of two-lane highways.
1.02      Bank missions visited Israel in 1969 to examine the Government's
approaclh to highway planning. They concluded that the Bank could usefully
assist in financing the 1971-75 highway plan (then being prepared), and a
group of projects was identified as suitable for further study for inclu-
sion in a Bank project. After the Government refined the cost estimates
and undertook an economic analysis of the proposed investments, a shorter
list of projects was selected and presented to the Bank for consideration.
1.03      The proposal for Bank financing comprises 12 high priority proj-
ects, consulting services for supervision of construction of these projects
and procurement of some materials testing equipment. The estimated cost is
about US$91.3 million equivalent or about 63% of the estimated capital ex-
pendlitures on highways in the 1971-75 plan period.  Most of the proposed
projects are located in the densely populated area in and around Tel Aviv,
the largest single project item being the first stage of the Ayalon express-
way in that city.
1.04      This would be the third Bank loan for the transport sector.  The
first was a loan (265-IS) of US$27.5 million equivalent made in 1960 to
help finance the construction of the port of Ashdod. The second (323-IS) of
US$22 million equivalent was made in 1962 for the construction and improve-
ment of 611 km of main and district roads and 460 km of feeder roads. It
also included the transport survey carried out in 1964 and 1965 by the French
consultants, Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM)
andl Societe de Etudes Teclniques et Economiques (SETEC), which served as a
starting point for national transportation planning in Israel and provided
the basis for the proposed Second Highway Project. The First Highway Project
was carried otut satisfactorily within the original construction time and
cost estimates.
1.05      This report was prepared by Messrs. P.C. de Man (engineer) and
B. Shields (economist) with the cooperation of Mr. C. McBride (economist)
of the Special Projects Department on the basis of feasibility and final



- 2 -
engineering studies prepared by the Israeli Public Works Department and
several Israeli and foreign consulting firms (see Table 1), and on the
basis of an appraisal mission which visited Israel in December 1970.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2
2.01      With an area of almost 21,000 km , Israel is similar to New
Jersey in size.  The Negev Desert in the south constitutes about 50% of
Israel's area. The population is about 3 million and has grown at over
3% p.a. over the past decade. The bulk of the population, over 80% of it
urban, is concentrated in the central area of the country bounded by Haifa,
Tel Aviv and Jerusalem.  The Tel Aviv metropolitan area, comprising seven
mtuaicipalities, is Israel's largest agglomeration. In 1969, it had a population
of 882,000, about 30% of the country's total.  Tel Aviv has rapidly suburban-
ized in recent years, and this has contributed to the transport problem
within the metropolis. It is in the highly populated central area of the
country that rapidly growing traffic volumes require a substantial increase
in highway network capacity. The proposed project would help provide this.
2.02      Agriculture has historically played an important role in Israel's
economy, but its relative significance has been declining. Its share in
national income is now 8%, although Israel produces three-fourths of its
food needs, plus a large citrus surplus for export. Industry employs about
one-fourth of all workers; its share in national income is about the same.
Industrial output has expanded sixfold since 1950. Export production and
import substitution are the twin aims of industrial policy.
2.03      GNP has grown at 8% p.a. since 1966 and similar growth is ex-
pected between 1971 and 1975. GNP (at factor cost) per capita in 1970-was
equivalent to US$1,634. The balance of payments has traditionally ,been
characterized by a large excess of imports over exports, in most years off-
set by large unilateral transfers and long term capital inflow. In 1969,
however, official reserves fell slharply and at the end of 1970 they were
equivalent to two months' imports.
B.   The Transport Sector
2.04      General:  The surface transport system consists of 'about 9,100
km of road, 530 km of main railway lines and a pipeline network for crude
and refined petroleum products. Especially since 1967, Israel has been
heavily dependent on sea and air transport for foreign trade.
2.05      Internal transport services are provided by highways, pipelines,
airways and railways. Freight and passengers carried by internal air
transport are insignificant as a percentage of total domestic transport.



The distribution of other overland freight traffic between road and rail
is 80% to 20%. Road transport carried 98% of surface passenger transport
in 1969. Further details are given in Table 2.
2.06      The Government's 1971-75 development plan predicts that the output
of the transportation and communications sector will be 40% higher in 1975
than in 1970. This is reasonable since it grew at a rate of almost 12% p.a.
between 1960 and 1970, but to attain the growth target, heavy investment
will be required and planned public and private investments in the sector
total IS 3,690 million (US$1,054 million equivalent), with a high foreign
exchange component (perhaps 60%). The capacity of both the merchant marine
fleet and the civil aviation fleet will be increased considerably. Large
complementary investment will be required in both seaports and airports.
Infrastructural investment in urban and inter-urban roads, access roads and
to improve utilization of the road system, e.g. signalization, will also
be heavy.
2.07      Highways:  The highway network and details of motor traffic are
discussed in Chapter 3.
2.08      Railways:  Israel State Railways operate about 800 km of lines,
including 530 km of main line. They mainly carry freight and only 25% of
their revenue is from passenger traffic. After declining since 1964, freight
traffic rose by 46% between 1967 and 1969 to 435 million ton-km, principally
because of increased mineral traffic. The railroads carry less than 2% of
the 22 billion passenger-km traveled in the country annually; in standard of
service and frequency they cannot compete with buses and taxis.
2.09      Ever since their inception in 1949, Israel State Railways have had
annual deficits, partly because of low utilization and partly because of
low rates and fares, which are fixed by the Government. The net operat-
ing deficit in 1968-69 was IL 5.4 million, 16% less than that of the prev-
ious year. This was entirely due to increased freight traffic, since pas-
senger traffic continued to decline. The financial position is expected
to improve further over the next two years as more freight traffic is
hauled over recently opened extensions in the Negev. The Ministry of
Transport is planning a preliminary study of a new high speed line between
Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, which may become viable within the next decade.
2.10      Ports:  The Israel Ports Authority (IPA), set up in 1961 on the
advice of the Bank in making Loan 265-IS, operates the ports of Haifa,
Eilat and Ashdod. Tankers are handled at special facilities at each port,
outside IPA's authority. Haifa is still the largest port in the country,
although Ashdod is increasing its relative share and is now the principal
port for exports. The two ports handled 3.6 and 2.5 million tons respective-
ly in 1969, and together are expected to handle 9 million tons in 1979, while
the Red Sea Port of Eilat, which now handles 0.4 million tons per year, will
be handling 1.4 million tons in 1979. The increasing traffic at the two
largest ports reflects increased traffic demands on land transport modes be-
tween the ports and the major population centers, especially Tel Aviv. The



-4-
IPA is currently expanding port facilities at Ashdod (one container berth)
to be followed by Haifa and Eilat. All ports are efficiently managed, uti-
lizing modern mechanical cargo-handling equipment. In 1968/69, the IPA had
a surplus of IL 1.8 million.
2.11      Shipping:  The Government has placed considerable emphasis on the
development of its merchant marine, which now totals two million tons dead-
weight. Two companies, Zim and El Yam, control 90% of national shipping
capacity. Zim is the national shipping llne, but is being turned into a
public corporation. El Yam is private. Cargo carried by Israeli companies
in 1969 was 5.5 million tons, 4 million in Israeli foreign trade and 1.5
million in trade between foreign ports.
2.12      Aviation:  The Israeli Government owns an international airline,
El Al. Over the period 1960 to 1969, El Al's output grew by an average of
15.5% per annum. In 1967-68, El Al arased its accumulated loss and since
then has recorded a profit (I6 5 million in 1969-70).
2.13      The largest domestic aviation company, with about 75% of total
business, is Arkia Airways, a private company with some government capital.
It is engaged in regular internal passenger and freight traffic, special
tourist flights and other charter business. Passenger traffic on regular
routes increased rapidly from 176,000 in 1967 to 279,000 in 1969.
2.14      Lod International Airport handles over one million passengers
and 25,000 tons of freight per annum. It is run on a strictly commercial
basis.  It has a program for expansion during the 1970's to cope with the
expected large increase in traffic and to accommodate jumbo jets.
2.15      Pipelines:  Israel has a network of crude oil, refined products
and gas pipelines. A recent major addition was the 42-inch Eilat-Ashkelon
oil pipeline which was put into operation in February 1970. It has a capa-
city of 20 million tons of crude oil per year. Real output of the pipeline
transportation industry rose by 31.6% in 1969 compared with 26% in 1968 and
4.2% in 1967.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.16      The Ministry of Transport is responsible for public transport
policy in Israel. The Ministry assists local authorities to plan and fi-
nance arterial road improvements in urban and metropolitan areas. It super-
vises the public transportation services and sets standards of service.
The organization is shown in Chart 1.
2.17      The Ministry is responsible for the operation of international
and domestic airfields and controls the Israeli aviation companies. It
also controls the merchant marine and operates berthing facilities not
under the responsibility of the Port Authority.



- 5 -
2.18      Responsibility for planning, constructing and maintaining inter-urban
highways is vested in the Public Works Department (PWD) of the Ministry of
Labor (para. 3.04).
2.19      In general, transport is well planned and coordinated.  There is
no obvious conflict between modes. There are no restrictions on entry in-
to the trucking business, nor on choice of mode by shippers. Trucks are
not restricted to particular routes except by load limit regulations.
2.20      Highways are the predominant mode of both freight and passenger
transport. The motor vehicle fleet is increasing at a rate similar to
that in many European countries, raising similar problems of highway
capacity and parking. The principal highways in and between the main
centers of population and economic activity are working close to capacity
and the major task facing transport planners is the properly timed provi-
sion of additional capacity on this part of the transport system.
2.21      The government levies heavy taxes and licence fees on vehicles,
especially private ones, and taxes on motor fuel are also high. These
are imposed for a variety of reasons: balance of payments, restriction of
private consumption and income redistribution. If the defense burden be-
comes less in future, they can be expected to be lowered accordingly. Cur-
rently, the combined yield of these taxes (Table 3) far exceeds (more
than four times) what would be required to pay for current maintenance of
and additions to the highway network. As a complement to the policy of re-
straining the growth of private passenger transport, both bus and rail pas-
senger transport are subsidized to some extent (about IS 30 million per an-
num); this is a small price for avoiding the costs of the higher levels of
congestion which would result from greater use of private transport. Pub-
lic transport is still used for approximately 70% of all trips made in the
Tel Aviv metropolitan area.
III. HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      The public highway network (1969) consists of about 8,900 km of
urban and inter-urban highways (Table 4). The government directly maintains
the inter-urban network of 3,300 km, while 1,000 km are jointly maintained by
the government and local authorities and a further 4,600 km are maintained
entirely by local authorites. There are 200 km of road designated as priv-
ate. Over 4,000 km are paved. Recent improvements in the inter-urban net-
work can be assessed from Table 5 which shows the trend towards wider high-
ways and multi-lane facilities.
3.02      Israel has basically a good highway network, providing access to
all parts of the country by means of, for the most part, all-weather roads.



However, some sections (especially in the densely populated area around
Tel Aviv) are congested and require additional capacity. The 1971-75
highway program has been designed with the main objective of providing this
capacity.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      The motor vehicle fleet in 1970 was estimated at 219,000 (Table
6). In 1960 it was 51,000, and thus during the past decade has grown at
an average annual rate of 15.6% p.a., cars increasing at 19.8% p.a. and
trucks at 11.5% p.a. During the period 1965-70 growth has been slower, 12.6%
p.a. for cars and 9.0% for trucks. The percentage of cars in the fleet has
increased from 47 in 1960 to 66 in 1970. The average size of trucks has
been getting smaller in the last few years due to the increasing number
of pick-up type trucks (Table 7). The most rapid increase in truck re-
g{ctrations between 1965 and 1969 took place in the categories up to 2.9
ton load capacity, 15.5% p.a., whereas registrations of 3 ton and larger
trucks increased at only 1.5% p.a. Motor fuel consumption (Table 8) grew
less rapidly than vehicle registrations over the same period, reflecting
the relative increases in both private cars and light trucks. Diesel
sales grew more rapidly than gasoline sales, reflecting the extensive con-
version of heavy trucks and taxis to this fuel.
C.   Highway Administration
3.04      The PWD in the Ministry of Labor is responsible for the planning,
construction and maintenance of the inter-urban highway network. It also has
a division for public buildings (see Chart 2). The PWD is headed by a
director to whom the head of the Roads Branch is a deputy. In addition to
its headquarters, located in Tel Aviv, the PWD has five district offices,
which in their turn are divided into smaller units (sub-districts).
3.05      The main office of the Roads Branch has three divisions:  Mate-
rials and Research, Operations, and Planning and Design. The Central
Roads Laboratory under the Materials and Research Division has developed
adequate procedures for the quality control of road building materials
and soils. It supervises smaller district and field laboratories and also
contributes to research. The Operations Division coordinates highway main-
tenance and supervises road construction. This division will also control
the Bank-financed proJects for PWD. The Planning and Design Division is
in charge of planning and design of roads and bridges. This division has
supervised the consultants employed for the detailed engineering of the
project roads.
3.06      The Netivey Ayalon Ltd. set up in 1966 as a public corporation by
the Ministry of Transport and the Municipality of Tel Aviv, is responsible
for the Ayalon project. Its staff is small, about 15, headed by a General
Manager, and extensive use is made of consultants in preparing the project.



-7-
The corporation has been active in acquiring the right-of way for the pro-
posed expressway, and in supervising consultants' work for the evaluation,
preparation and design of the project. The corporation is required to co-
ordinate its work with the City Engineers in Tel Aviv and the adjacent muni-
cipalities Ramat Gan and Givatayim.
3.07      In order to cope more efficiently with transport problems in the
Tel Aviv metropolitan area and to implement the 1968 Transportation Master
Plan (para. 3.12), the Ministry of Transport and the relevant local authorities
are planning to create a "Metropolitan Transportation Unit". The draft
proposals for establishing this entity indicate that the unit would be
concerned with transport problems in the metropolitan area and would have
region-wide responsibilities for transport planning, project implemention,
maintenance and improvement of major transport facilities, traffic engineer-
ing management, and control, inspection and enforcement of traffic regula-
tions, and parking. Essentially, the new organization would be an extension
of the role of Netivey Ayalon Ltd., and the latter would be incorporated
into it. The Bank has asked to be kept informed of developments regarding
the establishment of the proposed Transportation Unit and the Government has
given assurances that if this organization takes over the responsibilities
of the Netivey Ayalon Ltd. it will maintain staffing and organizational ar-
rangements for coordinating and administering the Ayalon project (para. 4.05)
satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Highway Financing and Planning
3.08      A breakdown of expenditure on highway construction and maintenance
for the years 1961-62 to 1969-70 is given in Table 9, together with fore-
casts to 1974-75. The large increase in joint government and local author-
ity spending on roads in 1971-74 is principally due to the proposed Ayalon
expressway.
3.09      The 1971-75 highway development program has been competently pre-
pared by the PWD and Israeli and foreign consultants. The basic data for
highway planning are collected by various government departments, and the
PWD Planning and Design Division is competent.
3.10      The Bureau of Statistics carries out an annual traffic enquiry on
all roads in the national network. The counts include at least one manual
count per annum for vehicle classification purposes.
3.11      The Government intends to continue to collect data needed for pro-
per planning and operation of its primary highways. As part of its program
for improving information on the highway system and developing a plan data
base similar to the U.S. Highway Capacity Manual but directly related to
Israeli conditions, the PWD is arranging for the Bureau of Statistics to
carry out studies in 1971 of vehicle operating speeds on different types of
road and in different traffic conditions. It also hopes to computerize this
information together with the annual traffic information (para. 3.10) and
the highway inventory data (para. 3.19) in order to plan future highway im-
provement programs on the basis of complete network analysis.



- 8 -
3.12      In 1966 the Ministry of Transport initiated a comprehensive trans-
port study for the Tel Aviv metropolitan area. The study was carried out
by the Israeli consultants, Kolin and Zahavi, under the guidance of steering
and technical committees in which the relevant municipalities and the two
bus cooperatives operating in the area were represented. The study was
completed in 1968 and resulted in a Transportation Master Plan for the
metropolitan area. This plan contains recommendations related to public
transport such as the rescheduling of bus routes and the construction of a
central bus station and railway link between the northern and southern
railway station (see Annex).  It further p;esented master plans for park-
ing and for improving and constructing roads. The recommended road network,
including the Ayalon expressway, was almost totally incorporated in the 1968
Tel Aviv - Yafo Master Plan, a general outline scheme for land use in the
municipality. The recommendations from the 1968 Transportation Master Plan
are being used as a policy guideline for improvements in the transport sector
in the metropolitan area and as a basis for investment decisions. The main
task of the proposed Metropolitan Transportation Unit (para 3.07) would be to
coordinate implementation of this plan.
E.  hIighway Engineering
3.13      The PWD design standards for highway construction are given in
Table 10. These standards are sound and consistent with traffic require-
ments.  The majority of the roads included in the proposed project have
been designed for a speed of 100 km/hr. Exceptions are the Ayalon express-
way (95 km/hr) and the Rishon - Rehovot road (80 km/hr).
3.14      The "Traffic Regulation 1961" prescribing limitations of size
and gross weight of vehicles, allows 12 m ton per single axle and 17.5 m
ton for tandem axles. For balance of payments reasons and because of the
heavy demand for transport, the Government in 1966 temporarily increased
the maximum allowed gross weights for vehicles of 6 tons and over by 35%.
For 1971 these overweights have been reduced to 10-25% for different catego-
ries of vehicles and it is planned to further reduce them based on the results
of a proposed axle-load study (para. 3.15).
3.15      The weight regulations are not strongly enforced and no reliable
Lifortnation on actual axle  loads of vehicles using the roads exists.  In
particular, the direct influence of the increased permissible gross loads
(para. 3.14) on the axle loads of vehicles is not known. The Ministry of
Transport and PWD are fully aware of the damage that overloaded vehicles
could cause to the roads. They therefore propose to undertake a survey of
the axle loads on the roads as a basis for determining appropriate load
limitations. The loan makes provision for the purchase of mobile weighing
devices for this study. The study will be carried out in 1972 and during
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that the weight
control regulations will be reviewed and, if necessary, amended in the light
of the results of this study, and that adequate measures will be taken for
enforcement.



- 9 -
F.   Highway Construction and Maintenance
3.16      Until recently, construction of the inter-urban roads has mostly
been carried out by PWD by force account, although sub-contracts for the
supply of materials and construction of bridges and, less frequently, for
earthworks or paving were awarded to local contractors. In 1962, for the
first Bank highway project, foreign contractors did not tender. At that
time, the local contracting industry was not well developed and the Bank
therefore agreed to force account work with sub-contracting to local con-
tractors. The project was successfully completed within the original
construction time and cost estimates.
3.17      During the past four years increasing use has been made of con-
tractors and, of the about IS 200 million spent on highway construction in
this period, 30% to 40% was contracted through national competitive bidding.
Contractors are prequalified and classified according to size and type of
the work. At present, five contracting companies with both the experience
and the equipment to undertake large highway projects are qualified by PWD
for all highway construction work, and five other firms for contracts up to
Ib 5 million (US$1.5 million equivalent).
3.18      In agreement with the Bank, the Government in September 1970 in-
vited proposals from interested contractors to prequalify for the construc-
tion of the proposed project. Six foreign firms and eight local firms were
subsequently qualified to participate in tendering (para. 4.15) and therefore
contracting difficulties similar to those for the First Highway Project are
not expected.
3.19      Routine maintenance of inter-urban roads is carried out by PWD
through district offices, which have their own equipment and workshops.
PWD has made a detailed inventory of all the roads for which it is respon-
sible. Every two years this inventory is updated to plan and budget for
periodic maintenance and improvement. A computer program has been developed
to process the data obtained. Maintenance operations are adequately costed,
and an equipment fund exists for the renewal of maintenance equipment. The
standards of maintenance are good and the Government has confirmed that it
will continue to maintain the inter-urban highway network adequately.
3.20      Construction and maintenance of local streets are the responsi-
bility of the various municipalities. In Tel Aviv these works are mainly
carried out after competitive bidding among prequalified contractors. Apart
from patching and small pavement repairs, all routine and periodic mainten-
ance work in Tel Aviv is by contract, supervised by municipal staff. This
system works satisfactorily, and the quality of maintenance is acceptable.
3.21      It is planned that after the completion of the Ayalon project its
maintenance will be carried out by Netivey Ayalon Ltd. or its successor
(para. 3.07) and the Government has assured the Bank that it will make satis-
factory arrangements therefor.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01       The construction and improvement works are listed with their esti-
mated costs in Table 11 and shown in Maps 1-3. They comprise about 63% of
the 1971-75 highway program (para. 1.03). A detailed description of these
projects, none of which is located in the occupied territories, is given
in the Annex. Military traffic constitutes a small fraction of total traf-
fic on the project roads and the feasibility of the projects would not
be significantly affected by its presence or absence.
B. Highways to be Constructed or Improved
4.02       The proposed project consists of:
(i) the construction of the first phase of the Ayalon express-
way in Tel Aviv (7.0 km), including a canal for regulating
the Ayalon creek (project 1);
(ii) the construction of the Ayalon-Ganot-Lod-Ramleh expressway
(project 2), totalling about 18.5 km;
(iii) the construction of four grade-separated interchanges on
the eastern bypass of Tel Aviv and the Tel Aviv-Haifa
road (projects 5-8);
(iv) the construction of three sections of four-lane divided
highway, totalling about 32.1 km between Beit Dagan and
Ramleh (Project 3), Rishon-le-Zion and Rehovot (Project
4) and Ra'anana and Beit Lid (project 9);
(v) the reconstruction and improvement of the Shefar Am-Nazareth
and the Bat Shilomo-Missaff Amakim Ifiglhways (projects 10 and
11), totalling about 42.2 km;
(vi) the construction of a 21 km highway from Beit Kama-Beer
Sheba (project 12);
(vii)  consulting services for supervising construction of the
major part of the highways included in the project; and
(vtii) the purchase of research and testing equipment.
4.03      The Ayalon expressway (project 1) is the largest single project
item.  It is the first phase (7.0 kn) of an expressway running from the
Petah-Tiqva road in the north of Tel Aviv to the southeastern limit of
the citv, where it connects with the proposed Ganot-Lod expressway (project
2). The main function of this first phase will be to serve as a collector



for inter-urban traffic from south and east of Tel Aviv and as a distribu-
tor for traffic among the main east-west arteries in the city. Thus it
will relieve congestion on the municipal roads. The first phase provides
basically four lanes and includes the construction of four interchanges,
seven bridges and a 5.4 km long canal for regulating the Ayalon creek. It
is planned that eventually the expressway will be extended northward to
join the main road to Haifa and southward to the projected Palmachim-Ashdod
expressway. Construction of the expressway was recommended by the consul-
tants BCEOM/SETEC, who conducted the 1966 transportation survey financed
under the First Highway Project. It is only a partial solution to the total
transport problem of Tel Aviv but is compatible with other necessary improve-
ments. The construction does not preclude the adoption of other solutions
to future urban transport problems.
4.04      To ensure that local streets connecting with the proposed first
phase of construction of the Ayalon expressway are capable of accommodating
estimated traffic to and from this facility, the Netivey Ayalon Ltd., to-
gether with the consultants Philippe Ewart and Associates (Canada) and
Prof. J. Leisch (U.S.) have developed a program of street improvements com-
prising (see Map 3) construction of the La Guardia street west of the ex-
pressway and widening and improvement of sections of the Petah-Tiqva road
and Holon road. The costs of these improvements, estimated at It 10 million,
will be financed by the Government and during negotiations assurances were
obtained that these works will be carried out in phase with the Ayalon project.
C. Consulting Services for Construction Supervision
4.05      The PWD is capable of supervising construction of projects for
which it is responsible, but, since it does not have enough staff, it will
employ consultants to assist in supervising most of the proposed projects.
PWD will coordinate this work. Consultants will also be employed to super-
vise construction of the Ayalon project and the Netivey Ayalon Ltd (para.
3.06) will establish a small unit within its organization for coordinating
and administering the project. Both the Netivey Ayalon Ltd and the PWD have
agreed to seek proposals from qualified firms upon terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank. Most of this work will be entrusted to local firms.
D. Testing and Laboratory Equipment
4.06      To test materials for the project, some additional equipment is
needed in the Central Roads Laboratory of PWD. The loan makes provision
for the purchase of this equipment and for the acquisition of mobile weigh-
ing devices for the proposed axle-load study and for the enforcement of
the regulations regarding vehicle weights (para. 3.15).



- 12 -
E. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.07      The total cost of the project, including allowances for quantity
and price contingencies, is estimated at US$91.3 million equivalent. A
summary follows:
Summary of Project Costs
(July 1970 prices)
Pounds (million)          US$ (million)         Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
1. Highway Con-
struction        134.2    97.2   231.4    38.3    27.8    66.1        42
Quantity con-
tingencies        13.4     9.7    23.1      3.8     2.8      6.6      42
Price escala-
tion              26.8    19.4    46.2      7.7     5.5    13.2       42
Total, con-
struction       174,4   126.3   300.7    49.8    36.1    85.9        42
2. Construction
Supervision       12.6     4.2    16.8      3.6      1.2     4.8      25
Contingency
allowance          1.3     0.4      1.7     0.4     0.1      0.5      25
Total super-
vision            13.9     4.6    18.5      4.0      1.3     5.3      25
3. Equipment for
materials re-
search and
testing                    0.3     0.3       -      0.1      0.1     10)
Total for Project 1&,K.3   131.2   319.5    53.8    37.5  X11j           41
4.08      Detailed estimates for the construction costs are given, in Table
11.  The estimatea for the Ayalon project have been prepared by con1uItants
(Tushia, Israel) and for the other projects by PWD in cooperation with local
consu}.tants (see Table 1). Quantities used for the estimates were derived
from virtully completed detailed engineering. Unit prices, based on July
1970 prices, are considered adequate. A 10% contingency has been added to
the estimated construction costs for quantity increases. This is considered



- 13 -
reasonable in view of the advanced stage of detailed engineering. An allow-
ance for price increases has been added to the cost estimates based on the
proposed construction schedule and escalation of 5% per annum in both local
and foreign prices.
4.09      According to detailed calculations by the Bank of Israel and the
PWD, confirmed by Bank staff, the foreign exchange component for highway
construction in Israel would be 37.5-51% depending on whether works would
be carried out by local or by foreign contractors. Based on the results
of the first round of pre-qualification of contractors for the highway
project and the size of the individual contracts, an equal participation
of foreign and local contractors in constructing projects 1-3 (Table 11)
is assumed, while construction of all other projects is expected to be by
local contractors only. Thus the foreign exchange component for construc-
tion would be about 42%.
4.10      The 25% foreign exchange component of costs of consulting services
reflects the estimated division of supervision contracts between local and
foreign firms.
4.11      The total foreign exchange component of the project is estimated
at US$37.5 million, but the loan will be limited to US$30 million or 80%
of the total foreign exchange component of the project.
F. Disbursements
4.12      It is proposed that the loan would finance the foreign exchange
cost of consulting services, c.i.f. cost of equipment and about 33% of the
estimated construction cost. Based on this and the schedule for construc-
tion mentioned in para 4.17, an estimated schedule for disbursement of the
loan funds has been prepared and this is shown in Table 12. Since the loan
amount is based on $30 million or the foreign exchange component, whichever
is lower, it is proposed that if construction costs less than is estimated,
the disbursement percentage should be increased to a maximum of 42%, the
estimated foreign exchange component of construction work under the project.
G. Execution of the Project
4.13      The loan would be to the Covernment of Israel which will provide
the remainder of the funds required for the project. Provision will be
made for the Ayalon expressway through the budget of the Ministry of Trans-
port and for the other project items through the budget of the PWD.  The
amounts for the proposed project included in the draft 1971-72 budgets are
respectively IS 30 and IS 40 million, for land acquisition, relocation of
utilities and construction costs. These amounts are expected to be suf-
ficient.



- 14 -
4.14      The executing agency for the Ayalon project will be the Netivey
Ayalon Ltd., which will also be responsible for future maintenance of this
project. PWD will be the executing agency for all other projects and will
maintain them.
4.15      The Government has already started prequalifying contractors (para.
3.18). Thirteen local and six foreign firms (two U.S., one Canadian, one
Dutch, one French and one U.K.) have applied and in agreement with the Bank
the foreign firms and five local firms have been qualified for all works and
three other local firms for only part of the project. The Government in-
tends prequalifying additional firms for a second group of bids in the third
quarter of 1971.
4.16      Construction of the Ayalon and the Ayalon-Ganot-Lod-Ramleh express-
ways (projects 1 and 2) will each be divided into two or three contracts,
giving contractors the option to bid for the contracts separately or for any
combination thereof. With other project items being let as single contracts,
the value of individual bid items could range from US$1.3 million to US$27.4
million equivalent. Construction of the other projects will be evenly spread
aver a four year construction period and all work will be completed by the
end of 1975.
4.17      Most of the right-of-way for the projects to be constructed is
already Government-owned. The remainder is being acquired by the Government
under its existing powers which, although slow, are adequate. It is ex-
pected that the right-of-way acquisition for the Ayalon project will be sub-
stantially completed early in 1972, and construction is scheduled to start
in mid-1972. In order not to delay construction, both the Netivey Ayalon Ltd.
and the PWD have already started relocating utilities as needed for the
project.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      The project is economically well justified.  The combined internal
economic return (TER) on investment in all road improvements contained in
the project is 22% and for individual improvements the return ranges from
14% to 33%. The first year benefit (FYB) ranges from 10% to 25%, indicating
that timing is appropriate. Details are given in Table 13.
5.02      The project works will make possible shorter journey times by
eliminating bottlenecks, by reducing travel distances and by permitting
faster travel speeds. To estimate benefits, the PWD and Ministry of Trans-
port costed typical vehicle operation in Israel under different operating
conditions. The economic costs of professional drivers' time and of the
time of passengers travelling for business purposes were also calculated.
The unit costs including productive driver and passenger time at various
speeds are shown in Table 14. They are acceptable.



- 15 -
5.03      The economic costs of construction used in the economic analysis
are the estimated costs of construction including quantity contingencies,
supervision, relocation of public utilities and the economic cost of land
taken out of other actual or potential uses for the highway. The tax ele-
ment in the estimated cost of construction was deducted to arrive at the
economic cost.
5.04      Where the improvement will involve additional future maintenance
costs, as in the case of new traffic lanes, these were deducted from annual
benefits. If the Bat Shlomo-Missaff Amakim road (Project 11) is not improved
as envisaged in the project, a substantial investment in deferred maintenance
will have to be undertaken. This cost has been deducted from the cost of the
improvement in the economic analysis.
5.05      The origin and destination enquiries used as the basis for traffic
assignment to the project roads were carried out for the PWT) by an Israeli
transportation consultant, A. Nachson (Israel). Forecast traffic growth
rates were used to ascertain 1974 zone to zone movements, and the traffic
was then assigned to the project roads, first in the improved state and
then in the unimproved state, by a least cost method. Thus, benefits from
both traffic diversion and higher standard roads could be calculated by
comparing vehicle operating and time costs with and without the improvements.
5.06      Except for the Ayalon expressway (project 1), uniform forecast
growth rates were used, as follows (% per annum):
Car     Light Commercial        Trucks & Buses
1970 - 75                   13             10                    4
1975 - 80                   10              7                    4
1980                         6              4                    4
For most of the project roads the 1970 - 75 growth rates forecast are below
those experienced in the past five years. For the Ayalon expressway, traffic
after the eighth year after opening has been held constant on the assumption
that, capacity having been reached, other improvements, including two addi-
tional lanes of expressway, will cater for further growth.
5.07      Savings in congestion costs will be the main benefits from the
Ayalon expressway. They are the difference between the costs which will be
incurred by users of the expressway and those costs which would be incurred
by the same users in travelling on the Tel Aviv street network without the
expressway. Benefits from regulating the Ayalon creek and the resulting
prevention of flooding (Annex) have not been evaluated in the economic
analysis. The costs of complementary improvements to city streets connect-
ing with the expressway (para. 4.04) have been included in the economic
costs of the project. A single IER for Projects 1 and 2 is given in Table
13 because the traffic assignment to the Ayalon-Ganot-Lod road assumes the
construction of the Ayalon expressway.



- 16 -
5.08      The benefits from the provision of grade-separated interchanges
(projects 5-8) include the value of time saved by professional drivers and
by passengers engaged on business, and the avoidance of costs incurred by
vehicles while stopping and starting at traffic-actuated signals. Some of
the signals presently in use are fixed-period signals; this was accounted
for in the analysis by deducting the additional cost which would have been
required to convert them from the cost of constructing the interchange. The
cost of maintaining the traffic signals and the roadway at the intersection
was compared with the cost of maintaining the interchange, which will be
less in each case.
5.09      The benefits from the other projects accrue from combinations of
reduced costs resulting from faster moving traffic and reduced travel dis-
tances. In the case of Beer Sheba-Beit Kama (Project 12), about 80% of
total savings will result from distance savings of 25% compared with the
present route taken by the traffic which will be attracted to the new
aliguiment.
5.10      The first phase of the Ayalon expressway will be approaching
saturation within eight years of opening. The structures of the first phase
will be built to permit widening without excessive expenditure when traffic
demand requires the expansion.
5.11      Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to ascertain the implications
for the economic feasibility of using a shadow price for foreign exchange.
A correction w¢as made to the foreign exchange component of both costs and
benefits using an exchange rate of Il 4.50 to the US$ 1.00 instead of the
official ratio of 3.50 to 1.00. It was found that this shadow pricing
raised the costs of construction somewhat more than road user benefits
(11% compared with 5%). The effect of this on the lowest priority road
in the project (No. 11) was to reduce the FYB from 10% to 9% and the IER
from 14% to 13%. The difference is not critical for an investment
decision.
5.12      The PWD and the Bank of Israel regard the forecast rates of traffic
growth as the minimum to be expected on the project roads, and in view of re-
cent growth rates on these roads this seems reasonable. The construction
costs have been carefully estimated and the economic costs of construction
used in the analysis included a 10% contingency amount. In order to ascer-
tain how sensitive the feasibility of the project is to deviations from the
estimated traffic growth, construction costs and construction period, addi-
tional tests were made. Benefits were assumed to be 25% lower than esti-
mated and then 25,% higher. Further, construction was assumed to be delayed
by one year, construction costs to exceed the estimate by 15% and benefits
to be delayed as a result of the delay in opening the improvement. With
these assumptions for the project with the lowest IER (Project 11), the IER
would range from 11% to 17% instead of 14% obtained from using the best esti-
tiate.  The sensitivity analysis reinforces the conclusion that the project
is well justified.



- 17 -
VI. RECOMWENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government on the following principal points:
(a) It will establish and maintain staffing and organizational
arrangements for coordinating and administering the Ayalon
project satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.07 and 4.05);
(b) The weight control regulations will be reviewed and, if
necessary, amended in the light of the results of the load
limitation study and adequate measures will be taken for
their enforcement (para. 3.15); and
(c) The program of street improvements in Tel Aviv will be
carried out in phase with the Ayalon project (para. 4.04).
6.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$30 million equivalent. The average useful life (including the con-
struction period) would be about 25 years; however, on country economic
grounds, an appropriate term would be 20 years, including a five-year grace
period.
June 21, 1971






ANNEX
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highways to be Constructed or Improved
Ayalon expressway (project 1)
The Ayalon expressway is projected along the Ayalon creek, a dry
bed creek (wadi) which flows only after heavy rainstorms during the fall
and winter. The creek runs from the Judean mountains to the coastal plain,
crosses the built-up area of Tel Aviv over a distance of about 6 km and
terminates in the Yarkon River (Map 3). At times the creek floods the
surrounding area. Already in 1955, municipal authorities recognized that
the creek bed and its adjoining banks could be utilized as a natural right-
of-way to accommodate increasing traffic demands, and land bordering the
creek was "frozen" for future transportation purposes. In 1966 the Netivey
Ayalon Ltd. (para. 3.06) was created for planning, design and construction
of the expressway. It employed the consultants Cartier-Cote-Piette-Boulva-
Wermenlinger and Associates (Canada) and Philippe Ewart and Associates
(Canada) to study the feasibility of constructing this road. Their report,
submitted in 1968, demonstrated that construction of the expressway would
be economically justified.
The proposed highway project includes a first phase (about 7.0 km
long) of construction of the Ayalon project and a 5.4 km long canal for re-
gulating the Ayalon creek.
The expressway is well planned and designed and the proposed de-
pressed location along the Ayalon creek about 6 m below surrounding street
levels provides an aesthetically attractive solution, well integrated with
the environment. Full attention has also been paid to aesthetic considera-
tion in designing the bridges across the Ayalon corridor. The design of
the expressway is for eight traffic lanes. In the first phase, however,
only four lanes will be constructed. It is estimated that by 1983 the con-
struction of additional lanes will be required. The design of the inter-
changes also provides for future extensions to accommodate increasing traf-
fic. The bridges at Hashalom road, La Guardia street and Yitzak Sadah road
will in the first instance be built to only half of their final width.
The project also includes provision of right-of-way for a possible
future rail link between the Central Railway Station on the Tel Aviv - Haifa
railway and the Darom Railway Station on the Jerusalem and Beer Sheba lines.
The chosen design incorporates this railway extension and the regulation



ANNEX
Page 2
canal within the median strip of the expressway. The Government intends to
start construction of this railway link (which would improve rail service
between Tel Aviv, Haifa and Jerusalem) shortly after completion of the first
phase of the expressway.
Ayalon-Ganot-Lod-Ramleh (project 2)
The two-lane highway between Ganot, at the eastern bypass of Tel
Aviv and Lod International Airport was opened for traffic in the summer of
1970. It is proposed to add a second carriageway to this section and to
extend this road as a four-lane divided highway west from Ganot to the
terminal of the Ayalon expressway and east from Lod to the proposed north-
ern bypass of Ramleh (project 3), bypassing these two villages. Thus, the
project would improve the connection between Tel Aviv, Lod airport and the
eastern part of the country and would direct traffic out of the Ayalon
expressway in the most economical manner. The project includes the construc-
tion of grade-separated interchanges at Ganot and near Lod and of seven
prestressed concrete bridges.
Beit Dagan-Ramleh (project 3)
This is a three-lane road adjoining a four-lane road section in
the north to Azur. At its southern end the road passes through the con-
gested center of Ramleh, where long traffic delays are encountered. Present
traffic is 20,000 vehicles per day and it is growing at much more than the
national average.  The Ayalon - Lod - Ramleh road (project 2) will divert
some of the traffic from the Ramleh - Beit Dagan Road. However, sufficient
traffic will remain on it to warrant early reconstruction to a four-lane
divided highway bypassing Ramleh. The proposed project includes a grade-
separated interchange at Beit-Dagan and bridges to eliminate level crossings
over the railway lines from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and Beer Sheba.
Rishon-le-Zion-Rehovot (project 4)
Rishon-le-Zion and Rehovot with 35,000 and 40,000 inhabitants
respectively, are situated 15 and 25 km southeast of Tel Aviv. A third
town, Ness Zion, with a population of 12,000 lies midway along the road.
Traffic on the road, which is for most of its length a two-lane highway,
with 7.0 m pavement and a poor alignment, is approaching saturation. At
Rishon, there are 1.2 km of four-lane road and at Ness Zion 1.3 km.  The
proposed improvement consists of widening 6 km of road to four lanes and
improving both vertical and horizontal alingment. The improvement will
raise the possible driving speed and considerably relieve traffic conges-
tion on the existing road.



ANNEX
Page 3
Azur, Geha, Abir and Natanya Interchanges (projects 5-8)
The project includes construction of two grade separated inter-
changes on the eastern bypass of Tel Aviv (Azur and Geha) and two inter-
changes on the main Tel Aviv - Haifa road, both four-lane divided highways.
Construction of these interchanges will assist in the completion of full
access control on the most heavily trafficked highways, thus reducing travel
time and improving safety on the roads. The Azur, Geha and Natanya inter-
changes will each eliminate one traffic signalized intersection. In addi-
tion, the Natanya interchange will also replace an at level intersection
with the Tel Aviv - Haifa railway. After its construction, the Abir inter-
change will eliminate two at-grade interchanges, one of which is regulated
with traffic lights.
Ra'anana - Beit Lid (project 9)
This road section (about 16.5 km long), running through a fertile
agricultural area, has a 7.0 m pavement and 2 m shoulders. However, in
places, lateral clearance outside the roadway is as narrow as 1.0 m. Both
vertical and horizontal alignment are poor and sight distance is inadequate
over virtually the whole length. The combination of poor alignment and slow
moving heavy vehicles (over 30% of total traffic) has resulted in low over-
all speeds and severe queuing of traffic. The project comprises the improve-
ment of the existing road and construction of a second carriageway. Event-
ually, similar improvements will be undertaken southward to Petah-Tiqva and
northward to Hadera.
Shefaram - Nazareth (project 10)
The existing road between Shefar Am, north-east of Haifa, and
Nazareth (the regional center of upper and lower Galilee) has a pavement
width of only 3.0 m. The pavement condition is bad, and the vertical and
horizontal alignments of the road are poor. As a result, only local traf-
fic (about 600 ADT in 1970) uses the road at present. The through traffic
between Nazareth and the north-east part of Haifa and areas to the north
of that city, which would use the road if it were in a good condition, now
negotiates the city streets of Haifa and takes a more southerly road via
Missaff Amakim to Nazareth. It is estimated that, after completion of the
reconstruction, the Shefaram-Nazareth road will attract over 3,000 vehicles
per day from the southern road and relieve congestion on the heavily traf-
ficed western section of this road.
Bat Shlomo - Missaff Amakim (project 11)
The present road between Bat Shlomo and M. Amakirn has a pavement
width of about 5 m and a poor alignment. The connecting road from Zichron
to Bat Shlomo has been improved in recent years to a 7 m wide pavement
and adequate geometric standards. The project will continue these improve-
ments from Bat Shlomo to Missaff Amakim. The improved road would attract



ANNEX
Page 4
traffic between areas south of Zichron and the northern part of the country,
including the industrial areas in the northern suburbs of Haifa. This traf-
fic would then make use of the western section of the present Nazareth -
Haifa road, which will have been relieved of much of its present traffic by
the construction of Project 11. About 30% of the forecast 1974 daily traf-
fic on the flat Shlomo - Yokneam section and about 20% of that on the
Yokneam - Missaff Amakim section will be diverted traffic.
Beit Kama - Beer Sheba (project 12)
The 27 km long road between Beit Kama and Beer Sheba via Eshel
Hanasi is the main highway between Beer Sheba, the principal city in the
southern region of Israel (1968 population: 72,000), and the north and
west of the country. This road has many sharp curves, and sight distance
is restricced over 60% of its length. The project comprises the construc-
tion of a 21 km long two-lane road on a new alignment following the present
railwi.1 line. The reduction of 6 km in length will provide the greater
part of the benefits.



Table 1
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consultants Employed for Feasibility Studies
and Detailed Engineering
Proiect                                                   Feasibility Studies                        Detailed Engineering
1.  Ayalon Expressway                          Cartier-Cote-Piette-Boulva-Wermenlinger (Canada)           Philippe Ewart & Associates
Philippe Ewart & Associates (Canada)                        T.M.D. Engineering Ltd. (Israel)
Water Planning for Israel Ltd. (Israel)                     Yaron-Shimoni Engineering
Economic Consulting & Planning (Israel)                       Services (Israel)
Prof. Kassiff (Israel)
Prof. Yitzhaki (Israel)
Prof. Rowe (U.K.)
Prof. Leisch (U.S.)
Witteveen en Bos (Netherlands)
2.  Ayalon-Ganot-Lod-Ramleh                                           PWD                                  Engineering Services Ltd. (Israel)
3.   Beit Dagan-Ramleh                         Israel Institute for Urban Planning (Israel)                Burrows-Zaslovsky (Israel)
(for interchange only)                                   Katz (Israel) & PWD
PWD
4.   Rishon-Rehovot                                                   PWD                                  Stern (Israel)
5.   Azur Interchange                          Israel Institute for Urban Planning (Israel)                Burrows-Zaslovsky and
Yaron-Shimoni (Israel) and PWD
6.   Geha Interchange                            "                                                         Engineering Services Ltd.
Ami (Israel)
7.   Abir Interchange                                                                                      Engineering Services Ltd.
Prof. Fuchs (Israel) & PWD
B.   Natanya Interchange                         "                             "         "                 Engineering Services Ltd.
Yaron-Shimoni & PWD
9.   Ra'anana-Beit Lid                                                PWD                                  PWD
10.  Shefar Am-Nazareth                                               PWD                                  Burrows-Zaslovsky & PWD
11. Bat Shlomo-Missaff Aimakia                                        PWD                                  PWD
12.  Beit Kama-Beer Sheba                                             PWD                                  PWD
Source: PWD and Netivey Ayalon Ltd., December 1970.
NOTE:    The consultants Nachson (Israel) not mentioned in the list have conducted Origin and
Destination Surveys and other traffic studies for Projects 2 - 12.
June 4, 1971



Table 2
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Distribution of Traffic between Road and Rail
Freight Traffic: million ton-km
YEAR                ROAD         %           RAIL          %          TOTAL
1965               1,200        79            325         21           1,525
1966               1,300        81            305         19           1,605
1967               1,400        83            293         17           1,693
1968               1 550        79            402         21           1,952
1969               1,700        80            435         20           2,135
Passenger Traffic: million pass -km
YEAR               ROAD          %           RAIL          %           TOTAL
1965              12,170        96.9          394          3.1        12,564
1966              13,077        97.3          358          2.7        13,435
1967              15,831        97.9          342          2.1        15,173
1968              17,884        98.1          341          1.9        18,225
1969              21,726        98.4          350          1.6        22,076
Source:  Ministry of Transport, December 1970
February 22, 1971



Table 3
I S R A E L
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Revenues from Motor Vehicle Taxation
(million IE)
1/
1967/68        1968/69        1969/70         1970/71
Purchase                       85               158            225
Annual Registration            77                91            117
Current Operation
(fuel and spare parts)        202               223            259             265
Total                         364               472            601
Estimated (fuel tax only)
oource: Ministry of Finance, December 1970.
February 22,1971



Table 14
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway System by Jurisdiction
(cf T    t
GOVERNMENT           LOCAL
YEAR      GOVERNMENT   & LOCAL AUTHORITY   AUTHORITY   PRIVATE          TOTAL
1961        3,073              744             2,755       103          6,675
1964         3,129             756             3,590       227          7,702
1965         3,143             790             3,715       231          7,879
1966        3,158              799             4,077       337          8,371
1967         3,173             830             4,109       406          8,518
1968         3,270             909             4,316       3h3          8,838
1969         3,273             985             4,612       216          9,086
Source:   Statistical Abstract of Israel 1970
February 2, 1971



TABLE g
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWJAY PROJECT
Length of Paved Interurban Roads, by Width (kn)
1950      1965      1968      1970
All paved roads                   1,473      2,988     3,223     3,239
of which:
3 m wide                         140        429       386       291
4 m wide                         443       854        813       699
5-7 m wide                       890     1,604      1,877     2,061
14-21 m wide (multi-lane)          -        101       147       188
SoUrce: PID, December 1970
May 12, 1971



rp' it,e 6
1SRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY Pl(OJECT
Motor Vehicle Fleet!"
Year     Private Cars    Trucks2/   Buses    Taxis    Special-/    Tot_._l
1-960      23,98u0        21,453      2,39l    2,477        8i1-5      51., i 
1'63       60,5$61        31,930      2,927    2,513       ,25-3       9,206t
1()f5   80,2?6  h1,1v318  3,211    ?,r96      1,398       128,779
1966       88,829         45,032      3,389    2,702      1,521       JAI,6473
1967       96,565         67,286      3,5S1    2,692      1,761 a.1.S,5
1968      1o09,807        49,86i8     3,715    2,833      1,697       1 67,)900
3I69      131,31]         5y,'568     3,982    3,209      1,913       197,984
1970      14 l5,570       63,810      4,150    3,500      2,000       219,030
Average Annual Growth Rates %:
3960-70     19.8            11.5        5.6      3.5       9.4          15.6
196o-65     27.3            16.0        6.0      0.9      13.4          20.0
1965-70     12.6             9.0        5.2      6.l       7.6l         11.2
/  Figures through 1966 refer to March 31 arid, thereafter, to December 31,
2/ Including tractors and semi-trailer combinations.
3/ Ambulances, sanitary- vehicles, etc.
V/ Bstimated.
Source:  (1)  Statistical Abstract of Israel , 1970
(2)  Ministry of Transport, December 1970
February 2, 1971



Table 7
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Truck Fleet by Load Capacity (Tons) and Fleet Type
up
20.0+   15.0-19.9   10.0-14.9   6.0-9.9   3.0-5.9   1.0-2.9  to 0.9  All trucks
1965
ALL TRUCKS      607       103          803      3,765      6,039      9,325   16,172      36,814
Gasoline        34         13          43        392      4,627      9,185   16,063      30,357
Fuel Oil       573         90         760      3,373       1,L412      140      109       6,457
1966
ALL TRUCKS      647         86         782      4,303       5,238    10,457   23,519      45,032
Gasoline        28         14          27        253       3,797    10,364   23,449      37,932
Fuel Oil       619         72         755      4,050       1,441        93       70       7,100
1967
ALL TRUCKS      667         78         762      4,318       5,134    10,834   25,493      47,286
Gasoline       22          9          16        207       3,701    10,738   25,427      40,120
Fuel Oil      645        69          746      4,111      1,433         96       66       7,166
1968
&  TRUCKS       723        82          731      4,387      4,945    11,604   27,374       49,846
Gasoline       19         a           14        148       3,520    11,506   27,316     42,531
Fuel          704         74         717      4,239      1,425         98       58       7,315
1969
ALL THIJ(OKS    858         98         809      5,145       5,129    14,388   31,141      57,568
Gasol ine      ]."         7          13        139       3,612    1)4,293   31,086    49,169
Fuel Oil      839        91          796      5,oo6      1,517         95       55       8,399
Source: Statistical Abstract of Israel, 1970
Februdrv 2, I1)71



Table 8
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Civil Motor Fuel Consumption (Metric Tons)
Gasoline               Diesel              Total
1960                    162.7                 105.7                268.4
1961                    179.0                 126.7                3(05.7
1962                    188.0                 152.0                340.0
1963                    205.9                 166.1                372.0
1964                    240.o                 177.0               417.0
1965                    264.2                 198.9                463.1
1966                    274.8                  203.7               478.5
1967                    284.2                 215.8                500.0
1968                    329.6                  261.2               590.8
1969                    369.2                 307.4                676.6
1970 (estimate)         405.5                  345.0               750.5
Average Annual growth rates (%)
1960-70                   9.5                  12.5                 10.8
1960-65                  10.2                  13.5                 11.5
1'965-70                  8.9                  11.6                 10.1
Source: Ministry of Finance, October 1970



Table 9
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Public Highways (IE.1,O0O)
JOINT GOVERNMENT
GOVERNMENT                  AND LOCAL AUTHORITY         TOTAL
Repairs &
Construction   Safety                     Construction
& Repair     Measures    Maintenance   & Repair        Maintenance
1961/62      3,420          2,010         9,940           600           300       16,270
196h/65     30,566          2,216        1Q,224        4,202            804       48,012
1965/66     41,959          3,709        11,225        5,537            750       63,180
1966/67     39,786          2,878        15,846        4,188          1,746       64,44
1967/68     58,175          1,938        23,515        3,695          1,277       88,600
i968/69     58,416          2,314        19,95o       13,573         11,374      105,627
1969/70     4p,L461         2,120        21,130       31,740          8,209    :Li?,60
F'rec-ast4*
1970/71     61,o500         6,000        21,500       25,000         12,000      129,000
1971/72     70,000          7,000        22,000       56,ooo         12,000      167,000
1972/73     80,000          7,000        23,000       6o,oo0         13,000      183,000
1973/74     8,-)000         8,000        2b,000        65,ooo        13,000      190,000
1974/75     90,000         10,000        25,000        5O,000        15,000      190,000
*  Ministry of Finance forecast.
Source: (1) Statistical Abstract of Israel 1970.
(2) R3ank of Israel, October 1970.
Notes:    (1) 1970/71 data are budgetary appropriations.
(2) [expenditure on joint Governmoent and Local Authority
roads includes the participation of both bodies.
June 4, 1971



Table 10
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Standards for Gemnetric Design of National Highways
Elements                                   Design Speed (km/h)
30     40    50    60       80     100     110     120
Minimum Radius of
Horizontal Curve (m)    25      45     70   110    350      600      750     900
Maximum Vertical Grade
(%)                     10.9   10.0    8.0  6.5    5.0      4.0     3.5     3.5
Minimum Radius Crest
Vertical Curve (m)     1,000  1,500  2,000  3,000 5,000  9,000   16,000  20,000
Minimum Radius Sag
Vertical Curve (m)       500  1,000  1,500  2,000  3,000  5,000    8,000  10,000
Maximum Supereleva-
tion (%)                 8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    5.0    h.5       4.5   4.3
Minimum Stopping Sight
Distance (m)              30     50     70    90    145    210        250    265
Minimum Passing Sight
Distance (m)              -      -      -     350    450    600       720    800
Lane Width on Tangents
(m)                     3.00   3.00   3.00   3.25   3.60   3.60     3.60   3.75
Shoulder A&dth (m)       1.50   1.50   1.50   2.00   2.00   3.00     3.00   3.00
Source: PWD, December 1970
February 2, 1971



Table 11
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roads to be Constructed and Cost Estimates
Cost Estimatei/
Project                                                   No. of       (in millions)
No.              Pro,ject                    Len th    Lanes       It          US$
(equivalent
1       Ayalon expressway (first phase)       7.5      2 x 2      96.0       27.4
2       Ayalon-Ganot-Lod-Ramleh              18.5      2 x 2      35.0       10.0
3       Beit Dagan-Ramleh                      9.1     2 x 2      20.4        5.8
4       Rishon-Rehovot                        6.o      2 x 2       4.5        1.3
5       Azur interchange                               2 x 2      10.5        3.0
6       Geha interchange                               2 x 2       6.3        1.8
7       Abir interchange                               2 x 2       4.5        1.3
8       Natanya interchange                            2 x 2       7.1        2.0
9       Ra'anana-Beit Lid                    17.0      2 x 2      13.5        3.9
10       Shefar Am-Nazareth                    22.0       2        12.0        3.4
11       Bat Shlono-Missaff Amakim             20.0       2         8.8        2.5
12       Beit Kama-Beer Sheba                 20.7                 12.8        3.7
Total          121.0                231.4       66.1
1/  As of July 1970.  Excluding contingencies.
June 4, 1971



Table 12
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                                 Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                         at end of Quarter
(US$ thousands)
1971/72
December 31, 1971
March 31, 1972                                                0,100
June 30, 1972                                                 0,300
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                            1,300
December 31, 1972                                             3,400
March 31, 1973                                                6,100
June 30, 1973                                                 9,100
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                           12,100
December 31, 1973                                            15,400
March 31, 1974                                               19,400
June 30, 1974                                                22,600
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                           24,000
December 31, 1974                                            25,600
march 31, 1975                                               27,300
June 30, 1975                                                28,100
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                           29,000
December 31, 1975                                           30,000
May 12, 1971



Table 13
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on Project Roads and Economic Rates of Return
First    Internal
Year     Economic
Project                                                                        Benefit 9.turn
No.          Project                     Average Daily Traffic                 (      (20 years)
1965             1969              1974
1.   Ayalon Expressway          -                 -             40,000  )
(first phase)                                                     )    20          22
2.  Ayalon-Ganot-Lod-           -                6, OOCr        28,000  )
Ramleh
3.   Beit Dagan-Ramleh         7,000        16-18,000        12-28,000        17         25
4.  Rishon-Rehovot             8,000            12,500          19,000        15         27
5.  Azur interchange             -              58,ooo          58,ooo00      10          18
6.   Geha interchange         24,000            38,000          61,000        12          24
7.   Abir interchange            -              25,000          40,000        20         33
B.   Natanya interchange      15,000            30,000          48,000        14          26
9.   Ra'anana-Beit Lid         4,500             8,0O0 /        13,000        25          26
10.   Shefar Am-Nazareth          -                600            3,7005/      14         17
11.   Bat Shlomo4¶issaff   600-2,000       1,200-3,000      3,250-5,200        10          14
Amakim
12.   Beit Kama-Beer Sheba        -                 _             5,600        19          22
1/ In some instances, 1963 or 1964 data.
2/ Only part open to traffic Summer 1970 and restricted to light traffic.
/ Part of existing traffic diverted to projects 1 and 2.
' 4/1970.
5/ Including 3,000 diverted.
June 15, 1971



Table L4
ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs (Net of Taxes) Agorot per km
Speed kmhr      Car        Taxi     Lt. Commercial        Bus         Truck
24         31.9      65.4           60.9            336.2        107.5
32         25.4      50.8           48.2            257.7         95.4
40         22.7       41.8          401            209.5         85.0
48         19.0      36.1           36.0            178.4         81.7
56         17.1       32.7          31.3            156.3         78.3
64         16.2       29.1          28.9            140.7         78.9
72         15.2      26.8           26.9            128.1         79.1
80         14.8       25.2          25.6            120.0         83.5
88         14.4       23.9          24.5            113.7         88.6
97         14.3       23.0          24.0            108.6         94.1
105         14.4       22.3          22.2
Source: PWD, December 1970
June 9, 1971



ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
MINISTER
DEPUTY MINISTER|l
PUBLIC RELATIONS                         DIRECTOR -GENERAL                              LEGAL ADVISOR
| DEPUTY      |-|DIRECTOR GENE L|
AUDITOR
ECONOMIC                                          TRAFFIC                                     CII  VATION
AND PLANNING                                      MANAGEMENT                                            RATION          AEL RA  AYS
DEPARTMENT                                       DEPARTMENT
SHIPPING                              LCNIGMTOOOIA
AND PORTS                             SIESNEEORVICE                                                                  LOD AIRPORT
DEPARTMENTS                            DEPARTMENT                                                 SERVI
August, 1970                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD - 5222 (2R)






ISRAEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF LABOR AND PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
MINISECNC
AUDITO                        ADMIISTRAIONEROTORBUGDING
F  YOUTH ~ ~ ~ DEUT
=11IN                                        D3ATM''
E         AUDITORA D MINI IM ATENRIALS         O PERATIO NS            PLA N N IN G
AND RESEARCH                                     & DESI1GN
CLENTRATCYL              MAINTENANCE  |           PRELIMINARY 
RESEARCH               RECONSTRUCTION |       B RI DGE DETAILED|
Q UALITY CONTROL|              NEW               ROADSDE55DETAILED|
COORDINATIONDNAI~LE
| SOUTHERN DISTRICT |      | NORTHERN D STRICT                A   DR                     CENTRL  DIS                 JERUSALEM DISTRICT
|MAINTENANCE           CONSTUCTIO           TECHNICAL BUREAU|
A,go, 1970
IBED - 5221 (2R)






MAP I
34-                 ISRAEL                       35              LEBANON                ,-    $
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                              Metull
GENERAL LOCATION MAP
-        Existing main roads                       ,
Existing secondary roazds             Sizet p !/ 
*    Interchonges in project
-33'       Roads in project
Roads in First Highway Project       Akk hJ 
.-.---- Railways                                                       a                   >.
---I948Ce ase-fireline                 HAIFA          Shfor-An4,  u   east
O       I0      20      30      40                   n
MILES
o0 to    0   30   40   50                                        fl
KILOMETERS                Zcr
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
M          terrN    a n  5          i-n
TEL NVTD 
ARAB~~~~Y
NessZio,f            o ne   
Ashdodc< 
LEBANON  -~ 'YRIA       /LEM
ISRAELic ff                    9 N  
/\}        $U(ir~yat Gat,      
Gaza/             ir     f iebr~~~~"onEi  f, dl r
/;it~~~~~Dm Kom       /                    eiS .
Af7 J0DN-z                                               ) 
Eilt    irO         ron frs
UNITED 1                                                                            IR-54
REPUBL IC                  -<
LESA NOt   SYRIA 4    v-0-
UWdRer,.,,.a.z   ,f            w  Rftg
I SRAELg   J    R O ANq - b                 
t1 Av R ) \ < l #/ jif rr e~~~~l Y .ar,1 t f"fl vWd rh intrbe rrprehd to
{\1 SltF/ t/  ;    AUDt                            ipl D,  h pt,y0- okit. by Axs l4nfmlrrl
)\S   It-   ~ARA8tA             .:. r              kefor R.0rtd-vcl-nOcId    en
\kX>gy                     \X°~~~~           ~~Aqoab   9t  ofsiwn
JUNE 1971                                                                                IBRD-3154RI






MAP 2
43'  I SR A EL                                                         0                                                      i-   SYRIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECTAIAJ y -\ 
PROJECT ROADS                                                                                                                0 h f r- mITiei ,
Existing main roads                                                                   1  0J                               
Existing secondory roads                                 /          \Misaff Amak                     J       |                           X
Interchanges in project|                                   t                          _                                           1         .
-    Roads in project                       1/                                                       z rt                                   X
*-1948 Cease-fire linie |21(/h1 t
Zichro      n        o BatShlomotst
MIlLES /t ~t,r'4 2
0           1020                   310         40          ,                                             Jnr              ;  
KILOMETER1S                            j|Htr                                                               - 
This ..;, is given for qe.graphic.l orienruion  / l(Y \  
or,y ond no Feotv,e should be inte,preted to          I                                    ,     
imply o poDsition f.k.,, by th. lm-teroionol      X\f                                       
f8onk for R.costr-tlio,, nd De-elopm-nf or  Natanya                                                                              L      <\ ~ \t   
irS ffil;.tes os to -ont.esf  bo-ndries.        q                    !/t                                             * 
M,e d ite rrran e an S e a                                       i           ,,                            -                        , 
TEL A8fVIV                      tal     i;qva/ %                                                           Z   ^
2                                 j    Zl           DogSn              r                   (  vrtlAFO3I
-3                                                                                                                                             3 '
Ashklon><                  > ¢ P)>lmacth '  
/  /S      r-l~es-Zi-f               c, m, eh 
/   //(   /     >    to;~0Kiryat Got   --                        J|                                    Dcd 
-31'30/6l>\t---<v   1          )rfy            X                                        _                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31°, 0'-
2 j B~~~~~~elt K.7a                                                                        $                               _/// $Edin7|
< >    \                 =  ~~~~~~~~~Aad    1!
<    ~        ~~~ eer Sheb           a-)                                                     (  
JUNE 1971                                                                                                                                        IB,3s       t \1RD-3155RI






,  ^   __= |-   orgor  \   1r|4    _   8        BldE    ERAQ      6 GEHA
t 3g W~TEL    AV
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r I VAA GI A A            I M /| 
YAFO                                                                                             /            L                           -
p' //J \gRAY/PA                  =   |                     /
BAT                                                                               >/ 
R~~~~~~~~~~~P
,'  BAT  YAM              §|HOLON                                                                      >      O
- X    11}                      / I    /    \~~~~/    2
L.
I     1/ 
/   RISHON/                                  ISR AEL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
II                                /            \   /                    TEL AVIV-AYALON EXPRESSWAY
4       PROJecT NUMBERS
EXISTINIG MAN1 ROADS
,>,        _         _  =  =  =  =    (P/// 7                 ~          _  _  _   _FUTRE MAIN ROADS
AEALON EXPRESSWAY
/ |      |                        ,/        NT~~~~~~~~~~/EecHANGEs Ir, PROJECT
I!                       /    |                    |                   = _  _  =- RFUTRE EXRRESSWAY
DFuURE NTERC.ANGES
TO A 5HDOD                                .............. CROAD IMPRCEMENTS INl CONNECTION
P0 ASA/DOD                       /                     |                                   V -H THE AYALON EXPRESSWAY
.     , EX15TING PA LWAYS
P045//A/D PREt/                       o-or/A                      A UTURE RAILWAY EXTENSION              P;
REGULA'OTJN CAPAL -AYALON CREEK
-             M-N-C-PNNICIAL  D ARIES



