Dnomm   of
The World Bank
FoR OFIMCL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4295-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 8.7 MILLION
TO 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
April 24, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of December 18, 1985)
Currency Unit      - Nepalese Rupees (Rs)
US$ 1.00      - Rs 20.8
Rs  1.00      - US$0.05
ABBREVIATIONS
ADBN  -  Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
BTI   -  Bankers Training Institute
CGC   -  Credit Guarantee Corporation
cDB  -  Cottage Industry Development Board
CIED  -  Cottage Industry Export Division
CMDE  -  Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium
CSI   -  Cottage and Small Industry
CTA   -  Chief Technical Advisor
DCVI  -  Department of Cottage and Village Industries
EDP   -  Entrepreneurship Development Program
EEE   -  Exporters' Exchange Entitlenent
ESC   -  Export Service Center
GIZ   -  German Technical Corporation
RMG   -  His Majesty's Government
NAB   -  Nepal Arab Bank, Ltd.
NBL   -  Nepal Bank Ltd.
NIDC  -  Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
NMTC  -  Nepal Metal Trading Company
NRB   -  Nepal Rastra Bank
NWTC  -  Nepal Wool Trading Company
PCI   -  Participating Credit Institutions
PDC   -  Product Development Center
PONf  -  Products of Nepal
PCU   -  Project Coordination Unit
RBB   -  Rastriya Banijya Bank
ENAC  -  Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation
SBPP  -  Small Business Promotion Progran
TA    -  Technical Assistance
TPC   -  Trade Promotion Center
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
EEG/Financial Institutions: July 16 to July 15



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Proiect Svmarv
Boxrower             : Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiaries        : Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB), Nepal Bank Limited (NBL)
and the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN).
Amount               :IDA Credit SDR 8.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent).
Tenns                : Standard
Cofinancinr          : UNDP would provide a grant of US$1.8 million on a
parallel basis.
Relendiur Terms      : The Government would relend about US$7.6 million of
the IDA Credit to the Nepal Rastra Bank (NBB) at a
rate of not more than 3.25 percent per annum repayable
over 14 years, including three years of grace. NRB
would use these funds to refinance at a rate of not
more than 6.75 percent per annum subloans made to
cottage and small-scale industries by participating
credit institutions, Subloans to cottage and small-
scale industrial borrowers would be at the greater
of 13.5 percent per annum or the maximum deposit rate
set by JIB and paid by participating credit institu-
tions. Repayment would range from two to seven years,
including from 9 months to two years of grace. The
Goverument would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives  : The proposed project would support the Government's
objectives of development of efficient industries,
export growth, and increasing output, export earnings
and employment in small and cottage industries.
Project DescriRtion : The proposed project would: (i) finance private
projects in cottage and small industries through the
financial system; (ii) strengthen the term-lending
capability of participating credit institutions (PCIs)
and upgrade overall operations of two coxmercial
banks; (iii) strengthen public and private agencies in
providing marketing, raw material supply and training
services to Cottage and Small Industries (CSIs); and
(iv) support improvements in policy and procedures to
foster efficient industrial investment. The ultimate
beneficiaries would be Cottage and Small Industries
(CSIs), marketing agents servicing CSIs and raw
material supply companies which meet eligibility
IThis docunmnt has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official dutie.ts contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



criteria in 27 districts included in the project area.
About 4,720 subloans would be made by participating
credit institutions to CSI projects. Average cost per
job is estimated to be about uS$900 and the
incremental employment generated under the project
would be about 21,000 jobs. The major risk affecting
maiwfacturing projects in rural areas is uncertain
supplies of raw materials and a weak marketing system.
This risk is expected to be minimized by support
provided under the project to local marketing agents
and the Cottage Industry Handicraft Ehporium. To help
achieve its objective of enhancing exports, the project
provides support for improvement in import and export
procedures, including duty drawback and quota allocation
systems, and for market research and product development.
To help minimize project implementation risks, the
project provides for a full-time chief technical advisor
advisor and supporting exports.
Estiuated Costs
Local          Foreign           Total
--          (US$ Million)-
Subloan Component         8.1              3.8              11.9
Technical Assistance      2.3              3.1               5.4
10.4              6.9             17.3
Financing Plan:
IDA                       4.9              5.1              10.0
UNDP                                       1.8               1.8
Goverment                 1.1                                1.1
CSI Assn.                 2.4                                2.4
PCIs                      2.0                                2.0
10.4             6.9               17.3
Disbursements:
Bank Group Fiscal Year           FY88                   FY91   FY92   FY93
- --------- (US$ Million)                     -
Annmal                     1.5    1.5    2.0    2.5    1.0    1.0    0.5
Cumulative                 1.5    3.0    5.0    7.5    8.5    9.5   10.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff ADDraisal Report: No. 6112-NEP, dated April 11, 1986
Mak:                      IBRD 19604



INTERNATIONAL-DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF IHE PRESIDENT
70 7IE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO TME KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)
8.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Cottage and Small Industries.Project.  The Goverment would relend
about US$7.6 million of the IDA Credit in Rupees to the central bank at a
rate of no more than 3.25 percent per annum repayable over 14 years including
three years of grace, vith the Goverment bearing the foreign exchange risk.
The central bank would lend to participating credit institutions (PCIs) at an
average rate of 6.5 percent per annum, retaining 0.5 percent per annum to
cover administrative costs and 3 percent per annum for credit guarantee.
Repayment by PCIs to the central bank would be at the time that repayments
are made by sub-borrovers. PCIs would charge sub-borrowers a standard annual
interest rate at least equal to 13.5 percent or the maximm annual deposit
rate set by NRB paid by PCIs, whichever is higher. Maturities and grace
periods for subloans would range from two to seven years, including grace
periods of from 9 months to two years. UNDP proposes to provide US$1.8
million equivalent to assist with the financing of the technical assistance
Component.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report, Nepal: Prol!ects for Economic
Adjustment and Growth (Report No. 5867-NEP), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 17, 1985. The principal features and recent
performance of the economy are described below. Country data are shown in
Annex I.
3.      Nepal is one of the least-developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at US$170 (1983) and health and education
standards are well below the average for South Asia. Life expectancy at
birth is about 46 years, infant mortality is about 145 per 1,000 and adult
literacy is only 19 percent. The population, estimated to be 16.3 million
(mid-1984), grew at a rate of about 2.7 percent per year between 1971 and
1984. About 95 percent of the population lives in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land (394 persons per
sq km) has reached very high levels, and cultivation has been extended to
marginal lands and forests. Forests have been denuded further to meet the
growing demand for fuelwood, on which Nepal depends for more than 90 percent



-2-
of its energy consumption, mostly for household cooking and heating. Because
of deforestation and excessive grazing on hills and mountains, when rainfall
is abundant, accelerated soil erosion occurs causing rivers to silt and flood
with consequent loss of agricultural productivity.
5.      Agriculture, largely rainfed, accounts for nearly 60 percent of
Nepal's GDP and merchandise exports and provides the main source of
livelihood to more than 90 percent of the population. Crop production
accounts for about 60 percent of agricultural output, livestock for 30
percent, and forestry for 10 percent.  Apart frm agricultural land, Nepal's
only other important exploitable resources are hydropower and tourism.
Exploitation of its vast hydropower resources will depend upon the
Government's ability to enter into complex agreements with neighboring
countries regarding the use and development of vater resources and the
exchange of water-related benefits. The tourism sector, based primarily on
Nepal's Hiimalayan environment provides about 20 percent of the country's
foreign exchange earnings, but accounts for only about 1 percent of GDP.
6.      Following ceuturies of self-imposed isolation, efforts to develop the
economy of Nepal began in the mid-1950s-a time when the country had
virtually no physical infrastructure, an ancient administrative system, and
very limited educational and health services. Between 1955 and 1975, the
country's primary development goal was to build basic infrastructure and
provide a basis for future economic growth. Reasonably good progress has
been made. A basic road network now exists. Schools accornodating almost
half of the children of primary school age have been built, as bave a nmber
of secondary schools and a national university.  A rudimentary hospital
system, including rural health posts, has also been established. Then, in
the Fifth Five-Year Plan the Government shifted its development objectives to
stress accelerating economic growth and creating employment, as well as
raising living standards. These objectives were reiterated in the Sixth Plan
(FY81-FY85) and in the Seventh Plan (FY86-FY90), which also appropriately
assigned high priority to developing agriculture, mall-scale industries and
Nepal's abundant water resources. Additionally, both Sixth and Seventh Plans
stressed the need to conserve soil, control population growth, make better
use of existing infrastructure, expand absorptive capacity and develop human
resources. But despite rapid expansion of development expenditures,
supported by growing foreign assistance, from US$103 million (7 percent of
GDP) in FY75 to US$421 million (18 percent of GDP) in FY85, per capita real
income grew at only 0.5 percent annually during this period.
7.      The country's difficult terrain, landlocked position, and poor
natural resource base have contributed to its disappointing economic
performance. Other important factors are the Government's severely limited
capacity to manage the economy and to administer rapidly expanding
development programs.
8.      Over the past ten years, public expenditures have continued to grow
faster than revenues, with increasing shares of the growing budget deficits
financed by aid flows. The situation deteriorated sharply, starting in FY83
when large unanticipated emergency expenditures due to a drought necessitated
recourse to significant domestic bank borrowings. The budget position has
remained unstable since then, and the continued reliance on domestic bank
financing has created inflationary pressures. Serious balance of payments



-3-
problems have also emerged in the past three years as the cumulative result
of a decade of poor economic managenent, as characterized by low real GDP
growth, and dwindling agricultural surpluses for export. The external
payments position remained precarious in FY84 and FY85, with the country
continuing to lose foreign exchange reserves. By June 1985, gross official
interDational reserves bad declined to the equivalent of 1.6 months of
imports compared with the peak of 6.2 months at the end of FY82.
9.      To restore financial stability, the Government needs urgently to step
up domestic resource mobilization while stringently controlling the growth of
expenditures in order to reduce domestic bank borrowings. As a result of
efforts to improve income tax assessment and collection and to apply indirect
taxes, revenues have steadily increased, but the tax structure remains
inelastic and narrowly based. Itmediate reform should be geared to
rationalizing the structure of taxation and widening the tax base, for
example, by reducing income tax exemptions and deductions and eliminating
sales t;z rate differentials between imported and domestically-produced
goods.
10.     To control expenditure, the Government must contain the growth of
wages and salaries, now the largest component in the regular budget. A
freeze on further civil service hiring is required over the next few years.
Iaplicitly, selective redeployment of positions is also required in order to
achieve priority objectives in some sectors. Also, in the wake of a hefty
35 percent general salary increase introduced in FY85, no increases should be
allowed in the Seventh Plan period. Additionally, public enterprise reform
must be pursued in order to reduce subsidy and transfer payments to public
corporations, some of which are causing a serious drain on the budget.
Development expenditures should be directed toward activities that will
produce economic results efficiently and quickly. To this end, existing
prodactive capacity and infrastructure need to be strengthened to increase
the-ir usage, for example, through measures to improve operations and maintain
roads and irrigation canals. Resources for new investments should be
directed to activities that will earn additional foreign exchange for the
economy within short gestation periods. To lessen the burden of counterpart
funding, the Government should take a critical look at the pipeline of
ongoing operations and re-evaluate the returns to the economy of completing
each project. Tough decisions will likely be required to postpone, re-design
or cancel any ongoing project that does not measure up to the criteria
applied.
11.     Concurrently, additional foreign exchange needs to be generated
through export promotion and efficient import substitution in order to
stabilize the country's precarious external payments position and to
accelerate real GDP growth in the medium to longer term. To improve its
agricultural trade position, the Government's imediate priority should be to
secure an adequate supply of foodgrains (rice, maize, wheat) and principal
food crops (sugar, oil seeds) to eliminate the sporadic requirement for food
imports in years when the monsoon fails. An effort should also be made over
the longer term to promote the export of minor cash crops such as ginger and
cardamom. The key elements to improve agricultural production over the
medium term include: improvements in the supply and distribution of
agricultural inputs; increased access by farmers to credit; investments in
transport, storage and other basic infrastructure to facilitate marketing;



-4-
and a more effective and flexible agricultural pricing policy. The
development of cottage and small industries (CSI, should also receive high
priority over the next few years because of their great potential for earning
foreign exchange. Currently, the output from CSI, such as carpets,
ready-made garments, and handicrafts, accounts for 30 percent of Nepal's
total merchandise exports. In recent years, the Government has legislated a
wide range of fiscal and administrative incentives to stimulate private
investment in CSI as well as the export of CSI products. Implementation of
these measures, together with the alleviation of severe transport and transit
constraints, constitute essential elements of ar export trade promotion
strategy for Nepal.
12.     In late 1985, the Government took major first steps toward
stabilizing, and stimulating growth of, the economy. Effective November 30,
1985, the Nepalese Rupee was devalued by about 14 percent. Subsequently, the
Government introduced a financial stabilization program as part of a 13-month
standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. Major features of
the program are: (a) maintenance of a flexible exchange rate policy; (b)
restraints on public regular and development expenditures; (c) strengthened
tax administration to help redrce the budget deficit; (d) restraint on the
creation of domestic credit, especially bank credit to the public sector; (e)
maintenance of key bank deposit rates at positive real levels; (f) increases
in the prices charged by public enterprises and a reduction in the subsidies
received by then; (g) restraint on external commercial borrowing; (h)
increased numbers of licenses for commercial imports; (i) abolition of a 10
percent cash subsidy on exports; and (j) a number of procedural and
institutional reforms liberalizing and rationalizing the trade and exchange
regime.
13.     The tasks that Nepal must undertake to address its multiple long-term
development problems are challenging. While it attempts to mobilize domestic
resources to finance about 40-50 percent of development expenditures,
external assistance at concessional terms will continue to play an important
role in financing investment and achieving economic growth. In the last
three years, aid commitments to Nepal have averaged US$250 million per year,
and have almost entirely been in the form of grants or concessional credits
with grant elements exceeding 70 percent. Gross disbursements grew from
about US$130 million in FY81 to US$165 million in FY85. Nearly 70 percent of
total aid disbursements have come from members of the Nepal Aid Group, formed
in 1976 and now comprising eight Developing Assistance Committee (DAC)
countries and four multilateral agencies.
14.     By December 1984, Nepal's official foreign debt outstanding and
disbursed amounted to about US$430 million. As virtually all loans have been
concessional, debt-service payments, including payments .o the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), have remained small in relation to exports of goods and
services: in FY85, debt-service payments amounted to about US$17 million,
equivalent to 5 percent of exports of goods and services. These payments
over the medium term, are anticipated to remain at about 7 percent of Nepal's
exports of goods and services.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in 1969 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 36
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$547.7 million equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank loans have
been made to Nepal. Five sectors account for about 90 percent of IDA credits
by amount: (i) irrigation/agriculture (US$192.0 million for 16 projects);
(ii) power and energy (US$168.0 million for four projects); (iii) highways
(US$67.0 million for three projects); (iv) water supply and sewerage (US$46.8
million for three projects); and (v) telecommunications (US$41.7 million for
four projects). Since the mid-1970s, three IDA credits have been extended
for the industrial sector, one of which was a first CSI project for US$6.5
million in FY82. The proposed credit of US$10.0 million would be the first
to be approved in FY86. IFC has made three investments in Nepal, the first
in FY75 (US$3.1 million) for the expansion of the Soaltee Hotel in Katbmandu,
the second in FY82 (DM 14.5 million) to Nepal Orind Magnesite Company for the
mining and production of dead burnt magnesite, and a third approved in FY84,
but not yet signed, to Nepal Metal Company (DM 7.8 million), a zinc/lead
mining and concentrates project. Annex II contains a summary statement of
IDA credits and IFC operations as of March 31, 1986.
16.     Bank Group lending to Nepal so far has been modest compared to the
country's need for external assistance. The international community has
shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and, to date, a
shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck. The main constraint on
the use of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive capacity which
has retarded the pace of project preparation and implementation. The Bank
Group has provided assistance to the Government in project preparation
through two Technical Assistance credits (Cr. 659-NEP and Cr. 1379-NEP) and
by acting as Executing Agency for a nmber of technical assistance projects
financed by UNDP. Project completion reports have been prepared for seven
projects: First Telecommunications (Cr. 166-NEP), First Highways
(Cr. 223-NEP), Tourism (Cr. 291-NEP), Birganj Irrigation (Cr. 373-NEP),
Settlement Project (Cr. 505-NEP), Bhairawa-Lumbini Irrigation (Cr. 654-NEP),
and the First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP).
17.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has attached particular
importance to agriculture, forestry, and human resource development. The
primary objective of agricultural lending is to increase production with a
view to maintaining self-sufficiency in foodgrains, particularly in the
hills, and to achieving larger surpluses for exports. Investments aimed at
improving the supply of inputs and strengthening support services to maximize
benefits from existing infrastructure and equipment are being emphasized. In
forestry, the principal focus is on reforestation efforts at the community
level. Investments in agriculture and forestry would need to be supplemented
by effective programs to control population growth, particularly in the hill
areas where a rapidly growing need for food, fuelvood, and fodder is causing
serious environmental degradation. In education and training, objectives are
to improve the quality of primary education, as well as to increase the
supply of trained technical manpower for greater efficiency in public
administration. In other sectors, Bank Group investment assistance would
complement growth in productive capacity. Accordingly, support of the energy



-6-
sector, vhich previously absorbed a significant portion of lending, would be
maintained, but increasingly as a source of technical assistance and as a
catalyst for mobilizing additional external resources. In transport and
comunications, technical assistance through sector work would be combined
with selected interventions designed to help integrate the country's
disparate regions and to improve access to markets and supplies in rural
areas.
18.     The development of the industrial sector would contribute to export
promotion and import substitution. The objectives of Bank Group assistance
include assistance on policy formulation, improving industrial performance
and, in some cases, restructuring public sector enterprises, as vell as
developing more effective procedures for export pronotion. Experience
indicates that scope exists for successfully developing selected product
groups such as leather and leather -oods, light engineering products,
handicrafts, processed agricultural goods, building materials, and some
consumer products. Appropriate balance will be sought between efficient
investments with quick returns and slow-yielding inwestments that are
critical to the country's long-term development.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
19.     Role of Industry.  Nepal's industrial sector is small and
undeveloped. Industrial development is constrained by the limited natural
resource base, small effective domestic denand, lack of technical and
managerial skills and a geographical position that isolates Nepal fram raw
materials and markets. About 63 percent of industrial value added is
contributed by construction and mining and about 37 percent by manufacturing
of predominantly consumer goods (footwear, textiles, processed foods),
construction materials and simple assembly itens. Large scale manufacturing
is the domain of public enterprises located in or near Kathmandu Valley as
well as in the low-lands of Nepal known as the Terai. Public enterprises
contribute only 13 percent of manufacturing value-added. The private sector,
concentrated mainly in small and cottage industries, produces 87 percent of
manufacturing value-added. Outside Kathmandu Valley, cottage industries
service the rural subsistence economy, providing woolen goods, cotton
handloom textiles, food, and simple wooden and metal products.
20.     While the bulk of the country's agricultural exports is directed to
India, 70-75 percent of manufactured exports, go to other countries, the
largest potential markets. Total exports to countries other than India
increased from less than US$3 million in FY82-83 to more than US$60 million
in FY84-85. Cottage and small-scale industrial exports, broadly defined as
including carpets, garments and handicrafts, accounted in 1980/81 for about
30 percent of overseas exports, while leather (hides and skins) contributed
22 percent and jute-based exports 20 percent. By 1984/85, CSI exports
accounted for about two-thirds of total overseas exports with carpets and
garments occupying close to 97 percent of the CSI share.
21.     The Seventh Five-Year Plan (FY85-90) calls for increased support for
the development of cottage and small-scale industries to supplement rural
incomes and employment and to expand non-traditional exports. In March 1982,



-7-
IDA approved a project, (Cr. 1191-NEP), to support the development of CSIs
serving local and export markets. This project, which is scheduled to be
completed in June 1986, has provided direct technical and commercial services
and credit in the private sector as well as training, consultancy and
marketing assistance to Government institutions dealing vith CSIs. With
continued and expanded institutional support for training, credit and market
development, there is scope for increasing cottage industry exports from
urban areas and expanding rural production to produce domestic consumer goods
and labor-intensive intermediates for export.
22.     Industrial Policy and Procedures.  The basic legal and incentive
framework for industries is contained in the 1982 Industrial Enterprise Act
and Foreign Investment and Technology Act. The former specifies licensing
requirements and provides incentives including generous income and excise tax
holidays, based on the size of the enterprise and the value-added it
contributes. It stipulates sales tax and import duty concessions for
imported equipment, machinery and tools for industry, and provides a basis
for tariff protection for import-coapeting industries.  So far, the acts have
had limited effect in promoting private industrial investments and exports.
Investors continue to show strong preferences for trade, real estate and
construction which provide more attractive and rapid returns than industrial
projects.
23.     Inefficient procedures to implement trade and industrial policies
have limited the growth and efficiency of industrial investment. The
industrial incentive system needs to be streamlined. The uncertainty and
inconsistent application of the industrial licensing system create delays in
undertaking new investment, increase risks to entrepreneurs, and create
monopoly profits for successful applicants.  Wbile the average level of
protection is not extremely high, levels of protection are uneven and the
incidence of protection bears little relation to the country's potential
comparative advantage. Tax exemptions are widespread and more generous than
necessary, eroding the tax base without providing an effective investment
incentive. Under the ongoing IDA-assisted Industrial Development Project
(Cr. 1535-NEP), provision has been made for technical assistance to improve
the industrial incertive system.
24.     Industrial public sector enterprises absorb a significant portion of
public sector expenditures. Nany operate at low levels of capacity
utilization and with financial losses. The Government has agreed to an IDA
proposal to study public enterprises with the objective of fornulating
recomendations to improve management systems and the efficiency of their
operations. The study possibly would be financed under an existing IDA
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1379-NEP).
25.     Numerous problems relate to import and export procedures,
particularly as they affect export manufacturers. In spite of the Industrial
Enterprise Act policy to impose only a 1 percent duty on inputs for
industrial production and low sales tax rates, import duties and sales taxes
are levied on many key inputs and are modified and increased on an ad hoc
basis. In its statement of December 1985 on the economic program, the
Government announced its intention to establish an effective bonded warehouse
system to permit duty free access to raw materials and intermediates for
export production (see para 57).



26.     Many imported goods are effectively channeled through Government-
owned or controlled companies, such as National Trading Limited (NTL) and
the Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium (CMUE). In other cases, only one
import license is allowed to a private trader, who then has an effective
monopoly and passes on high prices, as well as sales and excise taxes and
import duties, to industrial users. For wool carpets, which constitute a 22
percent (and growing) share of exports, only one private company is licensed
to import dyes, which currently comnand high prices. More importantly,
imports of raw wool (other than Tibetan wool) are now effectively channeled
through the Nepal Wool Trading Company (IWTC). NWTC has recently followed a
practice of selling cheaper wool from New Zealand and Australia at prices
above cost to help defray the cost of buying more expensive wool from one
group of domestic Tibetan wool traders. NWTC has been denied import licenses
for additional shipments of overseas raw wool unless it purchases and sells
the high-cost Tibetan wool supplied by certain trading groups, even though
Tibetan wool is often available through other sources in the domestic market
at lower prices. Carpet exporters, particularly smaller companies, must bear
the cost of higher overall wool prices. In the case of metal, the Nepal
Metal Trading Company (NM1C) was established to provide metal at low cost,
with import duty and sales tax exemptions, to artisans manufacturing metal
products for export. In practice, however, metal imports have been directed
to domestic utensil manufacturers rather than to artisans making export
products (see paras 59 and 60).
27.     All export shipments are subject to inspection by customs
authorities. Facilities at Tribuvan Airport in Kathmandu are inadequate to
handle the volume of export cargo. The Government recently constructed a
5,000 metric-ton storage facility at the airport, and an access road is under
construction (see para 57).
28.     For numerous products, particularly ready-made garments, which are
the fastest growing export category, an export tax is levied by the Customs
Department and an export "service charge" is levied by the Industrial
Services Center (ISC) for making an evaluation of value-added, as required
under the terms of the Trade and Transit Treaty with India. Additionally,
export licenses are required for most products. The value-added assessment
and export licensing unnecessarily delay the shipment of goods for export,
thereby adding to the administrative costs borne by manufacturers.
29.     Because of Nepal's landlocked position and the inefficiency of
overland transport through India or Bangladesh, many export goods,
particularly fashion items such as ready-made garments with short delivery
times, must be air-freighted to Europe or the United States. Special
Commodity Rates (SCR.) under the International Air Transport Association
(IATA) exist for air cargo from Bombay, India and Dhaka, Bangladesh, offering
discounts of about 40 percent below the best general cargo rates for eligible
items. SCRs 'rom Katbmandu are not available for key export products such as
carpets and garments. In December 1985, the Government announced its
intention to lower freight costs on key export products. Currently Royal
Nepal Airline Coporation's (RNAC) rates are lower than IATA rates, and REG
will continue to look for measures to reduce freight costs (para 57).



-9-
30.     To address the above-mentioned constraints to the expansion of
industrial exports, the Government has announced its intention to modify
existing trade policies and procedures (see para 57).
31.      Industrial Finance.  Nepal's financial sector consists of:  the
central bank (Nepal Rastra Bank [NRB3); three commercial banks; two
specialized financial institutions-the Agricultural Development Bank of
Nepal (ADBN) and the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC); a
provident fund corporation and an insurance company. Two publicly-controlled
coamercial banks, Nepal Bank Ltd. (NBL) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB),
dominate the financial sector, accounting for 75 percent of total assets and
virtually all deposits. 1/
32.      In 1974, the Goverrment initiated a priority sector program,
directing its two commercial banks to land 8 percent of deposits to small
farmers, cottage and small-scale industries, and small-service enterprises.
However, by April 1985, lending under the priority sector program was only 5
percent of total lending. Term lending by the banks effectively began only
under the priority sector program. By April 1985, term loans outstanding
were Rs 290 million; about half the loans vere to CSIs. Direct commercial
bank lending to such clients even on the basis of the priority sector program
has remained limited because the spread on priority sector loans (other than
those loans financed under the first CSI project) is inadequate to provide an
incentive for increased lending. The average cost of funds to banks is about
11 percent and administrative costs average 5-6 percent; the lending rate
under the priority sector program, including CSI loans, is 11 percent. While
the priority sector program is funded by the banks' own resources, subloans
under the first CSI project are refinanced through the central bank,
providing banks a spread of 4-6 percent, making such lending more attractive
to them. About 240 branches of the two national commercial banks are
involved in the priority sector program, including 35 branches handling CSI
project subloans. Subloans under the first CSI project and the priority
sector program have similar terms and conditions, although there is more
enphasis on collateral under the priority sector program.
33.      The Credit Guarantee Corporation (CGC), owned by the central bank and
two national commercial banks (NBL and RBB, respectively), was set up in 1974
to provide credit guarantees to the two commercial banks for priority sector
loans. CGC charges a 1 percent premium on priority sector loans. As of
April 1985, total guarantees outstanding were Rs 160 million; total capital
and reserves were Rs 18 million, or 11.4 percent of exposure. CGC's exposure
far exceeds its ability to cover the risks. A study, financed under the
first CSI project, is underway to analyze CGC and recommend an appropriate
package of technical and financial assistance to strengthen the capital base
and operations of the CGC.
1J Nepal Bank Ltd. (NBL) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) are owned by HM
to the extent of 51 percent and 100 percent respectively.  The third
cammercial bank, the Nepal Arab Bank, Ltd., is owned by Dubai Bank (30
percent), H1G (30 percent), NIDC (10 percent) and private shareholders
(30 percent).



-10-
34.     Lending rates to industry currently range from 11 percent to 17
percent per annum depending on the purpose of the loan and the size of tbe
borrower. NIDC, which extends financing to medium and larger-sized
industrial establishments, charges interest on term loans to industry at
rates of 12 percent per annum for fixed investment and 15-17 percent per
annum for working capital. As mentioned previously (para 32), loans for
fixed investment under the priority sector program, including those under the
first CSI Project, are 11 percent. Interest is currently paid on savings
deposits at the rate of 8.5 percent per annum while rates paid on fixed
deposits range from 4.5 percent per annum for three-month deposits to 13.5
percent per annum for deposits of two years and more. In the period FY79-85,
inflation in Nepal averaged about 11 percent. Current projections of Nepal's
inflation are in the range of 6-9 percent for FY86 and over the medium term.
From the foregoing, it can be concluded that while, in general, interest
rates in Nepal are positive in real terms, a few anomalies exist in the
structure of interest rates that are producing deleterious effects regarding
financial flows and resource allocation. These are: (i) term deposit rates
exceed sectoral lending rates in some cases; (ii) commercial bank spreads,
with the exception of lending under the ongoing CSI project are inadequate on
loans to the priority sector (small farmers, CSI and small service
enterprises), thus creating disincentives in this area; and (iii) lending
rates of the financial institutions are set by sector and have been fairly
invariant which likely is contributing to inefficiencies in intersectoral
resource allocation. The Goveroment is aware of these problems and is
currently preparing a plan of action (see para 49).
IDA Assistance Strategy
35.     While the legislative framework for industrial policies (para 22) has
had limited impact in promoting private large and medium-scale industrial
investments and exports, cottage and small-scale industry exhibit
considerable potential for developing Nepal's relative comparative advantage
in producing low volume-high value cottage industry goods. Bank Group
assistance strategy in the sector is designed to achieve three objectives:
(i) to provide advice in formulating, modifying and implementing industrial
policies for more effective support to prospective private entrepreneurs;
(ii) to consolidate the financial resources and technical assistance already
provided by IDA (through two previous projects Cr. 705-NEP and Cr. 1535-NEP)
to the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation as the main promoter of
large- and medium-scale private industrial investment; and (iii) to continue
to provide financial resources and technical assistance to develop further
the country's comparative advantage in cottage and small-scale industry. The
broader goal is to develop the industrial sector so that it complements the
country's agricultural base, while effectively generating foreign exchange
through increased exports and effective import substitution.
36.     IDA Assistance for Cottage and Small Industries.  The first CSI
project (Cr. 1191-NEP) was designed to assist in establishing a financial and
technical infrastructure to promote and support cottage industry in Nepal.
Under the credit component, which channeled IDA funds through cummercial
banks, the project provided an important opportunity for banks to operate
more professionally and to promote entrepreneurship through project-based
lending rather than relying entirely on collateral. The project introduced
investment r'romotion, project appraisal and supervision of term loans for



-1l-
CSIs. The project also helped upgrade input supply companies and marketing
agents. One of the most rapidly disbursing projects supported by the Bank
Group in Nepal, the credit component (US$4 million), has been committed and
disbursed as projected at appraisal. Approximately 45 percent of lending
under the credit component was to export-oriented industries, such as wool
and metal products; the remainder was for import-substituting activities,
including textiles and agro-based enterprises. About 30 percent of lending
went to rural beneficiaries in the Gandaki Zone, with an average subloan size
of Rs 21,000 (US$1,200 at the exchange rate prevailing then). In Kathmandu
Valley, which received about 70 percent of total lending, the average subloan
size was Rs 39,000 (US$2,200). Of the approximately 2,000 projects financed,
woollen carpets and garments accounted for about 36 percent by amount, cotton
products 21 percent, metal products 6 percent, forest-based products 12
percent, agro-based products 8 percent and others 16 percent. The average
investment per job was Rs 5,368, or US$306. Recovery performance under the
first CSI project was about 45 percent of amounts due when loan collection
began, but with intensified collection efforts, stronger signals from head
office management, and staff incentives based on collection performance,
recovery has increased to about 65 percent and is expected to improve
further.
37.     Export development under the first CSI project was directed by the
Cottage Industry Export division (CIED) of the Government's Trade Promotion
Center, established under the project to assist exporters with market
contacts, product development and expansion of the supply base. Product
specialists, sales and exposure trips for private exporters and a new
overseas promotional and market intelligence office were financed. It was
learned from executing the export development component that adequate time
needs to be allowed for resolving material supply, product design, and
marketing problems particularly regarding new products and production for
export in rural areas. The project introduced a "performance contract"
program, which was intended to induce exporters to obtain products in the
rural hills. But it was unsuccessful for a number of reasons, including poor
management by CIED, limited managerial resources of Kathmandu exporters, and
difficulties in managing rural material supply, quality control, and product
collection from Katbmandu. In the proposed second project, the program to
support rural-based marketing agents as the link between rural producers and
Kathmandu-based exporters would be strengthened.  The Government-sponsored
Products of Nepal (PON) office in New York, now fully staffed, has made
important contributions in product-specific market analysis and feedback to
exporters (especially for wool carpets and garments). PON has arranged for
Nepalese exporters to participate in trade fairs in the United States and
Canada, obtained trial orders for a variety of cottage industry products and
pursued American buyers' contacts with Nepalese manufacturers.
38.     Under the first CSI project, the Cottage Industry Development Board
(CIDB), which had been a shell within the Department of Cottage and Village
Industries (DCVI) of the Ministry of Industry, was activated. CIDB achieved
its quantitative targets for training rural artisans, and CIDB staff were
successful in reaching more remote areas of rural districts. In the first
three years of project implementation, more than 2,000 artisans received
training in producing textiles, woolen carpets and goods, basketry and metal
crafts. About 30 percent of the artisans are employed as a result of CIDB
training, and about 30 percent of CIDB-assisted entrepreneurs successfully



-12-
applied for bank financing for their projects. CIDB emphasized the training
of new artisans, while the original objective had been upgrading the skills
of established artisans. This was because CIDB staff members often had only
rudimentary training, thus their ability to upgrade the skills and product
quality of existing artisans was limited. In the proposed project,
substantial training of CIDB trainers would be provided in order to reinforce
their abilities to upgrade skills of existing artisans. Under the first CSI
project, training courses, planned at headquarters, often did not introduce
and improve skills based on local demand for conumer products. In the
proposed project, planning for training would be based on surveys of local
markets, and CIDB staff would be rotated among product development centers to
provide a greater range of skills in each area. For entrepreneurship
development, small groups of entrepreneurs would be assisted in identifying
products with good local demand and in developing project plans for bank
financing.
39.     The first project strengthened the supply of raw materials by
establishing and financing private import and supply companies for wool and
metal and by assisting the Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium (CMIE) to
expand its operations in procurement and distribution of cotton yarn,
handloam accessories, and textiles in the project area. CMHE tripled the
availability of cotton yarn in Gandaki Zone, provided dyed yarn to rural
areas in collaboration with CIDB, and provided price competition to private
traders, reducing seasonal fluctuations in yarn prices. CMHE maintains large
cotton yarn inventories, and while some branches, such as Pokhara in the
first project area, are profitable in cotton yarn and equipment distribution
as well as handicraft sales, others in Nepal operate at a loss. The proposed
second project would provide technical assistance in inventory and operations
management, and CMHE would continue to be eligible for financing under the
credit component of the project.
40.     The private metal- and wool-importing companies established under
the first CSI project have had a dramatic impact on increasing the
availability and reducing the prices of these raw materials. The NWTC has
imported more than 600 tons of Australian and New Zealand wool, providing a
regular source of wool to complement erratic supplies of Tibetan wool. By
improving availability, raw wool imports reduced the price of Tibetan wool in
the domestic market from about Rs 120/kg in the first year of the project to
about Rs 60/kg in 1985. The NWTC, after long delays in receiving sales and
duty concessions promised by the Goverment, has imported 185 tons of metal
for distribution to artisans and manufacturers. However, abilities of NTC
and NMTC to assist CSI pose constraints which are currently being addressed
(paras. 59 and 60).
41.     Responsibility for project coordination and management under the
first project was vested with the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC),
chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Industry, and comprising high-level
representatives from all implementing agencies and relevant government
departments. The Industrial Services Center (ISC) acted as secretariat to
the PCC, summarizing progress reports of the various implementing agencies
for review and action by the PCC. During the project mid-term evaluation, it
was decided that full-time monitoring and coordination of project activities
was needed, and a small Project Management Unit (PXD) was established,
comprising a full-time chief technical advisor (CTA), support staff, and a



-13-
Joint Secretary from the Ministry of Industry. The PMJ was successful in
easing bottlenecks in project implementation and in getting key government
officials from relevant ministries involved as needed for effective
implementation.  The PMU reports on a regular basis to the Project
Coordinating Committee.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.     The proposed project was appraised in August 1985.  A Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 6112-NEP dated April 11, 1986).is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
March 31 to April 7, 1986. The Nepalese delegation was led by Mr. I.L.
Shrestha, Secretary, Ministry of Industry. A Supplementary Project Data
Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Obiectives. Scope and Financins
43.     Proiect Objectives.  The proposed second CSI project would support
the Government's objectives of development of efficient industries, export
growth, and increasing output, export earnings and employment in small and
cottage industries. The project would provide for improvements in the
overall policy and procedural framework affecting CSI, increase financing for
CSI investments and strengthen the public and private agencies providing
managerial, technical, marketing and other services to CSI.
44.     Project DesiRn and GeomraDhical ScoDe.  The proposed project would
strengthen the credit system by providing institutional support to banks in
order to extend improved banking practices into new geographical areas and to
new artisans. Public agencies supporting training, as well as product and
market development, would be provided with technical and managerial
assistance as would the public and private raw material supply agencies in
order to improve their operations. The project is designed to strengthen the
financial sector by providing technical assistance in project and credit
evaluation and loan administration to improve the overall operations of the
two national commercial banks. In Kathmandu Valley, training and technical
service inputs would be channelled to both export and import substituting
activities; the project would be geared to support the growth of CSI exports
in promising product lines. Outside of Kathmandu Valley, the project would
support product development and distribution networks aimed mainly at local
and regional markets. Effective implementation of trade and industrial
policies would be addressed through technical assistance to the Government
and understandings would be reached on steps to improre import-export
procedures, including those relating to the availability of raw materials and
to duty drawbacks, customs clearance, and export licensing and taxes. The
project would include a total of 27 districts in seven zones in the Central,
Mid-Western and Western Development Regions.
4..     Components:  Major components of the proposed second CSI project are:
(a) Credit: Subloans to eligible CSIs, marketing agents, and raw
material supply companies;



-14-
(b) BankinQ ODerations: & program to improve and upgrade overall
operations of the two national commercial banks, local and foreign
training for CSI officers of the three participating banks, and
strengthening of the central bank CSI Unit;
(c)  Export Development:  An export development program, in which the
Export Service Center (ESC) and New York-based Products of Nepal
office (PON) would carry out product and market development,
including design, production techniques, cost reduction and quality
control; and in which manufacturer/exporter associations would be
strengthened to improve communication and information flows between
industry and Government;
(d)  Policy Reform:  A program to help the Government formulate and
implement improved industrial and export policies;
(e)  Trainiu   and Entrepreneurial Develonment:  A program of extension
services for the training of artisans and entrepreneurial development
to be executed through the Cottage Industry Development Board (CIDB),
as vell as the establishment of a Raw Material Procurement and
Marketing Fund and the provision of technical services to improve the
supply of raw materials and the marketing of rural artisans'
products; and
(f)  Project Management Sunport:  A program to provide management support
and to monitor and evaluate project coaponents, with a Chief
Technical Advisor financed by IDA under the project.
46.     Proiect Costs and Financinz.  The total cost of the project is
estimated to be US$17.3 million with a foreign excbange cost of US$5.2
million. The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 million would finance 58 percent
of total project cost; 74 percent (US$5.1 million) of the foreign exchange
costs and 47 percent (US$4.9 million) of local costs. The remainder of the
costs of the credit component would be met by the participating credit
institutions and sub-borrowers. The remainder of the technical assistance
costs would be financed on a parallel basis through a United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) grant of US$1.8 million. Arrangements are
underway to appoint a suitable executing agency for the UNDP-financed
component. The signing of the UNDP Project Agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit as would the appointment of an entity
acceptable to the Government, UNDP and IDA to execute the UNDP-financed
portion of the project.
The Credit Comnonent
47.     As under the first CSI project, the two national commercial banks,
(BBL and RBB), and the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal, (ADEN), would
make subloans to eligible CSIs, marketing agents and raw material supply
conpanies in the project area. The central bank would use IDA funds to
refinance 80 percent of the subloan amounts. Agreement on the management of
the CSI Refinance Unit was reached during negotiations.



-15-
48.     Onlendina Terms.  The Government would onlend about US$7.6 million of
the proceeds of the IDA credit for the credit component to the central bank
at 3.25 percent per annum for subloans above Rs 40,000, and 2.0% per annum
for subloan amounts up to Rs 40,000, which would provide a margin to the
Government for bearing the foreign exchange risk. The loan would be
repayable in 14 years, including three years of grace. Cottage and small
scale entrepreneurs have inadequate formal credit experience to enable them
to bear the foreign exchange risk. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the central bank would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit. The central bank would lend to
participating credit institutions at 6.75 and 5.5 percent per annum depending
on the size of the subloan, keeping 0.5 percent per annum to cover
administrative costs and 3 percent per annum for the Credit Guarantee Scheme,
which will be administered by the central bank to provide credit insurance
for CSI subloans until the Credit Guarantee Corporation is restructured (see
para 33). The central bank would not bear any foreign exchange or credit
risk. Participating credit institutions would maintain spreads of 8 percent
for subloans up to Rs 40,000, and 6.75 percent on other subloans. These
spreads should provide an adequate return on investment, as administrative
costs averaged 6 percent in the first CSI project and credit risk is
partially covered by the Credit Guarantee Scheme. The participating credit
institutions would charge CSI subborrovers a standard annual interest rate at
least equal to the maximum deposit rate set by NRB, which is currently 13.5
percent. Maturities on subloans refinanced under the Project would be from
two to seven years, iucluding grace periods ranging from nine months to two
years; banks would determine appropriate maturities and grace periods for
each subloan based on the subproject's debt-service capability. The
above-mentioned onlending terms and conditions were agreed at negotiations.
49.     The Government is currently undertaking a review of interest rate
policy with a view to developing a program of appropriate reforms (see para
34). Agreement was reached at negotiations that initial onlending rates
under the proposed project would be set at the greater of 13.5 percent per
annumm or the mximum rate set by NRB on deposits taken by PCIs. Also
discussed during negotiations was the need to raise the lending rate to CSIs
not receiving financing under the proposed project (currently 11 percent) as
well as the lending rate under che ongoing Industrial Development Project
(currently 12 percent). It was understood that EMH intends to bring lending
rates for industry in line with the rate which would prevail under the CSI
Project. It was agreed at negotiations that the lending rates under the
proposed CSI project would be reviewed at least annually to ensure that
interest rates are positive in relation to medium-term inflation projections;
minimum spreads to participating credit institutions are maintained to
provide an adequate return on CSI lending; and lending rates remain at least
equal to maximum deposit rates.
50.     SubDroiect and Subloau Eligibility.  Eligible enterprises would be:
cottage and small industrial enterprises, as defined by the Industrial
Enterprise Act of 1982, engaged directly in manufacturing; raw material
supply companies; firms providing commercial services to CSI units in rural
districts and CIRE, NWTC and NNTC subject to specific conditions which were
agreed at negotiations (paras. 59 and 60). Project appraisal methods adopted
by PCIs in the first CSI project include a financial rate of return on
subjects financed under the project. In view of the rudimentary appraisal



-16-
capabilities of PCIs, appraisals of subloans below the free limit do not
include an economic rate of return or domestic resource cost analysis.
Subprojects financed under the CSI project are generally assumed to be
efficient in economic terms because a significant portion of CSI products is
exported and, in the case of import substitution industries, the Level of
import tariffs is generally low and the open border with India allows for
relatively free trade vith Indian goods, which are the greatest source of
competition for Nepalese products. Eligible expenditures would be foreign
and local costs of fixed assets and permanent working capital for new
subprojects, or for strengthening, modernizing, or expanding existing
subprojects. Marketing agents eligible for CSI subloans normally would be
small-scale manufacturers who expand or specialize in distributing and
marketing their own and other manufacturers' goods. Marketing agents would
be required to obtain their products in rural districts, outside Katbmandu
Valley, and could distribute in regional markets or to exporters in
Kathmandu. Katbmandu-based exporters obtaining goods for export in rural
areas could be financed as non-manufacturing marketing agents. It was agreed
at negotiations that a maximum of 30 percent of the subloans made by each
participating credit institution could be for marketing agents.
51.     The maximum subloan size would be Rs 1.0 million (approximately
US$50,000), including fixed investments and working capital, except in the
case of the raw material importing and distributing companies. Normally,
subloans would constitute no more than 80 percent of subproject costs, with
20 nercent financed by sponsors' equity. IDA's prior review and approval
would be required for refinance applications for all subloans in excess of
Rs 500,000 (US$25,000). This procedure is expected to result in pre-approval
review by IDA of some 40 subprojects, or 15 percent of all subloans by
amount.
52.     Participatine Credit Institutions (PCIs).  In addition to NBL, RBB,
and ADBN, other financial institutions also would be eligible if the
Goverrment, IDA and the Central Bank agree on an institution's
creditworthiness and if it has complied with the conditions of participation.
The credit component would not be allocated among the PCIs, but would be
available on a first-came first-served basis. To be eligible for refinance,
each PCI would need to have complied with minimum staffing and training
requirements and collection performance, and have adopted standards and
procedures acceptable to IDA. Agreement was reached at negotiations
regarding PCI eligibility and participation criteria. At least two PCIs
would have to become eligible before the proposed IDA Credit would become
effective.
53.     As -a condition of participation, each PCI would establish and/or
maintain a head office CSI Unit, to deal exclusively with the proposed
project and would maintain sufficient staff to implement the project. Under
the proposed project, the PCIs and each individual branch would be required
to achieve minimum collection levels. Initial participation conditions would
require that each bank collect at least 60 percent, and each participating
branch 70 percent, of amounts due under the first CSI project. Continued
participation would require that banks increase overall collections on
principal and interest due under both the first and second CSI projects by
five percentage points per annum per bank, and three percentage points per
annum per branch. Compliance would result in collections of 75 percent of



-17-
anounts due by each participating bank, and 79 percent of amounts due by
branch, by the end of the three-year project implementation period.
Collection performance would be monitored quarterly, and a bank or branch
would remain eligible for onlending as long as required collection levels
renain within the established limits. It was agreed at negotiations that the
branch staffing criteria would be reviewed annually starting May 1, 1987 by
the central bank in consultation with IDA.
54.     The second CSI project would continue the institution-building
measures initiated under the first CSI project, while also funding
substantial technical assistance to improve overall operations of the two
national commercial banks. The commercial banks in Nepal are conservative,
with a tradition of making personal loans against sizeable collateral,
usually gold and silver, for working capital loans. Project-based lending
was initiated under the first CSI project. Profitability is low (less than
1 percent) and administrative costs are high (about 6 percent) on CSI
lending. Credit procedures need to be simplified and standardized, and
systems are needed to enable better liquidity management. Reporting
procedures are weak, with headquarters frequently having no record of branch
lending. The banks need to strengthen their operations to achieve their
development lending objectives and to reduce the costs of financial
intermediation. Agreement would be sought on a short list of international
banks to assist the participating coammercial banks, on terms of reference for
a first phase of technical assistance to the PCIs, and on a timetable for
implementing the program of technical assistance acceptable to IDA prior to
the implementation of such a program.
55.     CSI Refinance Fund.  Under the first CSI project, a CSI Refinance
Fund was established in the central bank to provide IDA refinance for
subloans made by participating banks. The central bank set up a CSI
Refinance Unit, with its own policies, procedures, staff and financial
resources, within the Banking and Credit Division, to administer the
Refinance Fund, which has been managed successfully. CSI staff of the
central bank supervise, monitor, and provide technical assistance for
implementation of the credit component of the project. The CSI Unit has a
manager, about 30 professional staff and an expatriate credit advisor funded
under the first CSI project. The Unit's professional staff received
intensive training in credit operations and refinance. With the assistance
of a credit advisor provided under the project, the Unit and the PCIs
established satisfactory lending policies and procedures and reporting
requirements, and central bank staff assisted with training CSI staff of the
PCIs. Under the proposed project, the credit advisor vould continue to work
with PCI and central bank staff and would increasingly concentrate on direct
assistance to the participating commercial banks on CSI operations.
Agreement was reached on management of the CSI Refnance Unit. Approval of a
revised Statement of Policies of the Unit would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit as would issuance by the central bank of
revised instructions to PCIs.
56.     Credit Guarantee.  Commercial bank loans to the priority sector not
financed under the first CSI project are covered by the Credit Guarantee
Corporation Private Limited (CGC). Because of the weakness in the CGC (see
para 33), a Credit Guarantee Scheme was established in the central bank under
the first CSI project to provide credit insurance for CSI subloans. Coverage



-18-
was provided for 75 percent of subloan amounts, and the premium charged was
1 percent per annum on outstanding, guaranteed amouuts. Participation in the
scheme was mandatory for all subloans refinanced under the project and was
autcmatic once refinance was approved by the central bank. Under the
proposed project, credit insurance would initially continue to be
administered by the central bank Credit Guarantee Scheme. Transfer by the
Govermment of an initial amount of Rs 2 million to this Scheme would be a
condition of disbursement to the credit component and it was agreed during
negotiations that the Government would pay additional amounts so that
capitalization c. the Scheme i8 maintained at no less than 10 percent of the
guarantees outstanding in any fiscal year. The premium on CSI subloans would
be increased to 3 percent per annum to provide reserves adequate to cover
anticipated reasonable levels of defaults. Depending upon the outcome of the
ongoing study of CGC being financed under the first CSI project (para 33),
UNDP funding under the second CSI project could be made available to provide
technical assistance to strengthen the CGC. Once the CGC has been
sufficiently strengthened financially and technically, the Credit Guarantee
Scheme in the central bank could be transferred to the CGC and merged with an
insurance program that was established for the priority sector, subject to
agreenent between the Government and IDA.
Institutional SupDort to CSI
57.     Exuort Development. The second CSI project would continue the
program of market analysis, sample market testing, product development and
export promotion initiated under the first project. Export development
activities would focus on products with demonstrated export potential-
particularly carpets and ready-made garments-while continuing to support
systematic market research and product development for traditional
handicrafts, such as metal and wooden products and handmade paper, as well as
newer products, such as knitwear. The Export Service Center (ESC) in
Kathmandu would be responsible for overall management of the export
development component. ESC would report to the Government's Trade Promotion
Center (TPC) regarding performance in meeting broad objectives but would have
considerable discretionary power to carry out work programs and to make
staffing arrangements. A PON office in New York would report to the Project
Director of ESC. Close links vould be maintained among ESC and TPC and PON,
and staffing would be reviewed annually by the Government and IDA. ESC would
continue to be headed by a Project Director, to be assigned by TPC or to be
recruited from the private sector. Given the importance of the export
development component, management in ESC and PON would need to be acceptable
to IDA. The Project Director would report to TPC and would maintain close
eammunication with the Ministry of Commerce.  ESC currently has a Project
Director and three full-time technical staff and assistants. During
execution of the proposed project, about three additional technical
specialists would be recruited. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that Ci) the management of ESC and PON would have to be acceptable to IDA;
(ii) qualifications, experience and terms of reference of UNDP-financed
consultants to strengthen manufactured exporters' association would be
acceptable to IDA; (iii) ESC would prepare annual action prograns, to be
acceptable to IDA; (iv) eligibility criteria for direct assistance to
exporters would be acceptable to IDA; and (v) ESC would adopt a Statement of
Policies and Operating Procedures satisfactory to IDA, adoption of which
would be a condition of disbursement for the export development component.



-19-
Additionally HNG would appoint consultants, financed by UNDP, acceptable to
IDA vith satisfactory terms of reference, to assist in the preparation of an
action program for improving import and export procedures. This would
include developing suitable procedures to allocate U.S. import quotas on
ready-made garment exports and setting up effective systems for duty-free
raw material imports for export production. The study and action program
would be completed by September 30, 1987. At negotiations agreement was
reached that the Government would submit to IDA for coment a draft of this
action program by December 31, 1987. In addition, it was agreed that H1G and
IDA would exchange views on a regular basis regarding key CSI policies and
procedures. Consultant assistance would be provided under the project to
help implement detailed recommendations. As mentioned above, the Government
is considering measures to establish a bonded warehouse with a view to
providing duty-free access to key raw materials (para 25); (b) a storage
facility has been constructed at Tribuvan Airport (para 27); and (c) EHG will
continue to investigate measures to reduce freight costs (para 29).
58.     Trainin2. Entrepreneurial Development. and Extension Services.  The
Cottage Industry Development Board (CIDB) of the Departmevt of Cottage and
Village Industries (CIDB) would continue to be responsible for extension
services, including technical training and entrepreneurial development,
management of product development centers in remote rural areas,
implementation of a handmade paper production component and operation of a
local currency raw material supply fund. It would also assist rural artisans
with marketing activities. CIDB currently has 225 staff members, of which
about 60 are technical trainers. CIDB vould recruit and train additional
technical staff under CSI II.
59.     Raw Material SuppLy.  Uncertain availability and price volatility of
raw materials affect manufacturers serving export and local markets.  In
rural areas, private traders supply cotton yarn, tools, dyes and other
materials irregularly, and prices vary with local shopkeepers' inventory
levels. The Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium (CIHE) maintains large
inventories of cotton yarn to be able to prevent wide price swings with
fluctuations in private inventories. Under the first CSI project, CIHE
received a grant from HMG and borrowed from commercial banks a total of about
US$180,000 (Rs 3.2 million) to import cotton yarn, looms and other equipment
for distribution in the project area. CIRE is evaluating a proposal to
establish central storage and distribution facilities along the main
east-west higbway to reduce scorage and distribution costs. Under the second
CSI project, a managenent advisor would work with CMUE for about six months,
with the Emporium having the option to extend the contract. The advisor
would review the operating costs and profitability of the entire range of
CIHE's operations and would recommend improvements. It was agreed during
negotiations that the qualifications, experience and terms of reference for
the adviser would be acceptable to IDA. Although CIHE's presence in rural
markets provides price stability, costs for dyed yarn and equipment in rural
areas is significantly higher than in Katbmandu, and yarn supplies in rural
branches often do not match local requirements. The CIHE advisor would
develop an inventory management program to reduce costs and monitor inventory
levels and would evaluate a proposal to open a central supply depot and
additional branches in the Project area. Once CMUE has implemented a program
to improve the efficiency of its operations, it will be eligible for medium
term credit under the same terms and conditions as other borrowers.



-20-
Depending on the advisor's recommendations regarding the central supply depot
and additional branches, long term financing could be made available under
the project to finance the depot and branches, subject to prior agreement by
IDA. Because of the importance of raw wool imports for carpet exports, at
negotiations, it was agreed that RMG would adopt a Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures, acceptable to IDA, for the NWTC, which would include a
comitment by Goverment to provide wool import licenses in a timely manner
without restrictions regarding purchase of domestic wool. Approval by the
Government of this statement, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
disbursement of the credit component. In the first CSI Project, CIDB
operated a US$30,000 fund to procure raw materials and some key equipment
(such as handlooms) from local CIBE branches or depots. Under the second CSI
project, the fund vould be expanded to US$100,000 to accommodate new
districts. CIDB staff would transport materials to product development
centers for sale to artisans. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the Government would adopt policies and operating procedures for the Raw
Material Procurement Fund acceptable to IDA. Approval by CIDB's board of the
Statement of Policies and Procedures for the Fund, acceptable to IDA, would
be a condition of disbursement to the Fund.
60.     The Nepal Metal Trading Company (NHTC) Was established in 1982 to
import metal for private manufacturers of cast metal export products with the
understanding that rhe Government would reduce the normal duty and sales tax
on metal imports to 1 percent. The tax concessions, however, were not made
available until Februar-, 1984, and they were rescinded due to a change in the
Industrial Enterprises Act in mid-July 1984. During the brief period of
tax-free status, the NMTC imported about 90 tons of copper, zinc, and brass
for sale to 137 cottage and small industry establishments. Since July 1984,
it has imported an additional 95 tons of metal without tax concessions.
Under the proposed project, the INUTC would be eligible for further lending as
soon as approval by Government is obtained on a Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures acceptable to IDA which would allow manufacturers and
exporters to import metal at international prices. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that adoption by NMTC's board of a Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of eligibility
for NMTC to receive subloans under the project.
61.     Project Coordination.  Under the proposed project, implementing
agencies would continue to prepare, and operate according to, annual action
plans, approved by IDA and the Government. The Project Coordination Unit in
the Ministry of Industry would be maintained to coordinate implementation and
monitor project progress. It was agreed at negotiations that a full-time
Chief Technical Advisor (CTA), with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, who would report to, and liaise closely with,
the Joint Secretary for Cottage Industry Promotion, would be appointed. The
Project Coordination Unit, including the CTA's salary, would be financed with
proceeds from the proposed IDA credit. Appointment of the CTA would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Administration
62.     Procurement:  (1) Subloans - Given the expected size of contracts
and the maximum subloan amount under the Credit, international competitive
bidding would not be required. Participating banks would apply their current



-21-
procurement procedures and vould be responsible for ensuring that items
procured for subprojects are suitable, reasonably priced and that
sub-borrowers have adequately canvassed the main sources of supply; the
central bank would monitor these procurement procedures. Goods and services
procured locally would be procured at reasonable and competitive prices from
reputable suppliers. Selection of a supplier should be justified on the
basis of price, dependability of supply, availability of spare parts and
service, performance guarantee and arrangements for installation and training
where necessary. Contracts for goods or services procured outside of Nepal
costing the equivalent of US$5,000 or more per item, or US$25,000 or more per
contract, would be on the basis of international shopping fron three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Bank's procurement guidelines. Since
it would be difficult and costly to seek quotations for smaller contracts,
these provisions would not apply, but participating banks would maintain
appropriate records of the method of procurement for post-review by the
central bank's CSI Unit staff and IDA supervision missions; (ii) Other
comDonents.  All Civil Works would be simple structures of standardized
designs and vould be built at different locations throughout the country and
at different times. This would render them unsuitable for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Civil works contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association. Furniture, equipment, raw
materials and vehicles would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, acceptable to IDA. It was agreed at negotiations that
consultants financed by IDA would be retained in accordance with Bank
guidelines and that UNDP-financed consultants would be appointed in
accordance with UNDP procedures with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA. All bidding packages for works or goods
estimated to cost US$10,000 equivalent or would be subject to pre-review by
IDA. The Government would be required to furnish the first two contracts to
IDA for approval and remaining contracts would be monitored by IDA
supervision missions with the understanding that they would be eligible for
IDA financing as long as they are awarded in adherence to agreed documents
and procedures.
63.     Disbursement.  The proposed project is expected to be committed in
three-and-a-half years and disbursed in seven years. This disbursement
period conforms with the South Asia Regional Profile for DFI lending.
(i Subloans. IDA disbursements for eligible subloans would be against
100 percent of the cost of imported and local goods and services refinanced
by the central bank. For subloans below the IDA review limit and for the
CIDB Raw Material Procurement Fund, disbursement would be made against
statements of expenditure. Supporting documentation would be kept on file
for inspection by IDA supervision missions. Disbursements for subloans above
the free limit and other project expenditures would be made against standard
documentation; (ii) Other Comvonents. IDA would finance 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
on vehicles, equipment, furniture and raw materials; 70 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; 60 percent of total
expenditures on civil works; 100 percent of IDA-financed consultants;
100 percent of equipment, consultancy and technical services, and other
operating costs of the Overseas Products of Nepal offices. IDA would finance
a declining portion of incrementel Government staff salaries as follows: for
ESC and the PCU, 100 percent in the first year, declining to 70 percent in



-22-
year four of the project; for CIDB, 60X in year one declining to 20% in year
four; and for CIRE, 50 percent in year one declining to 20 percent in year
four of the project.
64.     To reduce the interval during which the Goverment would finance
1DA's share of project costs vith its own resources, the Goverment might
request IDA to make advance payments from the credit account into a Special
Account, to be opened in US dollars in the Nepal Rastra Bank, and which would
be available for reimbursing the Government for IDA's share of project cost.
The total amount in the Special Account would not exceed US$300,000,
estimated to be required for about four months of project execution. The
Government would be entitled to make withdrawals from the Special Account in
Rupees or in foreign currencies, at the exchange rate applicable on the day
the Special Account is debited. IDA would replenish the Special Account for
the amount of withdrawals for eligible expenses at the request of the
GoverLment in accordance with procedures agreed between IDA and the
Government.
65.     Audit.  It was agreed during negotiations that the Governnent would
cause participating agencies to establish and maintain separate account for
the Project in accordance with sound accounting practices and would ensure
that these accounts as well as the statements of expenditure would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA and furnished to IDA not
later than nine months after the close of the fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
66.     The Project would contribute to the Government's objectives of
expanding output, enployment and exports in the CSI subsector. The project
would strengthen the capabilities of public and private agencies supplying
credit, marketing services, raw materials and training. Significant direct
benefits are expected in incremental enployment and earnings in the 27
districts covered by the project, as well as in foreign exchange earnings
through sustained export growth. An important benefit of the project would
be the initiation of measures to improve industrial incentives, export
procedures and administration.
67.     Under the subloan component, about 4,720 subloans would be made by
participating credit institutions. The majority of these would be for
cottage and anall-scale enterprises; a maximum or 30 percent of subloan
amounts would be for marketing agents and about 5 percent would be for raw
material supply companies. The average investment per job is estimated to be
about US$400, and incremental employment generated would be more than 21,000
jobs, excluding subloans to raw material supply companies. In Kathmandu,
which is estimated to absorb about 56 percent of total lending by amount,
incremental employment would be full-time (or 250 days per year) for a total
of approximately 8 million man-days in the three-year project period. In
rural districts where incremental employment t-ould supplement agricultural
employment (hence workers would be available for about 150 days per year),
incremental employment generated would be about 3.8 million man-days. A
general benefit of the project would be strengthening the overall operations
of the two national commercial banks through reducing their administrative
costs and improving tteir efficiency and profitability. These improvements
would have an ispact on priority sector and other lending outside the



-23-
immediate sphere of the proposed project. The project would also strengthen
and upgrade the operations of privatz and public export pramotion training
and raw material supply agencies.
68.     Providing Nepal maintains a realistic ezchange rate, the project is
also expected to arrest the decliue of traditional handicraft exports and
strengthen carpet and ready-made garment exports. With product development
and marketing inputs under the project, the 6 percent decline in trsditional
handicraft exports between 1984 and 1985 could be reversed; traditional
handicraft exports could increase by 5-10 percent per annum over the medium
term. Cost reduction, product development and sarketing inputs for carpet
production under the project are expected to result in at least 20 percent
growth per annum in carpet export volumes over the medium term, which would
contribute at least US$35.5 million in incremental foreign exchange earnings
over the first three-and-a-half years of project implementation. For
ready-made garments, the project would support diversification, efficient
allocation of quotas to principal export markets and cost reduction. The
project would also provide investment credit for export manufacturers.
Assuming a suitable system to allocate quotas is set up, the project would
conservatively be estimated to support export growth of 50 percent in CSI
products over the first three-and-a-half years of project implementation,
contributing incremental foreign exchange of as much as US$150 million over
that interval.
69.     Since participating credit institutions are rapidly gaining
experience with project-based lending, other implementing agencies have
experience vith CSI project programs, and most key staff are in place, no
significant delay in project start-up is expected.  In rural areas, the major
risks facing successful establishment of manufacturing projects are uncertain
supplies of raw materials and weak marketing systems. Experience to date
with local marketing agents has been positive, and under the proposed
project, additional agents would be identified and provided credit.
Additionally, improving CIHE operations, particularly in the area of raw
material supply, expanding the distribution and marketing assistance provided
through CIDB, and channeling assistance to districts with good access to
roads and project offices should minimize this risk.
70.     In the export development component, projections for increased export
growth depend crucially on thorough market research and product development
activities for traditional handicrafts and carpets. For ready-made garments,
the probable imposition of U.S. import quotas poses a risk. Sustained export
growth will depend on effective implementation of procedures for duty-free
access to fabrics imported from countries other than India to allow
diversification into nw quota categories and efficient allocation of quotas
to reliable, high-value manufacturers. A key project component would assist
the Government in implementing such procedures. The activities of market
research, product adaptation, product demonstration, and the provision of
workshops and seminars introduced under the first project would be continued
to heighten exporter ewareness of the need for improving product design and
quality and to assist manufacturers with needed changes.
71.     To minimize the risk of uneven implementation of project components,
a Chief Technical Advisor would coordinate mnd monitor project inputs,
ongoing assistance to the Government for policy implementation, and



-24-
recruitment and supervision of technical experts and consultants. As in the
first project, frequent supervision by Bank staff members would be needed.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
72.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 24, 1986



-25-                                           ANNEX I
& A A    L C  3'                               Page  1 of 6
NEPAL                  - SOCIAL INuICAbOUr  OTA SheT
NEAL                                IrF"C    FIs t(dEIGhTtfl AVEBAGES) /a
'onIit? RICKfl KMsTZNATK) lb
RECENT             LOV IhCOWL           nIDue. INCON
Io96Dt     1971./b ETL'iATrIb       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA i FACIFIC
Amu  (THNoSUD sq. a)
TOTAL                              14D.8      140.6       140.8
AGRICULTURAL                       35.1        36.8       41.2
OW NI  C4A0UL^ 3)                      ..          ..       160.0              278.3                   1011.1
WSNT WS0 W1OY PnR CAPITA
CKILOrGRA  Or OIL EQUIVALFNT)       3.0        10.0       10.0              285.7                    566.6
POPULAnTO AND VITAL STISTICS
POPUIATION.'ID-YEAt (THOUSANDS)   9404.0    11350.0    15736.0
URANE POPULATION CZ OP TOTAL)       3.1         3.9        4.9               22.3                     35.9
POPULATIN PROJCTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (CMLL)                           24.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (tILL)                            74.0
POPULATION MCZHNTUN                                       1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SU. Klt.                     66.8        80.6       111.5             173.t                    3b6.9
PeR sq. C. AGRI. LAND           264.2       308.4      374.5              353.3                   1591.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE CX)
0-14 RS                         39.0        '2.0        42.8              30.3                     3a.2
15-64 YTS                        57.4        55.0       54.2               59.4                     57.7
65 AND ANNE                       3.4         2.9        2.9                4.3                      3.5
POPULATION GROHTN RATE (t)
TOMAL                             1.4         1.9        2.5                2.u                      2.3
Lil;lA                            4.5         4.2        5.0               4.1                      '.1
CRUDE KRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        45.9        *6.3        41.6              27.5                     30.1
CRUMI DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       25.h        23.0       18.1               10.2                      9.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.7         3.1        3.0                1.7                      1.9
FAYMLY PLANNING
ACCXPTORS. ANNUAL (THOS)          ..         29.7      223.2
USERS tS OF MARBIED WOMEN)        ..          ..         7.0               49.4                     56.5
FMO AMNID' l[TX
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     106.0       101.0       86.0              116.6                    Li'..
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (C OF RELUIWIENTS)      87.0        94.0       89.0              1u0.3                    115.7
PROTEIS (GRAMS PR DAY)          50.0        50.0       47.0              60.1                     60.3
OF IHICSH ANIMAL AND PULSE      10.0         9.0        8.0 7e            L-.4                     14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE        32.5        27.5       21.0               7.3                       7.2
LIFE EEPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      38.4        41.4       *6.1               60.5                     00.6
INFANT ?CRT. SATE (PER rHOUS)     194.5       172.5      143.0              69.2                     64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER CIPOP)
TOTAL                             *-          8.5        14.0 /d           44.2                     *6.0
URBAN                            47.7        71.0       83.0 7d            77.2                    57.t
RURAL                              *          a.0        7.0 7T           34.6                      37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             *           1. 5       2.0 id            7.8                      50. 1
URBAN                              .         13.0       16.0 7d            28.8                     52.9
RURAL                              .          1.0        l.U 7d            5.5                     44.7
POPULATION PER PHTSICIAN        73470.0    51360.0 /a  30060.0 Id          3316.0                  7751.7
POP. PER YURSING PERSON             ..      70500.0 I.  33420.0 /d         4690.7                  2-64.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          6260.0      6930.0     5720.0 /f          1039.2                   1112.1
URBAN                           290.0       330.0      450.0 77           299.1                   651.4
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..             8028.2                   2596.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BET         ..          ..         ..               52.3                     41.1
AVERASE SI ZE OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..          5.5
URBAN                             5.'         ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
AVERAGE N0. OF PERSONS/ROO4
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAI                             2.0        ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
PERCENTAGE OF pELLIIIGS W1M  ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                            30.2        ..
RURAL                             ..          ..



-26-                                          ANNEX I
TASLK  3A                                 Page  2  of 6
NEPAL                  - SOCIAL INN ICATORS DATA SBEET
INPAL                                RIERENCI GROUPS (EICTED   E          /e
SOST                     (HOST RECENT ESTINATIE) b
R1CENT                 LOW IMCOMX            itDOLr INCOM1
1(         19J I  ESTItATvlb         ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA 4 PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENULWENT IRATIOS
PDIKAMr:  TOTAL                   10.0       '6.0        73.0               92.6                     100.7
HALI                   19.0        ',3.0      102.0             105.5                     104.4
FiltLC                  1.0         8.0        42.0              79.3                      97.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   6.0        10.0       21.0               31.3                     47.6
MALE                   11.0        16.0        32.0              40.8                      50.6
YDUALt                  2.0         3.0        9.0               21.9                     46.8
VOCATIONAL (20 o SECONDA)            0.2         5.5         6.8 lc            3.2                      14.4
PUPIL-IZACHU RATIO
PIDAN                             33.0        22.0       46.0               38.0                      30.4
SECONDI*T                         32.0         ..        22.0               17.4                     22.2
COWTIO
PASSZENCR CALSITNOUSAMD PoP          0.1         0.4        ..                 0.9                      10.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND !OP         3.0         4.8       22.7              129.B                     172.9
TV RECEIVERSITJ1OUSARD POP           ..          ..          ..               19.8                      5.5
NEIIISPR C"UAILY CENIGAL
INTEEST') CXRCLATXOU
PEL THOUSAND OPUIATlON              0.7         2.4         7.1              25.7                      65.3
CnII    ANNOL ATENDANCE/CAITA        ..          ..          ..                6.0                      3.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCC (13065)         453.0       5534.0      7413.0
!i.E4L (PERCENT)                  40.5        39.2       39.0               33.2                     33.6
AGUIULTURE (PERCET)               V5.0        94.0       93.0 /d            69.6                      52.2
NDlUSSf (PERCENT)                  2.0         2.0        2.0 7[            15.6                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             51.6        48.8        47.1              41.9                      38.9
HAIZ                              61.5        56.8       56.9               53.6                      50.8
FN=LE                             41.8       .38.6       36.9               29.1                      26.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDNCA RATIO             0.5         0.9        1.0                1.0                       1.1
Tymn DISIIRUTIO
PERCT OF PRIVATE INCONE
XIICES 52 Or NIOUSELDS            *-          *-        35.3 Ic
HIG- t  202 OF HOUSDS              ..         ..         59.2 7c             ,,                      4S.0
LOWEST 202 OF IWSgEHOLDS           .-          ..         4.6 Ic             .-                       6.4
ST m  O  OUSIOLDS                  ..         ..         12.6 7T             ..                       15.5
mOZI  TAOU  -RUP
ZSTINATED ASSOLUE POVERTY IINCME
LEVEL CUS5 PER CAPITA)
URBIA                              ..          ..        95.0 1            133.9
RUaL                               ..          ..        45.0  g           111.6                     151.9
ESIT0ATED RIMATIVE POWERTY INCONE
LEVEL (0US PER CAPITA)
UR0I                               ..          ..          ..                ..                      177.9
WUIL                               ..          ..        41.0               6  61.7                  164.7
ESTIATED PTOP. RELV ABSOLUTE
POyEl INCOME LEISM  (5)
SRUSM                              ..          ..        55.0 IC            43.8                     23.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        61.077             51.7                     37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPFLCAE.E
11 O T C S
- Tbo Sp avera.e for each indicator are population-vmighted aritbere tc wan.  Cbverae of countries
mog the indicators depends on avall bility of data and s noot uiform.
lb   Unlea  othardise noted, "Data for 1960" ref r to an  year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 197uP betwen
1969 and 1971; and data for "oMt Racent  atimte" betwse  1951 and 1963.
/c 1977; Id 1980; /. Persomal in goverment services only; If 1975; L 1979.
JUN,. 1985



ANNEX I
-27-                                        Page 3 of 6
DEMNflimONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note Altbough te data ae drwn fmm soocae pnamllyjudged the most authoritative and rible, it hould also he noted uthatthey may not be internationally
enpable bemuse of the lack of standdisd delinklons nd cencepts umd by diFt countaim in colleting tbe date. he dt are nonthelu uu4l to
d.clhe rdoa of magaltudr indicte trde, and chaructaei2e nrtain major direa between eountreL
Mme rerene groups ae () te same country goup of the subjct country and 12) a country group with  what higher aveup income than te country
rop or the subject eountry (euept for Hi Income Oil Exportr group whee "Midde Income North Africas nd Middle Eat" is den bcauoeaofutrongcr
oo-cuurl affdnit  In the rference prop da the ava    ampopultion weihted ith metic means for e  Indicator and hown only when majority
oftheleounmies inas rop hu data for that indicior. Since thecovemrofe ountries mong tbeLidatod depson tbe avilbility rda and lnot unifrm.
aution must heerereiied inmistig averasaone indicator toanother. Theeaverae areeon uful Incomperingthe value aofne indietor at a timeamong
the country and rdrea goupe.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crude kthk Rate (per tho sod)-Number of live births in the year
Teal-Total surface ara comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Chud Dea  Rate (per trhuaud)-Number of deaths in the year
Agekarhtar-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Grew Rep dLUtIO Rate-Average number of dautghtrs a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
presenl age-specic fertility rtes usually five-year averages ending
GNI- PER CAPITA (USS-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World    ,n    Pkalq-Awptr, Aaul (theusmsds4-Annual num-
Bansk Atlas (1981483 basis); 1983 data.                         ber of acceptors of birth-control devices underauspicesof national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Fa*nC  Plaa       smfJ     (percent of m ed .wuea)-The peroen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothennal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil cquivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      orchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPUlATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total Popedatow, Midd'ear (theasmsds)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
tInex ofhedhed iauiehr Capita (1969-71- IW)-Index of per
Urba Popataen fpreet of rte)al - Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; differcnt definitions or urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries 1960.1970.  d 1983 data.       include prinary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instcad of sugar)
-a    hjections                                                 whicb are edibl and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population it year 200-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded); they comprise ceeals, root crops, pulxse  oil seeds.
miade for each economy separatdy. Starting with information on  vegetabls, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex..fertility rates, mortali ty rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             fr Capdta Supply of Calris (Percent ofrequenrease j-Comput-
Stationary popada:ion-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorieequivalent of net rood suppliesavailable in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populatiun Momennum-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Ca  SulAWy of heeds (gram per dayj-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year. is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year . given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward, 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Snpau os DeACy                                                  average for the workL proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqknr.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 bec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita hProteis Suply o   Animal and Plse-Proten supply
Per sq km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived frmn animals and pulses in grams perday: 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970, and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 dta.
Popletim Age Srtmr (perceat)-Children (0-14 years). work-       CAMfd'us 1-4) Death Rate (per thoasw)-N um ber of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
from life tables. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
PeuA ie Grom   Rate (pereent)teea-Annual growth rates Or
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Popuato  Growth Rat (percear)-atrbt-Annual growth rates         Lfe Expectancy at Dish (ews)-Number of yes a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-28-                                       ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to day the sane throughout its life;  Pkpl-teacher Ratio - primary. and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                    roiled in primary and secondary levels divided by number of
ult Marsly Rae (per thesamu)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corrsponding level.
before raching one year of age per thouand live births in a given
yer, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPIlON
Acre-s te Si* WMo  (peret of I   utld.)--r'al  Nb&,, ad       Asnger  C_Js (pr thOund popdt)-Puasenger car com-
nwal-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with easonable  prie motor cars saing km than eight persons; excludes ambul.
acen to sfe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances, hears. and military vehicles.
untrated but uncontaminated watcr such u that from protected  Ral Receeir  (pffr dtnsaadpep.id ,-All types of receivers
borehole, spr  and sanitary wells) a percentages of tmir rpec-  for radio broadcats to general public per thousand of population;
tive population  In an urban ara a public founin or standpost  excludes un-liced receivers in countries and in yea  when
located not more than 200 meters from a hous may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effiect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable aces of that house. In mral areas  not be cmparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable acs would inply that the houewire or menbers of the
houselhold do not have to pend a disproporonate prt of the day  TVRlemw   (per haumdpopultion)-TV reevers for broadcast
in fetching the fanifly's water needs                        to general public per thousand population; excludes unicensed TV
receives in countries and in years when egisttion of TV sets was
Accrs to Exesa Disp.a (percent of popedtion)-.tolt, warbn,    in cffect.
and rurlI-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) served by
excrea disposl as pecntages of their respective populations.  Nhspa" Ckadatith  (per thousradpopalaim)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposl with or  age circulation of "daly genmal interest newspaper.- defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  pefriodical publication devoted primarily to recording genea  news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installtions.  It is considefed to be "daily" ir it appears at least four times a week.
Pepultoper Phyuidaw-Population divided by number of pra       CGea Anal Ateadance per Capita per Yew-Based on the
tsing physcians qualified from a medical school at univerity leve.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Populaaon per Nuang Perna-Population divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
bpslthdmn per Hosal Red-td,  mba, ad rwal-Ptpulation          Total Labor Force (tshmudu)-Economically active persons, in-
ttotal, urban  and rul) divided by their respective number of  cluding anned forces and unenployed but excluding housewives,
hosital beds an, able m pubhc and pbvate. rese   and specialred  studofts, etc, covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and abablitation cpbters Hospitals am eseabliadmants  various countries are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at kast one physician. Establishmeents prov-  Fadt (perceur)-Female labor force as percntage or total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Ruml hospitals,    force.
howevr include health and medical centers not pernanendy staffed  4ri      (perceur)-Labor force in farmiing, forestry, hunting
by a phydsian (but by a medical assstant, nurse. midwife, etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accormodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical fadiities.                                         Industry (percent)-Labor force in mnining, construction. manu-
Adrissioas per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or  facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
dscarges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Asrai Rae (permct-fs_    malk, amfdea-Prticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activit rates are computed as totaL male, and fanale labor force
Avr 5;e She of Heh    (pea  pgr household)-wral, wron,        as prcentages of totaL male and female popuation of all ages
andruI-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes  long tine trnd. A few estimates are from national sources
Aerae Number qf Perss per Roam--oAal, rban, an ruralt-        Eon.ak Dependency Rado-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all trban, and rural    65 and over, to the vorking age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DlSTRIBUTlON
Perewage of DweWts wish Ekctridsy-soearba, and rural-         Percenage of Torst Dipoabk Incme (borh i cash and hid)-
Conventional dwellings with ekctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of houscholds ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings respectively         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4 Rnssd Arolnt Rar                                           The following estimates are very approximatc measures of poverty
P1rimary scliool - total, mal and fema-Gross total, male and  levels. and should be interpreted with consierable caution.
femak enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated A bsalue hi'erpty Icow Level (USS per cipita)-rbon
reseive primary school-age populations. While many countries  aud rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income klvel
consider prinmary school age to be 6-11 years. others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plir. essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable
are reflcted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Est iaed Rdrele Poverty Incone Level (UST per cpirta-J_rban
educaion, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ed rurl-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are bdlow or above the country's standard primary-school  avcage per capita personal income or the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustnent for higher cost of
Secondary schdw  - otoia. male and female-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four years of approved pn-  Estimated Ppulti   elow Absolue Poverty Incwe Levd (per-
mary instnrctmon; provides general vocational, or teacher training  cent)-.wban and rral- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils ualy of 12 to 17 years of age; conespond-  who are -absolute poor.-
nce courses are gneally excluded.
Vocationtl EAnroinn (percem of secordary)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industriaL or otier programs which operate   Economnic Anatysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions                            June 1985



-29-                       ANNEX I
Pa8e 5 of 6
E0QNDIC INDICATORS - NEPAL
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1983: UB3170
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT DN 1984185                                  ANUfAL RATE OF GROWlS. 1974/75-1984/85
(Z. constant prices)
US9 MIU.      S
GDP at Msrket Prices               2,344       100.0                             3.2
Gross Domestic Investment            446        19.0
Cross Domestic Saving                247        10.5
Current Account Balance (exc.
official grants)                   -168       -7.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                288       12.3
luports of Goods, IFS                487       20.8
OUTPUT. LABOR PORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982/83
Value dded
VAlue Mdded             Lfbor lorcet 1/         Per Worker
VS$  Zn                    IsNln.    2                USS
Agriculture                        1,286         56            6.3    91.0              204
Industry hi                          277        12            0.2      3.0            1,385
Services                             725        _2             0.4     6.0            1.813
Total/Average                 2,282       100             6.9    100               331
GOVERNINT FINANICE
CENTRAL GOVERNIMET
Ro. M1l.
I of GDP
1981/82      19821-83     1983f84      198485        1984185
Current Receipt.                      2,668         2,808        3,342        3,961          9.5
Regular Expenditure.                  1.627         l.294        2.27B4                      7.1
Current Surplus                       1,041           814        1,068          977         2.3
Development Ekpenditure               3,727        4,982         5,164        5,528        13.2
External Assistance (Net)             1,688        2.028         2,861        2,663         6.4
NQNZY. CREDIT AND PRICES
LI82        18 L4 A    L2t
(Million Re outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                     5,285        6,308       7,459       9,222      10,456     12,213
Bank Credit to Goverment                  1,258        1,263       2,062       4,090       5,029      6,433
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises           702          946         840       1,137          953     1,151
Bank Credit to Private Sector             2,346        2,952       3,142       3,264       3,842      4,689
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of GDP          22.6         21.7        22.9        27.4        27.4       29.3
General Price Index (1974175 - 100)       128.7        145.9       161.2       184.1       195.6       198.6
Anual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                         9.8         13.4        10.4        14.2         6.2         1.5
Bank Credit to Goverinent                  15.8         -0.4        57.1        93.8        24.2        27.9
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises          14.9         33.3         1.0        44.0       -18.9        20.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector              28.9         26.9         2.4         3.7        16.9        22.1
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
Fiscal year data are for Nepalese fiscal year, July 16 - July 15.
Al  Lotal labor force; unmployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
hi Includes mining, manufacturing, construction and utilities.



_30_                                         AMUD I
Faie 6Got 6
1981182   1382133   19331      1964185              Auu SF035 1964,35
(USS f llioe)
uhLAUCr 0  PAYlIS
Agricultural products             91.7      59
tporta                        277.6      250.4    303.5      306.0           MIaufactures                      63.7      41
Narchandids f.o.b          115.6       82.3     123.9     155.4
Eon-factor Bervicem        162.0      168.1     179.5     150.6           Total                            155.4    100
lIports                       450.5      521.6     551.3    515.3
Nmrebandiae c.i.f          382.5     459.0      473.6    445. 7           STENNAL DET. DICCE21R 31. 1984
Non-factor Services         68.0       62.6      77.7      69.6
US$ Iln.
Resource Cap                  172.8      271.2     247.8     205.3
Public Debt, inc. guaranteed            426.5
let factor Inca.               12.5       13.0       0.1       0             lon-Guaranteed Private Debt
Nat Current Tranafers          40.6       41.7      50.2      41.7           Total Outstanding & Disbursed           426.5
Current Account Deficit       119.8      216.5     197.5      167.7
Official Grant Aid             89.4       95.3     100.1      87.1           DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1934J85            7 .
Net ILT Loans                  59.8       67.0      87.2      73.8           Public Debt, inc. guaranteed             5.0
Diaburmments                62.3       69.9      92.4      78.7
Repayments                   2.5        2.9       5.1       4.9
Capital Flows 11.1.I             9.3       5.2       1.0    -40.0            IBEIDJDA LEDING. Sent. 30. 1985 (Nullions US$)
Overall balance                38.8    -49.0        -9.1    -46.7                                                 uL$ m.u,
Change in Net Reserven        -38.8       49.0       9.0      46.7                                              IPB      MA
(-increase)
Outstanding & Disbursed             -    236.3
Gross Official leaerve        322.6      163.1     123.1       93.6          Undisbureed                          -    354D9
(mid July)
Outstanding, incl. undiabursed       -    59D.3
RA OF DCSICGE
From hrcb 20, 1978       From Septaber 19, 1961    From Deember 17, 1982
to Sentember 18. 1961    to December 16. 1932        to 1Wa 31. 1963            June 30  1984 g/          December 31. 1984
US$1.00  - NRc 12.00     US$1.00  - 3Re 13.2         US$1.00  - NR  14.3        USS.00   - NRa 16.4      US$1.00  - RRs 18.0
Na 1.00 - us$ 0.083      NRc 1.00 - USS 0.076        3R1  1.00 - USS 0.070      NRa 1.00  - US$ 0.061   NRs 1 00 - US$ 0.056
srch 31 1985             June 30  18                 September 30. 1985         December 31. 1985
US$1.00  - n   18.1      US$1.00  - Nfl  18.1        USS.00 - NRc 17.3         USS1.00 - NRa 20.9
N   1.00 - USS 0.055     NRc 1.00 W US$ 0.055        NRs 1.00- USo .058         NRs 1.00- USS 0.048
A/  Since June 1, 1983, the Nepal Roatra Barik nnounces the exchange rate daily,
ba ed on a trade-weighted basket, with the US dollar as the intervention
currency. The rate shon here is the mid-rate on the date indicated.
Somth Asia Programs Department
February 24, 1986



-31-                         Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1986) a/ & hi
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.      Year       Borrower                  Purpose                IDA   Undisbursed
Fourteen credits fully disbursed                                    127.8
704     1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply & Sewerage    8.0         0.7
772     1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education                  5.7       1.2
812     1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Sunsari-Morang)         30.0      5.6
856     1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Narayani Zone)          14.0      2.8
939     1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Development            11.0      6.8
1008     1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Community Forestry                  17.0       9.7
1055     1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Mahakali)               16.0      10.9
1059     1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply & Sewerage    27.0         10.5
_052cl   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Storage                        6.2       2.7
1093c/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Babai)                   3.5      0.1
1100     1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension & Res.    17.5          7.1
11OOc/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal Hill Food Production                  8.C       5.1
1191c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal Cottage & Small Industries            6.5       0.7
1198c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Education                    14.3      11.9
1260c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal Petroleum Exploration Promotion   9.2           4.0
1316c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation VI-Bhairawa-Lumbini   16.0         11.5
1339c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal Cash Crop Development                 6.0       3.6
1379c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Assistance II              6.0       5.2
14OOc   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Forestry                     16.0      16.8
1452c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal Karnali Preparation                  11.0      11.4
1463c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal Primary Education                    12.8      13.4
1478c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power 107.0    114.4
1515c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Highways                      47.5      50.9
1534c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Agric. Manpower Development          8.4       9.7
1535c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Development               7.5      8.5
1570c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension II            7.2      8.4
1588.// 1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Telecomunication IV                  22.0     22.0
Total,                           589.1    355.6
of which has been repaid         1.0
Total now outstanding h/         588.1
Total now held by IDA            588.1
Total undisbursed                          355.6
a/ lNo Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
c/ IDA 6th and 7th Replenishments Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
undisbursed amounts shown U.S. dollar equivalent are valued at the exchange
rate applicable on the date of this statement.
d/ Not yet effective.



-32-                          Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31. 1986)
Amount ($ million)
Year              Obli2er              Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1975    Soaltee Hotel (Pvt) Ltd.       Hotel                  2.7     0.4       3.1
1982    Nepal Orind Nagnesite          Mine and process      4.8       -        4.8
(Private) Limited            magnesite ore          - _
Total commitments now held by IFC                    7.5     0.4       7.9



-33-                          Annex III
Page 1 of 3
NEPAL
Second Cotta2e and Small Industries Project
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare nroiect:
one year
(b)  Proiect prepared by:
Committee of key implementing agencies with
UNDP-financed consultants and assistance
from IDA missions.
(c)  Date of first Dresentation to the Bank Group:
December 1984
(d)  Date of Departure of anDraisal mission:
August 1985
(e)  Date of Comoletion of Negotiations:
April 1986
(f)  Planned date of Credit effectiveness:
October 30, 1986
Section II:  Special IDA Inolementation Action:
None
Section III: SDecial Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) approval of the Statement of Policies and Operating
Procedures of the CSI Refinance Unit in the central
bank (para 55);
(b) issuance of instructions by the central bank,
satisfactory to IDA, to at least two participating
banks (para 55);
(c) compliance by at least two PCIs with participation
criteria (para 52);



-34-                           Annex III
Page 2 of 3
(d)  signing of the UNDP Project Agreement by the Government
and UNDP (para 46);
(e) appointment of an entity acceptable to the Government, UNDP
and IDA to execute the UNDP-financed portion of the Project
(para 46);
(f) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to
IDA, between REMG and the central bank (para 48); and
(g) appointment of a Chief Technical Advisor with experience,
qualifications and ,terms of reference acceptable to IDA
(para 61).
Conditions of Disbursement
Ca) approval of the Statement of Policies and Operating
Procedures by the Board of NWTC as a condition for
disbursement of the Credit component under the project
(para 59);
Cb) furnishing each year of a detailed action program acceptable
to IDA as a Condition of Disbursement under the CIDB component
,para 58);
Cc) adoption by TPC of ESC's Statement of Policies and Operating
Procedures satisfactory to IDA and furnishing on a yearly
basis an annual action program satisfactory to IDA as a
Condition of Disbursement under the camponent (para 57); and
(d) approval by CIDB of the Statement of Policies and Operating
Procedures for the Raw Material Procurement Fund, satisfactory
to IDA, as a Condition of Disbursement to the Fund (para 59).
(e) transfer of Rs 2 million to the Credit Guarantee Scheme as a
Condition of Disbursement under the credit component (para 56);
Other Conditions
(a) onlending terms and review (para 49);
(b) annual programs for export assistance (para 57);
(c) policies and procedures for ESC and PON (para 57);



Annex III
Page 3 of 3
Cd) action program for improving import and export policies
and procedures (para 30);
Ce)  policies and procedures for NWTC, NMIC and Raw Material
Procurement Fund (paras 59 and 60);
(f) appointment of a procurement and operations advisor for
CIHE (para 59); and
(g) assistance to commercial banks (para 54).



[ e   j  5v,,     Q    C  11  I  N  A                                                   ~~~SECON D COTTAGE AND
p g(;;~~~ARCnsULA                    H U} M|0 L A~                                                             SMALL INDUSTRI ES PROJECT
'    -><'   ,'  I  .  ,>   )                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project Areas
S AIIADI F8 AR                      m ,^u9 <MU G U    N                                                               totc AiJ
vD0t: I  ,.. rD COA    ALIKOT      v      J                       J                                            0^IA%  .....................   Seledcted toYwns
t _ F , ' CHH~~AK                          -t Ato 0 _ J  O P Ai-tK   -   District boundaries
{J    ;   -t  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~)D,,|./ D-WtfE S T  E R N                                                              Zo  bws. . zndaborde
;_4 NCHN,    %      <AIAf U;lOI                                                                                       ----Mo2Pt_4..International boundaries
11~ ~ ~ A I I A t, cI                                                  t  % 
SUL        - -j uW                                                                                          > u->  j
A        N      D      IAL   A9    LAt_JU   amWs'#~ 2 O    >,i-                                      \t9\ 
giltS0~~~~~~   ~~~~~ Xo    40    Io        PTTH lo                                                         .r<A            ,,            80|CUJHP
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M                             ANG)i                    A~ -,G      r      b           fl ML E dW ftt                  z
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Dir 



