Do_aM of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
Report No. 6112-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
April 22, 1986
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of December 18, 1985)
Currency Unit   Nepalese Rupees (Rs)
US$ 1.00      = Rs 20.8
Rs  1.00        US$0.05
ABBREVIATIONS
ADBN   -  Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
BTI    -  Bankers Training Institute
CCC    -  Credit Guarantee Corporation
CIDB   -  Cottage Industry Development Board
CIED   -  Cottage Industry Export Division
CIHE   -  Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium
CSI    -  Cottage and Small Industry
CTA    -  Chief Technical Advisor
DCVI   -  Department of Cottage and Village Industries
EDP    -  Entrepreneurship Development Program
EEE    -  Exporters' Exchange Entitlement
ESC    -  Export Service Center
GTZ    -  German Technical Corporation
HMG    -  His Majesty's Government
NAB    -  Nepal Arab Bank, Ltd
NBL    -  Nepal Bank Ltd.
NIDC   -  Nepal Indusurial Development Corporation
NMTC   -  Nepal Metal Trading Company-
NRB    -  Nepal Rastra Bank
NWTC   -  Nepal Wool Trading Company
PCI    -  Participating Credit Institutions
PDC    -  Product Development Center
PON    -  Products of Nepal
PCU    -  Project Coordination Unit
RBB    -  Rastriya Banijya Bank
RNAC   -  Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation
SBPP   -  Small Business Promotion Program
TA     -  Technical Assistance
TPC    -  Trade Promotion Center
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
HMG/Financial institutions: July 16 to July 15



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMM ARY *...*.....*.**.e..****e.**e** ...e..*   , i-i
I   INTRODUCTION .                                                        1
II.  SECTORAL FRAMEWORK ..      ....*,* .                         . .............*****  2
A. Economic Environment .........2...................... ....         2
B. Industrial Sector .......       ...................... .          3
C. Role of Cottage and Small Industries .....        ................  5
D. Industrial Policy Framework *.............................         6
E. Industrial Finance .       ............ ..........0.... ... ... .. ..    11
III.  STRATEGY AND PROJECT DESIGN  ...............       .................    13
A. First Project-Achievements and Lessons Learned ...........        13
B. Building Term Lending........                   .. ............................    14
C. Promoting Exports .......        ...........   ......................    15
D. Developing Skills.........................................       19
E. Supplying Materials................... ............. .......    20
F. Coordinating and Monitoring...............................    20
IV.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT .......       ................................    21
A. Objectives, Scope and Financing .....         .....................    21
B. Subloan Component .....      ................................. ..  23
C. Export Development Components   ............................    30
D. Policy Formulation and Implementation ....................       34
E. Entrepreneurship, Skills Training, and Extension Services.    35
F. Raw liaterial Supply          ......................................    38
G. Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation ...........      39
V.  THE PROPOSED CREDIT .......               .........                 40
A. Credit Arrangements...... .. .. ......  ................... ..   40
B. Subloan Terms and Conditions ............................    40
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .. ......... .. . . .. . . .  ......... . . . . . .    44
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS .................. ..    ................    46
This report is based on the findinge ot in Appraisal Mission which visited
Nepal in August 1985.  The mission t'.omplised M. de Nevers (leader),
A. Hasan (ASPID) and A. Singer (Consiltait).
Thi document has a restcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be discimod without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Interest Rate Structure
2. List of Districts
3. Estimated Costs and Sources of Finance
4. Draft Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures, ESC
S. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for the Proposed IDA Credit
6. Draft Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
for Lending to CSIs
ADDITIONAL ANNEXES, VOLUME II
II-1 Credit Guarantee Corporation--Premium Rate Table
II-2  CSr II Training Needs--Suggested Training Courses
II-3  Banker's Training Center--List of Training Programs
II-4  Distribution of Existing Manpower of PCIs in Proposed CSI II
Project Area
(I-5  Current Investment of PCIs by Zone in CSI II Project Area
II-6  Calculation of Credit Demand
II-7  Estimates of Project Generated Incremental Foreign Exchange
II-8  Note to Financing Plan:  Staffing Assumptions
II-9  Export Performance of Key CSI Products during Implementation
of First CSI Ptoject
II-10 Proposed CIDB Staffing Plan
II-}1 Agreement between CIDB and GTZ



NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES (CSI II) PROJECT
Project Summary
Borrower            : His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Beneficiaries       : Rastriya Bani,ya Bank (RBB), the Agricultural
Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and Nepal Bank
Limited (NBL).
Amount               : An IDA Credit -- US$10.0 million equivalent,
Terms                : Standard
Cofinancing          : The UNDP would provide a grant of US$1.8 million on a
parallel basis.
Relending Terms      : The Government would relend about US$7.6 million of the
proceeds of the IDA Credit for the subloan component to
Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) at an average rate of 3Z per
annum repayable over 14 years, including three years of
grace.  NRB would use these funds to refinance at
an average rate of 6.5X per annum subloans made to
cottage and small scale industries (CSIs) by
participating credit institutions (PCIs). The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by HMG.
Project Objectives  : The proposed Project would support the Government's
objectives of development of efficient industries,
export growth and increasing output, export earnings
and employment in small and cottage industries.
Project Desc-.iption : The proposed Project would: (i) finance private
projects in cottage and small industries through the
financial system; (ii) strengthen the term-lending
capability of PCIs and upgrade overall operations of
two commercial banks; (iii) strengthen public and
private agencies in providing marketing, raw material
supply and training services to CSIs; and (iv) support
improvements in policy and procedures to foster
efficient industrial-investment.  The ultimate
beneficiaries would be cottage and small industries,
market agents servicing CSIs and raw material
supply companies which meet eligibility criteria in 27
districts included in the project area.  About 4,720
subloans would be made by participating credit



-ii- 
institutions to CSI projects.  Average cost per job is
estimated to be about US$900 and the incremental
employment generazing under the Project would be about
21,000 jobs. The major risk affecting manufacturing
projects in rural areas is the weak raw material supply
and market system. This risk is expected to be
minimized by support provided under the Project to
local market agents and the Cottage Industry Handicraft
Emporium. To help ensure that the Project achieves its
export objectivest the Project provides technical assistance
to HMG for improvement in the duty drawback and quota
allocation systems and for market research and product
development. To help minimize project implementation
risks, the Project provides for a full-time chief
technical advisor and supporting experts.
Estimated Costs:
Local          Foreign           Total
--------…(USs Milion)…-------- -
Subloan Component         8.1             3.8               11.9
Technical Assistance      2.3             3.1                5.4
10.4            6.9                17.3
Financing Plan:
IDA                       4.9             5.1               10.0
UNDP                       --             1.8                1.8
Covernment                1.1                                1.1
CSIs/Assns.               2.4                                2.4
PCIs                      2.0                                2.0
10.4            6.9                17.3
Disbursements:
Bank Group Fiscal Year   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
----------------TUS$MillionT…-----------
Annual                     1.5    1.5    2.0    2.5    1.0    1.0    0.4
Cumulative                 1.5    3.0    5.0    7.5    8.5    9.5   10.0
Economic Rate of Return (ERR): NA



NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
STAFF APPR&ISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Cottage and small industries (CSIs) are the major source of employment,
output and exports in the industrial sector in Nepal. Supporting CSI develop-
ment is an important strategy in the Fifths Sixth and Seventh Five-Year Plans of
His Majesty's Government of Nepal (H1G). The proposed Project would build on
the achievements and lessons learned in implementing the first Cottage and Small
Industries Project, which became effective in July, 1982. The Project would
involve an IDA Credit of SDR 8.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) with a
US$7.6 million subloan component and US$2.4 million for public and private
agencies supporting export development, training and raw material supply
services. The Project also would incorporate a US$1.8 million UNDP grant on a
parallel basis to help finance technical assistance, training, consultancy and
market development inputs of the Project. Arrangements are currently underway
to appoint a suitable agency to execute the UNDP-financed portion of the
Project.
1.02    The project area would include 27 districts in Kathmandu Valley and in
seven zones in Central and Western Nepal. The Second CSI Project would continue
to strengthen the capabilities of public institutions to provide credit, raw
materials and other services to CSIs and would assist private manufacturers and
raw material supply companies in improving their operations. The Project would
help rural entrepreneurs develop viable industrial projects which cater to local
markets, and which supply intermediate and final products to Kathmandu-based
exporters. Export growth would be supported by providing product and market
development services, in product groups with identified strong export growth
potential, notably wool carpets, ready-made garments and selected handicrafts.
1.03    As under the first CSI Project, two comm4rcial banks and the
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) would make term loans to private
cottage and small enterprises, market agents and input supply companies, with
partial refinance and credit guarantees from the central bank. Under CSI II,
coverage of these term lending operations would be expanded, greater powers
would be delegated to the participating banks and the overall operations of the
two commercial banks would be upgraded with technical assistance from an inter-
national bank. The Project would expand the operations of the Export Service
Center (ESC) ir Kathmandu and the Products of Nepal (PON) office in New York.
The skills trf-ning, entrepreneurship development and extension services of the
Cottage Industry Development Board (CIDB) would be strengthened. The operationa
of the Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium (CIHE) would be



-2-
upgraded.  A small Project Coordination Unit in the Ministry of Industry would
coordinate project inputs, and would be responsible for monitoring and evaluat-
ing the various components. The proposed Second CSI Project would support
improvement in HNG's industrial and trade policies by providing technical assis-
tance to implement duty-free access to imported inputs for export production and
to improve import and export administration and raw material supply.
1.04    IDA's involvement in industrial development in Nepal falls into two
categories: (i) support of cottage and small industries through the first CSI
Project (Cr. 1191-NEP), and (ii) financing of medium and large agro-based, light
engineering and servi-ce industries, utilizing the Nepal Industrial Development
Corporation (NIDC) as financial intermediary. In November 1984, an Industrial
Development Project (Cr. 1535-NEP) was approved, consisting of a line of credit
of US$6.5 million to NIDC and a technical assistance component of US$1.0 million
to assist development of the leather subsector, improve access to imported
inputs for exports and continue work on industrial investment and trade policies
and tourism promotion. The International Finance Corporation has three opera-
tions in Nepal: a $3.1 million expansion of the Soaltee Oberoi Hotel (FY85); a
DM 14.5 million loan to Nepal Orind Magnasite Company to mine and produce dead-
burnt magnasite for export (FY82); and a DM 7.8 million loan to the Nepal Metal
Company to mine and concentrate zinc and lead for export. The proposed Second
CSI Project is designed to have a significant impact on development of CSIs
serving local and export. markets, while helping improve key aspects of trade,
industrial and financial sector policies.
II. SECTORAL FRAMEWORK
A. Economic Environment
2.01    Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world.  With 1983 average
per capita income of only US?170, the average Nepalese is only slightly better
off than the average citizen of Ethiopia, Bangladesh and Mali. Real CDP growth
over the past three decades has been virtually offset by population growth over
this period. GDP grew at only 2.4% p.a. in real terms during the Fifth Plan
period (1975-1980), and only 2.9% p.a. between FY82/83 and FY84t85. Nepal's
economy is based primarily on traditional rainfed agriculture, which accounts
for approximately 60% of GDP, 75% of exports and 90% of employment, reflecting
the fact that about 95% of Nepal's people live in rural areas. In a normal
rainfall year, Nepal produces barely enough foodgrains to feed its population.
People in the hills have been affected by chronic food deficits, forcing many
people to migrate to the Terai. Population pressure has led farmers to extend
the cultivated area by clearing forests which, combined with excessive grazing
and deforestation to meet the demand for fuel wood, has led to rapid envirc men-
tal degradation and consequent stagnation in agricultural productivity.
2.02    The industrial sector, including construction and mining, accounts for
about 10% of GDP; manufacturing contributes only about 4%. Manufacturing output
grew at an average annual real rate of 2.3% from 1975-80, and 9.2% from 1980-85.



Cottiage and small industries 1/ contribute about one-third of industrial value-
added, provide about 95% of industrial employment, and contribute about 90X of
public revenues from industry.
2.03    The problems of population pressure, declining agricultural productivity
and poor economic management have contributed to weakening Nepal's balance of
payments position. Over the past ten years, Nepal's trate balance has been
worsening steadily, a combined result of slow growth in manufactured exports,
diminishing exportable agricultural surplusest and increases in imports fueled
by large public expenditures. Until recently, the current account deficit,
which averaged about 4X of GDP from FY79 to FY82, has been more than matched by
private transfers and inflows of official grants and concessionary loans, lead-
ing to a surplus in the overall balance of payments. Reflecting a sharp decline
in agricultural exporta (due to a drought) and large increases in food-related
imports, the current account deficit reached 9% of GDP in FY83 and remained at
71 of GOP in FY84, in spite of an improvement in the overall balance of payments
position.
2.04    Prospects for improving the economic picture in Nepal appear difficult
in the short term. In spite of expanded government-sponsored population
prasgrams, the rate of population growth has not declined, and pressures on the
agricultural sector continue. In view of population and environmental
constraints, agricultural growth alone will not be sufficient to meet Nepal's
objectives of increasing employment and incomes and improving the balance of
trade. Increases in industrial production and exports need to supplement
agricultural incomes. There is potential I- displace some simple consumer goods
imports from India with local products, as well as to expand exports of existing
and improved industrial products, particularly from cottage and smell industry
segments. In view of the increasing pressure on the trade and balance of pay-
ments positions, it will be essential for H14 to encourage private industrial
investment and exports.
B. Industrial Sector
2.05   -Role of Industry.  Nepal's industrial sector is small and undeveloped.
About 37% of industrial value-added comes from manufacturing, with output
dominated by consumer goods (footwear, textiles, processed foods), construction
materials and simple assembly items. Large scale manufacturing is concentrated
mainly in public enterprises in or near Kathmandu Valley and in the Terai;
1/ Cottage industries are defined in the Industrial Enterprises Act
(October 1982) as having investment in machinery, equipment and tools of
less than Rs 200,000; total fixed assets are less than Rs 800,000 in
urban areas, less than Rs 500,000 in rural areas. Small industry is
defined as having total fixed assets less than Rs 2 million.



-4-
public enterprises contribute only 13% of manufacturing value-added. 1/ The 87%
of manufacturing value-added produced in the private sector is concentrated
mainly in small and cottage industries; outside Kathmandu Valley, industrial
production occurs almost exclusively in cottage industries, which service the
rural subsistence economy, providing woolen goods, cotton handloom textiles,
food, forest-based and simple metal products. Industrial development is con-
strained by Nepal's limited natural resource base (other than water resources
for hydroelectricity), extremely small effective domestic demand, lack of a
skilled technical and managerial work force and a geographical position which
isolates Nepal from raw materials and markets. The long, porous border with
India makes it difficult for Nepal to protect "infant" industries from competi-
tion from Indian goods. India's relatively developed industrial base also
limits India as a potential market for Nepal's industrial exports. Nepal's
landlocked position, the inefficient overland transport system through India or
Bangladesh and the undeveloped air cargo system add a substantial transport cost
to sourcing materials from, or exporting co, third countries. In view of these
serious constraints, Nepal's strategy for industrial development needs to
involve a selective combination of import-substitution and export development,
particularly to third country markets.
2.06    Industrial Export Performance and Potential.  While the bulk of Nepal's
agricultural exports are directed to India, an average of 70-75% of manufactured
exports go to other countries; "overseas" countries will remain the largest
potential market4 for Nepal's manufactured exports. In FY84/85, Nepal's total
exports to overseas countries reathed Rs 1,108 million (US$63.7 million), up
from Rs 483.7 million in FY83/84 and Rs 289.7 million in PY82/83. Growth in
overseas exports has fluctuated over the past five years, in part due to tem-
porary problems in the world leather market, and in part as a result of an
apparent structural shift in exports. The role of CSI products in overseas
exports has increased: in l180/81 CSI exports, including handicrafts, carpets
and garments, accounted for 30% of overseas exports, while leather (hides and
skins) contributed 22X, and jute-based exports were 20X. By 1984/85 traditional
handicraft exports (metal sculptures, thankas, filigree) had fallen to only 11
of overseas exports, while carpets and garments together accounted for 64X. CSI
exports broadly defined (including garments, carpets, cotton, woolen, wooden and
paper products) represent about 66% of total overseas exports, while jute based
exports have almost disappeared.
1/ Central Bureau of Statistics and National Planning Commission; 1982/83
data.



-5-.
Composition of Overseas Exports 1/
I of                        2 of
1980/81       Total         1984/85       Total
(Rs -M)  (US$M)             (Rs M)  (US$1)
Total Overseas Exports       605    50.42      100      1,108   62.25      100
Leather and Products       133    11.08       22        244   13.7        22
Jute and Products          121    10.08       20         -                -
Handicrafts                103     8.58       17         12    0.7         1
Carpets                     66     5.5        11        254   14.2        23
Garments                    12     1.0         2        471   26.9        43
1/  Source:  Trade Promotion Center.
2.07    In 1984/85, and in preliminary data for FY85t86, the most dynamic export
products are garments and carpets. Garment exports grew from 22 of total over-
seas exports in 1980/81 to 43Z in 1984/85; the recent boom is due to quota
restrictions on Indian garment exports (see para. 3.16). Carpet exports also
have grown rapidly in the last five years.
Growth Trends in Kea CSI Exports
FY        Total    Z Change    Carpets    2 Change    Garments    2 Change
aR Mill.)            (Fe Mill.)              (is mil .)
1980/81      605                    65.6                    13.0
1981/82      462      - 24X         83.9      +28Z          13.8        4    62
1982/83      290      - 362        137.8      +64X          10.0        -   282
1983/84      484      + 672        265.4      +93X          20.5        +  1052
1984/85    1,108      +1292        249.4      - 62         470.9        +2,3002
C.  Role of Cottage and Small Industries
2.08    The Sixth and Seventh Five-Year Plans t1980-85 and 1985-90) call for
increased support for the development of CSIs to supplement rural incomes and
employment and to expand non-traditional exports. Traditional CSI products
include agro- and forest-based products, some simple consumer goods and hand-
icraft products, including metal sculptures, thankas, wood carvings, wool car-
pets and garments, cotton handloom products and, most recently, ready-made
garments for export. In March 1982, IDA approved a project to support the
development of CSIs serving local and export markets. The CSI Project, which
was developed during an intensive two-year project preparation study as part
of an IDA-financed Technical Assistance Credit, provided direct techlnical and
commercial services and credit to private CSI units and training, consultancy
and marketing assistance to strengthen HMG institutions dealing with CSIs. With
continued and expanded institutional support for skills training, credit and



-6-
market development, there is scope for increasing cottage industry exports from
urban areas and expanding rural production to produce simple domestic consumer
items and produce labor-intensive intermediates for export.
D. Industrial Policy Framework
2.09    The basic legal and incentive framework for industries is contained in
the 1982 Industrial Enterprise Act (IEA) and Foreign Investment and Technology
Act iPITA). The IEA specifies licensing requirements and provides incentives
which include generous income and excise tax holidays, based on enturprise size
and value-added. The IEA stipulates sales tax and import ducv concessions for
imported equipment, machinery and tools for industry, and provides a basis for
tariff protection for import-competing industries.  While the IEA and FIT-
provide a generally positive policy framework for industry, the inconsistent
application of stated policies and cumbersome, inefficient procedures to imple-
ment trade and industrial policies have limited the growth and efficiency of
industrial investment. Although the industrial sector is small and under-
developed, there is scope for increasing industrial investment, output and
employment te.th an improved industrial regulatory setting. The following
paragraphs suimmarize briefly some key issues affecting the industrial sector
and outline measures to be taken under the auspices of other IDA lending instru-
ments and the CSI Project.
2.10    Industrial Licensing.  Small, medium and large industries are required
to seek an industrial license from the Department of Industries; cottage
industries are exempted from the licensing requirement, but are required to
register their investment. The main purpose of the licensing system is to
conserve foreign exchange (needed to import equipment, machinery, tools and
spares for most projects) and to encourage investment in high value-added
projects. An industrial license carries implicit guaranteed access to foreign
exchange needed for the Project. A recent Asian Development Bank (ADB) financed
study 1/ enumerated several problems with the system of industrial licensing.
In spite of the implied commitment by HMG to provide the required foreign
exchange for a project, in practice obtaining the necessary import license and
foreign exchange is not automatic and is decermined on an unpredictable, case-
by-case basis. The industrial licensing system discourages investment in some
import/export processing projects (i.e. gem cutting) with large foreign exchange
earning potential through application of the value-added criterion. The system,
itself, is cumbersome, time-consuming and unpredictable. Once a project starts
operation, the proponent has no assurance that he will have continuing access
to essential imported raw materials or parts. The uncertainty and inconsistent
application of the industrial licensing system increase the risks associated
with private investments in industry, and allow for monopoly rents for success-
ful applicants. Improvements are needed to simplify and streamline the
industrial licensing system. Under the IDA-financed Industrial Development
Project (IDP) (Cr. 1535), technical assistance will be provided to improve
1/ Nepal Industrial Sector Study, ADB and HMG, December 1985.



-7-
industrial incentives.  The technical assistance component will address, among
other things, problems with the industrial licensing system. Consultants will
coordinate with HMG officials to review the operation of the system, using the
ADB study and recommendations as a basis. The consultantg, will recommend simple
alternatives to achieve the objectives of conserving foreign exchange and
encouraging investment in economically-efficient projects and will propose
measures to simplify and improve the system.
2.11    Effective Protection.  Relatively little work has been done to measure
Levels of effective protection in Nepal's small and undiversified industrial
sector. The recent ADB study confirms previous industrial sector work which
indicates that, while the overall, average level of protection is not extremely
high (471 for non-milling manufacturing industries) compared to industrial
sectors in other developing countries, there is a wide dispersion in levels of
protection and the incidence of effective protection bears little relation to
Nepal's potential comparative advantage. Exports, in particular, suffer nega-
tive effective protection while some inefficient industries enjoy high levels of
protection. A number of exemptions from import duties, different rates of sales
and excise taxes on imported and domestically produced goods and quantitative
import restrictions result in a complicated and unpredictable system of effec-
tive protection, and reduce the tax revenue base. The Industrial Development
Project technical assistance component will propose measures to simplify and
streamline the import tariff and tax system to provide effective protection in
accordance with Nepal's potential comparative advantage, and to provide a pre-
dictable revenue base and incentive system for prospective investors.
2.12    Industrial Taxation.  The IEA contains a complex schedule for income
and other tax holidays for industry.  Cottage industries are eligible for a
six-year tax holiday; small, medium and large industries are eligible for five-
year income tax holidays if value-added is between 20-50Z; additional tax
holidays are available for industries with higher value-added and for exports.
Income tax holidays are also available for specific industries ranging from
essential consumer goods to service and tourism enterprises. The Act provides
five-year excise tax holidays for cottage industries and three-year excise tax
holidays for small, medium and large industries. Cottage industries are to be
exempt from sales tax, as are equipment, machinery and tools imported for use in
an industrial enterprise. The ADB study concludes that the tax exemptions are
more generous than necessary, eroding the tax revenue base without providing an
effective investment incentive. The IDP technical assistance component would
evaluate the ADS recommendations (that tax holidays be dropped and a flat, lower
(35%) corporate income tax be assessed on all corporate income) and would assist
HMG to implement an agreed program of income, sales and excise tax reform.
2.13    Public Sector Enterprises.  Large, import-substituting public sector
industrial enterprises (PSEs) absorb a significant portion of public sector
expenditures. Many PSEs operate at low levels of capacity utilization and
operate with financial losses. Relatively little work has been done to assess
the efficiency, contribution and cost/benefit of PSE's. HMG has agreed to an
IDA proposal to study PSEs with the objective of formulating recommendations to
improve management systems and the efficiency of PSE operations. A TOR for the
study has been drafted. The study possibly would be financed under an existing
IDA TA Credit.



-8-
2.14    Import and Export Policies and Procedures.  There are a number of
problems related to import and export policies and procedures, particularly as
they affect export manufacturers. Many of these probl Is have been discussed
with HMG officials during the implementation of the fi st Cottage and Small
Industries (CSI) Project. Under the Industrial Enterprises Act, exports are to
be exempt from sales tax. The Act stipulates a 1% import duty on imported
machinery, equipment, tools and spare parts for the construction and operation
of an enterprise, provided such materials of suitable quality are not readily
available within the country. For materials locally available, imports may be
restricted and subject to an import duty of 15% (or more). The Act states that
exports will not be subject to any export duty and that for export products on
which more than 1% import duty has been paid, the duty in excess of 1% will be
refunded. However, for all of the above policies, HMG can decide at its discre-
tion to impose higher import duties or sales or excise taxes for any industry,
including cottage industries, or to revoke any other concession or incentive by
notification in the Nepal Gazette. A number of problems with implementation of
import and export policies outlined in the Industrial Enterprises Act limit the
expansion of production for efficient import substitution and exports. HMG
would appoint, with UNDP financing, consultants acceptable to the Association
with satisfactory terms of reference to undertake immediate improvements in
import and export procedures and assist HMG in the preparation and implementa-
tion of a longer-term action program to improve import and export policies and
procedures (see paras. 4.35-4.36). The consultants would carry out a study to
be completed by September 30, 1987, and would propose specific interventions and
improvements in policies and procedures. It was agreed at negotiations that the
Government would submit to the Association for comment a draft action program by
1iecember 31, 1987. The main areas to be covered in the action program are
summarized in the following paragraphs.
2.15    Uncertain availability, and resultant price volatility, of suitable
inputs and raw materials are continuing problems for industrial manufacture and
particularly for export products. In spite of the Industrial Enterprise Act
policy to provide inputs for industrial production with 1% import duty and low
sales tax rates, import duties and sales taxes are levied on many key inputs and
are modified and increased on an ad hoc basis. The impact is particularly
detrimental in the export manufacturlng sector.  For instance, in the case of
ready-made garments, the imposition of a 17% import duty (recently increased
from 14%) on Indian fabric is an important factor contributing to the higher
cost of production in Nepal, which undermines the long term potential for the
industry. Many imported goods are effectively canalized through government
owned or controlled companies, such as National Trading Limited and CIHE. In
other cases, only one import license is allowed to a private trader, who then
has an effective monopoly and passes on high prices, as well as sales and excise
taxes and import duties, to industrial users.
2.16    In wool carpets, which constitute a 22% (and growing) share of exports,
only one private company is licensed to import dyes, and these are available
only at high prices. Many of these dyes are inappropriate for European and
U.S. markets, but more suitable dyes are not available because only one private
company has an import license, and this company's exclusive dealership with one
foreign supplier prevents it from importing from other suppliers. More



-9-
importantly, imports of raw wool (other than Tibetan wool) are now effectively
canalized through the Nepal Wool Trading Company (NWTC). Although 90% of the
shares of NWTC are held by private sector companies, HMG owns 10% of shares and
is represented on the Board of Directors. HMG's representative (from CIHE)
exerts influence in excess of HMG's share because HMG is able to affect access
to credit and import licenses for raw wool. Under HMG influencet NWTC has
recently followed a practice of cross-subsidizing cheaper wool from New Zealand
and Australia with more expensive wool purchased from one group of domxestic
Tibetan wool traders. The Wool Trading Company has been denied import licenses
for additional shipments of overseas raw wool unless it purchases and sells the
high-cost Tibetan wool supplied by certain trading groups, even though Tibetan
wool is available through other sources in the domestic market at lower prices.
Carpet exporters, particularly smaller companies, must bear the cost of higher
overall wool prices. In view of the increasing price competition from Chinese
and other carpets, it is extremely important to reduce the cost of Nepalese
carpets. Government interference, along with the price of the most important
raw material, will impede this effort.
2.17    In the case of metal, the Nepal Metal Trading Company (NMTC) was estab-
lished to provide metal at low cost, with import duty and sales tax exemptions,
to artisans manufacturing metal products for export. In practice, however,
metal imports have been directed to domestic utensil manufacturers rather than
to artisans making export products. This is because artisans normally receive
metal from export traders who finance production of metal sculptures for export.
These exporters, not being direct manufacturers, are restricted from buying
metal irom the Metal Trading Company and thus cannot supply metal to artisans
who could not afford to buy it on their own account.
2.18    The appraisal mission recommended to HMG that (i) more private importers
be licensed to import key raw materials for CSI production and exports rather
than canalizing these through inefficient public trading companies; (ii) import
duties be rationalized and structured in accordance with "infant industry"
protection and export promotion objectives rather than as revenue measures;
(iii) HMG refrain from intervening in the operations of NWTC; and
(iv) procedures be developed to enable provision of imported metal to
exporter/manufacturers and artisans, as well as to other domestic industries
through NMTC. It was agreed at negotiations that a Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures for the NWTC, satisfactory to IDA would be approved by HMG,
including a commitment by HMG to provide wool import licenses against foreign
exchange in a timely manner without restrictions regarding purchase of domestic
wool. Approval of such statement would be a condition of disbursement for the
credit component.
2.19    Reimbursement for Import Duties and Taxes.  Although the Industrial
Enterprises Act proposes that exporters be reimbursed for import duties over
1 and domestic sales and excise taxes on materials incorporated in export
products, procedures to implement such A policy are not in effect. Many raw
materials and intermediates are imported by commercial traders, who must pay
import duties as well as sales and excise taxes, and these costs are passed on
to manufacturers and exporters. Thus, many export products such as silver
jewelry, metal sculptures, carpets and garments contain non-refundable taxes
and duties on raw materials. The appraisal mission recommended that HMG



-1Q-
initiate measures to implement procedures to provide duty-free access to raw
materials and intermediates for export production. In its Economic Program
Statement of December 1985, HMG announced its intention to establish an effec-
tive bonded warehouse system to accomplish this task. During negotiations it
was understood that HMG intends to implement a system to allow exporters to
opevate on a free trade basis, and is considering weasures to establish a bonded
warehouse. The technical assistance needed to implement such a system would be
provided under the Project.
2.20    Ttansport Costs.  Because of Nepal's landlocked position and the inef-
ficiency of overland transport through India or Bangladesh, many export goods,
particularly fashion items such as ready-made garments with short delivery
times, must be air-freighted to Europe or the U.S. IATA Special Commodity Rates
(SCts) exist for air cargo from Bombay and Dhaka, offering discounts of around
4ax below the best general cargo rates for eligible items. SCRs from Kathmandu
are not available for key export products such as carpets and garments. To
protect Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation (RNAC), inexpensive air cargo or
charter companies have not been allowed to operate in Kathmandu. The mission
recommended that HMG initiate action with RNAC to provide SCRs for key export
products, and that clearances from RNAC and relevant HMG Ministries be obtained
to encourage other airlines to operate air cargo services out of Kathmandu to
Europe and the U.S., as well as to Bangkok, where efficient sea freight services
are available. In the long run, sealed overland containerization from Kathmandu
to Bombay would help alleviate the problem. In its Economic Program of
December 1985, HKG announced its intention to lower freight costs on key export
products. Although measures remain to be taken to allow charter freight com-
panies to operate, it was understood at negotiations that HMG would continue to
pursue measures to reduce freight costs.
2.21    Customs Clearance Procedures.  All export shipments are subject to
inspection by the customs authorities. Facilities at Tribuvan Airport are
hopelessly inadequate to handle the volume of export cargo. Inspections of
export consignments usually take place outside in the open air, and customs
officials usually open every package; packages are leit out in the open air and
frequently subject to damage, as the goods become wet during inspection, are
repacked and shipped, and arrive wet and moldy. During the appraisal mission,
several carpet and garment exporters reported that in recent shipments 20X to
60% of the shipment had been ruined during customs clearance. The mission
recommended that immediate action be taken to provide adequate cover for goods
during customs inspections. The mission recommended that carrying out customs
inspection in-factory be considered. In-factory inspection would have the
advantage of saving HMG a major investment in storage space at Tribuvan Airport
and would save exporters the cost of having to re-package consignments after
customs clearance and losses due to damaged shipments. In its Economic Program,
HMG announced its intention to construct a 5,000 MT storage facility at the
airport. Understandings were reached at negotiations that HMG has constructed
such a shed and would consider introducing measures to improve customs proce-
dures generally. The Project would-provide technical assistance to devise and
implement improved procedures as part of the proposed action program.



-ll-
2.22    Export Licensing, Taxes and Procedural Hurdles.  On a number of
products, particularly ready-made garments--the fastest growing export
category-an export tax is levied by the Customs Department, and an export
"service charge" is levied by the Industrial Services Center (ISC) for making
an evaluation of value-added. (This is in spite of the fact that the IEA states
that exports are exempt from taxation.) Under the Trade and Transit Treaty
between Nepal and India, 50% value must be added to Indian materials which are
re-exported from Nepal to third countries. This requi-"ment is monitored by as
many as three in-factory visits by ISC staff for each export consignment.
Export licenses are required for most products. The value-added assessment and
export licensing subject export shipments to excessive procedural delays.
Exporters must present the following to the Customs Department for customs
clearance: a certificate of value-added from ISC; a letter of recommendation
from the M'inistry of Industry to the Ministry of Commerce for an export license;
the export license issued by the Ministry of Commerce; and a certificate of
origin issued by the Chamber of Commerce. These procedural requirements subject
each export shipment to bureaucratic delays and add to administrative costs for
manufacturers. In its December Economic Program, HMG announced its intention to
simplify the export licensing system and export procedures. The technical
assistance provided under tae Project would assist in the process, and recommen-
dations would be included in the draft action plan.
E. Industrial Finance
2.23    Overview.  Nepal's financial sector consists of:  the central bank
(Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB)); three commercial banks; two specialized financial
institutions--the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and the Nepal
Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC); and a provident fund corporation and
an insurance company. The two public commercial banks, 1/ Nepal Bank Ltd. and
Rastriya Banijya Bank, dominate the financial sector, accounting for 75% of
total assets and virtually all deposits. Deposits of the commercial banks
showed a high growth rate of about 19% during 1977-84, reaching Rs 7.1 billion,
or 18% of GDP. Over 45% of deposits have been in maturities of two years and
longer which provides a reasonably stable deposit base.
2.24    The table below compares the positions of the key financial institutions
as of January 1985:
1/ Nepal Bank Ltd. (NBL) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) are owned by HMC
to the extent of 51% and 100% respectively. The third commercial bank,
the Nepal Arab Bank, Ltd., is owned by Dubai Bank (30%), HMG (30%), NIDC
(10%) and private shareholders (30%).



-12-
Total Assets   Total Loans   Total Deposits   Branches   Staff
…___-       …__ (Rs million) …------------
Commercia'. Banks
NBL             5,331           2,558           4,763           195      6,730
RBB             3,154           1,535           2,861           170      4,670
DFIs
ADBN            1,450           1,232             977 1/        234      2,820
NIDC              593             474             274             5        250
1/  The domestic sources of funds include refinance from NRB, borrowings
from commercial banks and debentures held by NRB and NBL.
2.25    Lending Operations of Commercial Banks.  Between 1981 and 1984, loans
outstanding increased by 8% p.a., assets grew at about 13% p.a. and deposits
grew about 20% p.a. With rapid deposit growth, loans as a percentage of
deposits declined from about 60% in FY82 to 40% in FY84. Over 90% of commercial
bank lending is short term, consisting mainly of consumption loans, using gold
and silver as collateral. In 1974, HMG initiated the Priority vector (PS)
program, directing the two commercial banks to lend 8% of deposits to small
farmers, cottage and small scale industries and small service enterprises.
However, by April 1985, lending to the priority sector had reached only 5% of
total lending. Term lending by the oanks effectively began only under the PS
program. By April 1985, term loans outstanding were Rs 290 million; about half
the loans are to CSIs. Priority sector lending to CSIs outside of the IDA
project area has been limited. One reason for the limited amount of priority
sector lending outside the CSI Project area is that the spread on priority
sector loans is inadequate to provide an incentive for increased lending.
Banks' average cost of funds is about 11 and administrative costs average 5%;
the lending rate under the priority sector program is 11. While the Priority
Sector program is funded by banks' own resources, subloans under the CSI Project
are refinanced through the NRB, providing banks a spread of 4-6%, making this
lending more attractive to the banks. About 240 branches of the two national-
ized commercial banks are involved in the PS program, including 35 branches
handling CSI Project subloans. Subloans under the CSI Project and the PS
program have similar terms and conditions, although there is more emphasis on
collateral under the PS program. ReliabLe data is not available on collections
under the PS program; however, rough estimates indicate that the collections'
rate is around 40-50%. Collections under the first CSI Project currently
average 65X.
2.26    Lending by Other Financial Institutions.  As a specialized financial
institution, ADBN's lending and operating standards and procedures are geared
toward term lending and are more advanced than those of commercial banks. Loans
are based largely on assessment of project viability. At the head office, ADBN
has a separate department for cottage and agro-industry lending, within which
five staff handle the IDA project. NIDC, 95% owned by HMG, 3% by private



-13-
shareholders and the remaining 2X by NRB, lends mainly for medium and large
industry.
2.27    Financial Sector Developmet.ts.  Recent developments in the financial
sector include allowance for foreign banks to operate branches in Nepal and
establishment of a privately owned commercial bank. In addition, ADBN has been
allowed to accept deposits and float short-term notes. These moves are consis-
tent with HMG's continuing efforts to improve resource mobilization, foreign
trade services, and efficiency of financial institutions.
2.28    The Credit Guarantee Corporation (CCC), owned by NRB, NBL and RBB, was
set up in 1974 to provide credit guarantees to the two commercial banks for
priority sector loans. CGC charges a 1% premium on priority sector loans. As
of April 1985, total guarantees outstanding were Rs 160 million; total capital
and reserves were Rs 18 million, or 11.4% of exposure. CGC's exposure far
exceeds its ability to cover the risks.  A study is underway to analyze CGC and
recommend an appropriate technical and financial assistance package.
2.29    Interest Rates and Inflation.  Annex 1 shows the deposit and lending
rate structure in Nepal. Lending rates to industry range from 11% to 17%
depending on the purpose of the loans and the size of the borrower. These rates
have prevailed since June 15, 1983, and reflect an across-the-board increase of
IZ from previous rates. NIDC's interest rates for term loans to industry are
12% for fixed investment and 15Z to 17% for working capital. Loans for fixed
investment under the priority sector program, including those under the first
CSI Project, are 11Z. In the period FY79 to FY85, inflation in Nepal averaged
about 112. Current projections of Nepal's inflation are in the range of 6% to
9% p.a. for FY86 and over the medium term. While present CSI lending rates are
expected to remain positive in real terms, they are inadequate to provide a
sufficient spread to the banks, since the average cost of deposits is currently
about 11. The on-lending rate of 11X also is lower than the two-year deposit
rate (13.5%), which encourages diversion of funds (see para. 5.04).
III. STRATEGY AND PROJECT DESIGN
A. First Project--Achievements and Lessons Learned
3.01    The strategy of the Second CSI Project would be to expand and improve
credit, marketing and technical services to private cottage and small industries
to enable them to increase output, domestic value-added and exports. The
Project would strengthen the capabilities of public institutions to provide
credit and other services to CSIs, and would support private manufacturers, raw
material supply companies and market agents to upgrade their operations. Export
product development and promotion activities would be concentrated in Kathmandu,
which holds sizable concentrations of wool, cotton and metalcraft CSIs manufac-
turing primarily for export. In rural areas, entrepreneurs would be encouraged
to identify products to substitute for Indian imp-rts, such as textiles,
household goods and agricultural implements to meet local requirements, as well
as to develop exportable products which could be sold through Kathmandu-based



-14-
exporters and manufacturers. Rural artisans would receive skills training to
upgrade production and would be assisted with raw mnaterial supply and marketing.
3.02    The design of the Second Cottage and Small Industry Project builds on
successful elements and lessons learned while implementing the first CSI
Project. Acbievements in implementing the first CSI Project provide a positive
basis for expanding the Project to include additional districts. The first CSI
Project included three districts in Kathmandu Valley and six districts in
Gandaki Zone, immediately east of Kathmandu. These districts accounted for 60%
of cottage industry in Nepal and thus offered an opportunity to test innovative
approaches to credit delivery, product and skills development and commercial
sct-rices initiated under the Project. The Second CSI Project woulin introduce
programs to improve financial and commercial services to CSIs in 18 new dis-
tricts in addition to the nine districts covered under the first CSI Project.
The new districts were selected on the basis of sizable concentrations of exist-
ing artisans, reasonable level of institutional and physical infrastructure and
proximity to one of three management centers to facilitate close communication
with and supervision by implementing agencies. The new districts already con-
tain 84 branches of participating banks, seven CIDB offices and seven CIHE
outlets. In the first Project, management of implementing agencies in the rural
districts was directed from offices in Kathmandu and Pokhara. In the Second
Project, one additional management center would be included in Dangdeukhuri
District. All districts included in the Second Project would be clustered
around one of the three management centers (Pokhara, Dang, or the central
offices in Kathmandu) to ensure adequate supervision and management of programs
and activities. (See Map and Annex 2 for districts.)
3.03    The Second CSI Project would maintain successful components and repli-
cate these in the new districts. The following section summarizes achievements
in implementing the first CSI Project and outlines modifications in the design,
institutional arrangements and management of some components.
B. Building Term Lending
3.04    The first CSI Project introduced active promotion, project appraisal and
supervision of term loans for CSIs, input supply companies and market agents.
Lending by NBL, RBB, and ADBN was supported by project review, refinance and
supervision from the Nepal Rastra Bank. The subloan component involved substan-
tial advisory and training inputs to the Rastra Bank and the participating banks
to assist them in adopting new lending practices.
3.05    The credit component has been committed and disbursed as projected at
appraisal, and the CSI Project is one of the most rapidly disbursing projects
supported by the Bank Group in Nepal. Approximately 45% of lending has been to
export-oriented industries, such as wool and metal products; the remainder was
for import-substituting activities, including textiles and agro-based
enterprises. About 30% of lending went to rural Gandaki, with an average sub-
loan size of Rs 21,000 (US$1,200). In Kathmandu Valley, with about 70% of total
lending, the average subloan size was Rs 39,000 (US$2,200). The distribution by
subsector of the approximately 2,000 projects financed with CSI subloans was



-1S-
woolen carpets and garments 36%, cotton 21%, metal products 6%, forest-based
products 12%, agro-based products 8% and others 16%. The average investment per
job was Rs 5368, or US$306.
3.06    The substantial increase in credit delivery to CSIs has resulted in
increases in output and employment in labor intensive enterprisas. With active
project promotion by the bank officers trained under the Project, between FY83
and FY85, about 45% of total lending for CSIs in Nepal's 75 districts took place
in the nine districts covered by the CSI Project. Gradually, banks have adopted
project appraisal capabilities and moved to a project-based lending approach,
which has improved the quality of projects financed. The NRB actively supported
development of project appraisal capabilities in participating banks by assist-
ing with training bank staff, establishing reporting procedures and operational
guidelines and reviewing PCI appraisals.  Initially, NRB reviewed all projects
above Rs 20,000 and gradually increased the review limit to projects above
Rs 100,000. Collection performance under the first CSI Project was about 45% of
amounts due when loan collection began, but has increased to about 65% of
amounts due with more active supervision and collection efforts by bank staff.
In the Second CSI Project, the objectives and implementing arrangements of the
credit component would be similar to the first Project, with participating
credit institutions gradually increasing responsibilities for project appraisal
and supervision.
C. Promoting Exports
-3.07 Export development in the first CSI Project was directed by the Trade
Promotion Center's Cottage Industry Export Division (CIED), established under
the Project to assist exporters with market contacts, product development and
expansion of the supply base. Product specialists, sales and exposure trips
for private exporters and a new overseas promotional and market intelligence
office were financed. 1/ The component introduced the concept of performance
contracts, which were intended to induce Kathmandu exporters to source export
production from rural hill artisan groups. The Export Service Center estab-
lished under the Project provided centralized demonstration, product development
and consulting services directly to private exporter manufacturers.
3.08    A key lesson in the export development component was that more time than
anticipated was needed to resolve the material supply, product design and
marketing problems limiting export expansion--particularly in the development of
new products and in mobilizing export production from rural areas. The perfor-
mance contract program, intended to induce exporters to source products in the
rural hills, was unsuccessful for a number of reasons, including poor management
by CIED, limited managerial resources of Kathmandu exporters, and difficulties
1/ Under CSI I, two overseas offices--one in New York and one in
Europe--were to be established. In view of intensive efforts needed in
establishing, staffing and organizing the work program of the New York
office, the opening of the European office was postponed.



-16-
managing rural material supply, quality control and product collection from
Kathmandu. In the Second Project, the program to support rural-based market
agents in providing the link between rural producers and Kathmandu-based
exporters will be strengthened (see para. 4.42).
3.09    The first CSI Project helped exporters improve product quality, increase
value added, conduct market testing and develop new contacts. For example, in
carpets, the Project introduced carpet washing in Nepal and trained manufac-
turers to improve wool dyeing and carpet finishing. These have been important
in expanding direct exports to new European markets and increasing value added;
carpet washing alone allows exporters to increase prices by up to US$4 per
sq. meter. For wool knitwear, systematic market testing led to improvements in
designs and production methods, and the Export Service Center (ESC) assisted
exporters in incorporating these changes, which have led to increased exports by
units assisted.
3.10    For other products, market testing and technical assistance in product
development indicated that a number of steps were needed to modify product
designs or production techniques to be able to penetrate new product/market
segments. In the case of metal sculptures, for example, market feedback indi-
cated significant scope for original, high-quality sculptures based on
indigenous but less religious themes. In the process of introducing new designs
and improved techniques, however, initial resistance on the part of artisans to
adopting new production techniques, and private exporters' reluctance to commis-
sion production for uncertain new markets, slowed progress. Thus, while
prospects for expanded exports in several product groups are good, technical and
marketing services targeted to addressing key constraints will remain important
elements of the export development component in the Second CSI Project.
3.11    Product Strategies.  As indicated in para. 2.06, there have been sub-
stantial changes in the product composition of overseas exports since the first
CSI Project was planned and started. Although carpet exports fell in FY84 due
to recession in Europe, overstocking by importers and increased competition by
China, by FY85 carpet exports represented 23% of total overseas exports, up from
11% in FY81; carpet exports grew at an average annual rate of 27% between FY81
and FY85. Ready-made garment exports grew from less than US$1 million in FY83
to almost US$27 million in FY85, accounting for 43% of total overseas exports.
The Second CSI Project would provide substantial support to these two product
groups to try to maintain export growth and retain Nepal's share of U.S. and
European markets. Although Nepal has comparative advantage in carpet and gar-
ment exports, sustained export growth is uncertain since: the growth of ready-
made garment exports is likely to be reduced by the imposition of U.S. import
quotas; Nepal's share of its major carpet market, West Germany, is threatened by
severe price competition by Chinese carpets. If steps are taken to diversify
garment exports and to reduce costs while improving quality in carpets, these
two products will continue to contribute significantly to industrial employment
and exports in Nepal.
3.12    The major reduction in traditional handicrafts' share of total exports
is due to the waning of the initial Western enthusiasm for traditional hand-
icraft items, which emerged when Nepal was first opened up to tourism. In spite
of substantial efforts to modernize and adapt traditional cast metal and wood-



-17-
based crafts to current tastes during the first CSI Project, the pace of product
development in handicraft items has been inadequate to reverse this trend. In
the Second CSI Project, the emphasis for handicraft products would be to adapt
traditional products and skills on a selective basis, to achieve innovative,
marketable products which utilize craft skills.
3.13    Carpets.  The carpet industry is well-established in Nepal, dating from
the 1960s, when a Swiss-assisted development project resuscitated the tradi-
tional Tibetan craft in one of the Tibetan refugee camps in Kathmandu Valley.
Nepal is the primary source of Tibetan-style carpets, which are now manufactured
in Nepal by Nepalese as well as Tibetans, as production in Tibet has virtually
ceased. Approximately 160 carpet firms, with 1,760 looms, employ approximately
52,700 workers, with fixed cost per job on average Rs 1,333 (US$80). The
industry has developed substantially since the 1960s. New designs and colors
were introduced, mostly by overseas buyers, which substantially increased
exports, predominantly to West Germany. In the past seven years, a steady
expansion of production and exports has been achieved. Although other markets
have been opened up, West Germany accounts for 59% of Nepal's direct carpet
exports as well as a substantial proportion (perhaps half) of the 28% of
Nepalese carpet exports which goes first to the U.K. Switzerland, sharing
German tastes and served by the same importers, accounts for a further 7X, and
the U.S. receives about 4%. Over the past seven years, other carpet exporting
countries--notably India--have tried to break into the lucrative European market
for Tibetan carpets. To date, Nepal has retained its hold on this market, as
India could not match the wool quality, use of traditional Tibetan motifs or the
delicacy and combination of colors of the carpets from Nepal.
3.14    In 1985, however, China made a serious entry into the market.
Preliminary carpet exports to West Germany were inexpensive, but poor in the
qualities demanded in Tibetan rugs for the German market. In response to buyer
reaction at the German Heimtex Fair, Chinese producers have already improved the
carpets and have achieved better colors and more color variation. The Chinese
improved Tibetan style carpets are currently available at US$39 per square
meter, c.i.f. Europe, with further small discounts for quantities over 1,000
square meters. (The average c.i.f. price of Nepalese carpets is US$68 per
square meter.)
3.15    Therefore, the priority objectives for carpets in the Second CSI Project
are: (a) to defend the key German and Swiss markets, presently accounting for
65-80% of Nc?alese carpet exports; and (b) to reduce dependence on these
markets, by opening up new markets, particularly the USA. The Second CSI
Project will address the first objective by supporting efforts to reduce costs,
primarily by reducing prices of raw wool and other materials, while improving
product quality and emphasizing the uniqueness and the handmade characteristics
of the Nepalese carpets, including handspun Tibetan wool and vegetable dyes.
This would include continuing efforts to improve wool scouring and dyeing,
carpet washing, mothproofing and developing chemical washes geared to specific
Cerman, Swiss, British and American preferences.



-18-
3.16    Ready-made Garments.  The rapid growth in ready-made garment exports
is mainly due to U.S. Covernment quantity quotas on garment exports from India
and other countries. Nepal's largest advantage in garment exports is that iL is
free of U.S. quota restrictions. In many garment categories, quota allocations
in India are traded in an informal market, and command high premiums. Indian
exporters subsequently established manufacturing operations in Nepal, in col-
laboration usually with Nepalese partners, and using mainly Indian labor.
Although production costs are 20-30% higher in Nepal than in India, the produc-
tion cost differential is justified by the high premium to be paid for quota in
India and the continuity of production available in Nepal because of its quota-
free status. As the garment business grew, Nepelese entrepreneurs began to
establish independenc operations and to increase their participation in col-
laborations with Indian partners. By March 1985, there were more than 100
garment factories registered in Nepal with a total employment of about 8,500.
Most units are small, operating in rented -houses, producing mainly simple,
low-value cotton women's garments. Originally, almost all labor was Indian;
the Neprlese labor content now has increased to around 60%, although most
skilled positions continue to be held by Indians. The Second CSI Project would
support diversification into new garment categories by assisting HMG to imple-
ment a system to provide exporters duty-free access to imported fabrics and
improving labor productivity and skills training (see para. 4.36). 1/
3.17    Institutional Arrangements.  In the first CSI Project, a Cottage
Industry Export Division (CIED) was established in the Trade Promotion Center
to implement the export development component, and the Products of Nepal (PON)
office in New York was opened under CIED's auspices for sales promotion and
market research. Primarily as a result of management problems, CIED had limited
impact as an active center for market information, communication link between
PON and exporters and source of product development. A number of key CIED staff
left the Division early in the project, and the vacancies were never filled.
Remaining staff lacked direction, morale was poor and appropriate counterparts
for outside technical experts were not appointed. During the second year of the
Project, a group of CIED staff and outside technical experts started a small
demonstration and product development center. The Export Service Center (ESC)
quickly became the focus of product development and extension service activities
under the first CSI Project, providing hands-on training, initially ir carpet
washing and dyeing techniques for wool and cotton. The ESC expanded its product
coverage to wool knitwear with the introduction of new hand-knitting stitches
and yarns, and is providing exporters direct assistarce to improve product
quality and production methods. ESC staff are in close contact with exporters
and follow up demonstration workshops with in-factory training and Lrnsulting.
ESC incorporates feedback from market testing and research by PON and ib staffed
with a combination of HMG officials and private consultants, which allows
1/  In January, 1986, HMG and the U.S. negotiated quotas on ready-made
garment exports from Nepal on four major garment categories. The Second
CSI Project would assist HMG to implement quota allocation procedures to
allocation to the U.S. while continuing to support export growth.



-19-
flexibility in structuring workshops and technical assistance. These arrange-
ments would be maintained and ESC's operations would be expanded to new products
in the Second CSI Project.
3.18    The Products of Nepal office in New York, now fully staffed, has made
important contributions in product-specific market analysis and feedback to
exporters (particularly in wool carpets and garments). PON has planned par-
ticipation by Nepalese exporters in trade fairs in the U.S. and Canada, obtained
trial orders for a variety of cottage industry products and followed up U.S.
buyers' contacts with Nepalese manufacturers. In the Second CSI Project, PON
would continue to carry out market research and product testing in close coor-
Aination with ESC. Prior to negotiations, a study was carried out to assess the
feasibility of opening a small, second P0N office in Europe. As the feasibility
analysis indicated that it would not be cost effective to open a second office
at this time, an understanding was reached that a second PON office would not be
opened until the feasibility of doing so were warranted.
D. Developing Skills
3.19    In the first CSI Project, the Cottage Industry Development Board (CIDB),
which had been a shell within the Department of Cottage and Village Industries
(DCVI), was activated. CIDB had greater powers for autonomy and flexibility in
staffing and budgeting, and no administrative tasks in CSI regulatory policy.
Under the CSI Project, CIDB assumed responsibility from DCVI for training and
extension services, and for developing an experimental mechanism to provide raw
materials and marketing services to cottage industries in areas not covered by
private com_ercial agents.
3.20    CIDB achieved its quantitative targets for training rural artisans, and
CIDB staff were successful in reaching more remote areas of rural districts.
More than 2,000 artisans received skills development training in textiles, dhaka
cloth, woolen carpets and goods, basketry and metal crafts in the first three
years of project implementation. Approximately 30% of CIDB-trained artisans are
employed as a result of CIDB training. In addition to skills training, CIDB
staff offer courses on industrial promotional and provide assistance to poten-
tial entrepreneurs in developing projects for bank financin3. About 30% of
CIDB-assisted entrepreneurs successfully applied for bank financing for their
projects. In a few rural areas CIDB operated a pilot program to provide cotton
yarn in the form of suppliers' credit, and assisted handloom weavers to market
their products through CIHE outlets. Although repayment to the raw material
fund was slow, artisans repaid the CIDB fund once their products were sold.
3.21    One reason for the relatively low rate of employment of CIDB-trained
artisans was CIDB's emphasis on training new artisans, while the original objec-
tive had been upgrading the skills of established artisans. Because CIDB staff
often have received rudimentary levels of training themselves, their ability to
upgrade the skills and product quality of existing artisans was reduced. In the
Second Project, early attention would be given to substantial trafning of CIDB
trainers, to reinforce their abilities to help upgrade skills of existing
artisans. Another weakness of artisan skill programs under CSI I was that



-20-
training courses, planned at the headquarters level, often did not introduce and
improve skills based on local demand for consumer products. In the Second
Project, planning for skills training would be based on surveys of local
markets, and CIDB staff would be rotated atong Product Development Centers to
provide a greater range of skills in each area. For entrepreneurship
development, small groups of entrepreneurs would be assisted in identifying for
themselves products with good local demand and developing project plans for bank
financing.
E. Supplying Materials
3.22    The first CSI Project strengthened raw materiaL supply operations by
establishing and financing private raw material import and supply companies for
wool and metal, and assisting the Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium (CIHE) to
expand its operations in procurement and distribution of cotton yarn, handloom
accessories and textiles in the Project area. CIHE tripled the availability of
cotton yarn in Gandaki Zone, provided dyed yarn to rural areas in collaboration
with CIDB, and provided price competition to private traders, reducing seasonal
fluctuations in yarn prices. CIHE maintains large cotton yarn inventories and,
while some branches such as Pokhara in the project area are profitable in cotton
yarn and equipment distribution and handicraft sales, others in Nepal operate at
a loss. The Second CSI Project would provide technical assistance in inventory
and operations management, and CIHE would continue to be eligible for financing
under the credit component of the Project.
3.23    The private metal and wool importing companies established under the
Project have had a dramatic impact on increasing availability and reducing
prices for these raw materials. The Nepal Wool Trading Company has imported
more than 600 tons of Australian and New Zealand tvool, providing a regular
source of wool to complement erratically available supplies of Tibetian wool.
By improving availability, raw wool imports reduced the price of Tibetan wool
in the domestic market from about Rs 120/kg in the first year of the Pro4ect
to about Rs 60/kg in 1985. The Metal Trading Company, after long delays in
receiving sales and duty concessions which HMG had promised, has imported 185
tons of metal for distribution to artisans and manufacturers. In the Second
Project, the private raw material companies would continue to be eligible for
subloans under the credit component.
F. Coordinating and Monitoring
3.24    Responsibility for project coordination and management in the first
project was vested with the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), chaired by
the Secretary, Ministry of Industry, and comprising high-level representatives
from all implementing agencies and relevant government departments. The
Industrial Services Center (ISC) acted as secretariat to the PCC, summarizing
progress reports of the various implementing agencies for r4view and action by
the PCC. During the project mid-term tripartite evaluation, it was decided that
full-time monitoring and coordination of project activities was needed, and a



-21-
small Project Management Unit (PMU), comprising a full-time chief technical
advisor (CTA), support staff, and a Joint Secretary from the Ministry of
Industry was established. The PMU was successful in easing bottlenecks in
project implementation and involving key HMG officials from relevant ministries
as needed for effective implementation. The PMU reports on a regular basis to
the Project Coordinating Committee. In the Second CSI Project, the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) would be maintained to coordinate implementation and to
monitor project progress.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives, Scope and Financing
4.01    Project Objectives.  The proposed Second CSI Project will support HMG's
objectives of efficient industrial development, export growth and increasing
output, exports, earnings, and employment in small and cottage industries by
strengthening public and private managerial, technical, marketing and other
services to CSIs through provision of staff, training, equipment, vehicles,
facilities and advisory services.
4.02    Project Design and Geographical Scope.  The Second CSI Project would
strengthen the credit system through institutional support to banks and expan-
sion of improved banking practices to new areas and artisans. Public agencies
providing skills training and product and market development would be assisted,
and the operations of public and private raw material supply agencies would be
improved. The Project is designed to have a positive impact on the financial
sector by providing technical assistance to improve overall operations of the
two commercial banks. In Kathmandu Valley, training and technical service
inputs will focus both export and import substituting activities; the Project
would be geared to support the growth of CSI exports in promising product lines.
Outside of Kathmandu Valley, the Project will support product development and
distribution networks aimed mainly at local and regional markets. Effective
implementation of trade and industrial policies would be improved through tech-
nical assistance to HMG and understandings reached, particularly in the areas of
import-export procedures, including those relating to the availability of raw
materials and duty drawbacks, customs clearance and export licensing and taxes.
The Second CSI Project would include a total of 27 districts in seven zones in
the Central, Mid-Western and Western Development Regions. The districts sur-
round three zonal centers: Kathmandu, in Bagmati Zone; Pokhara, in Gandaki
Zone; and Dangdeukhuri, in Rapti Zone (see map). These districts have sig-
nificant artisan clusters in cotton handlooms, agro-processing, wool carpets and
wood and bamboo goods. Most districts are linked by road and, in some cases,
air service to Kathmandu. Institutional infrastructure in the additional dis-
tricts includes 31 NBL branches, 25 RBB branches, 28 ADBN branches, 7 CIDB
branches and 7 CIHE outlets. Additional implementiag agency offices would be
established to provide credit and commercial and technical services in each
zonal center and in most districts.



-22-
4.03    Components and Costs,  A CSI Project of about US$17.3 million equivalent
is recomumended, with US$10.0 million equivalent financed by IDA and about
US$1.8 million by UNDP on a paral'el basis (Annex 3). Major components and
costa of the proposed Second CSI Project are:
Credit
(a)  Subloans to eligible CSIs, market agents, and raw material supply com-
panies (US$7.6 million, IDA);
Banking Operations
(b) A program to improve and upgrade overall operations of the two commer-
cial banks, local and foreign training for CSI officers of the three
participating banks, and strengthening the Bankers Training Institute
(STI) and NRB CSI Unit (US$630,000, UNDP);
E2 Deloment
(c) An export development program, in which the Export Service Center (ESC)
and a Products of Nepal (PON) office in New York would carry out market
and product development, including improvements in design, production
techniques, cost reduction and quality control; and strengthening the
manufacturer/exporter associations to improve information flows and
communication between industry and HMG (US$705,000, IDA and US$820,000,
UNDP);
Improving Policies
(d) A program to support HMG in formulating and implementing improved
industrial and export policies (US$75,000, UNDP);
Developing Skills
(e) Extension services for skill training and entrepreneurial development; a
Raw Material Procurement Fund and technical services to facilitate raw
material supply and marketing of rural artisans' products;
(US$1,244,000, IDA and US$266,000, UNDP); and
(f) A program to provide management support and to monitor and evaluate
project components, with a Chief Technical Advisor (CTA) financed by IDA
under the Project (US$258,000, IDA).



-23-
Table 4.1: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN 1/
(US$ Million)
Local          Foreiin           Total
-------…-…(US  Million)------------
IDA                       4.9            5.1               10.0
UNDP                                      1.8                1.8
Government                1.1                                1.1
CSIs/Assns.               2.4                               2.4
PCIs                      2.0                               2.0
10.4            6.9               17.3
l/  Differences between this Table 4.1 and Cost Table in
Annex 3 are due to rounding.
4.04    IDA would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs for overseas offices
and establishment expenditures in Nepal, between 50% and 100% of incremental
staff salaries and allowances on a declining basis, and 100X of IDA-financed
consultants (see paragraph 5.07). Eighty percent-of subloan amounts would be
eligible for refinance under the IDA credit. Overall, the IDA Credit would
finance $5.1 million of foreign exchange costs and $4.9 million in local costs.
UNDP funding would be provided as a grant on a parallel basis to cover foreigr.
technical experts, consultants and technical assistance expenditures for market
and product development, staff training and improving policy implementation.
HMG would finance an increasing percentage of staff salaries and 50% of estab-
lishment costs. PCIs would finance 20% of subloan amounts from their own
resources and 75Z of the second phase of the operations improvement program.
CSIs would finance 20% of subproject costs and 501 of some export development
activities. Associations would finance 50% of local staff.
B. Subloan Component
4.05    Again in the Second CSI Project, the two domestic commercial banks--NBL
and RBB--and ADBN would make subloans to eligible CSIs, market agents and raw
material supply companies in the Project area. NRB, the central bank, would use
IDA funds to refinance 80% of subloan amounts. The remaining subloan amounts
(20%) would be financed by PCIs from their own resources. Participating credit
institutions (PCIs) would be responsible for project appraisal, sanctioning,
disbursement, supervision and collection and would bear full credit risks. Due
to the small size and limited formal credit experience of subborrowers, HMG
would continue to bear the foreign exchange risk, for which a 3% fee is provided
to HMG.  Agreement was reached at negotiations regarding the above arrangements.
4.06    Subproject and Subloan Eligibility.  Eligible enterprises would be:
cottage and small industrial enterprises, as defined by the Industrial



-24-
Enterprise Act of 1982, 1/ engaged directly in manufacturing; raw material
supply companies; and firms providing commercial services to CSI units in rural
districts. Project appraisal methods adopted by PCIs in the first CSI Project
include a financial rate of return on subprojects financed under the Project.
In view of the rudimentary appraisal capabilities of PCIs, appraisals of sub-
loans below the free limit do not include an economic rate of return or domestic
resource cost analysis. Subprojects financed under the CSI Project are
generally assumed to be efficient in economic terms because a significant por-
tion of CSI products is exported and, in the case of import substitution
industries, the level of import tariffs is generally low and the open border
with India allows for relatively free trade with Indian goods, which are the
greatest source of competition for Nepalese products. Eligible expenditures
would be foreign and local costs of fixed assets and permanent working capital
for new subprojects, or balancing, mode-nization, or expansion, of existing
subprojects. Market agents eligible for CSI subloans normally would be CSI
manufacturers who expand or specialize in distributing and marketing their own
and other manufacturers' goods. Market agents would be required to source their
products in rural districts, outside Kathmandu Valley, and could distribute in
regional markets or to exporters in Kathmandu. Kathmandu-based exporters sourc-
ing export production in rural areas could be financed as non-manufacturing
market agents. Agreement was reached at negotiations that a maximum of 30% of
the subloans made by each PCI could be for market agents.
Participating Credit Institutions
4.07    PCI Eligibility.  In addition to NBL, RBB, and ADBN, other financial
institutions also would be eligible if HMG, IDA and NRB agree that they have
sound overall credit operations and have complied with the conditions of
participation. The credit component would not be allocated among the PCIs, but
would be available on a first-come first-served basis. To be eligible for
refinance, each PCI would need to have complied with minimum staffing and train-
ing requirements (see paras. 4.11-4.12) and collection performance (see paras.
4.13-4.14), and have adopted standards and procedures acceptable to IDA and
outlined in the instructions issued by NRB. At least two PCIs would have to
become etigible before the proposed IDA Credit would become effective.
Agreement was reached at negotiations on these criteria.
4.08     Nepal Bank Limited.  NBL is the larger of the two domestic commercial
banks. As of January 1985, NBL's total assets were Rs 5.3 billion and total
deposits were Rs 4.7 million, or about 60% of total deposits in the banking
system. Lending accounts for 53% of deposits, and investments (mostly govern-
ment securities) about 27%. In 1983/84, NBL had total income of about Rs 320
million and net income of about Rs 34 million, or about 0.1% of assets. Between
1981-84, NBL's deposits increased by about 20% p.a., while loans increased at
about 8% p.a. and investment in government securities by about 40% p.a. About
17% of lending is long term. NBL's outstanding priority sector loans amount to
Rs 180 million, or about 8% of lending, with about 130 participating branches.
l/ See footnote to para. 2.02.



-25-
About Rs 20 million of the PS loans were m4de under the CSI Project in 17
branches.
4.09    Rastriya Banijya Bank.  As of January 1985, RBB had total assets of
Rs 3.2 billion, loans outstanding of Rs 1.5 billion, investments (mainly HMG
securities) of Rs 0.6 billion and total deposits of Rs 2.5 billion. Lending
accounted for about 60% of deposits and investments about 15% of deposits.
Between 1981-84, RBB's deposits increased by about 18% p.a., while loans
increased by about 6% p.a. and investments by about 40% p.a. In 1982/83, RBB
had gross income of Rs 280 million and net income of Rs 11 million, or 0.05% of
assets. About 85% of loans are short-term. RBR has a staff strength of 4,670
and 120 branches. RBB's priority sector loans in about 110 branches amounted to
about Rs 96 million, or 6% of total lending. CSI loans amount to Rs 30 million
in 25 branches.
4.10     Agricultural Development Bank.  As of January 1985, ADBN hac assets
of about Rs 1.45 billion, outstanding loans of Rs 1.23 billion, and borrowings
(mainly from HMG and NRB) of about Rs 1.0 billion. ADBN has 234 branches and
2,800 staff. ADBN's loan portfolio grew by about 20% p.a. between 1981-84.
About 30% of loans are short-term (agricultural production credit). In 1982/83,
ADBN had gross income of Rs 84 million and a net income of Rs 6 million, or 0.6%
of assets. ADBN's loans outstanding in the CSI sector amount to about Rs 100
million, of which about Rs 20 million is in the CSI Project in 28 branches.
PCI Participation Criteria
4.11    Organization and Staffing.  As a condition of participation, each PCI
would establish and/or maintain a head office CSI Unit, which would deal
exclusively with the CSI Project. At a minimum, staff of each head office CSI
unit would nave one section chief, one officer and two assistants for project
monitoring and refinance claims, and two experienced credit officers to appraise
larger subloans and guide field staff. At each Zonal Office, one experienced
credit officer and one assistant for subloan review and supervision would be
required. At each branch participating in the CSI Project, at least one trained
credit officer and at least one assistant would be required. As lending volume
increases, at least one credit officer for every 70 subloans in the branch CSI
portfolio, and at least one assistant for every 30 subloans, would be required.
All CSI officers and assistants would receive training prior to posting; CSI
training for about 140 bank staff already has been provided under the first CSI
Project. It was agreed that the branch staffing criteria would be reviewed
annually starting May 1, 1987 by NRB in consultation with IDA and adjusted if
necessary to take into account lending volume, infrastructure and ease of
supervision.
4.12    Table 4.2 indicates that staffing levels in existing and new branches
are generally adequate to meet branch participation criteria. In CSI I
branches, ADBN needs to depute six additional loan officers and thirteen assis-
tants to branches and to fulfill head office CSI Unit staffing levels. RBB
needs to appoint two additional loan officers in CSI I branches. For CSI II
branches, ADBN needs to appoint or reallocate five officer level staff, and NBL
needs one additional officer. These minimum staffing levels would be a condi-
tion of branch participation. All PCI staff in additional districts would



-26-
receive training for lending under CSI II. The Bankers Training Institute (BTI)
has agreed to train about 50 PCI staff using CSI I funds during early CY86.
About 100 officers and 150 assistant-level staff would be trained during CSI II.
Table 4.2: PCI STAFF LEVELS
Trained PCI Staff in CSI I Offices and Branches 1J
Required
Incremental
PCI   Branches   Managers   Loan Officers   Assistants   Total        Staff
NBL      17           18            15             28          61          2
RBB      15           15            19             10          44          6
ADBN     19           13            13              6          32         19
51          46            47             44          137        21
1/ Indicates number of staff trained under CSI Project. In some branches
staff were not trained under the CSI Project in project appraisal
methods.
Existing Staff Levels in CSI II Branches -- New Districts:
Existing Staff
Officers   Assistants
PCI     Branches
NBL       31            50          269
RBB       25            36          170
ADBN      28            32          141
TOTAL     84           118          580
4.13    Collection Performance.  In the first CSI Project, initial recovery of
subloan amounts due was slow; as of January 1985, with about 5% of subloan
principal amounts having fallen due, collection performance was about 43%. By
July 1985, collection performance had improved to about 65% of amounts due with
more active supervision and recovery efforts by PCIs.
4.14    In CSI II, to emphasize the importance of loan recovery, the PCIs and
each individual branch would be required to achieve minimum collection levels.
Participation conditions would require that each bank collect rnd at all times
continue to collect at least 60%, and each participating oranch 70%, of amounts
due under the first CSI Project. Continued participation would require that
banks increase overall collections on principal and interest fallen due under
both the first and Second CSI Projects by five percentage points per annum per
bank, and three percentage points per annum per branch. Compliance would result



-27-
in collections of 75% of amounts due by each participating bank, and 79% of
amounts due by branch, by the end of the three-and-a-half-year project implemen-
tation period.
Table 4.3: RECOVERY POSITION UNDER CSI I
(as of July 16, 1985)
PCI           Collections as % nf Amounts Due
Principal   Interest    Total
NBL              48%           67%        54%
RBB              67%           67%        67%
ADBN              76%          56%        68%
TOTAL          61X           64%        65%
CSI Refinance
4.15    CSI Refinance Fund -- NRB.  Under the first CSI Project, a CSI Refinance
Fund was established in the NRB to provide IDA refinance for 80% of the subloans
made by participating banks. NRB set up a CSI Refinance Unit, with its own
policies, procedures, staff and financial resources, within the Banking and
Credit Division, to administer the Fund, which audited accounts indicate is
being managed successfully. NRB CSI staff supervise, monitor and provide tech-
nical assistance for implementation of the credit component of the Project. The
CSI Unit has a manager, about 30 professional staff and an expatriate credit
advisor funded under the CSI Project. Under the first CSI Project, the Unit's
professional staff received intensive training in credit operations and
refinance. With the assistance of the credit advisor, the Unit and the PCIs
established satisfactory lending policies and procedures and reporting
requirements, and NRB staff assisted with training CSI staff of the PCIs. Under
the Second Project, the credit advisor would continue to work with NRB staff and
would increasingly concentrate on direct assistance to the PCIs on CSI
operations. The advisor would assist the PCIs with subloan approval, supervi-
sion and collection systems, on-the-job training of CSI staff, subloan
monitoring/reporting, and preparation of product profiles. The advisor would
report to, and work closely with, the Project Chief Technical Advisor (CTA).
4.16    Under the first Project, the NRB CSI Unit was responsible for overall
management of the credit component and reviewed individual subloans before
approving refinance. In the Second CSI Project, the NRB CSI Unit would continue
to review subprojects larger than Rs 100,000, prior to approval of refinance.
For subloans of up to the Rs 100,000 review limit, PCIs would submit summary
information on a quarterly basis, along with copies of the appraisal reports.
Refinance by NRB for subloans below this limit would be automatic, subject to
ex-ante verification of PCI and branch eligibility. NRB CSI staff would sub-
sequently review the appraisal reports and conduct field visits of a sample of
subprojects to ascertain that subprojects conform with eligibility criteria and
to offer support to PCI officers. NRB could recall refinance if post-
disbursement review of appraisal reports and periodic field visits revealed that
subloans were not in compliance with eligibility criteria. Subloans of above



-28-
US$25,000 would require prior review by the NRB CSI Unit and IDA. Agreement was
reached at negotiations on the above arrangements. Under CSI II, it is expected
that the gradual increases in delegation of responsibilities to PCIs would
continue, and the role of the NRB CSI Unit gradually would shift from primarily
management to monitoring, coordination and advisory functions. In addition to
refinancing CSI subloans submitted by PCIs, administering the credit guarantee
and monitoring appraisal, supervision and collection standards, the NRB CSI Unit
would provide advisory services to PCIs to strengthen appraisal capabilities and
improve supervision and collection performance. Ratification of a revised
Statement of Policies of the NRB CSI Unit (Annex 6) would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit. Staffing of the NRB CSI Unit would
include approximately ten officer-level staff including one manager, one senior
e.perienced credit officer for quality control/advisory work one officer and one
assistant for refinance/credit guarantee work, one officer for reiorting and
accounting work, and one experienced officer at each Zonal Office if NRB.
Agreement on the management of the Unit was reached during negotiations.
4.17    In the first CSI Project, NRB issued a set of operating instructions
to each of the three banks. These instructions outlined procedures and respon-
sibilities of the CSI Fund and the banks under the Project. Banks' respon-
sibilities included: (a) assigning and training an agreed minimum number of
qualified CSI staff for head office units and zonal offices; (b) preparing
appraisals of a satisfactory standard for each subloan; (c) supervising sub-
projects to ensure proper utilization of funds and monitoring progress;
(d) adhering to the terms of lending and repayment of refinance; and
(e) submitting quarterly reports on activities, subproject portfolio and arrears
in a format prescribed by the CSI Fund and satisfactory to IDA. Most of these
procedures and responsibilities would be maintained under CSI II. Some revi-
sions in operating instructions would be made, including (i) further strengthen-
ing of CSI Units at PCI Head Offices, and minimum branch staffing levels
(paras. 4.11, 4.12); (ii) establishing additional eligibility criteria based on
loan collections (para. 4.14); and (iii) revising interest rates and spreads
(paras. 5.03-5.04). Prior to credit effectiveness, NRB would issue revised
instructions to PCIs, satisfactory to IDA. The main contents of draft instruc-
tions are provided in Project files. As with CSI I, these instructions take the
place of participation agreements between the refinance institution and the
banks.
Credit Guarantee
4.18    Commercial bank loans to the priority sector outside the CSI Project are
covered by the Credit Guarantee Corporation Private Limited (CGC), in which the
Nepal Rastra Bank holds 50% of the shares, and the two domestic commercial banks
hold 25% each. The CGC, relying entirely on its share capital and a 1X premium
collected on priority sector loans, is undercapitalized. After about ten years
of operations, CGC's outstanding guarantee liabilities are about Rs 159 million,
while capital and reserves are Rs 18 million, or 11.4%, of exposure. In view of
the weakness in the CCC, a Credit Guarantee Scheme was established in NRB under
the first CSI Project to provide credit insurance for CSI subloans. Coverage
waA provided for 75% of subloan amounts, and the premium charged was 1% p.a. on
outstanding, guaranteed amounts. Participation in the Scheme was mandatory for
all subloans refinanced under the Project and was automatic once refinance was



-29-
approved by NRB. In the Second CSI Project, credit insurance initially would
continue to be administered by the NRB Credit Guarantee Scheme.  HMG would
transfer an initial amount of Rs 2 million to the Scheme and would pay addi-
tional amounts so that capitalization of the Scheme ia maintained at no less
than 10 of the guarantees outstanding in any fiscal year. Transfer of the Rs 2
million would be a condition of disbursement to the credit component. The
premium on CSI subloans would be increased to 3X per annum to provide reserves
adequate to cover anticipated reasonable levels of defaults (Annex II-1). A
study is being carried out under the first CSI Project to assess the extent of
existing liabilities of the CGC and to recommend measures to strengthen the
CGC's capital position and operating procedures. UNDP funding under the Second
CSI Project could be used to provide technical assistance to strengthen the CGC.
Subject to agreement by HMG and IDA, once the CCC has been sufficiently finan-
cially and technically strengthened, the Credit Guarantee Scheme in the NRB
could be transferred to the CGC and merged with the priority sector insurance
program.
Improving the Operations of Financial Institutions
4.19    Technical Assistance to PCIs.  Technical assistance to NRB and the PCIs
under the first Project focused on strengthening industrial term lending
activities and capabilities. The Second CSI &'roject would continue these
institution building measures, while also funding substantial technical assis-
tance to improve overall operations of the two local commercial banks. HMG has
introduced some measures to liberalize and expand the banking sector, allowing
foreign banks to set up joint ventures with local banks. At the same time,
demands are being placed on the commercial banks to implement development
programs. The commercial banks in Nepal are conservative, with a tradition of
making personal loans against gold and silver and requiring high collateral for
working capital loans. Term lending was introduced recently, with project-based
lending initiated only with the first CSI Project. Profitability is low--less
than I%-and administrative costs are high--about 6Z--on CSI lending. Credit
procedures need to be simplified and standardized, and systems are needed to
enable better liquidity management. Reporting procedures are weak, with head-
quarters frequently having no record of branch lending. Strengthening the
banks' operations is needed to enable them to compete with new banks, achieve
their development lending objectives, and reduce financial intermediation costs.
The Second CSI Project would initiate a banking development program to assist
the two domestic commercial banks in upgrading their overall operations. An
international bank would provide long- and short-term advisors as well as formal
and informal training to NBL and KBB. Selection criteria would require that the
international bank have an understanding of, and experience with, the level of
rudimentary banking practices which exist in Nepal.
4.20    The technical assistance contract would have two phases.  Phase I would
comprise an in-depth review of all aspects of the bank's operations and
management, leading to recommendations on a long-term program to upgrade
operations. The review would cover the major facets of commercial bank
operations: (a) accounting and information systems; (b) planning and budgeting;
(c) credit and investment policies and procedures; td) branch operations;
(e) profit and coe center reporting; (f) asset liability, funds and liquidity
management; (g) n( inancial services development and marketing;



-30-
(h) computerization; (i) organization structure and management process;
(j) personnel management and training; and (k) legal and regulatory framework.
During the first phase, the international and commercial banks together would
identify priority areas for improvement; based on these priorities, a two-year
implementation program would be planned by the consulting and client banks, in
consultation with IDA.
4.21    Phase II would constitute the implementation phase.  The overseas bank
would depute one or two experienced senior staff as long-term advisors, to be
assisted by specialist staff visiting Nepal for two to three months at a time.
The total cost of TA is expected to be about US$210,000 per bank over a three-
year period, with the first phase (about six months) costing about US$42,000 per
bank, and the second phase (to be carried out over two years) roughly US$168,000
per bank, equivalent to roughly two man years in long- and short-term advisors.
UNDP funding under the Project would cover 100% of the cost of the first, diag-
nostic phase. The local banks have agreed to cover 25% of the cost of Phase II.
UNDP funding under the Project would provide a total of US$336,000 for Phases I
and II. A short list of international banks with qualified and experienced
staff acceptable to the Association, which would be invited to submit proposals,
on terms of reference for Phase I, and a timetable for implementation of the
technical assistance program acceptable to the Association would be required
before implementation of the technical assistance program.
C. Export Development Components
4.22   The Second CSI Project would continue the program of market analysis,
sample market testing, product development and export promotion initiated under
the first Project. Export development activities would focus on products with
demonstrated export potential--particularly carpets and ready-made garments--
while continuing to support systematic market research and product development
for traditional handicrafts, such as metal, and wood products and handmade
paper, as well as newer products, such as knitwear.
Product Development
4.23    Carpets.  To defend Nepal's major export markets in Germany and
Switzerland, technical experts would be recruited to assist exporters in
developing color- and light-fast high quality vegetable dyes and obtaining
Woolmark licenses. ESC would offer color and design forecasting services and
would introduce a scheme of voluntary quality certification to reinforce
exporters' efforts to emphasize product quality differences over competing
carpets. To diversify markets, market development will continue in the U.S. to
increase consumer awareness of Tibetan carpets from Nepal, and product develop-
ment will focus on introducing colors, designs and wool blends appropriate for
the U.S. market.  The Project would support visits by U.S. designers and buyers
to Nepal and would assist, on a cost-sharing basis, exporters' market research
and sales trips. Later in the Project, market development could be expanded in
Europe.



-31-
4.24    Ready-Made Garments.  The Second CSI Project would support the develop-
ment of the ready-made garment export industry in Nepal by assisting exporters
to reduce costs, diversify into new product categories and establish direct
links with U.S. buyers. The major sources of higher production costs in Nepal
are high material costs, resulting from import duties on imported cloth (cur-
rently 17% on Indian fabric and more than 100% on fabric from other countries),
low labor productivity, and high transport costs. In the event that U.S. quotas
dre imposed on individual garment categories, diversification into new
categories will be required for export growth to continue. To ptomote diver-
sification and expansion of exports, PON would continue to identify new
U.S. buyers in quota-free categories. The Project would provide technical
assistance to HMG to implement an effective scheme for implementing duty-free
access to imported fabrics and would assist HMG to devise an efficient system to
allocate quotas.  To improve labor productivity, technical training would be
provided through ESC in sample-matching, pattern-making, quality control, and
fabric cutting. To encourage employment of Nepalese sewing machine operators, a
small pilot training scheme could be established under ESC's auspices for export
manufacturers. Training candidates would be nominated by manufacturers, who
would share some of the training costs. ESC would also assist manufacturers to
develop in-factory training.
4.25    A technical study to identify problems with substituting Nepalese fabric
for some imported fabrics would be undertaken. Entrepreneurship development and
training in business skills specific to the ready-made garment industry would be
provided to expand the role of Nepalese entrepreneurs in ownership and
management. The Project would sponsor market research and sales promotion trips
for garment exporters, on a cost-sharing basis starting in the second year of
the Project. Assistance would also be offered to encourage U.S. buyers to
include Nepal in trips to the region.
4.26    Handicrafts.  For hand-knit sweaters, handloom textiles, silver jewelry,
wooden products, handmade paper and other traditional items, systematic market
research and product development would be undertaken to increase exports. The
Export Service Center (ESC) would send samples to PON for market testing and
research. Based on market reactions received from PON. ESC would disseminate
suggestions for changes in product design or quality through frequent seminars,
demonstration workshops and in-factory consultancy. ESC would assist private
manufacturers in developing countersamples for interested buyers and would
assist exporters with appropriate sourcing of raw mater.ils, quality control,
monitoring of deadlines, sample development, packaging, shipping and
documentation. ESC would appoint local and foreign technical experts to assist
with specific design and production problems, skills training and quality
control. PON would test samples with buyers, work toward trial orders and
follow up buyer responses.
4.27    Institutional Arrangements.  The Export Service Center (ESC) in
Kathmandu would be responsible for overall management of the export development
component. The CIED would not have a role in the Second CSI Project and would
be reabsorbed into the Trade Promotion Center (TPC). ESC would report to TPC
and would have autonomy in carrying out work programs and flexibility in staff-
ing arrangements. The PON office in New York would report to ESC. In the first
CSI Project, demonstration and training have been very successful in introducing



-32-
improved techniques for washing, carding and spinning raw wool; washing carpets;
and achieving color- and light-fast dyed wools. Exporters have already received
strong positive feedback from buyers on these improvements. ESC would continue
to provide demonstration, training, and direct consultancy services to exporters
and would maintain a resource center with product information and samples and
countersamples. ESC would continue to work directly with exporters to encourage
active efforts in product development and to strengthen appropriate and effi-
cient export packaging, documentation and freight procedures. To increase
domestic value-added in Nepal, ESC would review production techniques in
garments, carpets and traditional crafts, such as cast metal, to identify areas
requiring skill training (such as cutters or sample makers for garments), as
well as materials which could be developed or improved in Nepal (such as local
fabric for garment exports, aloe fiber, vegetable dyes). In collaboration with
PON and manufacturers associations, ESC would help exporters organize programs
for buyers' visits to Nepal and overseas market research and sales trips by
individual exporters.
4.28    Direct Assistance to Exporters.  Starting in the third year of project
implementation, ESC would review applications for cost-sharing for individual
exporters to undertake their own market research, product development or export
sales efforts. Under this program, fifty percent of eligible activities would
be financed with UNDP technical assistance funds under the Project.  Eligible
activities would include hiring designers to develop new product lines or bring-
ing in foreign technical exports to support changes in production methods. It
was agreed at negotiations that eligibility criteria for such assistance would
be agreed by IDA and HMG prior to implementation of the direct assistance
program. ESC would maintain and update a roster of exporters and would develop
a profile of product-specific exporter capabilities. ESC would assist exporters
in developing point-of-sale and promotional materials and would maintain contact
with other export aud product development agencies and projects in Nepal.
4.29    In addition to product development activities, ESC would support
exporters' efforts to improve HMO consultation with industry on policy issues.
Export manufacturing organizations would also be supported (para. 4.34). ESC
would organize regular meetings of officials from concerned HMG departments to
answer questions from and hear the views of exporters. To promote awareness in
banks of improvements in production techniques and product design which might
require bank financing, ESC would hold regular "open house" days for bank branch
managers in Kathmandu Valley and other concerned bank officials. Banks could
call on ESC for technical advice on the appraisal of loan appraisals from
exporters, particularly loans for balancing, modernization and rehabilitation
(BMR) purposes.
4.30    The Products of Nepal OH ice (PON) in New York would be responsible for
product-specific market research and market testing of samples. PON would be
staffed by a Nepalese marketing manager, a U.S. product and marketing develop-
ment manager, and an administraoive assistant. PON would provide exporters with
buyer feedbaclk and suggestions foe changes in product design, improvements in
materials or product quality and price requirements. In cases where demand for
traditional products has declined, PON staff would document reasons for negative
buyer reactions to convince exporters of the need to improve product design and
quality. For new products, PON would obtain trial orders, follow up exporter



-33-
efforts to produce countersamples, and troubleshoot for buyers and exporters on
product specifications, costs and deadlines.  PON would actively identify and
encourage buyers to visit Nepal, assist ESC and manufacturers associations to
prepare programs for buyer visits to Nepal and cvaluate the success of such
visits. PON would continue to respond to direct requests for information or
countersamples from ESC and individual exporters. The total cost of the New
York PON office would be about US$600,000, financed by IDA. (A study of the
feasibility of opening a second PON office in Europe was carried out in
February, 1986. The study concluded that it would not be cost effective to open
a second office in Europe at this time. It was understood at negotiations that
a second office would not be opened until its feasibility were warranted.)
4.31    TPC would continue to have primary responsibility for collecting and
analyzing trade statistics and monitoring trends in trade patterns. As
Secretariat to the Prime Minister's Export Council, TPC would undertake studies
to assist HMG on trade policy issues. TPC would also handle the full range of
promotional activities in support of non-CSI export products and maintain a
central trade information library.
4.32    Organization and Staffing.  To avoid the management problems which
affected the performance of CIED in the first CSI Project, close links would
be maintained among ESC and TPC and PON, and staffing would be reviewed annually
by HMG and IDA.  ESC would continue to be headed by a Project Director, deputed
from TPC or recruited from the private sector and acceptable to IDA. Given the
importance of the export development component, it was agreed at negotiations
that the management in ESC and PON would need to be acceptable to IDA. The
Project Director would report to the Executive Chairman of TPC and would main-
tain close communication with TPC. The PON office would report to the Project
Director, ESC. EsC currently has a Project Director and three full-time techni-
cal staff and assistants. ESC staff would be expanded as additional product
development programs were launched. During the Second CSI Project, about three
additional technical staff would be recruited. As the product development
activities of ESC would change on a year-by-year basis in response to market
information and analysis from PON, flexibility to recruit technical staff from
within government or from the private sector would be maintained. Flexibility
in determination of salary requirements for technical staff would be necessary
to recruit highly qualified, experienced private sector staff. Support and
administrative staff would be hired from within HMG or on temporary contract
with HNG in accordance with HMG salary guidelines.  ESC would be required to
prepare annual action programs, agreeable to IDA. Annex 4 contains a Draft
Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for ESC. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that TPC and ESC would adopt a Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures acceptable to IDA as a condition of disbursement for the
export development component.
4.33    The total cost of operations, activities and foreign and local staff
of ESC is US$750,000. IDA would finance about $85,000 for establishment, equip-
ment and materials costs; a declining portion of incremental HMG staff salaries;
and 100% of local technical consultants under the Project. UNDP would provide
about US$565 for foreign advisors, promotion activities and materials, and 50%
of individual exporters' participation in trade fairs and market research.
After the three-and-a-half-year project implementation period, EsC could become



-34-
a private autonomous agency, with a private board of directors, private manage-
ment and complete autonomy in staffing policies. ESC could charge fees for its
services and could be allowed by HMG to assess a small fee--about 0.5%--on
exports to cover its expenses.- The program to turn ESC ever to the private
sector would be developed during the three-and-one-half-year CST II implementa-
tion period.
4.34    Strengthening Manufacturer/Exporters' Associations.  To support con-
tinued export growth and to enhance industry's role in policy formv±lation, the
Second CSI Project would provide technical ussistance to the Nepal Carpet
Industries Association, the Nepal Readyrnade Carments Industry and Exporters'
Association and the Handicraft Association of Nepal (HAN).  The objective would
be to strengthen these associations in their ability to research and document
problems faced by industry, to make recommendations regarding revisions in HMG
policies, and to carry out their own development and proiotion programs. Under
the Project, UINDP would finance 50% of the salaries of one local consultant for
each association, for a period of two years (US$15,000 in total). Agreement was
reached that qualifications and experience and terms of reference of such con-
sultant would be acceptable to the Association. UNDP funding would be provided
to cover the full costs of an outside specialist for up to 20 man-weeks for each
association (about US$80,000 total). The outside specialist wotuld recruit,
train and oversee the initial work of the local association staff members. The
associations may choose to employ recently retired senior civil servants, who
would be in a strong position to improve communications with HMG departments,
an approach used successfully among trade associations elsewhere. The eventual
aim would be to strengthen the associations to play a more positive role in
balancing HMG policy objectives with the operating realities facing manufac-
turers and exporters.
D. Policy Formulation and Implementation
4.35    Reforming Import and Export Policies and Procedures.  The rapid change
in the composition of overseas exports in the past five years, the declining
balance of trade situation, and the potential for export growth to contribute to
increased industrial employment and incomes have highlighted the importance of a
policy framework in Nepal to support export growth and efficient industrial
development. As indicated in Section 2 D., the broad policy framework of the
Industrial Enterprises Act supports industrial inveqtment and exports. However,
a number of implementation problems exist. The Second CSI Project would provide
technical assistance to HMG to establish and implement suitable procedures for
allocating quota on ready-made garment exports to accomodate U.S. import quotas
which have been imposed, setting up a simple and effective mechanism to provide
exporters duty-free access to imported fabrics and other materia's from a number
of overseas co.Atries, improving raw material supplies for carpets and other
export products, and to prepare a long-term action program to address areas
outlined in paras. 2.14-2.22. The technical assistance wouid be carried out in
three phases. Understandings on the broad principles of the programr were
reached at negotiations.



-35-
4.36    In Phase I, HMG staff in the Ministries of Industry and Commerce would
work with the Lead Advisor to the export development component and the Project
Chief Technical Advisor (CTA) to establish priorities for immediate policy and
regulatory reforms, starting with quota allocation, bonded warehouses or other
systems of duty-free acces. to raw materials, and including improvement in
freight rates, customs procedures, export administration and skiLl training
requirements for private manufacturers. Phase I would take about one month, and
the program for immediate reforms would need to be acceptable to IDA. In
Phase II, consultant(s) with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA would be appointed to *mplement improvements in regulatory procedures,
supervise initial implementation and recommend a program for follow-up and
review of progress in implementation. As indicated in para. 2.14, the-
Government would submit a draft action program to the Association by
December 31, 1987. The consultants could include a government official from
a country implementing similar programs. After new policies and procedures had
been in effect for six months to one year, the consultant(s) would return to
"fine tune" the system. In Phase III, in the third year of the Project, once
the program of improvements had reached an advanced stage, HMG officials would
visit relevant overseas countries implementing similar policies and procedures
to seek ideas to improve implementation in Nepal. About US$75,000 in UNDP
funding would be provided for about eight man months for consultant(s) and
travel by HMG officials. The areas to be included in the terms of refereice
were discussed and understood in substance during negotiations. Agreement was
reached that consultants would be acceptable to IDA and that HMG would regularly
exchange views with IDA on key CSI policy and procedural issues.
E. Entrepreneurship, Skills Training, and Extension Services
4.37    Operation and Functions.  The Cottage Industry Development Board of the
Department of Cottage and Village Industries (CIDB) would continue to be respon-
sible for extension services, including technical skills training and
entrepreneurship development, management of product development centers in
remote rural areas, implementation of the handmade paper production componentt
and operation of a raw material procurement fund to supply raw materials and
assist rural artisans with marketing activities.
4.38    Training.  Most training activities would be carried out in district
level Product Development Centers and branch offices. In the first three years
of the first CSI Project, CIDB established six branch offices and 15 product
specific Product Development Centers (PDCs) in the six districts of Gandaki, in
addition to strengthening the Kathmandu head office. CIDB trained about 2,000
artisans, and provided on-the-job training and assistance with raw material
supply and product marketing in eight PDCs. In the Second CSI Project, skills
training would focus on improving artisan skills and providing entrepreneurship
development programs; training new artisans would continue, but would receive
less emphasis. Quantitative training targets would be reduced and performance
criteria based on effectiveness of training (in terms of increased employment
and incomes) would be employed.  Training costs would be financed by UNDP.



-36-
4.39    To upgrade skills of existing artisans, a core group of six to eight
of CIDB's most talented staff would receive specialized intensive training in
specific skills: handloom design and weaving; handmade paper; and wool
spinning, carding, and picking, and carpet weaving.  This group would act as
a mobile team to organize, supervise and lead training sessions at CIDB's rural
Product Development and other centers and would train other CIDB staff.  About
30 CIDB staff would be trained in India and Nepal during the remainder of the
first CSI Project in preparation for the Second Project and would receive annual
refresher training courses du.ring each year of the Second Project. The core
training group would be rotated among district PDCs on a six-month basis to
conduct and supervise intensive training courses and to support PDC staff. The
core teams and PDC staff would work to upgrade skills of existing rural
artisans. PDC staff would be responsible for training artisans and providing
follow-up technical assistance. Each PDC would be staffed by a technically
trained manager, who would conduct training courses and supervise training
courses, and one to two technical staff for each product group. The PDC manager
would be responsible for managing a raw material procurement fund to provide raw
materials and procure products for sale on a voluntary consignment basis to the
CTHE (see para. 4.41). A limited number of training courses would be offered
each year in each PDC so that PDC staff would be available to provide follow-up
services to trainees to improve product quality and design in accordance with
local demand or the specifications of CIHE in cases where output is to be sold
through CIHE branches.
4.40    Product Development Centers.  In the more rural areas of the 27 dis-
tricts covered by the Project, CIDB activities would focus on upgrading artisan
skills, training a limited number of new artisans, assisting with raw material
supply and marketing, and identifying local market agents. In the first year of
the Second Project, branch offices would be opened in each district, staff would
be recruited and trained, and the appropriate locations and product group focus
oi the Product Development Centers would be finalized using baseline surveys.
These centers would be established and staffed and would begin training courses
during the second year. A fund to distribute raw materials and some equipment
and to assist with marketing through CIHE and local market agents would become
effective in PDCs during the second year. The fund would be financed by IDA.
4.41    Raw Material Procurement and Product Marketing.  In the first CSI
Project US$30,000 was earmarked for and managed by CIDB to procure raw materials
and some equipment (such as handlooms) from local CIHE branches or depots. In
the Second CSI Project, such amount would be expanded to US$100,000, incorporat-
ing new districts. CIDB staff would transport materials to PDCs for sale to
artisans. Agreement was reached that HMC would adopt policies and operating
procedures for the management of such fund satisfactory to IDA. Adoption of
such policies and procedures would be a condition of disbursement of the fund.
CIDB would assist artisans to market their products in local and regional
markets and through CIHE branches. CIHE would decide whether to purchase rural
products at its own discretion, based on the quality, design and price of the
goods, and would be under no obligation to purchase goods.
4.42    Identifying Market Agents.  During its training and follow-up
activities, CIDB staff would identify artisans with initiative and leadership
qualities to become local market agents, specializing in procuring raw
i



-37-
materials, supplying materials to local Prtisans and then marketing products
in other rural districts or to exporters in Kathmandu. CIDB and ESC would
coordinate to put local market agents in touch with appropriate exporters. CIDB
would assist the potential market agent to prepare a project plan, to identify
suitable local and regional markets and to apply to the banks for financing.
4.43    Entrepreneurship Development.  In the more urban centers of rural
districts, CIDB would strengthen its entrepreneurship development programs.
CIDB would coordinate with German Technical Corporation (GTZ) Small Business
Promotion Program (SBPP) for training CIDB staff and organizing entrepreneurship
courses in rural districts. GTZ has been involved for several years in
entrepreneurship development programs in urban areas in Nepal and has developed
a curriculum and training methodology suited to Nepalese conditions. The cour-
ses involve assisting potential entrepreneurs to identify products for local
markets based on their knowledge of local tastes and requirements; identifying
sources of machinery, equipment and raw materials; and preparing projects for
bank financing. Entrepreneurs trained under the SBPP generally have been suc-
cessful in seeking bank finance and starting new projects. This methodology
would be adapted to reflect district conditions of more rural districts. GTZ
would train CIDB staff and work closely with CIDB EDP staff for follow-up and
monitoring. Agreement was reached between CTZ and CIDB during appraisal on the
scope and coverage of training (Project Files). A core group of 12-20 CIDB EDP
trainers would be trained by GTZ staff and outside consultants working with GTZ.
The core team would be assigned to an urban town in the project area for six
months to one year and rotated among districts. After conducting EDP courses,
CIDB staff would provide follow-up services to trainees to arrange on-the-job
training, assist with machinery and equipment procurement and assist new
entrepreneurs with the start-up phase of their project. No more than one EDP
course would be offered in each location each year.
4.44    Handmade Paper Production.  In addition to skills training and
entrepreneurship development programs, CIDB would introduce and expand handmade
paper production in tour rural districts (Myagdi, Rolpa, Baglung and Lamjung).
Handmade paper has L en identified as having significant export potential. A
uetailed background b '4 and implementation plan for this element have been
developed with local t znuiical experts. lf  District selections was based on
combined availabili   of lokta, the daphne plant (which is the key raw
material), and fuelwood; less than two days' walk from the ..earest road; and
existence of a paper-making artisan community. CIDB would coordinate with the
Forestry Department to supervise and monitor the lokta collection, fuelwood
planting and forestry management aspects of paper production. In the first two
years, one PDC focusing exclusively on handmade paper production would be opened
in each of the four districts, and training courses would introduce the improved
(fuel efficient) Nepalese technology for paper production. If market research
carried out by PON indicates significant market potential for handmade paper
based on the more capital-intensive Japanese technology, this technology could
be introduced in the third year. The Ministry of Industry ascertained the
1/ The Handmade Paper Study and the Implementation Plan are available in
the Project files.



-38-
willingness of the Forestry Department to issue lokta cutting licenses to CIDB;
mechanisms for coordination between CIDB and Forest Department officials are
being developed. A detailed project management and implementation plan is being
developed and would be finalized by the Ministry of Industry and the Forestry
Department. CIDB staff would be trained in handmade paper production and coor-
dination with the Forestry Department during the fLrst year of project
implementation.
4.45    Organization and Financing.  CIDB at present has staff of 225, of which
approximately 60 are technical trainers. CIDB would recruit a small cadre of
additional skill trainers and EDP trainers to work in the additional districts
and PDCs. The Project would finance a declining portion of salaries for
incremental staff. Disbursements would be 60% of staff salaries in year one,
declining to 20% in year four. (Volume II, Annex 10, contains the proposed
staffing plan.)
F. Raw Material Supply
4.46    Uncertain availability and price volatility of raw materials affect
manufacturers serving export and local markets. In rural areas private traders
supply cotton yarn, tools, dyes and other materials irregularly, and prices vary
with local shopkeepers' inventory levels. CIHE maintains large inventories of
cotton yarn to be able to prevent wide price swings with fluctuat.ions in private
inventories. Under the first CSI Project, CIHE received a grant from HMG and
borrowed from commercial banks a total of about US$190,000 (Rs 3.2 million) to
import cotton yarn, looms and other equipment for distribution in the Project
area. CIHE is evaluating a proposal to establish central storage and distribu-
tion facilities along the main east-west highway to reduce storage and distribu-
tion costs. In the Second Project, an advisor would work with CIHE for about an
additional six months, with the option by the Emporium to extend the contract
for six months, to review the operating costs and profitability of the entire
range of CIHE's operations and to recommend improvements. Agreement was reached
that qualifications, experience and terms of reference of the advisor would be
acceptable to IDA. Although CIHE's presence in rural markets provides price
stability, costs for dyed yarn and other equipment in rural areas is sig-
nificantly higher than in Kathmandu and yarn counts available in rural branches
often do not metch local requirements. The CIHE advisor would develop an inven-
tory management program to reduce costs and monitor inventory levelb and would
review the proposal to open a central supply depot and additional branches in
the Project area. Once CIHE appoints a consultant to improve the efficiency of
its operations it would be eligible for medium term credit under the same terms
and conditions as other borrowers. Depending on the advisor's recommendations
regarding opening a central supply depot and additional branches, long term
financing could be made available under the Project to finance the depot and
branches, subject to prior review and approval by IDA. The estimated cost of
the depot is Rs 2.5 million. CIHE would be eligible to borrow 80% of the
depot's cost under the Project subject to the recommendation of the advisor.
Incremental CIHE staff salaries would be financed by IDA on a declining basis
(50% in year one, 40% in year two, 30% in year three).



-39-
4.47    The NMTC and the NWTC were established under the first CSI Project by
private manufacturer exporters. The paid in capital of the NWTC is Rs 1.25
million, and of the NMTC, Rs 1.0 million. The Wool Trading Company has imported
more than 609 tons of raw wool since it began operations, and the-Metal Company
about 185 tons.
4.48    The operations of the Wool Trading Company have reduced the price of
raw material in Kathmandu by more than 50%. Recently, however, the Wool Trading
Company has been required by HMG to purchase low-quality, high cost Tibetan wool
from one group of private traders and to cross-subsidize this expensive Tibetan
wool with cheaper imported (New Zealand or Australian) wool. This intervention
contradicts the objective of the Wool Trading Company to provide low-cost raw
wool to exporters. The availability of import licenses to NWTC also is
irregular. As price competition for Nepal's carpet exports has increased
recently, reducing costs will be essential to maintaining export growth. Raw
wool represents approximately 60% of the value of the carpet, so it will be
important that low raw wool prices be maintained.  Under the Second CSI Project,
the Wool Trading Company would be eligible for Rs 3.5 million in fdditional
financing from commercial banks provided that a Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures, acceptable to IDA, providing NWTC regular import licenses
and limiting ad hoc government intervention in the Company's operations is
approved by HMG. Approval of a Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of disbursement under the credit com-
ponent of the Project.
4.49    The NMTC was established in 1982 to import metal for private manufac-
turers of cast metal export products with the understanding that HMG would
reduce the normal import duty and sales taxes on metal imports to 1%. The
concessions were not made available until February 1984, and they were removed
due to a change in the Industrial Enterprises Act in mid-July 1984. During its
brief period of tax-free operation the NMTC imported about 90 tons of copper,
zinc and brass for sale to about 137 cottage and small industry units. Since
July 1984, it has imported a further 95 tons, without tax concessions. In the
Second CS! Project, the NMTC would be eligible for further lending under the
Project only if a Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures, satisfactory
to IDA, allowing metal imports at international prices to manufacturers and
exporters, is agreed by H1MG. Agreement was reached that a Statement of Policies
and Operating Procedures acceptable to IDA be approved by HMG, and adoption by
NMTC's board would be a condition of disbur.ement of subloan funds to NMTC.
G.  Project Coordinatirn, Monitoring and evaluation
4.50    In the first CSI Project individual implementing agencies were respon-
sible for preparing and carrying out annual action plans, approved by IDA and
HMG, within the brcad framework of their objectives and operating guidelines.
In CSI II, agencies would continue to prepare and operate according to annual
action plans, approved by IDA and HMG. In the first Project, a Chief Technical
Advisor (CTA) was appointed to coordinate overall project implementation. The
CTA reports to the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Industry, who headed the Project
Management Unit (PMU). The PMU reported to the full Project Coordinating



-40-
Coumittee.  A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Industry would
be maintained in CSI II to coordinate implementation and monitor project
progress. The PCU would be responsible for overall management of the multi-
component project, and each implementing agency would be required to report to
and clear action programs with the PCU. Agreement was reached that a full-time
Chief Technical Advisor, acceptable to and financed by IDA, who would report to,
and liaise closely with, the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Industry for
Cottage Industry Promotion would be appointed as a condition of effectiveness of
the Project. IDA would finance 50% of support staff salaries and 100% of the
PCU operating budget. IDA financing for staff salaries is provided due to the
project-specific nature of the PCU and HNM's current extreme budget limitations.
The PCU would report regularly to the Project Coordinating Committee, which
would meet on a quarterly basis.
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit Arrangements
5.01    The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 million equivalent would be made to
HMG Nepal on standard IDA terms and conditions. The subloan component would be
US$7.6 million, which HMG would onlend to NRB for partial refinance of eligible
CSI subloans made by the three participating credit institutions (PCIs). The
proceeds would be onlent to NRB in rDuees with HMG bearing the foreign exchange
risk, due to the small size and lack of formal credit experience of
subborrowers. Repayment by NRB to 1MG would be on a fixed amortization
schedule. As in the first CSI Project, NRB would repay HMG over a 14-year
period, with three years of grace. These arrangements are incorporated in the
Project AgL.ement and incorporated in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between HMG
and NRB, the bigning of which would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed IDA Credit.
5.02    Financing for technical assistance components would be US$2.4 million
in IDA funding and a US$1.8 million UNDP grant on a parallel basis and imple-
mented by the Ministry of Industry and NRB. HMG has formally applied to UNDP
for assistance and the signing of the UNDP project documents would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
B. Subloan Terms and Conditions
5.03    Onlending Terms and Conditions.  HMG would onlend the proceeds of the
IDA credit for the credit component to NRB at 3.25% for subloans above Rs 40,000
and at 2.0% for subloan amounts up to Rs 40,000. This would provide a margin to
HMG for bearing foreign exchange risk. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit. NRB would lend to
PCIs at 6.75%, in the case of subloans above Rs 40,000, and at 5.5% for subloan
amounts up to Rs 40,000, keeping 0.5% to cover administrative costs and 32 p.a.
for credit guarantee, which would be handled by a unit within NRB. NRB would



-41-
not bear any credit or foreign exchange risk. PCIs would maintain an average
spread of 7S (8% on subloans up to Rs 40,000, 6.75X on subloans over Rs 40,000)
to cover a portion of credit risk and administrative costs, which averaged 6% in
the first CSI Project. The participating banks would charge CSI subborrowers a
standard annual interest rate at least equal to 13.5% or the maximum annual
deposit rate set by NRB and paid by PCIs (which is 13.5% at present), whichever
is higher. Maturities on subloans refinanced under the Project would be from
two to seven years, includinp grace periods ranging from nine months to two
years; banks would determine appropriate maturities and grace periods for each
subloan based on the subproject's debt service capability.  PCIs would Lepay NRB
on.a back-to-back basis as they are repaid by subborrowers.
5.04    While in general interest rates in Nepal are positive in real terms,
a few anomalies exist that are producing deleterious effects regarding financial
flows and resource allocation. These are: (i) term deposit rates exceed sec-
toral lending rates in some cases (Annex I); (ii) commercial bank spreads, with
the exception of lending under the ongoing CSI Project, are inadequate on loans
to the priority sector (small farmers, CSI and small service enterprises), thus
creating disincentives for expanded lending in this area (para. 2.25); and
(iii) lending rates of the financial institutions are set by sector and have
been fairly invariant (para. 2.29 and Annex I) which likely is contributing to
inefficiencies in intersectoral resource allocation. In this context, the
appraisal mission discussed with H1G the need to review and correct anomalies in
the interest rate structure. NRB is currently undertaking a review of interest
rate policy. It was agreed at negotiations that initial onlending rates under
the proposed Second CSI Project would be set at 13.5Z per annum or the maximum
deposit rate set by %."B, whichever is higher. It was understood that the lend-
ing rate to CSIs not receiving financing under the proposed Project (currently
U1V), as well as the lending rate under the ongoing Industrial Development
Project (currently 12%) would be brotight in line with the lending rate under the
CSI Project. It was further agreed that the lending rate under the CSI Project
would be acceptable to IDA and reviewed at least annually to ensure that rates
are positive in relation to medium term inflation projections; minimum spreads
to PCIs are maintained to provide an adequate return on CSI lending; and lending
rates remain at least equal to maximum deposit rates.
5.05    Subloan Size and IDA Review.  The maximum subloan size would be Rs 1.0
million (US$50,000), including fixed investments and working capital, except for
raw material importing companies (CIHE, NWTC, NMTW).  The maximum exposure of
any PCI to a single entity would be Rs 3.0 million (approximately US$150,000),
except in the cases of the NWTC, NMTC and CIHE, when the maximum subloan would
be Rs 4.0 million (US$200,000). Normally, subloans would constitute no more
than 80% of subproject costs, with 20% financed by sponsors' equity. For exist-
ing artisans with established markets requiring subproject amounts less than
Rs 10,000 (US$600), in exceptional cases banks could reduce the minimum equity
requirement to 10%. The average subloan size (excluding raw material supply
C)mpanies) is expected to be lower than in the first CSI Project. In the first
CSI Project, 70% of lending took place in Kathmandu, with an average subloan
size of Rs 39,000 ($2,300), and 30% of lending was in Gandaki Zone, with an
average subloan size of Rs 21,000 ($1,200). In the Second Project, with the
addition of 18 rural districts, the portion of total lending in Kathmandu is
expected to decline to about 56% (exclusive of large subloans to CIHE and raw



-42-
material supply companies), although the average subloan size in Kathmandu is
expected to increase to Rs 45,900 (US$2,700). In rural districts, the average
subloan size is expected to remain the same in real terms as in the first
project, i.e., Rs 21,000 ($1,200), with slightly smaller loans in the 18 new
districts and larger loans in Gandaki Zone. Periodically, the CSI Unit of NRB
we ld undertake a detailed post-approval review of a sample of appraisal reports
below the Rs 100,000 review unit to check that subprojects meet eligibility
criteria and that appropriate appraisal standards are being maintained. IDA's
prior review and approval would be required for refinance applications for all
subloans in excess of Rs 500,000 (US$25,000). This procedure is expected to
result in pre-approval review by IDA of some 40 subprojects, or 15% of all
subloans by amount.
5.06    Pr curement:  (i) Subloans.  Given the expected size of contracts and
the maxiwmu subloan amount under the Credit, international competitive biddin&
would not be required. Participating banks would implement their existing
procurement procedures and would be responsible for ensuring that items procured
for subprojects are suitable, reasonably priced and that sponsors have canvassed
the main sources of supply; the NRB's CSI Unit would monitor these procurement
procedures. Goods and services procured in Nepal would be procured at
reasonable and competitive prices from reputable suppliers. Sponsor selection
should contain a justification based on price, dependability of supply,
availability of spare parts and after sales service, performance guarantee and
arrangements for installation and training where necessary. Contracts for goods
or services procured outside Nepal costing the equivalent of US$5,000 or more
per item, or US$25,000 or more per contract, would be on the basis of interna-
tional shopping from three qualified suppliers eligible under the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Since it would be difficult and costly to seek quota-
tions for smaller contracts, these provisions would not apply, but participating
banks would maintain appropriate records of the method of procurement for post-
review by the NRB's CSI Unit staff and IDA supervision missions; (ii) Other
Components. All civil works would be simple structures of standardized designs,
widely dispersed geographically and over time, thus rendering them unsuitable
for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Civil works would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, acceptable to IDA.
Furniture, equipment, raw materials and vehicles would be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally, acceptable to IDA. Staff salaries
and operating expenses would not be suitable for any form of competitive
bidding. Consultants financed under IDA would be retained in accordance with
Bank guidelines; UNDP-fimnced consultants would be appointed in accordance with
UNDP procedures with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfac-
tory to IDA. All bidding packages for works or goods estimated to cost
US$10,000 equivalent or more would be subject to pre-review. At negotiations
it was agreed that HMG will furnish to the Association for its approval a draft
of a standard tender document and bid evaluation to be used for procurement
under the Project. HMG would be required to furnish the first two contracts to
IDA for its approval, and remaining contracts would be monitored by supervision
missions with the understanding that if they deviate from the btandard documents
approved by IDA, such contracts would not be subject to finance.
5.07    Disbursement.  The proposed Project is expected to be committed in
three-and-a-half years and disbursed in seven years. This disbursement schedule



-43-
conforms with South Asia regional profile of DFI lending. (i) Subloans. IDA's
disbursements for eligible subloans would be against 100% of the cost of
imported and local goods and services refinanced by NRB. For subloans below the
IDA review limit and for the CIDS Raw Material Procurement Fund, disbursements
would be made against statements of expenditure. Supporting documentation would
be kept on file for inspection by IDA supervision missions. Disbursement
against subloans above the free limit and other project expenditures would be
made against standard documentation; (ii) Other Components. For vehicles,
equipment, furniture and raw materials, IDA would finance 100% of foreign
expenditures; 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 70% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally. IDA would finance 60% of the
total expenditure on civil works. IDA would finance 100% of IDA-financed
consultants; 1002 of the Raw Material Procurement Fund; and 100% of equipment,
consultants fees, technical services and other operating costs of the overseas
Products of Nepal Offices. IDA would finance a declining portion of incremental
staff salaries as follows: for 3SC and the PCU, disbursements in year one would
be 100% decLining to 70% in year four; for CIDB, 60% in year one declining to
20% in year four; and for CIHE, 50% in year one declining to 20X in year four of
the Project.
5.08    To reduce the interval during which HMG would finance IDA's share of
project costs with its own resources, HMG might request IDA to make advance
payments from the credit account into a Special Account, to be opened in
U.S. dollars in the Nepal Rastra Bank, and which would be available for reim-
bursing 1MG for IDA's share of the project cost. The total amount in the
Special Account would not exceed US$300,000, estimated to be required for about
four months of project execution. HMG would be entitled to make withdrawals
from the Special Account, in Rupees or in foreign currencies, at the exchange
rate applicable on the day the Special Account is debited. IDA would replenish
the Special Account for the amount of withdrawals for eligible expenses at the
request of the Borrower in accordance with procedures agreed between IDA and
HMG.
5.09    Reporting.  In the Second CSI Project, the reporting and monitoring
system would 2 streamlined and strengthened. A micro-computer would be
provided at each PCI Head Office, which will receive raw data from branches, and
which will prepare all reports, refinance requests, and analysis of loans.
Branches will send only one report every quarter containing data on sanctions,
collections, and laans outstanding. Refinance would be requested quarterly.
The streamlining of this system would reduce time spent on clerical work, enab-
ling branch staff to devote more attention to subloan appraisal and supervision;
the revised system also would improve the quality and timeliness of information.
The NRB's CSI Unit and the PCU would submit quarterly reports to IDA and to the
CSI Coordinating Committee starting January 1, 1987. Reports would aggregate
the individual quarterly reports of participating banks, covering activities,
portfolio data, collection and arrears performance, and supervision results.
The CSI Unit would submit a quarterly statement of its own refinance activity
and details of disbursements and would propose improvements.
5.10    It was agreed during negotiations that HMG/N would cause all implement-
ing agencies and PCIs to, and NRB would (i) maintain separate records and
accounts for all project expenditures in accordance with sound accounting



-44-
principlesS (ii) submit to IDA certified copies of financial statements for each
year within nine months after the end of each fiscal year (iii) have the
accounts, including the Special Account and the statements of expenditure
audited annually in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied by an auditor acceptable to the Association; and (iv) submit to IDA the
auditors' report for NRB and each PCI and the auditors' opinion of the report
wvthin nine months of the end of the fiscal year; and (v) submit co IDA an
auditors' statement that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure had
been used for the purpose for which they were intended under the Project.
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01    Benefits.  The Project would contribute to HW G's objectives of expanding
industrial output, employment and eaports in the CSI sector. The Project would
strengthen the capabilities of public and private agencies supplying credit,
marketing services, raw materials and skills development. Significant direct
benefits--in incremental employment and earnings in the 21 districts covered by
the Project, and in foreign exchange earnings through sustained export growth--
are expected. An important benefit of the Project would be improvement in
industrial and export procedures and administration, including establishment of
procedures for a duty-drawback mechanism.
6.02    Under the subloan component, about 4,720 subloans would be made by
participating credit institutions. The majority of these would be for cottage
and small enterprises; a maximum or 301 of subloan amounts would be for market
agents and about 5X would be for raw material supply companies. The average
investment per job is estimated to be about US$400, and incremental employment
generated would be over 21,OOO jobs, excluding subloans to raw material supply
companies. In Kathmandu, estimated to absorb about 561 of total lending by
amount, incrementAl employment would be full-time (or 250 days per year) for a
total of approximately 8.0 million man days in the three-and-a-half-year project
period. In rural districts where incremental employment would supplement
agricultural employment (hence workers would be available for about 150 days per
year), incremental employment generated under the Project would be about 3.8
million man days. A general benefit of the Project would be the improvement in
the overall operations of the two commercial banks, reducing their administra-
tive costs and improving their efficiency and profitability. These improvements
would apply to priority sector and other lending outside the project area. The
Project would also strengthen and upgrade the operations of private and public
export promotion training and raw material supply agencies.
6.03    An important benefit of the Project, if successful, would be arresting
the decline of traditional handicraft exports, preventing a decline in carpet
exports, and maintaining growth in ready-made garment exports. With product
development and marketing inputs under the Project, the 6% decline in tradi-
tional handicraft exports between 1984 and 1985 could be reversed; traditional
handicraft exports could increase by 5-10% p.a. In carpets, cost reduction,
product development and marketing inputs under the Project could reverse the 6X
decline in exports between 1984 and 1985, and maintain the average 201 p.a.
growth achieved between 1982 and 1985, resulting in at least US$35.5 million in



-45-
incremental foreign exchange. For ready-made garments, the Project would sup-
port diversification, efficient allocation of quota and cost reduction. The
Project would also provide investment credit for export manufacturers. The
Project would conservatively be estimated to support export growth of 50% p.a.
in CSI products during the three-and-one-half-year project period. This would
provide incremental foreign exchange of as much as about US$150 million.
6.04    Risks.  As participating credit institutions have now gained experience
with project-based lending, other implementing agencies have experience with CSI
Project programs and most key staff are in place, there is not expected to be a
significant delay in project start-up. In rural areas the major risk facing
successful establishment of new manufacturing projects and employment and income
generation is weak raw material supply and marketing systems. Project support
for local market agents and CIHE would be provided to minimize this risk. In
the first project performance, contractors were expected to complement normal
supply and marketing channels. When the performance contract program faltered,
project resources were directed toward rural based local market agents.
Experience to date with local market agents has been positive, and in the Second
CSI Project additional agents would be identified and provided credit. In
addition, improving the operations of the CIHE, expanding the distribution and
marketing assistance provided through CIDB, and selection of districts with good
access to roads and project offices should minimize this risk.
6.05    In the export development componentt projections for increased export
growth depend crucially on careful market research and product development
activities for traditional handicrafts and carpets. For ready-made garments,
one risk to sustained export growth is the probable imposition of U.S. import
quotas.  Sustained export growth will depend on effective implementation of
procedures for duty-free access to fabrics imported from countries other than
India to allow diversification into new quota categories and efficient alloca-
tion of quotas to reliable, high value manufacturers. A key project component
would be to assist HMG in implementing such procedures. For market research and
product modification, demonstrations, workshops and seminars initiated under the
first project would be continued to heighten exporter awareness of the need for
improving product design and quality and to alsist manufacturers with needed
changes.
6.06    To minimize the risk of uneven implementation of project components,
overall coordination and monitoring of project inputs, ongoing assistance to HMG
for policy implementation, and careful recruitment and supervision of technical
experts and consultants would be supported by the full-time presence of a Chief
Technical Advisor to the Project. As in the first project, frequent supervision
by Bank staff would be needed.



-46-
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations agreement was reached between IDA and HMG:
(a)  on ontending terms betwec.a HMG and NRB and conditions and margins (para.
5.03); interest rates between HMG and NRB, including annual review of
interest rates commencing November 15, 1987 (para. 5.04);
(b)  that HMG shall furnish to IDA for approval by December 31, 1988, a
program for market research, export sales and product development by
exporters on a cost sharing basis, including eligibility criteria
(para. 4.28);
(c)  that the statement of policies and operating procedures for ESC and PON,
including management, recruitment and staffing procedures, would be
satisfactory to IDA. ESC would be required to furnish to IDA for its
comment, approval action programs for each year by May 31 of each year,
and provision of an acceptable detailed action plan for year 1 would be
a contdition of disbursement for the component (4.32);
(d)  that HMG would submit to IDA for its review a draft program to improve
import and export policies and procedures by December 31, 1987 (paras.
2. 14-4.36);
(e) that adoption of a statement of policies and operating procedures for
the raw material procurement fund, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition
of disbursement to the fund (para. 4.41);
(f)  that adoption by HMG of a Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
for the Nepal Wool Trading Company, satisfactory to IDA, including a
commitment by HMG to provide wool import licenses to the company is a
condition of disbursement under the credit component (para. 2.18 and
4,48);
(g) that appointment of a procurement and operations advisor acceptable to
IDA is a condition of onlending to CIHE for raw material and equipment
procurement and for establish ant of supply depots (para. 4.46);
(h) on procurement (para. 5.06 (ii)), disbursement (para. 5.07 (ii)) and
reporting, accounting and auditing requirements (para. 5.10);
(i) that the quality, experience and terms of reference for UNDP-financed
and IDA-financed consultants, including Chief Technical Advisor, be
acceptable to IDA, and IDA-financed consultants be selected in accord-
ance with the Bank's guidelines;
(j) on maintenance of Project Coordination Unit including institutional
responsibilities and mechanisms for coordination, monitoring, reporting
and review (para. 4.50);



-47-
(k)  that HMG would maintain adequate capitalization for Credit Guarantee
Scheme (para. 4.18); and transfer the Credit Guarantee Scheme to the CCC
once the CGC has been sufficiently strengthened in a manner acceptable
to IDA;
(1) on maintenance of Project Coordinating Committee with overall respon-
sibility for coordinating, monitoring and supervising project implemen-
tation (para. 4.18);
(m)  on maintenance of the PON office in New York, with management, funding
and staff acceptable to IDA (para. 4.30).
(n) on maintenance of ESC with management, funding and technical staff
acceptable to IDA.
7.02    During negotiations agreement was reached between IDA and NRB on:
(a) onlending terms and conditions between NRB and PCIs (para. 5.03); inter-
est rates between NRB and PCIs (para. 5.04); subproject eligibility
criteria (para. 4.06), including special conditions for CIHE
(para. 4.46) and NMTC (para. 4.49); credit guarantee provisions
(para. 4.18); and responsibilities of the banks under the subloan com-
ponent (4.05, 4.15-4.18); final date for presenting subloans to the
Association, September 30, 1989; subproject review (para. 5.05);
reporting, accounting and auditing (para. 5.10); procurement
(pare. 5.06) and aggregate of subloans to market agents not to exceed
30%;
(b) eligibility and participation criteria for participating credit institu-
tions including organization and staffing (paras. 4.11-4.12) training
and collection performance (paras. 4.13-4.14) all satisfactory to the
Association;
(c) maintaining the NRB CSI Unit with functions, powers, staffing and
Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures, all satisfactory to the
Association (para. 4.16); issuance of instructions to PCIs (para. 4.17);
(d) maintaining the Credit Guarantee Scheme in a manner satisfactory to IDA
and transfer the Scheme to CCC in accordance with assurances sought
under 7.01(k).
7.03    The following understandings were reached at negotiations:
(a) costs and administrative arrangements for the UNDP-financed elements of
the Project, to be executed by a suitable agency (para. 5.02).
(b) HMG's intention to establish a bonded warehouse system (para. 2.19) to
pursue measures to reduce freight costs (para. 2.20) to improve customs
procedures (paras. 2.21 and 4.36) and construction of a storage shed
(para. 2.21).



-48~
(c) HMG intends to bring lending rates on CSI and other industrial loans
in line with the rate prevailing in the CSI Projeet;
(4) that opening of a second PON office in Europe would be postponed; and
(e) that HMG would consider modifications in management and coordination
arrangements to enhance the success of the Project, especially with
regard to exports.
7.04    The following conditions would need to be met prior to credit
effectiveness2
(a) approval of the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures of the
CSI Refinance Unit in NR1 (para. 4.16);
(b)  issuance of instructions by NRB, satisfactory to IDA, to at least two
participating banks (para. 4.17);
(c) compliance by at least two PCIs with minimum CSI staffing, training and
collection requirements of participation (para. 4.07, 4.11-4.14);
(4) signing of the UNDP Project Agreement by HMG and UNDP (para. 5.02);
(e) appointment of an entity acceptable to IDA to execute the UNDP-financed
portion of the Project;
(f) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between
HMG and Nepal Rastra Bank (para. 5.03); and
(g) appointment of a Chief Technical Advisor with experience, qualifications
and terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para. 4.50).
7.05    The following conditions would need to be met prior to disbursement for
individual project components:
(a) approval of the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures, satis-
factory to IDA, by the Boards of NWTC and NMTC (para. 4.48) as an
eligibility requirement for onlending to these companies under the
Project;
(b) Approval by IDA of each year's action program and furnishing to IDA of a
detailed action program acceptable to IDA for the first year as a condi-
tion for disbursement under the CIDB component;
(c)  adoption by TPC of ESC's Statement of Policies *nd Operating Procedures
satisfactory to IDA and furnishing each year's action proeram to IDA
including a detailed year 1 action program as a condition of disburse-
ment under the component;
(d) approval by CIDB of the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
for the Raw Material Procurement Fund, satisfactory to IDA, as a condi-
tion for disbursement to the Fund (para. 4.41);
(e} transfer of Rs 2 million to the Credit Guarantee Scheme and maintenance
of adequate capitalization as a condition of disbursement under the
credit component (para. 4.18).



-49-                            ANNEX 1
NEPAL
Interest Rate Structure
Effective as of June 1982
(in percent p.a.)
Deposit Rates
Savings deposits                                                8.5
Fixed deposits
3 months                                                     4.5
6 months                                                     9.5
1 year                                                      12.5
2 years and above                                            13.5
Lendine Rates
Cottage and small scale industry and
farmers (fixed and working capital)                          11.0
Agricultural Loans 1/ (fixed and working
capital)                                                  4.0 - 14.0
Medium and large scale industry 2/ (fixed
capital)                                                 11.0 - 16.0
Medium and large scale industry (working
capital) 3/                                                  15.0
Export bills                                                8.0 - 13.0
HMG Development Bonds                                          +1.5
Other loans                                                    17.0
Overdue loans                                               2.0 - 7.0
Source: Nepal Rastra Bank, at the time of project appraisal.
11 ADBN lends to cooperatives at 4.0 - 7.0 concessionary rates for
specified products.
2/ Luxury goods producing industries have to borrow at 16.0.
3/ Mostly short term loans.



-50-                             ANNEX 2
LIST OF ADDITIONAL DISTRICTS
FOR INCLUSION IN
CSI II
CENTRAL DEVELOPMENT REGION                     EXISTING IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
NBL     RBB     ADB      CIDB    CIHE
Janakpur Zone
1.  Dolkha                                  2               2        1
Narayani Zone
2.  Chitwan                                 4       2       2
3. Makawanpur                               3       3       2
Bagmati Zone
4.  Kavre                                   3       1        1               1
5.  Sindupalchowk                           3       2       2        1
6.  Nuwakot                                 2       1        2       1
7.  Rasuva                                  1               1
8.  Dhading                                         3       2
WESTERN DEVELOPMENT REGION
Lumbini Zone
9. Palpa
10.  Gulmi                                           2       2                1
11.  Arghakhanchi                                    1        1
Dhawalagiri Zone
12.  Baglung                                 2                1               1
13.  Parbat                                  1       1        1
14.  Myagdi                                  2       2        1
MID-WESTERN DEVELOPMENT RECION
Rapti Zone
15. Dang                                     2       2        3       1       1
16. Pyuthan                                  2                1       1       1
17.  Salyan                                  1                1       1       1
18. Rolpa                                    1       1        1       1       1
29      21      26        7       7



-51-
amam comn *u scus oi nuca
Am    AiuMMAIA   MU naiL
.      _
A  bum cedit for Colo, _rist
aget, gm matertial cc..                e               -       -       2Jn    lm   11Ji
2?. T~ICISI ASSISXASCR
11. na      122nOTIo
(A) CeiitAdwim  (Am)2                                                          -         -      ISO
(a) T   toCI Me                                              340     -         -          4     424
(C) 1   653 Staff rIning. tA to
Sambers. In       noot. (M)            -       -        40      40        -         -       s o
(a)  aining _uipent for S                   11               -                                   1
1~~ 15                                            =       -0        a         -       -XJ6
(A) U*poter Service  sater (Ratbomada)
(1) 3t&bliat coets,
"ni_,t. materials                 30      -        -       30        -                 60
(1)        staff, _osultants                   -
atde *_ita j                      -       75       -       so                         In
(3) oetin Technical xKpe
(a) la   Ad4 i.er (SO m)            -       -       25G     -          -         -      2#0
(b) ftodvot Spea"lists
(Pauta. eapt*. bait-
_ or. otbr) (4M   )             -       -       350      -         -         --     350
(4) Lteet UAiatanee to
Zzpeter  (Trade pairs,
uncut  eagarce); Training           -       -        100     -         50        -      150
(5) Overew Byer Promotion               -       -        25     -          -         -       2S
(PW  Wedwut. of Nepal                                               - -                  -
vabratal. Ext per   lon t C       _t       630      75      725      so        50        -
IV. 2MW. AR tO am AM
M~1hflU (9 _, expeans)
(1)uas-                                        --        75     -          --        --      75
2) Aeocitioea                                   =               =                    =
Subtotal. M A"d AAuciation-                                170     -         15        -      185
W. 23AN          AND  S1   mmu caomm
(A) Ca               Deve    r    Md
(A)    tdiML r to CIDII (12             -       -        84     -          -         --      84
(2) CII Stofftrtin                      --      -       140      -         -         -      140
(3) astablisbdnt, squipant, tfu-
niture, Materials, Produet
Sveloeent Ceeters
(602 is civil work.)              197     247       -     336         _         __     780
(4) Vehicles                            40      -                          -                 40
(5) Staff Salarie. Local Con-
sultants end Kzpendituree jV       -      650        -    650         -         --   1,300
(t6) RawterialFund                      -      100       -      -                           100
(3) Cottuge luetry HmudierAft Nporium
(1) Incremetal Staff Salaries  /        -       10       --     20         --        --      30
(2) Operation Advisor (6 _)                                                                  42--  42  -- -  -  42
Sbktatal. trining and Bitenuloni
services Cmonent                              237   1,007       266  1.006        --        --   2.516
VI. flOJZCT COORDINATZN UNIIT (PCU)
(A) Cbief Teebical Advisor (CTA) (36 d)   250            -           --        --               250
(3) Lo         8uppett Staff                 -       10       -       10        -         -       20
(C) Operating zxpenes                        --      10       -       10        -                 20
(0) Vabicl                                    S      =                                             a =
Subgt9  .I                              258      20       -       20        -         -      29
PtOJlC? TOTAL                             4,940   4,902    1,791  1,146      2.425     1,984  17,188
.~~~~~~~~~SS  SaS   SS5                                                         aS 
ZT orsio  *&Ldvisers ae eatimted at $7,000lanth, iucluding fteo, travel. *xp.eca and insurauco, but
excluding tame payable in Nepal.
Ll IDA wuld finauce 1002 of increental staff salaries in BBC and the PM, on a d elining bces, and
OOZ of non-ig local concultents on fixed tern appoinetS.  IDA would finace 602 of CIDII
incremental *alories. on a declining basis. For manufacturer sassociationa. IDA would pay 502 of
local staff claiese.
I iDA would pay S0 of ineremetal staff "aleries for ClMl on a declining besid:  502 in year I;
402 in 3ua  2; 302 in yer 3.



-52-                           ANNEX 4
Page I
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT, CSI I}
Technical Assistance on
Export Marketing and Product Development
Draft Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
1. Objectives
• The objective of the Export Development Component is to maximize the
benefit to Nepal from overseas exports in CSI products.
• The purpose of the technical assistance on export marketing and product
development is to support this objective by upgrading the effectiveness
of export marketing and by the development of more marketable products.
2. Implementing Agencies
* The technical assistance will be coordinated by the Exporters' Service
Centre (ESC), which will implement activities carried out within Nepal.
* ESC will be assisted by two overseas offices: the Products oi Nepal
Office in the USA (PON), and a second PON Office to be opened in Europe.
ESC will delegate to the PON Office activities to be carried out in the
USA or in Europe.
The long term objective is that ESC eventually would become an autonomous
agency, with substantial private sector involvement and independent
funding, following models in Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong. The progress
in developing into a strong autonomous agency would be made after Year



-53-                              ANNEX 4
Page 2
Three of CSI 2. Depending on progress made by that time, arrangements
could be introduced to turn the ESC over to the private sector.
3. Direction and Management
ESC will be headed by a Project Manager, who will be assisted by the Lead
Advisor for the component. The Project Manager will report directly to
the Executive Chairman of TPC. The Project Manager would probably be an
HMG official during CSI 2, and would eventually be recruited from the
private sector. TPC will delegate to ESC its responsibility for all
aspects of export promotion, marketing assistance and export product
development in the three specified product areas; garments, carpets and
new and traditional export products based on handicraft skills.
* The Manager of each PON Office will report to the Project Manager of ESC,
both administratively and functionally.
* KSC will submit to the CTA, three months in advance, an annual action
plan covering the Nepalese financial year (July-July). This will cover
in detail all activities to be undertaken by ESC and the PON Offices for
that year. Once approved by IDA, this will become the basis on which ESC
and the PON Offices will be functionally managed. If desired either by
IDA or ESC management, a full review of the annual action plan could take
place half-way through the financial year, i.e. January.
Each annual action plan will include:



-54-                             ANNEX 4
Page 3
- explanation as to how project objectives are to be assisted by the
actions proposed;
- specification as to which agency, and preferably which individual, will
be made responsible for carrying out the a^tion satisfactorily;
- for each action, the date for completion, or review of progress by the
management of ESC;
- specification of resources required, particularly outside technical
experts, or major items of equipment, together with budgetary
implications.
* The activities eligible for assistance are broadly defined in 1 above.
4. Organization and Staffing
* The management of ESC will be responsible for the identification,
recruitment and induction of suitable staff for ESC and the PON Offices.
* For ail appointments, ESC will be free to recruit from any source.
Non-technical junior staff are likely to come either from government
service or as short-term contract staff at similar rates of pay. For
local technical staff, it is expected that ESC will need to look beyond
the government service to recruit the most suitable candidates, and that
it will need to pay the going market rate of pay in the private sector.



-55-                            ANNEX 4
Page 4
* All appointments of staff or outside experts are subject to the prior
approval of IDA, which is to be provided, through the CTA, with details
of experience, education and proposed pay.
* Within six months of project start, ESC will recruit a local counterpart
for new product development, who will become technical counterpart of the
Lead Advisor for product development activities at ESC and will be known
as the Product Development Manager. The Project Manager will be respon-
sible for all administrative matters.
Local technical counterparts will also be recruited, in principle, for
all outside technical experts who work at ESC for three months or more.
Counterparts will be recruited with a view to taking over respon-
sibilities in the technical speciality after the outside expert leaves.
The recruitment of counterparts will generally be preferred to the
recruitment of assistants for manual tasks. Counterparts will, instead,
be expected to learn through practice.
Apart from technical teams of two to three set up for specific tasks, the
central staffing at ESC will be kept to a minimum.
Each technical team will report functionally to the Lead Advisor and the
Product Development Manager. They will report administratively to the
Project Manager.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
PON (USA) will continue to be staffed by a Manager and Market Development
Coordinator, assisted as necessary by one typist/ receptionist. PON
(Europe) will be staffed by a locally-recruited Manager, who will use
temporary typing service as required.
5. Procedures for Market Research Trips and Trade Fair Participation
* Criteria for selection of candidates for any overseas training or market
research are to be approved in advance by IDA. The list of proposed
candidates, together with reasons for selection, is to be approved in
advance by the CTA.
- Costs are to be shared, with participants expected to contribute a
steadily increasing share of costs over the project period. As a
guideline, participants in early trips should contribute a minimum of 25Z
of costs, rising to 50X later in the project.
* Participants will be expected to submit brief reports to ESC on results
achieved, indicating:
- names and addresses of persons and organizations visited; - orders or
enquiries generated, if relevant; - conclusions as to the trip, and
implement the strategy.



-57-                            ANNEX 4
Page 6
These reports are to be treated by ESC as confidential. They should be
submitted by participants within one month of return to Nepal, as a
condition of participation.
6. Procedures for Direct Assistance to Exporters (Year Three)
• Proposals from exporters for direct financial assistance will be invited,
covering any relevant expenditure for market develop_ent, product
development or production improvement. Proposals will be processed by
ESC on a first-come first-serve basis.
• The Lead Advisor and the Product Development Manager will be responsible
for approving proposals. All approvals and rejections will be reported
to the CTA, with full reasoning given. The criterion for approval is to
be a straight comparison of the cost of assistance with ESC management's
assessment of the likely benefit in terms of increased export volume.
* All assistance will be on a straight 50/50 cost-sharing basis, unless an
applicant proposes a higher share for himself. Proposals should specify:
- costs, and expected results, in terms of increased export volume; -
full details of the activities to be assisted; - position and experience
of persons undertaking the activity; and - specification of outputs
expected from the activity;



-58-                             ANNEX 4
Page 7
A condition of assistance will be the submission, within an acceptable
time-limit, of a brief report to ESC, as per exposure trips, to be
treated as confidential.
Technical experts and their ESC counterparts will be available for assis-
tance in drawing up proposals, and will actively promote the scheme of
assistance during their extension work with exporters.
7. The Evolution into an Autonomous Agency
To effect the privatization of ESC, a Board of Directors would be
appointed according to criteria developed during the Second CSI Project.
It is hoped that members would be drawn from established, well-respected
members of the CSI product export industries, such as office-holders in
the relevant associations. Interested HMG departments will also be
invited to nominate members. The Board will consist of a majority of
non-HMG appointees, under a non-HMG Chairman.
Funding for ESC will continue to be through the Project for an agreed
period, with HMG accepting responsibility for providing funding
thereafter. This funding will be based on an agreed percentage of over-
seas exports.
E1HMG would also be expected to accept the continuation of existing ESC
policies and procedures, especially freedom to hire staff from outside
the civil service.



-59-                            ANNEX 4
Page 8
The change to autonomous status will be dependent upon agreement on these
details at the time between HII, IDA and private exporters.



-60-                          ANNEX 5
NEPAL
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS FOR THE PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter               Disbursements in US$'OOO
By qu!arter       Cumulative
FY87
September 30, 1986                      380                380
December 31, 1986                       380                760
March 31, 1987                          380               1140
June 30, 1987                           380               1520
FY88
September 30, 1981                      380               1900
December 31, 1987                       380               2280
Mearch 31, 1987                         380               2660
June 30, 1987                           380               3040
FY89
September 30, 1988                      500               3540
December 31, 1988                       500               4040
March 31, 1989                          500               4540
June 30, 1989                           500               5040
FY90
September 30, 1989                      630               5670
December 31, 1989                       630               6300
March 31, 1990                          630               6930
June 30, 1990                           630               7560
FY91
September 30, 1990                      250               7810
December 31, 1990                       250               8060
March 3', 1991                          250               8310
June 30, 1991                           250               8560



-61-                         ANNEX 5
Page 2
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                Disbursements in US$'000
By Quarter        Cumulative
FY92
September 30, 1991                       250              8810
December 31, 1991                        250               9060
March 31, 1992                           250               9310
June 30, 1992                            250              9560
FY93
September 30, 1992                       130              9690
December 31, 1992                        130              9820
March 31, 1993                           130               9950
June 30, 1993                             50              10000



-62-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
NEPAL
COTTAGE-AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
DRAFT STATEMENT OF POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES FOR LENDING TO CSI'S UNDER TUE PROJECT
1.      This statement outlines policies and procedures that would govern the
refinancing operations of the CSI Fund of NRS. These policies and procedures
would be incorporated in instructions to be issued by MRB to the participating
credit institutions (PCI).
Objectives
2.      The objectives of the second CSI Project are:
(a) to facilitate access to credit by existing and new viable CSIs and
related market agents for financially sound and economically viable
industrial projects; and
(b) to encourage and assist PCIs in making loans based on project
appraisal; rather than collateral by providing partial refinance
for such loans on appropriate terms and conditions.
Role of Rastra Bank
3.      The NRB would provide refinanc-., through the CSI Fund, and continue to
maintain a CSI Unit which would operate this fund and provide guidance and
advisory services to the PCIs.



-63-                             ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.      CSI Fund.  The resources of the fund will consist of loans obtained from
international/national institutions and any surplus derived from refinancing
operations. The Fund's resources would be used to refinance CSI loans and
defray operating and administrative costs of the CSI Unit. Overall respon-
sibility for establishing operational and financial policies of the CSI Fund
will be vested in the Board of Directors of the NRB: such policies would need
to be acceptable to IDA.
5.      CSI Unit.  The operations of the CSI Fund will be managed by the CSI
Unit within the NRB. The unit woald be responsible for the following tasks:
(a) refinancing subloans to PCIs;
(b) promoting improvements in CSI lending by PCIs and being responsible
for monitoring and quality control. CSI unit staff would undertake
field visits to sample sub-borrowers subloans to verify that these
conform with eligibility criteria;
(c) operate the CSI credit guarantee scheme until such time as it is
transferred to CGC or the banks; and
(d) perform other tasks and reviews as directed by NRB Board and
management.
6.      The CSI Unit would be headed by a unit chief and staff would comprise
one senior experienced credit officer for quality control/advisory work; one
officer and one assistant for refinance and credit guarantee; and one officer
for collecting/monitoring reports received from PCIs. At the Zonal level, the
CSI Unit would have one experienced credit officer and assistant to supervise
refinanced subloans as directed by the Head Office unit from time to time.
7.      In general the CSI Unit would deal only with PCI Head Office or Zonal
Office staff except when CSI Unit staff undertake field reviews of subloans;
at that time the PCI Head/Zonal office staff would also be involved.



-64-                             ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.      Terms oL Refinance.  The terms and conditions of refinance will be
established and revised if necessary by the NRB Board, with HNC and IDA
agreement, according to the following prin'iples:
(a) in the case of subloans less than Ps 100,000 refinance would be
automatic based on summary information supplied by PCIs and
submission of a promissory note. Only in exceptional
cases would refinance be denied, where the CSI Unit has advance
information that an individual subloan does not meet eligibility
criteria;
(b) refinance to the PCI-can be withdrawn by NRB if, in the course of
monitoring, it is determined that a suhloan is not in compliance with
eligibility criteria. The refinance would be withdrawn after giving
notice to PCIs;
(c) the interest rate charged to credit institutions on refinanced
loans would provide an adequate margin to the PCIi to cover lending
costs and risks;
(d) the terms and conditions of su.;bloans are in line with eligibility
criteria laid down by NIB;
(e) the maximum amount of refinance would be 8%iZ of the subloan
disbursed, except in the case of qualified existing artisans.
9.      Terms of Credit Guarantee Scheme.  The credit guarantee would become
effective from the date of the first disbursement of a subloan by the PCI. The
credit guarantee would become void if subloan refinance is cancelled (para 8b).
Participating Credit Institutions
10.     Eligibility.  Commercial banks and ADBN would be eligible for refinance
from the CSI Fund once they have met the eligibility criteria outlined below:



-65-                              ANNEX 6
Page 4
(a) Staffing. (i) A CSI Unit which would deal exclusively with CSI
Project lending must be established at the head office of each PCI.
Staff would comprise as a minimum: one section chief, one officer
and two assistants for project monitoring and refinance; two
experienced credit officers to approve larger subloans and provide
guidance/advice and ensure quality of lending through frequent
field visits. (ii) at zonal offices: one experienced credit
officer and one assistant for subloan reviews and branch visits;
and (iii) at each branch at least one credit officer for each 70
subloans and at least one assistant for every 30 subloans;
(b) Collections. (i) To become eligible, a PCI must achieve an overall
60X collections rate on CSI I loans; (ii) for an existing branch in
the CSI I area to become eligible, it must achieve at least a 70X
collection rate on CSI I subloans. Where the branch has not
undertaken CSI lending, it would be eligible to participate at
beginning of the project. Collection performance would need to
increase by five percentage points per bank and three percentage
points per branch for continued participation. From the second year
of the project, collection performance would include CSI II subloans.
11.     Responsibilities.  The PCI would be responsible for subloan appraisal,
supervision, fellow-up, monitoring and collections.
12.     Project Reporting.  The PCI will establish a simple subloan monitoring
and reporting system to provide information on lending activity, collections,
and arrears (Appendix 2). The key features of the system would be as follows:
(a) the branch will send only one report (Form A) in addition to appraisal
reports each quarter to its head office; Form A will be used to claim refinance
from NRB and to prepare quarterly reports; (b) the Head Office would prepare a
quarterly report (Form B) for submission to NRB.  Annually, the PCI will submit
a detailed report containing Forms C and D.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
13.     Sub-borrower Eligibility Criteria.  The following eligibility criteria
would apply for sub-borrowers:



-66-                             ANNEX 6
Page S
(a) Ownership: Individuals, partnerships, incorporated bodies and
cooperative undertakings;
(b) Activity: Manufacturing and marketing concerns engaged directly in
the production of cottage industry products, and cottage and small
industrial firms in manufacturing, agro-processing and industrial
services (e.g., repair workshops, wool washing and dyeing for the
export carpet industry, etc);
(c) Geographical: The subproject must be located in the project area
covered by the IDA credit;
(d) Size of Enterprises:  Only enterprises falling within the definition
of "CSIw as defined in the Industrial Enterprise Act of 1961: an
exception would be made for market agents, export houses, CIH1 and
eligible raw material supply companies. 1/
(e) Loan Distribution: For each PCI, no more than 60% of the amount of
the credit would be made available to subprojects located in the
Kathmandu Valley.
14.     Type of Subloan:
(a) Purpose: Either for expansion of existing capacity, installation of
fixed assets for balancing, modernization (i.e., improving product
quality) and rehabilitation, or for establishment of new enterprises;
Cb) Size: Limited to a total of Rs 1.0 million. Priority would be
given to financing labor-intensive industries where fixed cost per
job does not exceed Rs 40,000 ($2,000), although no fixed cost per
job limit would apply; 2/
1/ The maximum subloan size would not apply to subloans to the raw materials
supply companies, which will be arranged separately and will not be subject
to the eligibility criteria noted here.
2/ Fixed cost per job (incremental) investment in building and equipment
divided by the number of (incremental) workers permanently employed in the
enterprise.



-67-                              ANNEX 6
Page 6
(c) Use: For fixed assets (including factory buildings, equipment and
permanent working capital). Only the buildings needed directly for
the CSI Project would be eligible for subloans under the project.
Only permanent working capital would be eligible. I/
15.     Sub-project Restrictions
(a) Equity: For subloans over Rs 10,000 the maximum debt/equity ratio
would be 80:20; 2/
(b) Viability: Subprojects are expected to meet specific standards of
financial viability and should be economically sound. 3/
16.     Lending Terms and Conditions
(a) On-lending Rate to Sub-borrower: One rate would apply for all
subloans regardless of subloan size. This rate, which would be
determined prior to negotiations, would be subject to an annual
review by HMG, NRB, and IDA, and should be: (1) consistent with
commercial rates on loans to industry; (2) positive in real terms
in relation to medium term inflation projections; and (3) provide
adequate spreads to PCIs;
1/ Along with the subloan for fixed assets, the PCI would approve a line of
credit equal to at least 80% of the total working capital required for
operating at 100% capacity. Of the approved line of credit, in the case of
subloans greater than Rs 40,000, up to 50% of the working capital require-
ment for 100% capacity operation would be treated as permanent working
capital. For subloans less than Rs 40,000, permanent working capital dis-
bursed could be up to 80% of the amount needed for 100% capacity
utilization. The remaining 30% of the full capacity working capital
requirement would be disbursed when needed by sub-borrowers and treated as a
revolving line of credit. This portion of working capital would be a
separate working capital loan on-lent from PCIs' own funds at normal commer-
cial rates and secured by hypothecation, pledge and/or additional
collateral.
2/ An exception to this requirement would be that up to 100% financing could
be provided to existing artisans with an established record and linkages to
an approved market agent, provided the subloan amount does not exceed Rs
10,000. This exception is to be applied on a case-by-case basis and is not
to be publicized.
31 Assistance in appraisal and assessing specific standards will be provided
by project profiles for major subsectors, which will be prepared by the
credit advisor.



-68-                            ANNEX 6
Page 7
(b) Net spread for PCI: A net spread of 7.0% would be provided on IDA
funds.  This spread is needed to cover the PCIs administrative costs,
lending risks and to provide nominal profit. The refinance rate
from NRB would depend on the final on-lending rate to the
sub-borrower (See para d);
(c) Maturities: To be determined on a case-by-case basis, but in the
range of 2 years to 7 years, with an appropriate grace period,
ranging from 9 months to 2 years depending on the realistic
start-up period for each industry. In no case would the grace
period be less than 6 months from the date of,last disbursement.
Repayments would be on a predetermined schedule, requiring at least
half-yearly installments.
(d) Breakdown of Interest Rates and Spreads: Assuming an on-lending
rate of 13.5%, and a Credit Guarantee premium of 3.0%, the following
spreads to HMG, NRB, and PCIs would apply:
1.  HMG to NRB                        3.0
2.  NRB Fee                           0.5
3.  Credit Guarantee Fee              3.0
4.  Spread to PCIs on IDA Funds       7.0
5.  Initial Onlending Rate           13.5
(e) Credit Risk:  The credit institution shall be responsible for
repaying refinanced amounts to the CSI Fund according to the agreed
schedule, regardless of whether the credit institution has
received repayment from the enterprise to which the refinanced
loan was made.
Subloan Free Limit
17.     All subloans above US$25,000, equivalent would be sent to IDA by the
PCI through NRB. Once these subloans are approved by IDA, the PCI would send
a copy of IDA's approval to NRB when claiming refinance.
Overseas Study
18.     Overseas study trips for bank officers would take place in accordance
with the criteria set out in Appendix 3 as modified from time-to-time and
acceptable to IDA. Candidates selected and performance record would need to
be cleared with the CTA.



-69-                              A*NJEX 6
Page 8
Legal Arrangements
19.     Each of the participating institutions would enter into an agreement
with the Rastra Bank allowing for continued participation in refinancing under
the CSI Project. The Rastra Bank would issue instructions to PCIs on CSI
policies and procedures.
Foreign Exchange Risks
20.     Foreign exchange risk on IDA funds will be borne by HMG.  Refinance and
all subloans under the project will be denominated in domestic currency and
under no circumstances will credit institutions or their sub-borrowers be asked
to bear any sum of, or carry, for any length of time, the balance arising from
variations caused by changes in the exchange rates on the Nepalese Rupee.



-1.    f   8                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N E P A L
^.  ,   r"<             }   c  H  I  N  A                                                                      ~~~~~SECON[) COTTAGE AND
DARCMUIA                        U  Lt'v,  HU-                                                                               SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
,   . +. _~~~~~~~ ' J'   .  ,   n ~~~~~~Project Areas
§; tr * j>S- ,\,,, ' +^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
t   +  t   td  " o¢'"        v   ~~~~~~j IJ M t A  Sz4    National capital
FLD1HUR  f                                                                                                                                             Sel   rHH    -    1K      3 iected towns
{J  - - )  \    h        g   _~~~~~~v w) 5 -,    )'jl '          ;   .;                                                                     -     Zone boundarbs-
;tAhCHAhPUP'   ;%dS9\D4lLf KH   \   >'                 MUSIFihO     )                                           -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Region 10ondarnes
L4    K   1                                        IAJ IAI                                                si uaKox                                             'T *_ International batundaries
,                    st          z     R U K ,) 8F      b>_>- pU             r          \
~~~~~~X \_t D    AgSLA                          4    _>MYAOr 14    ES- -T  E             g
>   9!   r  , ,_.,~~~~   i  OtA      h,,      >  e                    A   IN    D   A ',K /t- I
\ l R ~~~~~~~A    . sPr                         v                eGuG9¢ A S X 1   LA M)JUNC  i  ,i A
DANOPEUK~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ .                                     )   NS -   'YNGA  G  hfj IA       r})^GtroPU             (
AKHANCH~~~X,ro                                                      ,  sAr6         
!t  ,v lPadbs ard s ria rv rv rlr/ ub r,r rrw vAve EW* m o lM   8                                                                           DOLAK.                                                    _
n   rffi  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                              1 A  r :rr rrh rnhu rr n r  ro. a
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PILR.Ar S T                                                             rerU AM                            l   rf               ord 11 Kwa rr °I 40i r
d1'                                      "^                                                   re                                                  Prr   2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKUW5S
_  .  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                               A                                                A_  e,JN  , ._



