Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14049
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1696-NEP)
MARCH 13, 1995
Country Operations,
Industry and Finance
Country Iepartment II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year (FY86):    SDR 1 =  US$ 1.16
US$ 1 =  Rs. 20.8
Rs. 1  =  US$ 0.05
Completion Year (FY92):   SDR 1 =  US$ 1.40
US$ 1 =  Rs. 43.5
Rs. 1  =  US$ 0.02
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB/N  -   Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
CIDB    -   Cottage Industry Development Board
CIHE    -   Cottage Industry Handicrafts Emporium
CGC      -   Credit Guarantee Corporation
CGS      -   Credit Guarantee Scheme
CSI     -   Cottage and Small Industries
CSIDC   -   Cottage and Small Industry Development Center
ESC     -   Export Services Center
HMG    -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
JVB     -   Joint Venture Bank
MOI    -   Ministry of Industry
NBL     -   Nepal Bank Limited
NMTC   -   Nepal Metal Trading Company
NRB     -   Nepal Rastra Bank
NWTC   -   Nepal Wool Trading Company
PCC      -   Project Coordination Committee
PCIs    -   Participating Credit Institutions
PCR      -   Project Completion Report
PCU     -   Project Coordination Unit
PDC      -   Product Development Center
PON     -   Products of Nepal office in New York
RBB     -   Rastriya Banijya Bank
SACs   -   Structural Adjustment Credits
TPC      -   Trade Promotion Center
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Programme
WCDB   -   Wool and Carpet Development Board
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 13, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nepal - Second Cottage
and Small Industries Project (Credit 1696-NEP)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Nepal - Second Cottage and Small Industries
Project (Credit 1696-NEP), prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II contributed
by the Borrower.
This SDR 8.7 million credit was approved in May 1986. Following a major restructuring in
September 1991, project activities were halted in June 1992. The credit was finally closed in March
1994, with only about hall of the original amount disbursed.
On the heels of a perceived highly successful first operation, the project was launched to
continue promoting cottage and small industries (CSIs) by facilitating their access to unsecured long-
term credit; by strengthening public and private agencies; and by improving policies and procedures.
A large technical assistance and training component (TTA) was included, financed in roughly equal
parts by the credit and by UNDP.
Unfortunately, the firsl CSI credit had not been an unqualified success. It had weaknesses
which were magnified in the second, including complex and ambitious components, beyond the
capabilities of local institutions. In the Borrower's words, the greatest drawback of the second
project was that IDA "designed it in Washington and tried to implement it in Nepalese environment
with almost no flexibility in its policy."
Implementation of the credit was delayed by cofinancing difficulties with UNDP, by the
project's complexity and by mounting deraults on the subloans. The credit restructuring was not
successful, and by closing, an undisbursed balance of SDR 4.2 million was cancelled. But some of
the objectives were partially achieved. Almost 20,000 jobs were created; over one-third of the
artisans traincd wcnt on to start thcir own businesses; and CSI exports expanded, assisted by the
TTA program. Dcspite these achievemcnts. CSIs have not gained access to unsecured credit. None
of the implementing agencies crcaLed undcr the project remain alive, the recommendations of TTA
studies were not implemented, and sectoral policies were not improved. For these reasons, the
project oulcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory, and its institutional development impact as
negligibic. Sustainahility of the meager benefits of the project is considered unlikely.
The quality of the PCR is very good. The Borrower's contribution is particularly frank and
perceptive. No audiL is planned.
Attachment
This document has a resiricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of their ofticial duties, Its contents
miiay not otherwise hc disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1696-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                           PaEe No.
Preface ..................................................                                                       i
Evaluation Summary   ........................................                                                    ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE   ....                                          ........           1
1.  Project Identity    ....................................                                           1
2.  Project Background   ..................................                                            1
3.  Project Objectives and Description    ........................                                     2
4.  Project Design and Organization  ..........................                                        4
5.  Implementation    ....................................                                             5
6.  Project Results    ....................................                                           10
7.  Project Sustainability and Impact   .........................                                     10
8.  IDA  Performance   ...................................                                            11
9.  Borrower Performance  ................................                                            12
10.  Project Relationships  .................................                                         12
11.  Consultant Services   .................................                                          12
12. Project Documentation and Data    .........................                                       12
13. Lessons from  the Project  ..............................                                         13
PART 1I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . .    15
1.  Overview   ........................................                                               15
2.  Project Design   ....................................                                             15
3.  Lending Operations  ..................................                                            16
4.  Achievements ......................................                                               16
5.  Prime Cause of Failure  ................................                                          16
6.   IDA  Performance   ...................................                                           17
7.  Borrower Performance  ................................                                            18
8.  Relationship Between IDA  and HMG   .......................                                       18
9.   UNDP Performance  ..................................                                             18
10.  Services of Credit Advisor   .............................                                       19
PART  III:  STATISTICAL  SUMMARY    ...........................                                                20
1.  Related IDA  Credits   .................................                                         20
2.  Project Timetable   ...................................                                           21
3.  Cumulative Credit Disbursements   .........................                                       21
4. Project Costs and Financing .23
5. Project Results.24
6. Status of Covenants.26
7. Use of IDA Resources .29
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEX I:
Table 1. Credit Performance of PCIs   .........................                                 30
Table 2. Subsectoral Distribution of Subloans  ....................                             30
Table 3. Geographic Distribution of Subloans  ....................                              31
Table 4. Composition of Overseas Exports   .....................                                32
Table 5. Growth Trends in Key CSI Exports   ....................                                33
ANNEX  I: List of Consultants Provided under CSI-Il  ...................                                34
ANNEX  III: Comments from  the Cofinancier (UNDP/Nepal)   ...............                                35



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1696-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Cottage and Small Industries
Project in Nepal. for which Credit 1696-NEP in the amount of US$10.0 million (SDR 8.7 million) was
approved on May 13. 1986. The project activities were halted on June 30, 1992, three years prior to
the official closing date of June 30, 1995. The credit account was closed on March 29, 1994, with total
disbursements of US$6.0 million (SDR 4.5 million), The amount of SDR 4.2 million (49% of the
original credit amount) was cancelled and the last disbuL-sement was made on August 19, 1993.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
of the (then) Country Department I of South Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and 111), and the Borrower (Part 11).
Preparation of this PCR was based on IDA's project completion mission for the project
in February 1994 and information from the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project
Agreements. supervision reports. correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA
correspondence. UNDP Project Terminal Report, documentation provided by the implementing
agencies, field visits to selected project sites and discussions with project, UNDP and IDA staff
associated with project implementation.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1696-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
i.           As a follow-up operation to the first Cottage and Small Industries Project (CSI-I, Cr.
1 191-NEP), the basic objective of the project was to continue to support the Government's objectives
of developing efficient private sector cottage and small industries (CSIs), enhancing exports of CSI
products and increasing employment in these industries. To this end, the more specific project
objectives were to: (a) finance sub-projects in cottage and small industries through the financial system;
(b) strengthen the term-lending capabilities of participating credit institutions (PCIs) and upgrade overall
operations of two commercial banks; (c) strengthen public and private sector agencies providing
marketing, raw material supply and training services to CSls; and (d) support improvements in industrial
and export policy and procedures to foster efficient industrial investment. Under the project, the
geographic coverage was increased to 27 districts from 9 under CSI-I.
Implementation Experience
ii.          Although the initial processing of the project proceeded satisfactorily, effectiveness was
considerably delayed because of a change in IDA's policy on executing UNDP funded cofinancing. As
a consequence, UNDP had to renegotiate cofinancing and implementation arrangements with His
Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG). This delayed credit effectiveness by almost 14 months and
slowed the early impetus that had been built up during processing (para 5.1).
iii.         After effectiveness, implementation proceeded slowly. The project was very complex
and over-optimistic in its scope and its design did not give enough attention to the country's limited
trained manpower. Soon after the project was launched, earlier loans made under CSI-I became due
for repayment and sub-borrowers began to default on payments at a rapid rate. Alarmed by the poor
collection performance, IDA tightened the recovery requirements which, in turn, caused two out of three
PCIs (and many of their branches) to become ineligible to make new subloans under CSI-1I. The poor
recovery level led the PCIs to revert to traditional collateral-based lending to avoid making further bad
loans which they believed were caused by the new project-based lending approach of the CSIs. As a
result, few new subloans were sanctioned and disbursement of the credit component was extremely
slow. IDA's rigid stance on not lowering recovery rate requirements was not well received by
HMG/NRB which wanted to increase the pace of lending. The technical assistance component also
suffered from the various project design and coordination problems and only two (export development
and extension and training) of the five TA components were implemented with reasonable success
(paras. 5.2, 5.6).
iv.          In an attempt to improve project implementation, HMG agreed to restructure both the
credit and the technical assistance components in 1991. The main features of the restructuring were:
(a) to allow the private (foreign) joint venture banks (JVBs) to participate in the credit component;



- iii -
(b) to remove the bankwide loan recovery requirement but keep the branchwise qualifying criteria only
to permit better performing individual branches to resume lending; and (c) to allow the PCIs to charge
market interest rates. On the TA side, to avoid problems associated with joint-financing of TA
components, it was agreed that UNDP would exclusively finance and execute the Cottage Industry and
Development Board (CIDB) entrepreneurial promotion and training components, while IDA concentrated
on assisting the Export Services Center (ESC). However, the restructuring was not successful as none
of the JVBs ultimately participated in the project despite their earlier interest and, therefore,
disbursements failed to pickup. Additionally, HMG failed to decide on the future role and status of
CIDB and ESC as envisaged at the time of restructuring. Against this background, it was agreed that
the project activities should be halted as of June 30, 1992, some three years prior to the official closing
date (paras. 5.13-14). The credit account, which had been kept open to complete disbursement of
approved commitments under the subloan component and to recover the credit balance in the special
account, was closed on March 29, 1994. The last disbursement was made on August 19, 1993, and
the recovery of the balance in the special account took place on March 29, 1994. Of the SDR 8.7
million original credit amount, SDR 4.5 million (or 51 %) was actually disbursed and about SDR 4.2
million (49%) was cancelled.
Project Results
v.           Achievement of project objectives has been mixed. Only 44% of expected number of
subloans were approved and only 49% of the line of credit was utilized. The recovery rate of about
63 % ' was significantly below the targeted level of 95% or more. Additionally, the project failed to
achieve its objectives of establishing sustainable financial intermediaries for lending to CSIs. Of the TA
components, the upgrading of two commercial banks' operations were unsuccessful, two components
were never implemented (upgrading of Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium and supporting HMG's
industrial and trade policy improvements); only the expansion of export promotion operations and
strengthening extension services were implemented with reasonable success. While this gives a clear
picture of a failed project, the CSI sector, as a whole, continued to expand in line with the quantitative
targets anticipated at appraisal and some of its growth could be attributed to the project as indicated
below.
vi.          According to the data provided on approved subloans, the subprojects were expected to
generate about 19,347 new employment. This, combined with about 500 jobs created as a result of
CIDB's entrepreneurial development program, nearly fulfilled the appraisal target. In addition, the
project provided skills and entrepreneurship development training to about 3,000 artisans and
entrepreneurs (fully meeting the quantitative target). According to CIDB's monitoring data of FY89-90
trainees, about 36% of CIDB-trained artisans started business and another 12% were employed as a
result of the training. Through the export development TA component, the project played an important
supporting role in the significant growth of CSI exports. CSI exports over the project period grew an
average 33% per annum in US dollar terms (or 55% per annum in Rs. against 50% aimed at appraisal)
and accounted for about 86% of Nepal's total exports (Part III: 5. Project Results and Annex I: Tables
4 and 5). These achievements suggest that the project did help promote Nepal's major exports and
increase employment. However, since the existing data base is poor, it cannot be clearly determined
how much of these achievements, especially the export growth-related, were the direct result of the
project. It is also difficult to assess the quality and the sustainability of businesses and employment
I  Provided by NRB Refinance Unit.



- iv -
created and the training provided. Nevertheless, the fact that about 63% of the CSI units established
under the project are currently repaying the loan indicates that they are commercially successful and
contributing to increasing output and employment. Also, as the majority of CSI exporters (especially
carpets) have benefitted from the project -- less from the line of credit but mostly from the technical
assistance component which succeeded in upgrading the quality of Nepalese carpets to international
standards -- some credit is clearly due to the project for the recent rapid growth of CSI exports.
Sustainability and Impact
vii.         Prospects for project sustainability are poor. Because of the poor recovery rates and the
high cost of project-based lending, the credit component is not sustainable. The aim to provide CSIs
with easier access to loans through introduction of project-based lending was not successful as all PCIs
basically reverted to collateral-based lending.  The positive impact of technical assistance for
institutional development was negligible and none of the implementing agencies created under the
project, including the CSI units established in PCIs and in NRB, outlived the project closing date. Also,
recommendations of studies financed by the project were often not implemented, nor did they result in
improved sectoral policies.
viii.        However, taking the loan recovery rate as a proxy, the majority of the CSIs established
under the project appear to be operating successfully and continuing to contribute to increasing output
and employment. As an innovation, the project introduced the concept of project-based lending to Nepal
and since the closure of the project the PCIs have begun to experiment with modified non-collateral
lending. In addition, before the ESC was dissolved, it helped create the Wool and Carpet Development
Board (WCDB) to continue the technical consultancy and research functions for carpet and wool quality
improvement. WCDB, headed by a senior ex-ESC official who received overseas training under the
project, is actively seeking to improve and maintain Nepal's carpet quality and export market share
(para.5 .7).
Lessons Learned
ix.          The most important lessons learned from this project are that:
(a)    successor projects should not be launched before proper assessment of on-going similar
projects. Most of the problems encountered with CSI-II were those already discernable
under the first project. If this project had been launched after a proper assessment of
the performance of the first project, many of the design flaws could have been
minimized (para. 4.1).
(b)   the design of investment credits for CSI, especially in countries like Nepal with
underdeveloped financial and industrial sectors and limited implementation capacity,
should be kept simple with clear and focussed objectives. Components should be well-
linked and supportive of each other and the implementation of the project should not
involve an excessive number of institutions. At appraisal, IDA must assess more
carefully the institutional capacity of the Borrower to implement complex projects.
Components to be included in the project should be selected in view of their importance
to achieve project objectives and not to solve all sector problems. Similarly, successor
projects should not be expanded too rapidly based on insufficient evaluation of the pilot
project results. Expanding CSI-II, from 9 under the pilot project to 27 districts, was



- v -
overly ambitious and beyond the implementation capacity of the agencies concerned
(para 4.1).
(c)    creating new agencies to bypass existing inefficient units often causes duplication and
overlapping of activities. Since these entities are created for the project, they often
cease to exist as soon as project ends and funding stops. Due to uncertainties about their
future resulting from their temporary status, these entities often have difficulty recruiting
and retaining qualified staff and their performance is adversely affected. Furthermore,
the impact of training provided to staff of these entities under the project was limited
because all of the agencies created under it were disbanded or subsumed by different
units in the relevant Ministries or PCIs before or after project closing. Similarly, rather
than creating a separate credit guarantee scheme for the project, the proposed scheme
should have been administered by the already existing Credit Guarantee Corporation
(CGC) after strengthening it. In all these cases institutional strengthening would have
been the byproduct (paras. 5.4, 5.12, 7.1).
(d)   innovative concepts like "project-based lending", should be introduced in a project only
after ensuring that the essential ingredients required for successful implementation (sound
appraisal, monitoring and supervision capacities and effective legal system for debt
enforcement) are in place.  Thus, strengthening the appraisal, monitoring and
supervision skills and procedures of the PCIs should have been the pre-requisites for
such an initiative (para. 5.3).
(e)   the risks of CSI lending in a poor credit environment could have been minimized
through an effective management information system in the PCIs which could track and
monitor each sub-loan on a regular basis and respond to problems as they emerged
(para. 5.10).
(f)    key actions should have clear completion schedules and their compliance within the
deadline should be strictly monitored (para. 5.9).
(g)    Relying on studies alone in a small project such as CSI-II was not an effective way to
encourage policy reform. Important policy reforms should be proposed as part of a
structural or sectoral adjustment project (para. 5.8).



NEPAL
SECOND COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1696-NEP)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name              Second Cottage and Small Industries Project
Credit No.        Cr. 1696-NEP
RVP Unit          South Asia Region
Country           Nepal
Sector            Industry
2. Project Background
2.1          With an average per capita income of only US$170 (1992), Nepal is one of the poorest
countries in the world. Reflecting the fact that about 90% of Nepal's people live in rural areas, Nepal's
economy is based primarily on traditional rainfed agriculture, which accounts for about 56% of GDP
and 80% of employment. Agricultural productivity, however, has been stagnant resulting from rapid
environmental degradation caused by inappropriate policies and strategies, and population pressure
combined with excessive grazing and deforestation. Real GDP growth over the past three decades has
been virtually offset by population growth (2.1 % in 1992) over this period. In a normal rainfall year,
Nepal produces barely enough foodgrains to feed its population. While agricultural growth is important
to improve the population's low income levels, it alone will not be sufficient to improve Nepal's
prospects for increasing employment and income and improving the balance of trade. Increases in
industrial production and exports are needed to supplement agricultural income.
2.2          Nepal's industrial sector is small (16%  of GDP in 1992) and underdeveloped, with
limited prospects for import substitution or exports of most modern industrial products. Industrial
development is constrained by Nepal's limited natural resource base, small domestic demand, lack of
skilled labor, landlocked position, and poor transport systems. Because of these constraints, Nepal
needs to adopt a selective approach to industrial development. Promotion of cottage and small'industries
(CSIs) is a key part of Nepal's approach for industrial development because CSIs I constitute about
90% of industrial establishments in Nepal, and provide about 95 % of industrial employment and about
90% of public revenues from industry. About 87% of Nepal's manufacturing value-added in the private
sector is concentrated in cottage and small industries and they are the major source of export earnings
(83% of total exports in 1991/92).
2.3          In view of the above, CSI development has been a priority of the Government's industrial
development program under the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Five-Year Plans. The strategy to supplement
I  Cottage industries are defined in the Industrial Enterprises Act (October 1982) as those with fixed investment,
including land and buildings, of up to Rs. 800,000 in urban areas and Rs. 500,000 in rural areas. Small industries are
defined in the Industrial Enterprises Act, 1992, as those with fixed investment not exceeding Rs. 10 million (increased
from Rs. 2 million previously).



- 2 -
also been an important element of IDA's industrial strategy for Nepal. In 1978, when HMG requested
assistance from IDA to prepare a CSI project, IDA provided funds from the Technical Assistance Credit
(Cr. 659-NEP) for an in-depth study of the CSI sector and project preparation in five product groups
(carpets, cotton handloom products, metal utensils and curios, wood, bamboo and reed products, and
certain agro-industries). The results of this assistance provided the basis for IDA's first Cottage and
Small Industries Project (CSI-I; Cr. 1191-NEP).
2.4           CSI-I for US$6.5 million covering nine pilot districts was approved in November 1981
and closed on December 31, 1986. The project was designed to help achieve the Government's
objectives of increasing incomes and generating employment and foreign exchange through expanded
production and export of CSI products by: (a) building programs and capacities of key commercial,
public and banking institutions to provide effective services to viable CSIs; (b) implementing innovative,
product-specific extension services in two zones (Bagmati and Gandaki), which could be replicated in
other areas; and (c) providing improved, simplified incentives to encourage efficient production and
expanded sales of CSI products. A major objective was to tap marketing knowhow and organizing skills
of private exporters and other commercial traders to provide training and commercial services to cottage
industries.
2.5          CSI-I, which achieved most of its quantitative targets for the lending component and
nearly full disbursement, was initially considered a success. In fact, its disbursement rate was the best
of all IDA projects in Nepal at the time. According to its PCR, CSI-I had succeeded in developing the
Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) as an apex institution to administer project-based lending and in inducing all
three PCIs to promote, appraise and supervise CSI subprojects and in setting "a solid framework" for
successive projects. However, in retrospect it is now apparent that this assessment was premature.
While NRB did play an active role in administering the project based lending and enhancing the project
appraisal capabilities of the PCIs during the implementation of CSI-1, it reduced this operational role
in the CSI-II; at the time of CSI-I1 appraisal, it was prematurely believed that the PCIs had developed
the necessary capacity to carry on much of the project appraisal and loan sanctioning on their own. The
speed of CSI-I's commitments and disbursements was misconstrued as indications that there was ample
demand for CSI lending and that the implementing institutions had acquired adequate skills and
experience. In fact, as is now evident, the first project disbursed quickly simply because PCIs were
not concerned with the repayment of subloans (most subloans were not due for repayment before that
project closed) and processed loans without proper screening and appraisal, under pressure to disburse
the project funds as quickly as possible. It is also now clear that many CSI-I achievements claimed in
the PCR, including "the solid framework for successor projects," were too optimistic an assessment and
did not exist when CSI-II, which was designed based on this optimistic assessment, was launched in a
greater scale and scope.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1          Proiect Objectives: As a follow-on operation to CSI-1, the project's basic objective was,
as in CSI-I, to support HMG's objectives of developing efficient cottage and small industries, enhancing
exports of CSI products and increasing employment in these industries. The project proposed to expand
the scope and scale of CSI operations from nine district to 27 and strengthening public and private
managerial, technical, marketing and other services to CSIs through provision of staff, training,
equipment, vehicles, facilities and advisory services.



- 3 -
3.2         Project Description: The principal components and costs of the project were:
(i)   subloans to eligible cottage and small industries, market agents, and raw material supply
companies (US$7.6 million, IDA);
(ii)   a program to strengthen the term-lending capability of the participating commercial
institutions (PCIs), upgrading overall operations of the two commercial banks, local and
foreign training for CSI officers of the PCIs, and strengthening the Bankers Training
Institute (BTI) and NRB/CSI Unit (US$0.6 million, UNDP);
(iii)  an export development program, in which the Export Service Center (ESC) and a
Products of Nepal (PON) office in New York would carry out market and product
development, including improvements in design, production techniques, cost reduction
and quality control; and strengthening the manufacturer/exporter associations to improve
information flows and communication between industry and HMG (US$0.7 million IDA
and US$0.8 million UNDP);
(iv)   a program to support HMG in formulating and implementing improved industrial and
export policies (US$0.1 million, UNDP);
(v)   extension services for skills training and entrepreneurial development, including a Raw
Material Procurement Fund and technical services to facilitate raw material supply and
marketing of rural artisans' products (US$1.2 million IDA and US$0.36 million UNDP);
and
(vi)   a program to provide management support and monitor and evaluate project components
(a Chief Technical Advisor financed by IDA, US$0.3 million).
3.3          Total project costs, phased over seven years, were estimated at US$17.3 million and an
IDA credit of SDR 8.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent at the time of appraisal) was approved to
fund 58% of costs, while UNDP, HMG, PCIs and CSIs were to contribute respectively 10.4%, 6%,
11.6% and 14%. Under the lending component, the same three PCIs as in the first CSI project -- two
local commercial banks, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB), and the
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADB/N) -- were responsible for channeling the subloan
component of about US$7.6 million as term loans to CSIs, related market agents, and input supply
companies. The PCIs could apply to the NRB (the central bank), for refinancing up to 80% of the
eligible sub-loans from the project funds. The refinanced subloans of the PCIs were eligible for
guarantees, under the CSI Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS), up to 75 % of the principal amount (para.
5.4). PCIs bore the credit risks associated with the sub-loans, while the foreign exchange risk was
borne by HMG.
3.4         The technical and export development component was financed through US$ 2.4 million
of IDA funding and a US$ 1.8 million (later increased to approximately US$ 2.0 million) UNDP grant
on a parallel basis. It was implemented by the Ministries of Industry and Commerce and NRB and
included: (a) upgrading of two commercial banks' overall operations to enable them to expand term-
lending operations; (b) expansion of operations of ESC in Kathmandu and the Products of Nepal (PON)
office in New  York; (c) strengthening of CIDB's extension services, skills training, and
entrepreneurship development; (d) upgrading of the Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium (CIHE)



operations; and (e) support for HMG's industrial and trade policy improvements by providing technical
assistance to implement duty-free access to imported inputs for export production and to improve import
and export administration and raw material supply.
4. Project Design and Organiza&on
4.1          The project was prepared by a committee of representative from key implementing
agencies with assistance from UNDP-financed consultants and IDA. Recognizing that credit alone was
not enough to promote CSIs and exports, the designers of the project tried to deliver an integrated
package of services (easier access to credit, training for small entrepreneurs, improvement of raw
material supplies, easier marketing and export promotion, technical assistance for strengthening relevant
lending and implementing agencies, and assistance for the introduction of appropriate sectoral policy
changes).  While this approach to address the sector's problems through a comprehensive and
coordinated package of services was conceptually sound, it presented a challenging tasks of
implementation. This showed that:
(a)   the project contained too many components, involved too many agencies and was too
complicated to coordinate and monitor. The project involved three line ministries
(Finance, Industry and Commerce), seven independent agencies (NRB, three PCIs, ESC,
CIDB and CIHE) and two trading companies (NWTC and NMTC), each with different
objectives and policies. Combining them all in one project made the project complicated
and unmanageable. Coordination and monitoring was further complicated because of
cofinancing, which introduced its own set of problems;
(b)   the project was launched, and substantially enlarged in scope and complexity, before the
final results of the pilot project were in; implementation weaknesses and poor credit
recovery which began to surface towards the end of the first project were not adequately
addressed in the design of the second project. The overly ambitious expansion severely
overstretched the Borrower's implementing capacity, leading to the inevitable failure of
the project (paras. 5.5, 5.9); and
(c)   the project objectives were defined too broadly and the activities under each component
were not well coordinated to support each other to achieve the common objectives.
Rather, each component was serving different beneficiaries and achieving different
objectives as in separate projects (para. 5.9).   For instance, the skills and
entrepreneurship development training was not linked to CSI credit, and training was
given to anyone on an open basis. As there was no assurance for easier loan approvals
after the successful acquisition of skills for business, only the small number (less than
14%) of trainees with collateral were able to secure CSI loans for their business start-up.
The training could have been more effective and conducive to promoting cottage and
small industries if it were provided selectively to people with. genuine interest and
potential for business. By linking it formally with the CSI subloan process and allowing
trainees an easier access to CSI loans for the seed money required for starting a business
after successful completion of the training, the project objectives could have been better
met. This would also have helped the PCIs in identifying good loans, discouraged
willful defaulters from accessing these loans and supported eager CSI entrepreneurs with
better potential for success thereby resulting in better recovery rates. Direct linkage to
business and employment would have enabled the training component to be more



effective in achieving the project objective of developing efficient industries and
increasing employment.
5. Implementation
Project Start-up
5.1          The Credit became effective on July 31, 1987, fourteen months after Board approval.
The delay was mainly in processing the UNDP project document for technical assistance components
which were to be financed by UNDP. The UNDP related effectiveness conditions were delayed
because, after the project was appraised and the design agreed by HMG, IDA and UNDP, IDA's policy
regarding its execution role on cofinanced projects changed and IDA decided not to execute the UNDP-
financed portions of the project. This required a reappraisal of the UNDP component and the
introduction of significant time consuming changes to the original project design and financing.
Implementation of the Credit Component
5.2          Under the credit component, only 2,058 subloans (or 44%) of the appraisal target of
4,720 were sanctioned and SDR 3.2 million (or 49%) of the total line of credit were disbursed. The
major performance problem under the credit component was the poor recovery rate (Annex 1: Table 1)
which was below the SAR targets. Originally, the qualifying criteria for lending for PCIs was that each
bank should achieve an aggregate recovery rate of at least 60% and each participating branch should
collect at least 70% of amounts due. These rates were subsequently increased to 70% bankwide and
79% branchwise by the time project restructuring (para 5.13) was being discussed. Unable to meet the
aggregate bankwide target, two of the three PCIs (and their high performing branches), became
ineligible to participate. To avoid penalizing good performing branches and their clients, IDA agreed
to waive the bankwide recovery requirement as part of the project restructuring attempt in July 1990.
However, performance continued to deteriorate and by June 1992, over 57% of the PCI branches were
below the qualifying criteria and remained ineligible to sanction new loans under the line of credit.
IDA's rigid stance on not lowering the recovery rate requirements was not well received by the
HMG/NRB which wanted to increase the pace of lending.
5.3          Some of the reasons for the poor performance of the credit component include: (a) PCIs'
lack of skills and experience crucial to project-based lending (sound appraisal, monitoring and
supervision capacities); (b) general lack of financial discipline and high incidence of willful defaults of
the subloans sanctioned under CSI-I partly due to widespread perception earlier among some of the sub-
borrowers that the CSI loans were really a grant and partly due to wrong identification of clients and
subprojects; (c) extension of the project from 9 to 27 districts including remote hill districts with low
industrial base; and (d) to some extent, the adverse business environment resulting from the trade and
transit impasse with India, followed by Nepal's political instability and change of government.
5.4          The poor repayment performance of subloans led the PCIs to abandon the concept of
project-based lending and to revert to traditional collateral-based lending. The failure of the CSI Credit
Guarantee Scheme (CGS) may have also played a part in the demise of the innovative but riskier
project-based lending (para. 2.5). When CSI-I was launched, a new Credit Guarantee Scheme
specifically for the CSI refinancing program was established, despite the existence of the Credit
Guarantee Corporation (Private) Limited (CGC) which automatically guaranteed all priority sector
(including CSI sector) loans. At the time, because CGC was not effective due to a severe shortage of



- 6 -
funds, it was thought crucial to create a better performing guarantee scheme to give confidence to the
PCIs in lending on the merit of a project instead of collateral. The CGS, which was primarily funded
by a 1 % premium on refinanced loans, was still not adequately capitalized and was not effective. Under
CSI-II, the premium was thus increased to 3% and the Government took responsibility for maintaining
an adequate level of funds in the Scheme. However, the Scheme failed to work under CSI-II also due
to the Government failure to maintain the required level of funding. Of an estimated total guaranteed
subloans of about Rs. 152 million under CSI-I, PCIs registered claims of Rs. 32 million, against which
the Scheme paid out only Rs. 10 million (31 % of claims) due partly to lack of funds and partly to PCIs'
failure to submit required documents. The performance of CGS under the CSI-II was even less
satisfactory. As of project closing, no claims had been paid.
5.5          The geographical and subsectoral distribution of subloans are shown in Annex I: Tables
2 and 3. Reflecting the rapid growth of the carpet sector during the project period, the highest number
of CSI units apd amount financed were in the wool subsector (33% and 43%, respectively). Also,
approximately 58% (compared to 40% in CSI-I) of lending has been for export-oriented industries, such
as wool and metal products) and 42% (vs. 60% in CSI-I) for import-substitution activities, including
handloom and agro-based enterprises. The average amount of subloans was Rs. 76,356 (about
US$1,561) and the average amount sanctioned per worker was Rs. 8,122 (US$166). About 73% of the
total amount sanctioned went to the two zones originally included in the pilot project (Bagmati and
Gandaki), while only 27% went to the new five zones added under this project. The main reason for
the marked imbalance in the zonal distribution of subloans sanctioned was due to the presence of the
better prospects and potentiality in the two zones originally included in the pilot project. The low
volume of lending in the new areas and the indications of low repayment rates would suggest that the
expansion strategy may have led to additional losses to the PCIs. Data on the current status of CSI units
established under the project was unavailable because there were no subloan monitoring system at the
PCIs (para. 5.10).
Implementation of TA Components
5.6         Implementation of the technical assistance component was also problematic and of the
five TA components included in the project, only two (export development and extension and training)
were implemented with reasonable success; while implementation of the component to upgrade the
overall operation of two commercial banks was very limited. Of the two remaining, CIHE component
was never implemented because the CIHE later decided not to participate in the project and the
component relating to industrial and export policy improvement was superseded by initiatives introduced
under IDA's First and Second Structural Adjustment Credits (SACs in FY87 and FY89).
5.7          The export development component, which may be considered the most successful part
of the project, was implemented by ESC. Focusing on products with proven export potential (carpets,
readymade garments and knitwear), ESC provided valuable marketing and technical consultancy services
to exporter/manufacturers of CSI products and conducted a variety of training programs to improve
product quality. A particularly noteworthy contribution by ESC was by its wool laboratory, which
succeeded in developing color-and light-fast vegetable dyes and formulas for over 300 color matchings
to enable both carpet and garment manufacturers to improve the quality of Nepalese products. ESC
succeeded in obtaining the International Wool Secretariat authorization to act as an approved test house
for "woolmark" certification of Nepalese carpets and recommended HMG to initiate the voluntary
certification scheme; however, no action was taken by HMG.  ESC also published rosters of
exporters/manufacturers of CSI products for potential foreign buyers and provided technical advisory



services and training in wool scouring, color matching, dyeing and color and design forecasting
services. Seven ESC officials received overseas training to increase their in-country training capabilities
and they in turn provided a variety of training to about 240 persons. ESC's efforts for exploring US
market through the PON office in New York, however, were not cost-effective. PON was later handed
over to a private enterprise, which also failed to make a profit and eventually closed it down. ESC was
dissolved when the project activities were terminated in June 1992 and part of its export promotion
functions have since been subsumed by the Trade Promotion Center, while the Wool and Carpet
Development Board (WCDB), established with the help of ESC, took over the technical and research
functions.
5.8          To help facilitate the project to achieve its export development objectives, technical
assistance was provided to HMG. for formulating and implementing improved industrial and export
policies.  A study was carried out on specific policy and procedural issues affecting the export
performance of CSI products (including the allocation of US garment quotas, overcoming of problems
of carpet wool shortages, import licensing for dyes and chemicals and other inputs). Relying on studies
alone in a small project was not an effective way to encourage policy reform, however. While the
general findings of this report were well received, no direct action was taken by HMG on the
recommendations before project closing. Although it is possible that the studies may have contributed
somewhat, important measures to change the structure of trade incentives to promote exports and
efficient import substitution were, however, introduced under the two SACs, e.g. liberalization of
Nepal's trade and industrial licensing system, removal of quantitative restrictions, rationalization of the
tariff structure on third country imports, and increase in export incentives. The elimination of import
duties on raw wool in FY90 has played a critical role in the increase of carpet exports and the duty
drawback system introduced under SAC has contributed to a similar growth in garment exports.
5.9          CIDB implemented the extension services and skills training component which included
provision of extension services (technical skills training and entrepreneurship development), management
of 13 product development centers (PDCs), local marketing support and provision of access to raw
materials and equipment to rural area and implementation of the handmade paper production component.
Implementation of this component was limited and not as successful as the export development
component because CIDB was asked to carry out too many activities in too many areas (27 districts)
without the commensurate increase in the manpower or financial support to implement the activities
effectively. Partly due to poor communication between the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and its
supporting consultants and UNDP and partly due to lack of action planning and a clear timetable for
completion, many key actions (e.g., training of trainers, preparation of training manuals, recruitment
of product development experts, overseas supervisory management training) were completed so late in
the project cycle that achievements under this component were modest and ineffective. The project
provided overseas training for 10 middle level managers and five field staff (out of total 20 targeted),
in-country training for 42 EDP and industrial extension trainers (vs. 112 targeted), and product specific
training (bamboo product, fabric design, textile dyeing) for another 78 technicians. Although CIDB
succeeded in achieving the quantitative targets for training some 3,000 artisans and entrepreneurs, it was
unable to provide comprehensive and sustained services to CSI units due to lack of qualified technical
staff and delays in many essential activities. The aim to upgrade the levels of training in CSI-II, rather
than continuing on basic training given under CSI-I to a large number of people, was not achieved
mainly because the substantive training for the trainers never materialized. Middle-level managerial and
technical capabilities of CIDB improved in a limited way. Also, due to lack of coordination, CIDB's
activities sometimes overlapped and duplicated with the Department of Village and Cottage Industries,
further worsening its already limited resource situation. The combined UNDP and IDA financing of



- 8 -
the TA components and subcontracting arrangement for project implementation through an international
management team, created further complication of coordination and resulted in the loss of the sense of
accountability and leadership. CIDB was disbanded when UNDP funding ran out in 1990 and its
functions have since been absorbed by the Cottage and Small Industry Development Center (CSIDC)
and the Department of Cottage Industries of MOI.
5.10         Technical assistance in the area of institutional and financial capacity building within the
government agencies and the financial institutions providing services to the CSI sector was not
implemented effectively. Critical TA aimed at upgrading "all aspects" of the banking operations of
NBL and RBB and computerizing their loan monitoring system for "all loan data" could not be
implemented because of a lack of commitment on the part of the PCIs. Eventually this component was
dropped and a new IDA/UNDP initiative, the Commercial Bank Problem Analysis and Strategy Study
(CBPASS), was developed. However, changes made in the two banks were largely cosmetic due to the
relatively low priority accorded by the Government to the banking sector problems. This component
was later superseded by the SAC-I1 which included several financial sector reforms. Due to lack of
commitment by the PCIs and NRB/CSI, the information monitoring system to computerize subloan data,
monitor subloan performance and detect problems at an early stage, was not developed and
implemented. Also, to strengthen the institutional capability of MOI and thereby help minimize the
project implementation risks, the project provided a full-time chief technical advisor and supporting
experts to the PCU. However, the PCU did not have over-riding authority to lead and effectively
coordinate the activities of all of the implementing agencies.  The project failed to effectively
institutionalize a coordinating and monitoring role through the Project Coordination Committee and the
PCU in the MOI. Consequently, the PCU was disbanded when the UNDP program ended in July 1990.
5.11         At appraisal, it was identified that the major risk affecting manufacturing projects in rural
areas was the weak raw material supply and market system. To minimize this problem, the project
included: (a) provision of credits to rural-based market agents; (b) improvement of the operations of
CIHE, which was active during CSI-1, in supplying raw material to rural areas and marketing
handicrafts produced by the rural artisans; and (c) expansion of the distribution and marketing assistance
provided through CIDB. None of these were implemented successfully: only an insignificant number
of market agents were identified and very few operated effectively; CIHE did not participate in the
project because it did not wish to expand its operations to remote areas with little prospect for success;
and rural marketing support by the CIDB was abandoned eventually because of the constraints created
by the small volume of activity and the distances covered in the rural areas and because of non-
participation of CIHE, which was to purchase the local production collected by CIDB. Further, HMG
decided against utilization of the raw material procurement fund (US$100,000) which was set aside to
finance the purchase of raw materials by CIDB for sale to rural artisans. As discussed in para. 5.8
above, the major breakthrough on the raw materials for carpets and garments was made as a result of
the elimination of import duties on raw wool and the introduction of the duty drawback system under
the SACs. The raw material supply problems in the rural areas may have diminished somewhat by the
abolition of import licensing requirements.
5.12         Implementation of TA components suffered from a variety of problems including the
complexity of the project design, limited technical resources, lack of permanent funding, lack of
adequate Government support, excessive bureaucratic controls and insufficient involvement of the
private sector. Also, since both ESC and CIDB had been created only for this project, their efficiency
suffered from their temporary status, which made it difficult for these agencies to recruit and retain
qualified staff and make operational decisions without excessive government intervention.



- 9 -
Restructurin2 and Accelerated Closiny
5.13         Recognizing that the project contained many design flaws, IDA attempted to radically
restructure the project to improve project implementation, taking into account lessons learned until then.
This restructuring also provided IDA the opportunity to introduce new Bank policies (e.g. to bring in
the private commercial banks and promote private sector participation, moving away from the earlier
focus which relied exclusively on public sector).  To streamline the project and to speed up
disbursements, it was agreed in September 1991 to restructure both the credit and the technical
assistance components. The main features of the restructuring were to: allow the private foreign JVBs
to participate in the credit component; change the qualifying loan recovery criteria to permit better
performing individual branches to resume lending so as not to penalize them and allow PCIs to charge
market interest rates. Also, to reduce the coordination problems caused by the joint UNDP and IDA
financing of the technical assistance components, it was agreed that UNDP would be exclusively
responsible for funding and executing the entrepreneurial promotion and training entity (CIDB), while
IDA would concentrate on export development (ESC). Also included in the TA restructuring was a
study to explore the possibility for the private sector to pick up the ESC. At the same time, to address
the problems concerning TA, HMG planned a number of institutional reforms affecting CIDB and ESC.
The closing date was extended to June 30, 1995 in connection with the project restructuring in 1991 to
allow more time for the new JVBs to set up CSI lending.
5.14         However, notwithstanding the restructuring, the project completely failed to achieve the
expected results. More than a year after the restructuring was agreed, disbursements had not improved
as none of the JVBs participated in the project; HMG did not carry out the institutional reforms
concerning CIDB and ESC and was still ambivalent about the future of the two agencies which
implemented TA components. The ESC study found no potential for privatization of the agency either.
In the meantime, obviating the need for the CSI project as structured, HMG announced plans to
establish new financial institutions to carry out priority sector lending and to assume the PCIs' role of
term-lending to small borrowers under the project. Under these circumstances, IDA was unwilling to
agree to the amendments to the DCA which would have been required to continue the project (extension
of the deadline for subloan submissions and transfer of funds into the depleted TA categories). HMG
accepted this position and agreed that continuation was unlikely to meet the project objectives. Hence,
despite an undisbursed balance of more than SDR 3.4 million (or 51 % of the total credit amount), IDA
and HMG agreed to halt the project activities as of June 30, 1992.
Procurement
5.15         There were no particular procurement problems identified in the supervision reports.
Disbursement and Project Cost
5.16         The estimated and actual disbursements of the project are given in Tables 3A and 3B in
Part III. Originally, the Credit was expected to be committed in three-and-a-half years and disbursed
in seven years. Disbursements under the line of credit were significantly slower than planned owing
to problems discussed above, which eventually resulted in a cancellation of SDR 4.2 million, or about
49% of project proceeds. In all, SDR 4.5 million (51 % of total project proceeds) were actually
disbursed with the final disbursement on August 19, 1993. The estimated cost of the project at appraisal
was about US$17.3 million. The actual cost was about US$11 million (37% decrease) as shown in
Table 4A in Part III. The lower actual cost was due to slow and incomplete implementation,



- 10 -
depreciation of the Nepalese currency (by over 50%) and termination of the project activities three years
before the official closing date.
6. Project Results
6.1          The attainment of project objectives has been mixed. The credit component, with the
cancellation of more than half the line of credit due to slow commitment and poor recovery
performance, failed to achieve its project objective of establishing sustainable financial intermediaries
for lending to CSIs. Also, only two out of the five TA components were implemented with reasonable
success. However, while this clearly gives a picture of a failed project, the CSI sector, as a whole,
continued to expand in line with the quantitative targets anticipated at appraisal and some of its growth
could be attributed to the project as indicated below.
6.2          According to the data provided on approved subloans, the subprojects were expected to
generate about 19,347 new employment. This, combined with another about 500 employment created
as a result of CIDB's entrepreneurial development program, nearly fulfills the appraisal target. In
addition, the project provided skills and entrepreneurship development training to about 3,000 artisans
and entrepreneurs (fully meeting the quantitative target). According to CIDB's monitoring data of
FY89-90 trainees, about 36% of CIDB-assisted artisans started business (22% through self-financing
and 14% CSI loans) and another 12% were employed as a result of the training. Through the export
development TA component, the project played an important supporting role in the significant growth
of CSI exports. CSI exports over the project period grew an average 33% per annum in US dollar
terms (or 55% per annum in Rs. against 50% aimed at appraisal) and accounted for about 86% of
Nepal's total exports (Part III: 5. Project Results and Annex I: Tables 4 and 5). These achievements
indicate that the project achieved its objectives of promoting Nepal's CSI product exports and enhancing
employment. However, due to lack of adequate data, it cannot be clearly determined how much of
these achievement, especially the export growth-related, were the direct result of the project. It is also
difficult to assess the quality and the sustainability of businesses and employments created and the
training provided. Nevertheless, the fact that some 63% of the CSI units established under the project
are currently repaying the loan indicates that they are commercially successful and contributing to
increasing output and employment. Also, as the majority of CSI exporters (especially carpet, which
showed the strongest growth) have benefitted from the project -- not so much from the line of credit
as from the technical assistance component which succeeded in upgrading the quality of Nepalese carpets
to international standards -- some credit is clearly due to the project for the recent rapid growth of CSI
exports.
6.3          While the project was unable to induce PCIs to adopt the project-based lending approach
during implementation, the two CSI projects introduced the new lending concept to Nepal and provided
the necessary trial and exposure for better results in the future. It also made the banks aware of the
importance of recovery rates and proper appraisal and supervision of subloans and improved, although
in a limited way, the operating capability of CSI banking. Indeed, as summed up in UNDP's
completion report, "it was an innovative project and helped Nepal move closer to meeting its
development objectives."
7. Project Sustainability and Impact
7.1          Prospects for project sustainability are poor. Because of the poor recovery rates and the
high cost of project-based lending, the credit component is not sustainable. The aim to provide CSIs



- 11 -
easier access to loans through introducing the project-based lending concept was not successful as all
PCIs basically reverted to collateral-based lending. The impact of technical assistance for institutional
development was negligible and none of the implementing agencies created under the project, including
CSI units established in PCIs and in NRB, outlived the project closing date. Also, recommendations
of studies financed by the project were often not implemented, nor did they result in improved sectoral
policies.
7.2          However, taking loan recovery rate as a proxy, the majority of the cottage and small
industries established under the project appear to be operating successfully and continuing to contribute
to increasing output and employment. Also, the project introduced the concept of project-based lending
in Nepal. Since the closure of the project, PCIs, having learned the pros and cons of the new concept
from the two CSI projects have, now on their own, begun to experiment with modified forms of non-
collateral lending.' In addition, before ESC was dissolved, it helped create WCDB to continue the
technical consultancy and research functions for carpet and wool quality improvement (para. 5.7).
WCDB, headed by a senior ex-ESC official who received overseas training under the project, is actively
seeking to improve and maintain Nepal's carpet quality and export market share.
8. IDA Performance
8.1          IDA proceeded with the preparation of CSI-II before any tangible results could be
ascertained from the implementation of CSI-I. As a result, it failed to design the successor project to
deal more effectively with the risks. Instead, IDA optimistically viewed CSI-I performance satisfactory
for a pilot project and believed the implementing agencies involved had adequately acquired the
necessary skills and experiences. As a result, the project design was kept essentially the same as in
CSI-I while its scope was expanded to cover three times more areas. This magnified project problems
and caused serious delays in implementation, limited its impact and eventually led to a premature closing
of the project (paras. 2.5, 4.1, 5.14).
8.2          IDA only fielded seven supervision missions during the five years between project
effectiveness and termination (Table 7B, Part III). Compared to CSI-I, which was heavily supervised
(13 supervision missions in six years, including five missions in 1983) and was accorded the personal
attention of a task manager who designed and nurtured the project through most of its implementation
period, CSI-II was very unevenly supervised despite its more acute need for closer supervision, partly
due to the Bank's reorganization (twice). The infrequency of supervision missions, combined with
frequent change of task managers (at least six task managers were involved), undoubtedly contributed
to the Government's loss of interest and the conflict with UNDP. Also, most IDA supervision missions
were so concerned with low recovery rates and unfulfilled collection targets that all attention was
diverted to those two issues rather than on effective supervision of the entire project. Consequently,
very little information on progress under the technical assistance component could be found in the
mission reports. This was available at a later stage when the need for TA restructuring was raised upon
completion of UNDP-financed components. However, for 18 months between October 1991 and May
1993, there were no supervision missions.
RBB's 'Banidng with the Poor is a business" program, and operation of NRB's two new regional banks,
Sudur Paschimanchal Grameen Bikash Bank and Purbanchal Grameen Bikash Bank.



- 12 -
9. Borrower Performance
9.1          The Borrower complied with most of the credit covenants and organizational
requirements but did not give adequate priority to the project. Thus, although the Project Coordination
Committee (PCC) and the PCU were set up, neither PCC nor PCU took complete charge of the project
and did not coordinate the project effectively or resolve the implementation problems that were referred
to them. The lack of coordination among the various implementing agencies involved in the project
caused operational inefficiencies and delays. It is apparent that the project failed to generate a sense
of ownership by the Borrower and suffered from a lack of leadership.
9.2          The Borrower failed to maintain the capitalization of the Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS)
of the project at 10% of the guarantees outstanding in any given fiscal year. As it also failed to
capitalize the Credit Guarantee Corporation (CGC) adequately, the intended transfer of the project's
credit guarantee scheme to the CGC could not be effected. In addition, HMG was slow or often took
no actions to implement recommendations of studies financed under the project (paras. 5.4, 5.8).
10. Project Relationships
10.1         Relationships under the project were generally cordial, although there were coordination
problems between IDA and UNDP in implementing the jointly-financed TA component. Also, UNDP's
subcontracting arrangement with an international management firm (SGV & Co.) created additional
coordination delay and minor irritation between UNDP and TA implementing agencies.
11. Consultant Services
11.1        In all, 10 consultants (representing about 87 manmonths) were provided to CSI Unit of
NRB, ESC, CIDB and PCU (see Annex I Table 4 for details). Most of the consultancy months were
effectively utilized and all the agencies were generally pleased with the performance of the consultants,
except in NRB/CSI and NBL where computerization could not be made operational' and was not cost
effective. Several studies were also carried out by consultants (feasibility study of privatization of ESC,
two technical studies on wool yarn processing and vegetable dye, an evaluation of and feasibility study
of privatization of PON, Nepal's export policies and procedures). While the findings of these studies
were well received by the Borrower, their recommendations were often not implemented and did not
result in improved sectoral policies (para. 5.8) (Table 6B, Part III).
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1         The Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for the review  of project
implementation. However, project documents held in IDA files on the earlier implementation period
were not complete and little data on technical assistance performance was available. Language in the
project documents was not always clear and caused some confusion regarding the project objectives.
For instance, there was no mention of the future of the TA components after UNDP completed its
portion of the technical assistance component half way into the project implementation period.
I  Later, a local consultant company provided new program to computerize the CSI loan data.



- 13 -
12.2         Also, due to lack of an information monitoring system at the CSI units of PCIs and NRB
(para. 5.10), much of the key data relevant for preparing the PCR was not available. For instance, the
NRB Refinance Unit was not able to provide detailed data relevant for calculating the recovery rate of
the subloans made by the PCIs, and the PCI head offices could not generate the detailed data on the CSI
subloans. I Actual project cost information was not readily available to allow comparison with appraisal
estimates. The situation was worsened by the fact that the project activities had been halted and all
implementing agencies dissolved almost two years before the actual closing of the credit. As most of
the institutional memory was lost, a meaningful assessment of this project may be difficult. The lesson
learned from this experience is that a PCR for projects being terminated prematurely should be initiated
immediately after a decision to halt its implementation is made.
13. Lessons from the Project
13.1         The most important lessons learned from the experience of this project are that:
(a)    successor projects should not be launched before proper assessment of on-going similar
projects. Most of the problems encountered with CSI-II were those already discernable
under the first project. If this project had been launched after a proper assessment of
the performance of the first project, many of the design flaws could have been
minimized (para. 4.1).
(b)   the design of investment credits for CSI, especially in countries like Nepal with
underdeveloped financial and industrial sectors and limited implementation capacity,
should be kept simple with clear and focussed objectives. Components should be well-
linked and supportive of each other and the implementation of the project should not
involve an excessive number of institutions. At appraisal, IDA must assess more
carefully the institutional capacity of the Borrower to implement complex projects.
Components to be included should be selected in view of their importance to achieve
project objective and not to solve all sector problems. Similarly, successor projects
should not be expanded too rapidly based on insufficient evaluation of the pilot project
results. Expanding CSI-II, from 9 under the pilot project to 27 districts, was overly
ambitious and beyond the implementation capacity of the agencies concerned (para 4.1).
(c)    creating new agencies to bypass existing inefficient units often causes duplication and
overlapping of activities. Since these entities are created for the project, they often
cease to exist as soon as project ends and funding stops. Due to uncertainties about their
future resulting from their temporary status, these entities often have difficulty recruiting
and retaining qualified staff and their performance is adversely affected. Furthermore,
the impact of training provided to staff of these entities under the project is limited
because all of the agencies created under the project were disbanded or subsumed by
different units in the relevant Ministries or PCIs before or after project closing.
Similarly, rather than creating a separate credit guarantee scheme for the project, it
should have been administered by the already existing Credit Guarantee Corporation
(CGC) after strengthening it prior to effectiveness. In all these cases institutional
strengthening would have been the byproduct (paras. 5.4, 5.12, 7.1).
NRB Refinance Unit was only able to provide the mission the aggregate data on recovery rates.



- 14 -
(d)   innovative concepts like "Project-based lending", should be introduced in a project only after
ensuring that the essential ingredients required for successful implementation (sound
appraisal, monitoring and supervision capacities and effective legal system for debt
enforcement) are in place. Thus strengthening the appraisal, monitoring and supervision
skills and procedures of the PCIs should have been the pre-requisites for such an initiative
(para. 5.3).
(e)   the risks of CSI lending in a poor credit environment could have been minimized through
an effective management information system in the PCIs which could track and monitor each
sub-loan on a regular basis and respond to problems as they emerged (para. 5.10).
(f)    key actions should have clear completion schedule and their compliance within the deadline
should be strictly monitored (para. 5.9).
(g)    Relying on studies alone in a small project such as CSI-11 was not an effective way to
encourage policy reform. Important policy reforms should be proposed as part of a
structural or sectoral adjustment project (para. 5.8).



- 15 -
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE '
1. Overview
1.1          The project implementation was delayed at the outset because of not being effective in time.
The project was very complex and over-optimistic in its scope. The objectives laid out on this project, were
very much attractive and high-sounding but turned out to be very difficult in translating them into action.
We agree with the PCR Mission's views that the project contained too many components, involved too
many agencies and was too complicated to coordinate and monitor. Based on the near full disbursement
rate of CSI-I, the scope, scale and the objectives of the CSI-II were considerably widened without giving
much attention to the recovery rate and capacity improvements of the participating banks. Possible
difficulties on the part of implementing agencies were either overlooked or forced to ignore while attaching
several conditions. The reappraisal of the UNDP component because of change of IDA's policy on co-
financing, pushed project fourteen-month behind the schedule.
1.2          One of the reasons for poor repayment performance of subloans was the use of the concept
of project-based lending. The concept of project-based lending helped the loan amount disburse faster, but
failed to consider the default risk.
2. Proiect Design
2.1          The CSI-II was designed by a committee with assistance from UNDP and IDA. The design
includes the following credit related components:
*     Continuation of project based lending; PCIs to sanction subloans of up to US$13,000;
*     Enhancement of staff's appraisal, supervision and monitoring capabilities through appropriate
training;
*     NRB to provide refinance to the PCIs and administer the Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS)
with initial contribution of Rs. two million from the government;
*     Maintenance of high recovery rate by PCIs; 70 percent bankwise and 79 percent branchwise;
*     Extension of the project area from 9 to 27 districts;
*     Maintenance of Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and project Coordination Unit for
overall coordination, monitoring, evaluation and supervision of project implementation; and
*     Strengthening of CIDB's extension services, skills training, and entrepreneurship
development.
This is an assessment made by the Borrower and its contents have not been edited and are not attributable to
IDA.



- 16 -
3. Lending Operations
3.1          During 1987/88 - Mid July 1992 period, a total of Rs. 157.14 million was sanctioned to
2,058 CSI units. This amount was about 49 percent of the total IDA line of credit. Of the total CSI units,
58 percent were export oriented for which almost 60 percent of the loan was sanctioned., Subsectoral
distribution of subloans reveals woolen based industries having received the highest proportion of CSI loan
(43 percent) followed by agro-based industries (21 percent). The cotton, forest, metal based and other
industries combined together received the remaining 35 percent loan. The number of employment created
during the project period was estimated at 19,347. The share of the three PCIs, namely the RBB, ADB/N
and NBL in the total loan amount was 49.0 percent, 41.7 percent and 9.3 percent respectively.
4. Achievements
4.1          The greatest achievement of the CSI project was that it brought about greater awareness and
created favorable environment to establish cottage and small scale industrial units in the project areas in
general and a remarkable growth of export oriented woolen carpet industry in particular. Besides, it also
provided employment to over 19,000 persons, training to over 3,000 artisans and entrepreneurs and an
exposer of project based lending to the PCIs. But, on the whole, the project may be considered as a failure
case to achieve its objective of establishing sustainable financial intermediaries for lending to CSIs.
5. Prime Cause of Failure
5.1          The single most important cause of the failure of Credit component of the Project was the
poor recovery performance. Poor recovery of sub-loans also gave an excuse for the PCIs to give up project
based lending and return to the traditional collateral based lending. Some of the factors responsible for poor
recovery performance include:
*     Role of NRB not well defined;
*     Willful defaults resulting from poor follow-ups and wrong identification of clients;
*     Inadequate working capital loans caused by deficient appraisals and defective policy of one-
time lending for working capital;
*     Diversion of funds by borrowers partly caused by weak supervision and partly due to
preferential rate of interest on CSI loan;
*     Weak and inefficient institutional support services;
*     PCIs growing unwillingness to participate in the project;
*     IDA's rigidity on branchwise recovery target. It made most of the branches ineligible for
loan disbursement. Non-disbursement of further loans encouraged the borrowers to default
repayments;
*     Frequent transfer of trained manpower to non-CSI branches and replacement by untrained
staff;



- 17 -
*     Lack of trained staff in a number of CSI branches; and
*     Adverse business environment due to trade and transit impasse with India.
6. IDA Performance
6.1          The CSI-II designed by IDA was over-optimistic in its scope and its design did not give
enough attention to the country's reality, e.g., underdeveloped infrastructure, primitive technology, low
level of entrepreneurship, and limited trained manpower and implementation capabilities of the PCIs. The
greatest drawback of the IDA was that it designed the project in Washington and tried to implement in
Nepalese environment with almost no flexibility in its policy.
6.2          Defective design and too much rigidity on the part of IDA were the major causes of CSI-II
failure. Further, IDA's assumption that all the pre-requisites for CSI-II implementation were in place was
another mistake. The three PCIs which had to carry out the project based lending function were reluctant
partners. IDA's policy to maintain recovery rate of 70 percent bankwise and 79 percent branchwise as
qualifying criteria for CSI lending automatically forced two of the three PCIs to become ineligible, which
they had thought as unnecessary burden imposed on them.
6.3          Creation and maintenance of PCC and PCU with functions such as coordination, monitoring,
evaluation and supervision of project implementation was another flaw in the project design. Coordination
aspect under the CSI-II project was a new approach. The general practices of monitoring and coordination
in the public sector were ignored while designing the coordination activities. PCU was to coordinate the
overall functions of the different components such as credit, extension, and export. It was difficult to
implement different functions of different nature by three different HMG/N's line agencies. IDA should
have made appropriate institutions responsible individually. Another shortcoming of the design was to
extend project area from 9 to 27 districts. It was far beyond the managerial capabilities of the PCIs. The
effectiveness and impact of the coordination cell, during the first phase of the CSI project, was not properly
analyzed before implementing the CSI-II phase.
6.4          The thrust of the project was mainly on the credit component.  Activities of other
components (such as the extension component, which was responsible for entrepreneurship training) were
not seriously taken into account by the appraisal missions. The major focus of appraisal has been on the
credit component of the project. But, the other two components that were responsible for the development
of the economic decision making capability of the people should have been more of importance to the
country.
6.5          The IDA also failed to supervise the project activities to the extent it was needed. There
were only seven supervision missions during the whole project period compared to 13 in CSI-I period.
Even those missions lacked to develop and suggest appropriate project monitoring indicators and flexible
mid-stream correction mechanism.
6.6          The questions as to what way the project was defective and why the project failed are already
answered in Part-I, para 2.5 and para (iii) of Evaluation Summary (Draft). Our view on IDA performance
matches exactly with what have been expressed in those two paragraphs.



- 18 -
7. Borrower Performance
7.1          Borrower's perception and performance were also partly responsible for the failure of the
project. The weaknesses on the part of the Borrowers are highlighted in the paragraphs below:
-     The roles given to the PCUs were not in line with the bureaucratic practices in Nepal.
Because of this, the PCC and PCU which were established in the Ministry of Industry and
in the Ministry of Commerce could not discharge their roles of bringing coordination and
resolving implementation problems effectively.
-     The Government which was supposed to capitalize the CGS to the extent of 10 percent of
the guarantees outstanding in any given fiscal year, did not meet that commitment.
-     The PCIs did not give sufficient priority to the CSI activities. The reasons were several,
but the most important of them was that of low interest spread (7 to 8 percent) which
brought them small income but had to incur high lending cost. The PCIs either did not
depute adequate number of trained manpower in the field offices or made frequent transfer
of trained manpower from CSI-offices to non-CSI offices and replaced by untrained staff
which caused deficient sub-loan appraisals, wrong identification of clients and weak
supervision and follow-ups.
-     NRB which had taken quite active role in CSI-I did not take equally active role in
coordination, supervision and follow-ups of the credit component. This was because the role
of NRB was not well specified in CSI-I1.
-     Neither the NRB nor the Government could get the services of the consultants effectively
who were to advise the authority in Project related policies and procedures. Besides, the
government also did not take effective measure to implement the recommendations of studies
financed under the Project.
8. Relationship Between IDA and HMG
Relationships between IDA and His Majesty's Government of Nepal was cordial and
friendly.
9. UNDP Performance
9.1          The technical component of the project also included multiple programs of complex
dimensions which posed problems while implementing the project. Some of the programs were abandoned,
some of them never implemented. The objectives of the technical component were also overly emphasized
without considering the institutional capabilities of the concerned agencies. We, however, do not agree with
the comments made in Part I para 5.12 that no adequate government support was given and excessive
bureaucratic controls were responsible for the project failure. Several conditionalities and recommendations
put forward by the consultants or the project designer were in most cases not very much appropriate and
not commensurable by the borrowers. The timing of the project was also not favored by the political
upheaval and trade embargo by India for about 18 months.



- 19 -
9.2          The integrated plan of operations was not ready until the PCU was disbanded. There was
a Project Management Team comprising of a team leader and one expert each in banking, export and
extension component. The primary function of the Project Management Team was to produce an integrated
plan of operations for the duration of the project. A workshop was also organized for the purpose.
9.3          The Project Management Team was functioning as a separate entity isolated from the PCU.
Decisions were taken by either side without prior consultation to each other and with the Chief Technical
Advisor of the Project.
9.4          Inadequate monitoring and evaluation of the field level project implementation are a result
of the inefficiency in the coordination aspects. The entire problem of the field level activities was not seen
and therefore ignored by the joint management team at the center.
9.5          UNDP mainly provided technical assistance to the Project. Such assistance included staff
training on project appraisal, supervision and monitoring, trainer's training; physical facilities such as
computer, photo copy machines, motor bikes, and consultant services. Training component helped the NRB
and PCI staff to enhance their appraisal capabilities to some extent. The quality however, was not as good
as it was in CSI-I. The physical facilities provided under the TA were helpful and also useful to carry out
the respective project activities.  The consultancy services of the Credit Advisor was not up to the
expectation.
10. Services of Credit Advisor
10.1         The performance of the credit advisor was less than satisfactory and was not fruitful. While
the NRB virtually failed to make minimum use of their expertise, presence of bureaucracies and lack of
commitment on the part of the PCIs, NRB and HMG/N on a number of issues seriously affected the
performance of the Credit Advisor. The observations and suggestions made were either overlooked or
undermined by the authorities and, at the same time, the advisor virtually failed to convince the authorities
on a number of critical issues. Failure to develop and implement Management Information System in PCIs
through the computerization of the subloan data to monitor subloan performance and to detect problems
early through flexible midstream correction mechanisms is one of the instances.



- 20 -
PART III. STATISTICAL SUMMARY
1. Related IDA Credits
Loan/Credit       Purpose/Comments                              Year of      Status
l________________________________________     A pproval
Cr. 659-NEP       Extensive study for exportable CSI's and      1978         completed
Technical         preparation of the CSI I project were carried
Assistance        out.
Cr. 705-NEP       Assist NIDC to become a stronger              1978         completed
First Industrial    development financial institution, provide
Development       foreign exchange for private sector.
Project
Cr. 1191-NEP      Employment creation, small-scale industry     1981         completed
Cottage and       promotion, institutional strengthening through
Small Industries  technical and financial assistance. Project
Project           objectives mostly achieved. Project under
review was a follow-on to this project.                               l
Cr. 1535-NEP      Support to finance medium and large-scale     1984        completed
Second            agro-based, light engineering and service
Industrial       industries, utilizing NIDC as a financial
Development       intermediary.
Project
Follow-on Project
None. The project in review was not achieving the project objectives and was halted before
its completion. IDA decided to review the sector before launching on a similar type of project.



- 21 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                Date Planned            Date Revised            Date Actual
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal                                                               August 1985
Negotiations                                                            April 1986
Board Approval                                                          May 1986
Credit Signature                                                        September 1986
Credit Effectiveness   June 1986                                       July 1987
Project Completion     June 1992                 June 1995              June 30, 1992
Credit Closing         June 30, 1993 per DCA    June 30, 1995          March 29, 1994
3.A. Cumulative Credit Disbursements (US$ Millions)
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Appraisal Estimate         1.5     3.0     5.0      7.5     8.5     9.5    10.0
Actual                     0.0     1.3      3.3     4.2     5.1     5.7      6.2      6.0
Actual as % of Estimate    0%      43%     66%      56%     60%     60%      62%
SDR                  US$
Original Amount:             8,700,000             10,000,000 2
Amount Disbursed:            4,471,537 3            6,046,309
Amount Cancelled:            4,228,463              5,983,951
Date of Final Disbursement: August 19, 1993
Due to recovery of balance in the Special Account, disbursements in FY94 was negative (-US$ 241,264).
2 The revised Credit amount in US dollars equivalent was substantially higher due to depreciation of US dollars against
the SDR.
3 Including an exchange loss of SDR 12,166.20 (or US$17,217) incurred due to fluctuations in the exchange rate
associated with transactions in the Special Account.



- 22 -
3.B. Disbursements bv Category (in '000 SDR equivalents)
Amount        Actual         Disbursed as %
Allocated at   Disbursements  of Original
Category                    Appraisal i    12/31/93       Allocation
I      Refinancing of Sub-loans, Part A                   6,580.0         3,204.6    49%
2      Works under Part C (Extension & Training)            104.0            9.8     9%
3-A    Vehicles, equipment, furniture, raw materials         34.0           12.6    37%
under Part A
3-B    Vehicles, equipment, furniture, raw materials         26.0           48.4   186%
under Part B (Export Development)
3-C    Vehicles, equipment, furniture, raw materials        315.0           79.4    25%
under Part C
3-D    Vehicles, equipment, furniture, raw materials         16.0           12.4   78%
under Part D (Program to improve procurement,
inventory, TA)
4-A    Consultancy services under Part B                     22.0            0.7    3%
4-B    Consultancy services under Part C                      9.0            0.0     -
4-C    Consultancy services under Part P (Management         85.0           21.1    25%
support and TA, PCU)                             .
5      Raw material procurement fund, Part C                 87.0            0.0     -
6-A    Salaries and allowances of staff, Part B              44.0           120.7   274%
6-B    Salaries and allowances of staff, Part C             554.0          491.9   89%
6-C    Salaries and allowances of staff, Part D               9.0            0.0     -
6-D    Salaries and allowances of staff, Part F               5.0            10.3   206%
7      Equipment, consultancies and technical services      520.0          447.5    89%
and operating costs, Part B
8      Unallocated                                          290.0            0.0
TOTAL                             8,700.0       4,471.5 2    51%
As revised at effectiveness, reflecting new UNDP financing for TA, 6/87.
2 Including an exchange loss of SDR 12,166.20 (or US$17,217) incurred due to fluctuations in the exchange rate
associated with transactions in the Special Account.



- 23 -
4. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (US$ million)
Item                 Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Subloan Component                     11.9                       6.72
Technical Assistance                   5.4                    4.24 (est.)
Total                           17.3                      10.96
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
Source                Appraisal Estimate      Actual
US$ million      %        US$ million         %
IDA                          10.0          58.0%       6.04               55%
UNDP                         1.8           10.4%       1.97               18%
HMG                          1.1            6.0%       0.80 (est.)        7%
CSIs/Associations            2.4            14.0%      1.06 (est.)        10%
PCIs                         2.0            11.6%      1.09               10%
Total:                   17.3          100.0%      10.96             100%



- 24 -
5. Project Results
A. Direct Results                            Anpraisal             Actual
at Closing
1. Number of subloans sanctioned              4,720                 2,058
2. Permanent Jobs Created                     21,000                19,847'
3. Cost/Job (Rs.)                              $400                 $350
4. Export and Product Development2
- Incremental Increase of
Handicrafts Export                      5 - 10% p.a.            32% p.a.
- Incremental Increase of                 20% p.a.                56% p.a.
Carpet Export
- Incremental Increase of                 Maintain the
Readymade Garments Export               growth rate             45% p.a.
(26% average during FY82-84)
- Export Growth of Total CSI products     50% p.a.                55% p.a.
- Incremental Foreign Exchange
Earned                                  $ 150 m.               $ 312 m.
5. Trainings
- Total # of Artisans Trained:
by ESC                                                          240
by CIDB                                                        3000
- # of Officials Trained:
ESC                                                             7
CIDB                                                130 (of which 15 trained overseas)
- # trained for CSI lending by NRB/Bankers Training Center:
NRB                                                            59
RBB                                                           218
NBL                                                           144
ADB/N                                                         123
Other                                                           6
Including about 500 created as a result of CIDB's EDP training program (about 250 trainees opened business by self-
financing).
2 As project-specific data were not available, total CSI export-related data (in Rs.) are presented here. See ANNEX
1: Table 5B for the same data in US dollars terms.



- 25 -
B. Studies
Title              Purpose               Status                      Impact
"Feasibility Study    Feasibility Study  Completed July      The study recommended an autonomous
on Privatization of                       1990 by            status for ESC in the form of "Export
Export Service                           Methodical          Service Association" or "Export Service
Center"                                   Research Center,   Council." However, it found no scope
Kathmandu          for self-sufficiency and privatization of
ESC ownership.
"Commercial Wool   Feasibility study     Completed           The report proved useful as a reference
Yarn Processing                          November 1989 by   material to ESC clients.
Services"                                DECORE,
Kathmandu
"Commnercial       Feasibility study     Completed           This report was not thorough and did
Applicability of                         December 1989 by    not prove useful.
Vegetables"                               Laxmi Malla
"An Evaluation of    Evaluation of       Completed in        The report recommended closure of the
PON"               effectiveness and     March 1989 by       office, with its efforts replaced by one-
feasibility study for  Andrew Singer     to-one linkages between Nepalese
privatization                             exporters and US businessmen. HMG
handed over the PON office to Nepal
Handicrafts Company. The "Export
Market Development Fund" suggested
by the report did not materialize.
"Nepal's Export    Studies on specific   Completed in        The study proposed strengthening TPC
Policies and       policy and procedural   November 1989 by   and ESC, more clearly defining their
Procedures"        issues affecting eh   Frederick Glover.    functions, reforming the regulatory
export performance of                     environment and forceful leadership in
CSI products.                            the export sector. While the general
findings of this report were well
received, HMG did not take action
while the project was in operation.
"An Assessment of   Review and develop   Completed by        The report recommended that CIDB be
CSI Sector and an    strategy relating to  UNDP consultants   restructured and made an autonomous
Evaluation of      training and extension   (Claire E.       Cottage and Small Industry
CIDB"              activities for rural  Humphrey and        Development Center (CSIDC) to carry
industrialization     Govind R.           out promotional activities for CSI sector
carried out by CIDB.    Agarwal) in August  from a single window.
1990.



- 26 -
6. Status of Covenants
Cove-                  Relevant Covenants:                             Status of Compliance
nant              Development Credit Agreement
DCA      HMG/N shall maintain the following units/entities    Complied with.
3.04      with such function, powers, staffing, funds ... to
enable each to achieve its purpose:
a) Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
b) Project Coordination Committee (PCC)
c) Export Service Center (ESC)
d) Product of Nepal (PON)
DCA      Adoption and application of Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures by:
3:05 NWTC                                      NWTC: Complied with.
3:06 NMTC                                      NMTC: Complied with.
3:07 ESC                                       ESC: Complied with.
3:08 CIDB - for management of a raw material and   CIDB: HMG did not wish to utilize the allocation for
marketing fund                                 "raw material and marketing fund."
DCA       Use of detailed action plans by ESC and CIDB in  Complied with.
carrying out their respective activities under the
Project. Commencing 3/1/88 and every 3/1
thereafter, each entity shall review the action plan,
and if required, prepare and furnish IDA for its
review and comments a proposal for updating the
action plan for the forthcoming fiscal year.
3.07 ESC
3.08 CIDB
DCA      ESC to prepare and furnish IDA by 12/31/88 a    Complied with.
3.09     program for market research, product development
and export sales, including eligibility criteria to be
implemented by exporters on a cost-sharing basis
with ESC.
DCA      CIHE to develop and thereafter implement an     CIHE did not participate in the project.
3.10     inventory management program to reduce costs and
monitor inventory levels.
3.12     NRB and the PCIs shall: (1) apply the interest rates   Under the restructuring program reflected in the legal
set forth in the schedule to the PA; (2) implement    document amendment signed between HMG and IDA
and changes in the interest rates for spreads as  on 6/25/91, (1) PCIs became free to fix their lending
warranted.                                     rate; (2) CSI's refinancing rate were as per NRB's
general refinancing rate.
DCA      Use of detailed action plans by CIHE in carrying  CIHE did not participate in the project.
3.13     out their respective activities under the project.
DCA      HMG/N shall prepare and furnish IDA by 12/31/87   Superseded by SAL I and II.
3.14     a draft action program of import and export policies
and procedures.
DCA       Units/entities responsible for carrying such parts of   Complied with.
4.01     the Project shall maintain separate accounts
(including the Special Account) audited annually,
with certified copy of the audit furnished to IDA no
later than 12 months after the end of such year.



- 27 -
DCA       HMG/N to contribute Rs. 2,000,000 to the CSI   HMG/N contributed the required amount in 12/87 and
4.02      Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS) and, as and when    recapitalized during the first half of 1989 to maintain
required, pay additional amounts into the CSI CGS    the 10% level. However, this was not kept up and
so that the CGS capitalization is maintained at no  currently, CGS is undercapitalized.
less than 10% of the guarantee's outstanding.
Transfer of the resources and liabilities of the CSI
CGS to CGC shall take place once CGC is        No longer applicable. Under the newly agreed
adequately capitalized and has adopted appropriate   reforms, PCIs were given the option to negotiate their
operating policies and procedures.             own credit guarantee arrangements, if any, with CGC.
NRB will continue to administer the CGS for the CSI
loans made prior to the new agreements.
DCA      PCU to prepare and furnish to IDA, commencing   Complied with.
4.04     on 1/1/87 and thereafter, quarterly progress reports
within 30 days after the end of each reporting
period.
Sch. 2    HMG/N to employ and assign a consultant to PCU    Complied with.
Sec. Ilb  to assist PCU in the overall coordination,
monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation.



- 28 -
PROJECT AGREEMENT
PA       NRB shall maintain the CSI Refinance Unit headed    Complied with.
2.07     by a qualified and experienced officer.
PA        NRB to issue operating instructions to each PCI  Complied with.
2.08     including sub-project eligibility criteria, appraisal
standards, monitoring and evaluation, interest rates,
spreads, terms and conditions of sub-loans, and
minimum staffing and training requirements.
PA       NRB to adopt and apply a Statement of Operating  Complied with.
Policies and Procedures for:
2.09 CSI Refinance Unit 2.10 CSI Credit Guarantee
Scheme.
PA       NRB to transfer the liabilities and resources to the    Refer to remarks in DCA Sec. 4.02
2.10     CSI Credit Guarantee Scheme to CGC promptly
after HMG/N has complied with DCA Sec. 4.02(b).
PA       NRB to furnish IDA quarterly progress reports   Complied with.
2.15     within 30 days after the end of reporting period
commencing 1/1/87 and every 1/1 thereafter.
PA       NRB will review, in consultation with IDA, and if    Complied with.
2.16      required, revise the staffing requirement of PCIs
and PCI branches for purposes of the eligibility
criteria set forth in Part 2 of the Schedule to PA
commencing 5/1/87 and every 5/1 thereafter.
PA        NRB to maintain records and accounts which shall    Complied with.
3.01     be audited annually, with certified copy of the audit
furnished to IDA no later than 9 months at the end
of each such year.



- 29 -
7. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                       Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                               44.8
Appraisal through Board Approval                 1.8
Board Approval through Effectiveness            12.8
Supervision                                     112.9
TOTAL                                        172.3
B. Supervision Missions
Month/ear              No. of    Specialization'      Days in   Performance    Types of Problem3
Persons                       Field     Rating 2
Nov. 87                 3         FA, TA               19        1
Nov. 88                 2         FA, TA               11        2             M
Apr. 89                 3         FA, ID, TA
Dec. 89                 2         FA, TA               14        3             F, M, T
Apr. 90                 3         FA, TA               16        3             F, M, T
Dec. 1 - 17, 90         2         FA, TA               16        3             F, M, T
Sept.26- Oct. 8, 91     2         IE, FA               12        3             F, M, T
May/June, 93            2         FA, TA               10        3             F, M, T
Jan.27 - Feb. 22,        2        FA, TA               27 4      -             Project Completion
mission.
FA = Financial Analyst, Credit Line; TA = TA programming; IE = Industrial Economist.
2 1 = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
F = Financial; M = Management; T = Technical.
4 The PCR mission was for two projects (Nepal IDP-II).



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page I
TABLE 1: CREDIT PERFORMANCE OF PCIS
(As of mid July 1992)
NBL       RBB      ADB/N        TOTAL
No. of Units Sanctioned              279       788         991         2,058
Subloans Sanctioned (Rs. M)         14.6      77.0        65.6         157.2
Subloans Disbursed (Rs. M)          13.9      71.3        58.4         143.6
Principal and Interest Receivables  16.0      42.5        42.5         101.0
(Rs. M)
Principal and Interest Repaid (Rs.   8.3      26.2        29.6          64.1
M)
Percentage of Receivables Repaid    51.8%   61.6%       69.7%         63.4%
(Recovery Rate)
TABLE 2: SUBSECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-LOANS
(As of mid July 1992)
No. of   %        No. of       %       Amount        %
Sub-sector      Units          Employment            Sanctioned
(Rs. '000)
Wool                  684    33          10435    54          67990       43
Agro-based            354    17           1735      9         32975       21
Cotton                346    17           2075    11          14381        9
Forest-based          216    11           1257      6          8565        5
Metal                 171      8          1024      5         11248        7
Others                287    14           2821    15          21981       14
Total                2058   100          19347   100         157140      100
of which export
oriented            1205    58          13534    70          93619      60
industries
Source: NRB.



TABLE 3: GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF SUBLOANS
(As of mid-July 1992)
RBB                      NBL                    ADB/N                                    Percent
Total      Total       of
Zone       No of       Amount       No. of       Amount      No. of      Amount        Unit      Amount    Total
Units     Sanctioned     Units     Sanctioned    Units    Sanctioned
Bagmati        524        59469           85         4985        269        26457         878      90911        58%
Gandaki        III          9885          53         3549        221         9940         385      23374        15%
Narayani        57         3072           44         2831         95        10739         196      16642        11%
Rapti           46         3107           58         1767        174         9638         278      14512         9%
Lunmbini        29          1059          13          647        128         3584         170       5290         3%
Janakpur         0             0           0            0         61         3344          61       3344         2 %
Dhaulagiri      21          391          26           826         43         1850          90       3067         2%
Total       788         76983         279        14605        991        65552        2058    157140         100%
sc m



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
TABLE 4: COMPOSITION OF OVERSEAS EXPORTS
1986/87                                1991/92
(Rs. M)   (US$ M)    % of Total    (Rs. M)         (US$ M)    % of Total
Total Overseas Exports      1,659          76         100%        12,185           271         100%
CSI Exports                 1,267          58          76%        10,373           230          85%
Carpets                    628           29         38%          7,131           159         59%
Garments                   611           28         37%          3,112            69         25%
Handicrafts                 28            I           I %           94             2           1%
Silver Jewelry, etc.                                 0%             36                        0%
Source: Trade Promotion Center.



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
TABLE 5A: GROWTH TRENDS IN KEY CS! EXPORTS (Rs. Million)
TOTAL EXPORTS                  CARPET                   GARMENTS                 HANDICRAFTS
FY                  Change from                Change from                Change from                Change from
Rs. (m)     Prev. Yr.      Rs. (in)    Prev. Yr.      Rs. (m)     Prev. Yr.     Rs. (m)      Prev. Yr.
1986/87     1659            ..          628           ..           611           ..           28
1987/88     2489         50.0%          1212        93.0%          897         46.8%          27         -3.6%
1988/89     3041         22.2%          1589        31.1%         1108         23.5%          31          14.8%
1989/90     4389         44.3%         2294         44.4%         1409         27.2%          48          54.8 %
1990/91     5671         29.2%         3702         61.4%         1343         -4.7%          49          2.1%
1991/92    12185         114.9%        7131         92.6%         3112        131.7%          94          91.8%
Average
Growth:                  52.1% p.a.                64.5% p.a.                 44.9% p.a.                 32.0% p.a.
TABLE 5B: GROWTH TRENDS IN KEY CS! EXPORTS (US$ Million)
TOTAL EXPORTS                   CARPET                  GARMENTS                 HANDICRAFTS
FY                   Change from                 Change from               Change from               Change from
US$ (m)      Prev. Yr.      US$ (m)      Prev. Yr.    US$ (m)    Prev. Yr.      US$ (m)      Prev. Yr.
1986/87      76.45           ..          28.94           ..         28.16         ..          1.29
1987/88     112.62        47.3%          54.84        89.5%         40.59      44.2%          1.22        -5.3%
1988/89     119.25         5.9%           62.31       13.6%         43.45       7.1%          1.22        -0.5%
1989/90     153.46        28.7%           80.21       28.7 %        49.27       13.4%         1.68        38.1%
1990/91     179.46        16.9%          117.15       46.1%         42.50      -13.7%         1.55        -7.6%
1991/92     271.38         51.2%         158.82       35.6%         69.31       63.1%         2.09        35.0%
Average
Growth:                   30.0% p.a.                 42.7% p.a.               22.8% p.a.                  11.9% p.a.
Source: TPC/NRB.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
LIST OF CONSULTANTS PROVIDED UNDER CSI-II
Project Management Team (SGV & Co. Philippines)                 Jan. 1988 - Dec. 1989
1.     Dr. P.V. Viloria, Project Team Leader, PCU
2.     Mr. F.T. Chio, Credit Advisor, NRB-CSI
3.     Mr. A.L. Cagalingan, Export Marketing Advisor, ESC
United Nations Volunteer
4.     Ms. Christiane Ken, Silversmith                           Oct. 5, 1988 - Aug. 5, 1990
Consultants
5.     Mr. Alfredo L. Carlos, Philippines                       Jan. 1, 1980 - June. 1988
Entrepreneurship and Extension Training                  Dec. 16, 1989 - Mar. 15, 1990
6.     Mr. Rick Kersey, Computers (NRB)
Flanan Associates, Ottawa, Canada                        Mar. 2, 1989 - Dec. 1989
7.     Mr. Andrew Singer, England
Effectiveness of PON, New York                           Jan. - Mar. 1989
8.     Mr. Frederick Gover, USA
Export Development                                       July 16 - Nov. 25, 1989
9.     Mr. M.M. Macasiling, Philippines
Bamboo Products Specialist                               July 28 - Oct. 5, 1989
10.    Ms. C. Thenuwara, Sri Lanka
Wearing and Fabric Design Specialist                     Nov. 15, 1990 - Feb. 14, 1991



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page I
UNDP/NEPAL COMMENTS ON THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ON COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES (CSI-II) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1696-NEP), NEPAL 1
A.    General Comments on the CSI Project
1.           The CSI-II Project aimed to assist the Government to achieve its development objectives of
increasing employment opportunities, foreign exchange earnings, and domestic production through the promotion
of the CSI sector. Since this sector was defined in terms of the magnitude of capital investment, it can cover any
industrial enterprise within the definition under the maximum limit of capital investment of Rs. 10 million. Besides
this, the CSI project envisaged to cover 27 districts and produce thirty outputs and seven immediate objectives.
2.            The UNDP TA focused on the strengthening institutional capabilities of organizations providing
specialized support services which mainly include credit, skill development training, entrepreneurship development,
marketing to the CSI sector, etc.
3.            The direct beneficiaries comprised the Nepal Rastra Bank together with its Banking Training Center,
the three Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs), Cottage and Small Industry Development Board (CSIDB), Export
Promotion Center, Cottage Industries and Handicrafts Emporium (CIHE). It implied the need for coordination
amongst the sectoral line ministries (Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Labour, and Ministry
of Finance) and a number of NGOs.
4.            The project thus laid special emphasis on the coordination and monitoring of the project's numerous
activities. The strategy adopted for this was to strengthen the supervisory and monitoring capability of the Ministry
of Industry working through different layers of supervisory authorities constituted in committees namely, Project
Coordination Committee, Project Coordination Unit, Project Management Team, etc. The Project Coordination
Committee was the apex body constituted under the chairmanship of the MOI Secretary, with representation of
senior officials from concerned line ministries, other national parties and donor agencies.
5.            The above brief description of the project clearly indicates that the project was indeed
overambitious. It attempted to link independent organizations with different constituencies with contradictory goals.
By the same token, the project lacked the necessary focus and failed to clarify the responsibilities of the
implementing parties and to define the target beneficiaries in clear terms.
6.            The UNDP's Evaluation Mission fielded in December 1989 summarized its findings in the following
words: "Although some of the project's immediate objectives have been met and many of the planned activities have
been completed, CSI-II has had little impact in meeting the nation's development objectives or stimulating the CSI
sector."
This is an assessment made by the cofinancier (UNDP) and its contents have not been edited and are not
attributable to IDA.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
7.            The major areas of the project's failure relate to project coordination and monitoring, both at the
policy level and at operation level, the administration of the credit component, and training and extension activities.
Due to the weak project coordination and monitoring, the linkage among the implementing parties did not function
effectively. The Project Coordination Committee (PCC), for example, failed to draw the Government's attention
to solve the current fiscal and monetary problems faced by the specific CSI industries. The Export Services Center
served a different group of beneficiaries (for example, carpet and ready-made garments) who were not interested
in the extension training and credit scheme offered by the project. The skilled entrepreneurs/craft persons produced
by CSIDB failed to receive credit from the CSI financial scheme.
8.            Another very weak component of the project was the marketing of CSI products. One important
reason why the CSI clients failed to repay loans was that the project b









I



I



