 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14754

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/20/2015

               Country: Cambodia
             Project ID: P121075                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Ketsana Emergency             Project Costs (US$M):                     40.00                39.38
                         Reconstruction And
                         Rehabilitation Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      40.00                39.38
      Sector Board:      Urban Development            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 11/02/2010
                                                               Closing Date:             07/31/2014          07/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (69%); Water supply (15%); Public
                           administration- Water; sanitation and flood protection (8%); Sanitation (8%)
          Theme(s):        Natural disaster management (66%); Rural services and infrastructure (34%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                Peter Nigel Freeman    Christopher David          IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                       Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective, as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1, page 5),and in the Emergency
Project Paper (page 5) prepared in lieu of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was:

“To restore the service levels of transport and water and sanitation to the affected people in the Project Provinces and
to strengthen the Recipient’s capacity in disaster preparedness and management.”


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

There were four components (Emergency Project Paper, pages 5-7):

Component 1: Support for Emergency Response : (appraisal estimate: US$5.00 million: actual cost: US$ 4.40
million), 88% of the appraisal estimate. This component provided retroactive financing for specific eligible
expenditures made for disaster relief. Eligible expenditures included: (a) rehabilitation and reconstruction works the
government needed after the Typhoon Ketsana had struck and before the project financing agreement was signed,
(b) funds needed for mobilizing technical expertise for conducting road surveys and for mobilizing a managing
consultant for project preparation and implementation.

Component 2: Rural Road Rehabilitation and Reconstruction in the Project Provinces and Provision of Community
-Level Water Supply and Sanitation Facilities :(appraisal estimate US$25.10 million: actual cost US$27.13 million),
108.1% of the appraisal estimate. This component financed activities in six heavily damaged provinces ( Siem Reap,
Kampong Cham, Banteay, Meanchey, Kampong Thom, Battambang and Kampong Chhang). This component had the
following sub components.
(i). Rural Road Rehabilitation and Improvement. Activities included rehabilitation of 230 km of partially damaged and
80km of totally damaged gravel surfaced roads to gravel standards, reconstruction of three bridges and major culverts
and drainage facilities and providing for three years of road maintenance on 920 km of unimproved rural roads that
had been affected by the typhoon.
(ii). Dust control: This sub component aimed at providing a single seal surface treatment (SSST) of about 2 km of
roads for each village requiring treatment (up to a total of 550 km).
(iii) Water and Sanitation activities. Activities included providing approximately 1,400 community -based wells with
hand pumps at the village level (assuming 15 households per pump), and providing for family based latrine sanitation
with one pour flush latrine per household, for a total of 32,000 units.

Component 3: Project Implementation Support : (appraisal estimate US$4.00 million: actual cost US$4.73 million),
118.3% of the appraisal estimate. Activities included providing project implementation support to the Ministry of Rural
Development (MRD) through a Management Consultant from an international consulting firm. The consultant was to
be responsible for providing detailed surveys, engineering designs and drafting contract documents, supervising
construction, monitoring and verification of outputs, building capacity of local contractors, strengthening the Ministry of
Rural Development's capacity in financial management, reporting and project management, and disseminating
through outreach activities the water and sanitation sub component of the project.

Component 4: Institutional strengthening and capacity building (appraisal estimate US$3.00 million: actual cost
US$3.12 million). 104% of the appraisal estimate; This component aimed at strengthening the National Disaster
Management Committee's (NDMC) capacity for disaster preparedness and management. Activities included
developing national and provincial risk maps, emergency management information and early warning systems, and
improving housing and building codes.

An additional US$ 2.9 million in unallocated funds was set aside to cover contingencies and other unexpected needs
during the implementation period, in view of the emergency nature of the project.

The original targets were revised following the supervision mission in June 2012 as follows (discussed in section 2d)
(ICR, page 9).
   The length of rural roads to be reconstructed was reduced from 920 km at to 615 km.
   The number of community based wells to be provided was reduced from 1,440 to 1,329.
   The number of latrines to be provided was reduced from 32,000 to 18,465.
   A reconstruction of one essential bridge was added to the project scope.



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: At appraisal the estimated cost was US$40.00 million and actual cost at completion was US$39.38
million, 98.5% of the appraisal estimates. Although the amount disbursed was lower at project closure, the original
components were revised (as discussed in 2c). Although the Post Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA) report done
prior to project appraisal had identified the priority road sections to be reconstructed in the wake of the typhoon, the
final project scope could only be finalized after a detailed survey in June 2012 by the project consultants in
coordination with the Ministry of Rural Development. There were delays in completing the survey due to a combination
of factors such as the need for more resources - both in terms of time and in terms of staff resources - than expected
for carrying out the resources in more than 250 villages and road sections, more damages due to the severe floods in
late 2001, some damaged roads had already been repaired by others (ICR, page 9), and some were deemed to be
low priority based on the agreed criteria (such as, choosing rural areas that had been affected worse in terms of
damage and losses, population and economic production), and actual costs of construction of road works was 25%
higher due to the significant increase in the cost of materials and labor costs, and more drainage structures were
needed than expected at the appraisal stage.
Project Financing: The original approved amount was US$40.00 million. Of this, US$20.00 million was in the form of
IDA Grant, and US$20.00 million in the form of IDA Credit. At completion, US$39.38 million was disbursed and
US$0.62 million was cancelled. There was external financing for complementary activities from the German
Development Bank (Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau – Kfw) (Emergency Project Paper, page 4).

Borrower Contribution : None was planned and none materialized.

Dates: The ICR (page 2) reports that revisions of output targets as discussed in section 2c, were made on June 29,
2012, and these revisions "due to an oversight were made through an aide-memoire rather than through the formal 2
restructuring required by the Bank procedure". The ICR (page 2) notes however that all changes in the underlying
targets made in the aide memoire were subsequently cleared with the borrower, the Sector Management Unit (SMU),
and the Country Management Unit (CMU), and were disclosed, and that they were confirmed through all subsequent
aide memoires and Implementation Status Results.
The project was restructured on December 24, 2013, and in accordance with the Mid Term Review of the project in
June 2013, all expenditures that were eligible for retroactive financing was paid to the government, and the
unallocated and unspent financing proceeds were reallocated to the component 2 activities. (ICR, page 9).
The project closed on schedule on July 31, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High:

The project development objective continues to remain relevant to both the government and the bank strategy for
Cambodia. The development objective was consistent with the Government's strategy as articulated in the
Rectangular Strategy for Growth, Employment, Equity and Efficiency, phase - III in September 2013. The project
addressed three of the four identified "Rectangles". While rectangle II (Development of Physical Infrastructure)
explicitly identified the need for transport infrastructure development, Rectangle III and IV called for local private
sector strengthening, and improved water supply, sanitation and health (ICR, page 12). At the appraisal stage,
rehabilitation and reconstruction of the basic infrastructure in rural communities destroyed by the typhoon which
occurred between September 29 and October 5, 2009, was a priority for the government.(ICR, page 1).

The Bank's Country Engagement Note for Cambodia for the 2015-2016 period is under process to date. The project
development objective was fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2005-2011 period.
Pillar 1 of the CAS identified the need for improving the delivery of public services for growth and poverty reduction.
Improved roads, as well as provision of water and sanitation were critical components in support of these objectives.
Project investments were also important for Pillar 2 of the CAS, since the government led strategy for investment
programs aimed at improving infrastructure for achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) (ICR, page 13).


b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial:

An Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL) was used as the lending instrument in the wake of the typhoon Ketsana, and the
causal linkages between the project activities, the outputs and the outcomes were clear, and the outcomes in
principle, are measurable. While component 1 activities (such as, providing retroactive financing for eligible
expenditures undertaken by the government after the Typhoon and before the project financing agreement had been
signed), component 2 activities (such as, rehabilitating rural roads and providing water and sanitation facilities), in
conjunction with Component 3 activities (such as providing project implementation support) can be expected to
improve the condition of these facilities of the selected affected regions, and this in turn can be expected to contribute
to the development outcome of restoring the service delivery of transport, water and sanitation facilities in the project
provinces. Component 4 activities aimed at building the institutional and capacity of the NDMC (such as, developing
national and provincial risk maps, emergency management information and early warning systems, and developing
housing and building codes) can be expected to strengthen the government's capacity in preparing for and managing
such disasters.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The project development objective was: "To restore the service levels of transport and water and sanitation to the
affected people in the Project Provinces and strengthen the Recipient's capacity in disaster preparedness and
management."

For this assessment, the objective is parsed as: (i) To restore the service levels of transport and water and sanitation
to the affected people in the project provinces. (ii) To strengthen the Recipient’s capacity in disaster preparedness
and management.
(i).To restore the service levels of transport and water and sanitation to the affected people in the project provinces .
was rated as Significant.

Outputs;

    Five critical stretches of urban roads in Siem Reap City (15.7 km in total length) were repaired to previously
     existing standards by the Government prior to project effectiveness. The ICR (page 13) notes that these roads
     were a high priority for the government in view of Siem Reap's strategic importance for the country's tourism
     sector as the base for visits to Angor Wat, a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
     (UNESCO) site. The ICR (page 14) reports that the repairs on these roads were inspected and verified by a joint
     inspection technical team for quantity, quality, cost and fiduciary compliance, and this activity was deemed
     eligible for retroactive financing.
    615.3 km of rural roads were rehabilitated as per the revised target and as compared to the original target of 900
     km. These roads were built with laterite surfaces for close to half the length of the road section and all roads were
     provided with drainage structures (pipe and box culverts and some bridges), grass erosion protection on side
     slopes, erosion protection and guide posts on new and existing pipe and box culverts and bridges) and traffic
     signs.
    Roads with dust control were provided on 292.8 km of the rehabilitated roads (ICR, page 37).
    An additional bridge with a 60m long main span was constructed in Kampong Thom Province as a replacement
     for a previous bridge as per the revised target.
    1,220 good wells with hand pumps was provided as per the revised and original targets of 1,329 and 1,440
     respectively.
    18,465 latrines was completed as per the revised target and as compared to the original target of 32,000.

Outcomes:

    100% of the selected roads were returned to pre-disaster levels. The ICR notes however that the original outputs
     for road targets were revised downwards because some roads were already rebuilt and some had a lower
     priority.
    75% of the households in target villages had access to improved water supply as compared to the original and
     revised target of 100% and as compared to 25% at the baseline.
    80% of the households in the targeted villages had access to family latrine sanitation at project closure, as
     compared to the revised target of 75% and as compared to the original target of 100%.
    A beneficiary survey was conducted to identify the benefits to the households in the villages. The methodology
     followed in conducting the beneficiary survey was as follows: (i) The survey was conducted once in early 2012
     before the project and once in May/June at project closure. (ii) The survey was conducted on 385 households, of
     which 61% (237 households) lived along the project intervention areas, and the remainder 39% (148 households)
     represented the "control" group ( that is , villages where there had been no project intervention). The main
     results of the survey are as follows: (i) Over three quarters of the households (76%) in the project intervened
     areas reported the roads to be in "good" or "excellent" condition in 2014, as compared to 80% of the households
     which had reported the roads to be either in "poor" or "very poor" condition before the project in 2012.(ii) 2.4% of
     the respondents reported difficulties in accessing health services at project closure as compared to 35.3% before
     the project. In contrast, the respondents who reported difficulties accessing health services in the "control" group
     declined from 41.9% to 17.3%. (iii) While only 3% of the households reported difficulties with access to schools at
     the project closure stage as compared to 33% before the project in the project intervention areas, in the control
     group, 22.5% reported difficulties in accessing schools at the project closure stage as compared to 26.4% before
     the project.

(ii). To strengthen the Recipient’s capacity in disaster preparedness and management .” was rated as Substantial.

Outputs:

    The deliverables of risk mapping and disaster management information center capacity building tasks were
     completed as targeted.
    The ICR reports that building and housing guidelines and a handbook were developed and disseminated, but
     housing and building codes were not developed, as this would have required legislative action.

Outcomes:

    None formulated.
5. Efficiency:

Economic analysis was not conducted at the appraisal stage given the emergency nature of the project. At project
closure, an economic analysis was carried out for the road rehabilitation component of the project using the Highway
Development Management Model (HDM) indicated a high economic rate of return (ERR) of 50.1%. This component
accounted for 63% of the total project cost. The methodology entailed comparing transport costs for road agency and
transport users for "with project" and "without project" options. For the "without project" option, roads were assumed to
be in poor condition with minimum maintenance. For the "with project" option, roads were assumed to have been
rehabilitated or reconstructed to partly gravel and partial surface treatment with regular maintenance. The benefits
were assumed to come through savings of vehicle operating costs and travel time savings..

There were administrative shortcomings which caused delays, and although the project closed on schedule, the start
of implementation was delayed by about 15 months from the date of the disaster (ICR, page 7) (discussed in section
9a and 10a). There was no ERR for the water and sanitation component of the project.

Efficiency was rated Substantial .

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                       50%                                     63%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The project development objective was highly relevant to the country and the design was rated as substantial.
Efficacy of the objectives -."to restore the service levels of transport and water and sanitation to the affected people in
the project provinces" and "to strengthen the Recipient’s capacity in disaster preparedness and management.” was
rated as substantial. Efficiency was rated as substantial. Although the ex post EIRR was 50.1%, there were some
minor shortcomings.

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Institutional Risk : The risk to development outcome is moderate. The road maintenance activities were carried for
three years during the project implementation stage. And while it is not clear whether adequate funds would be
provided for road maintenance in future, the ICR (page 19)' reports that the budget for Operation and management of
the rebuilt roads was increased during the project execution period.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The project built on recent Bank post-disaster experiences in Jamaica, China, and Indonesia and the support
provided to Laos also affected by the Ketsana typhoon. The important lessons incorporated into the project design
were: (i) Special reconstruction lending through a stand alone operation was deemed to be an appropriate
emergency response - as opposed to the reallocation of funding from existing projects, as this could undermine
the country's ability to attain long term development goals. (ii) An independent procurement agent who besides
being under contract with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and being responsible for carrying out
procurement under all of the IDA financed projects in Cambodia, was employed for the project (ICR, page 8), and
to ensure a consistent approach in implementation, defining outputs and monitoring across multiple civil works
contracts, a single management consultant was used for supporting the design process and for supervising
construction and monitoring of the project (iii). Six high risk measures were identified (speed of project
implementation including effective use of funds, inadequate capacity on the part of government and contractors
capacity, and the risk that emergency relief operations would not be provided in a timely fashion) and appropriate
risk mitigation measures taken at appraisal. At the project preparation stage, appropriate measures were taken to
ensure safeguard and fiduciary compliance (discussed in section 11).

As indicated in section 5, project effectiveness and implementation took place 15 months after the typhoon struck
due to the processing delays. The ICR (page 7) notes that these delays were due to a combination of factors
including delays with the preparation and internal reviews of project documentation (especially the safeguards
requirement (also discussed in section 9b).



   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The Bank supervision included technical support missions, carried out by Phnom Penh based staff once or twice
between the regular Bank missions, and there was close supervision by the supervision team on compliance with
safeguards issues (discussed in section 11). The ICR (page 47) notes that supervision was relatively intensive
since given the emergency nature of the project, many details were left to be defined during project
implementation, and flexibility was required to deal with the changing post-disaster conditions (ICR, page 5). The
ICR (page 8) notes that the supervision team members were proactive throughout their implementation period and
provided guidance for actions from the Indonesia Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility for post-
tsunami reconstruction in Aceh and Nias (ICR, page 8).

However, as noted in section 2c, the supervision team failed to follow the formal level 2 restructuring process
when changing the project's underlying outcome indicators.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government commitment to the project is evidenced by the following aspects. (i) The Government in
cooperation with the Bank and other development partners, produced a Post Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA)
less than three months after the typhoon had struck. (ii) The government acted quickly to carry out urgent urban
roads repairs in Siem Reap prior to project effectiveness, that was found to be eligible for retroactive financing. (iii)
During the early project identification stage, the government coordinated well with the other development partners
to get a consensus on which donors would finance the various post-disaster interventions, and (iv) The
Government complied with all the covenants for implementing the monitoring of the Good Governance Framework
by appointing the International Procurement Agent for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB).


   Government Performance Rating                                  Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

There were three implementing agencies: The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), the Ministry of Rural
Development (MRD) and the National Committee for Disaster Management (NCDM). The performance of the
respective implementing agencies is discussed separately as follows:

The MEF, besides being responsible for the overall leadership and coordination between the different line
ministries, was responsible for Component 1 (support for emergency response) activities. As noted in section 9a,
the department had completed the urban roads repairs in Siem Reap prior to project effectiveness.
The MRD was responsible for implementing Component 2 and Component 3 activities (Rural road rehabilitation
and reconstruction in six selected provinces and provision of community level water supply and sanitation
facilities, and project implementation support) activities. The ICR (page 21) reports that MRD showed ownership
and commitment to the project as evidenced by the following: (i) MRD had already prepared detailed safeguards
frameworks and the terms of reference for the Managing Consultant during the delays between project
effectiveness and implementation, and hence at credit effectiveness, project preparation was fairly advanced,
which allowed for starting the implementation activities of recruiting a Management Consultant (MC). And once
the MC was appointed, the project scope could be finalized fairly quickly based on surveys and prioritization
criteria for selecting the provinces.

The National Committee for Disaster Management (NCDM) was responsible for Component 4 activities (activities
aimed strengthening the NCDM's capacity for disaster preparedness and management). The ICR (page 8) notes
that the this component was managed by the NDMC using the team and procedures under a then current Bank
financed project (Cambodia: Avian and Human Influenza and Preparedness Emergency Project).

The ICR (page 8) notes that there were delays in implementation due to management changes and delays
associated with procurement of the key consultants. The situation however improved with the appointment of the
managing consultant, and by project closing all scheduled works and activities were completed.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The results framework included a list of key and intermediate indicators for monitoring progress. The principal
outcome indicators were in principle measurable - percentage of project roads to be restored at least to post disaster
standards, percentage of community households with access improved water supply and family latrine sanitation in
the target villages and the deliverables of three capacity building tasks.

The ICR (page 6) notes that since the service levels before the storm were not known, and hence could not be used in
practice, it may have been better to focus the Project Development Objective on restoring access (such as through
the rehabilitated roads, and providing water and sanitation facilities) in the affected areas.

The ICR (page 10) further notes that by the end of 2011, the Managing Consultant (MC) had designed a Project
Performance Management Framework, including a database and reporting formats, in coordination with MRD, and the
MC provided M&E training in the form of workshops and on-the-job activities. The ICR (page 10) also reports that the
early availability of a good monitoring system enabled the project entities to track progress of the key indicators that
were directly related to the PDO.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   The ICR notes that the M&E system was implemented jointly by the managing consultant and MRD in the initial
years of the project, and in the latter periods of project implementation, key data reports was generated by MRD on its
own.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The NCDM did not use a use a separate M&E system but used the framework developed and implemented by the
Managing Consultant and the MRD.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project, was classified as "Category B" for environmental assessment purposes. Three safeguard policies were
triggered: (i) Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). (ii) Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11). (iii) Involuntary
Resettlement (OP 4.12)

The emergency project paper repots that given the emergency nature of the project, an Environmental and Social
Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) was prepared in accordance with the Procedural Guidelines at the
appraisal stage. The framework provided guidelines on the approach to be taken during project implementation for,
the selection and design of proposed investments, for planning mitigation measures (including consultation and
disclosure requirements), and guidelines for land acquisition and compensation. (ICR, page 7).

The environmental and social (involuntary resettlement and physical cultural resources) were complied with by
project closure (ICR, page 10). The ESSAF framework prepared at the appraisal stage was used by the Ministry of
Rural Development for each sub project, Environmental Management Plans were incorporated into the contract
documents, and road alignments were adjusted to avoid or minimize land acquisition, and a resettlement plan was
prepared and disclosed for one specific road alignment at the project implementation phase. The ICR (page 11) does
not provide details, but reports that one physical resource was encountered in the course of project implementation,
and negative impacts were avoided through technical design and appropriate construction methods.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management : There were no financial management related issues, and interim reports were provided by
the implementing agencies on time. (ICR, page 11). There was external audits of the agencies, and the audits were
unqualified

Procurement: The procurement was through an Independent Procurement Agent (IPA) (ICR, page 7) The ICR (page
11) notes that procurement was carried out following the Bank procurement guidelines and government procedures
and the team leader confirmed that there was no case of mis procurement.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        The supervision team failed to follow
                                                            Satisfactory      the formal level 2 restructuring process
                                                                              when changing the project's underlying
                                                                              outcome indicators.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
The ICR (page 21-22) draws the following main lessons from this project.

(1) A simple project design based on the best available preliminary damage and needs assets as used in this
project could facilitate quick processing and start up of implementation.
(2) Use of retroactive financing for eligible activities as used in this project could help in getting immediate positive
impacts and reinforce collaboration with the government.
(3) Targeting local contractors with simple measures could aid in ensuring better quality construction. The
experience with this project was that although the quality of work by the local contractors was weak in the initial
stages, a series of simple measures, implemented by the Managing Consultant aided in achieving important
improvements in construction quality and progress.
(4) If community participation is not possible during project preparation for an emergency operation, it would be
helpful to conduct information sessions and outreach operations as early as possible during implementation.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is clear and candid acknowledging the failure to follow the formal level 2 restructuring process when
changing the project's underlying outcome indicators. It covers in detail the required outputs and their impact on the
contribution to results. The description of the efficacy section, particularly relating to the outcome associated with the
National Committee for Disaster Management, could have been more detailed.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
