                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank


                                                      Report No: ICR00003245


           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-48180 IDA-H6130)

                                         ON A

                                       CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR13.2 MILLION
                          (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND A

                                       GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR13.2 MILLION
                          (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                             KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                      FOR THE

                   KETSANA EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION

                         AND REHABILITATION PROJECT



                                   January 23, 2015




Global Practice Social, Urban and Rural Resilience
Southeast Asia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange rate effective Jan 22, 2015)

                           Currency Unit = US$
                            1.00 = SDR 0.707
                            SDR 1.00 = 1.414

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 - December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHICPEP   Avian and Human Influenza Control and Preparedness Emergency Project
ADB       Asian Development Bank
BBB       Build Back Better
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCDM      Commune Committee for Disaster Management
CMU       Country Management Unit
DCDM      District Committee for Disaster Management
DMIC      Disaster Management Information Center
DR        Department of Resettlement
DRM (F)   Disaster Risk Management (Framework)
DSA       Daily Subsistence Allowance
EA        Executing Agency
ECOPs     Environmental Codes of Practice
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMF       Environmental Management Framework
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ERL       Emergency Recovery Loan
ESSAF     Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
EWS       Early Warning System
FM        Financial Management
FMIS      Financial Management Information System
FMM       Financial Management Manual
GFDRR     Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery
GGFs      Good Governance Frameworks
HHs       Households
IA        Implementing Agency
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IFR       Interim Financial Report
IPA       Independent Procurement Agent
ISR       Implementation Status & Results
KERRP     Ketsana Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
MC       Managing Consultant
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MHEWS    Multi-Hazard Early Warning System
MRD      Ministry for Rural Development
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NCDM     National Committee for Disaster Management
OFD      Open Field Defecation
OM       Operations Manual
OP/BP    Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
PAP      Project Affected Person
PCDM     Provincial Committee for Disaster Management
PDNA     Post Disaster Needs Assessment
PDRD     Provincial Department for Rural Development
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
QCBS     Quality Cost Based Selection
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RD       Rural Development
RP       Resettlement Plan
RF       Results Framework
RGC      Royal Government of Cambodia
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SA       Social Assessment
SBD      Standard Bidding Document
SMU      Sector Management Unit
SOP      Standard Operating Procedures
SSST     Single Seal Surface Treatment
SSS      Single Source Selection
TOR      Terms of Reference
US$      US Dollar
Watsan   Water and Sanitation
WSUG     Water and Sanitation User Group




                        Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg, EAP
                     Country Director: Ulrich Zachau
                    Country Manager: Alassane Sow
                     Practice Manager: Abhas Kumar Jha
                 Project Team Leader: Lixin Gu
                    ICR Team Leader: Lixin Gu
                            KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
              Ketsana Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project



                                                    CONTENTS



Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring (if any)
  I. Disbursement Profile


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 30
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 53
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 54
  Annex 10. Project Pictures............................................................................................ 55

MAP No. IBRD 37862R
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Ketsana Emergency
Country:                Cambodia                Project Name:             Reconstruction and
                                                                          Rehabilitation Project
                                                                          IDA-48180,IDA-
Project ID:             P121075                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          H6130
ICR Date:               11/15/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          CAMBODIA
Original Total
                        XDR 26.40M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 25.93M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 26.40M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Rural Development (MRD)
 National Committee Disaster Management (NCDM)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/15/2010     Effectiveness:             12/14/2010        12/14/2010
Appraisal:            08/23/2010     Restructuring(s):                            12/24/2013
Approval:             11/02/2010     Mid-term Review:           05/08/2013        06/27/2013
                                     Closing:                   07/31/2014        07/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Project at any time        Yes                                             None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood
                                                                       8                   8
protection
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              69                  69
Sanitation                                                             8                   8
Water supply                                                          15                  15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           66                  66
Rural services and infrastructure                                     34                  34

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Regional Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg                   James W. Adams
Country Director:          Ulrich Zachau                        Annette Dixon
Practice
                           Abhas Kumar Jha                      Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Lixin Gu                             Lixin Gu
ICR Team Leader:           Lixin Gu
ICR Primary Author:        Heinrich Unger
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of this project is to restore the service levels of transport and
water and sanitation to the affected people in the project provinces and strengthen RGC's
capacity in disaster preparedness and management.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally           Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised            Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target            Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Percentage of selected roads returned to pre-disaster levels
Value
(quantitative or   0                          100                                  100
qualitative)
Date achieved      11/02/2010                 07/31/2014           07/31/2014      07/31/2014
Comments
                   Road targets revised in June 2012 to 615 km because some roads were already
(incl. %
                   rebuilt, some had lower priority & costs were higher than estimated at appraisal
achievement)
                   Percentage of community households with access to, and utilization of, improved
Indicator 2 :
                   water supply in the target villages
Value
(quantitative or   25                         100                  100             75
qualitative)
Date achieved      11/02/2010                 07/31/2014           07/31/2014      07/31/2014
Comments
                   25% of HH in target villages already had access. Revised target was 100% of
(incl. %
                   150 villages but project was expanded to 180 villages with 75% access to water
achievement)
                   Percentage of community households with access to, and utilization of, family
Indicator 3 :
                   latrine sanitation in the target villages
Value
quantitative or    19.5                       100                  75              80
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/02/2010                 07/31/2014           07/31/2014      07/31/2014
Comments
                   19.5% of HH in the 150 target villages already had latrines. The revised target
(incl. %
                   was exceeded.
achievement)
                   The deliverables of three capacity building tasks: (i) risk mapping, (ii) disaster
Indicator 4 :
                   management information center, and (iii) building & housing codes
Value
(quantitative or 0                            3                    3               3
qualitative)
Date achieved 11/02/2010                      07/31/2014           07/31/2014      07/31/2014
Comments
               All 3 deliverables were completed but for (iii) guidelines & manuals only were
(incl. %
               developed (due to time constraints for legislated codes)
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                                Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                 documents)                       Target Years
                  Cumulative percentage of reconstructed and rehabilitated affected rural roads in
Indicator 1 :
                  six selected project provinces
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                                  100
or qualitative)
Date achieved     11/02/2010                07/31/2014          07/31/2014       07/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Cumulative percentage of villages with dust-controlled roads
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                                  110
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/02/2010                07/31/2014          07/31/2014       07/31/2014
Comments
                  The number of villages to receive dust control was revised in June 2012 from
(incl. %
                  275 to 253, avg. L= 930 m; but in the end, 279 villages received dust control
achievement)
                  Percentage of water wells built for the target communities (with water quality in
Indicator 3 :
                  compliance with applicable government standards)
Value
(quantitative     16                        100                 75               92
or qualitative)
Date achieved     11/02/2010                07/31/2014          07/31/2014       07/31/2014
Comments
                  1,413 wells were drilled (drilling target was 1,329) but 193 were not productive
(incl. %
                  or had poor water quality, i.e. 1,220 good wells were developed for use
achievement)
                  Percentage of family latrine facilities built to improve community sanitation in
Indicator 4 :
                  the target villages
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                                  100
or qualitative)
Date achieved     11/02/2010                07/31/2014          07/31/2014       07/31/2014
Comments
                  18,465 HH (revised from 32,000) targeted to receive family latrine base (sub-
(incl. %
                  structure). All were completed.
achievement)
                  Risk mapping, disaster information and early warning system, and building and
Indicator 5 :
                  housing codes are developed and applied
Value                                       Fully developed                  Developed and
                  Not developed
(quantitative                               and applied                      applied
 or qualitative)
 Date achieved 11/02/2010                    07/31/2014       07/31/2014      07/31/2014
 Comments
                  Building & housing guidelines and handbook were developed & disseminated in
 (incl. %
                 the short time available since codes would have required legislative action
 achievement)
sshould




 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
                 Date ISR
          No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
                 Archived
                                                                                  (US$ millions)
           1    09/17/2011        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.78
           2    05/27/2012        Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              5.80
           3    10/21/2012        Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              6.47
           4    01/29/2013        Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              7.55
           5    08/07/2013        Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            11.10
           6    03/24/2014    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            20.49
           7    08/06/2014        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   32.79


 H. Restructuring (if any)

                                  ISR Ratings at   Amount
                          Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
          Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
                         Approved                Restructuring
             Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
                        PDO Change DO      IP         in
                                                 US$ millions
                                                               To finance outstanding civil
                                                               works activities and improve
                                                               the Project’s implementation
                                                               progress toward achieving the
                                                               PDO, the Financing proceeds
                                                               were re-allocated as follows: (i)
           12/24/2013               S     MS          16.79    the Credit proceeds of Category
                                                               3 (Unallocated) in the amount
                                                               of SDR1,930,000 to Category 2;
                                                               and (ii) part of the Grant
                                                               proceeds of Category 1 in the
                                                               amount of SDR460,833 to
                                                               Category 2.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Typhoon Ketsana and its Impacts

1.      Typhoon Ketsana, with a destructive power not seen in decades, hit Cambodia with
torrential rains between September 29 and October 5, 2009. Fourteen out of 24 provinces
were affected by the storm and the subsequent flooding. The typhoon left 43 people dead,
67 people severely injured, and destroyed homes and livelihoods of about 180,000 people,
the equivalent of 1.4 percent of Cambodia’s total population. Most of the affected districts
were among the poorest in the country. The widespread damage to property, livelihoods,
and public infrastructure in these areas was expected to have long-term economic and
social impacts.

2.     It was estimated that the typhoon-related damages would lead to a 0.2 percent
reduction in economic growth for 2009. The impact on fiscal revenues was unlikely to be
very significant, but the impact on expenditures for medium- and long-term needs could
have been considerable. Since the financing needed to rebuild physical infrastructure and
recover livelihoods would have created a higher deficit, additional domestic and foreign
financing was needed.

Post Disaster Needs Assessment

3.      The Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC), with support from the World Bank
and other development partners, and with technical and financial support from the Global
Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR), had carried out a Post Disaster
Needs Assessment (PDNA) in the affected provinces (Stung Treng, Preah Vihear,
Kampong Thom, Siem Reap, Ratanak Kiri, Mondul Kiri, Kratie, Oddar Meanchey,
Banteay Meanchey, Battambang, Kampong Cham, Kampong Chhnang, Preah Sihanouk,
and Kampot) during November 2009.

4.     The PDNA estimated total damage and losses at US$132 million, of which damage
accounted for US$58 million and losses for US$74 million. Based on the Typhoon Ketsana
recovery framework proposed by the January 2010 draft PDNA report, US$191 million
was needed for recovery in the identified priority sectors: infrastructure (transport,
water/sanitation, water resource/irrigation, and energy); social (housing and shelter, health,
education); productive sectors (agriculture / livestock / fishery, industry and commerce,
and tourism); and cross-cutting sectors (environment and public administration).

5.      The final PDNA report was released March 30, 2010, and served as the basis for
donor interventions. Based on the earlier draft version of the PDNA report, the RGC had
already requested that rehabilitation of national and provincial roads should be funded
through a combination of RGC, Asia Development Bank (ADB), and Government of China
resources; and rural roads should be financed by RGC and the Bank. In the water and
sanitation sector, RGC would support rehabilitation in the urban areas and requested Bank


                                              1
support for rural areas. During an early project preparation mission, the Bank met with
concerned multilateral and bilateral donors, and discussed with RGC the donor
community’s possible contributions to reconstruction and recovery. At the same time RGC
confirmed that it did not require Bank support for housing reconstruction – identified as a
high priority need in the PDNA report – as most of this damage had already been repaired.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.      The development objectives of this project were (a) to restore the service levels of
transport and water and sanitation to the affected people in the project provinces, and (b)
to strengthen RGC's capacity in disaster preparedness and management.

The project outcomes were measured through: (a) restored levels of infrastructure service
to national standards; (b) improved access to rural road, water and sanitation facilities for
the affected communities; and (c) improved capacity for emergency preparedness and
management capacity. Specifically the key indicators were:

       (i) Percentage of project roads to be restored at least to pre-disaster levels;
       (ii) Percentage of community households with access to and utilization of
            improved water supply in the target villages;
       (iii)Percentage of households with access to and utilization of family latrine
            sanitation in the target villages; and
       (iv) The deliverables of three emergency preparedness and management capacity
            building tasks.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised, but there were some changes to underlying outcome indicators
(indicating a level 2 restructuring). Due to an oversight, these changes were made through
an aide-memoire and all subsequent ISRs, rather than through the formal level 2
restructuring required by Bank procedure. However, all changes in the underlying targets
to the outcome indicators and their justification were well documented in the aide-memoire
dated June 29, 2012. This aide-memoire was subsequently agreed and cleared with the
borrower, the SMU and the CMU, and disclosed; and they were confirmed through all
subsequent aide-memoires and Implementation Status Results (ISR) reports which were
also disclosed. At the time of these changes, the disbursement percentage of the project
was about 15%.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

7.      The main beneficiaries of the project were the people of the 255 selected villages
in six provinces that benefited from rural road reconstruction and rehabilitation, application
of dust control within the villages, and provision of community water wells and family
latrines. In addition, the local farmers transporting produce to markets and the trucking
industry, benefited from the rebuilt roads. The Cambodian population at risk from natural
disasters benefited from the preparation of national and provincial risk maps, emergency


                                              2
management information and an early warning system, and improved housing and building
codes. Lastly, the agencies tasked with the implementation of the project, i.e. the Ministry
of Rural Development (MRD) and six provincial RD offices, and the National Committee
for Disaster Management (NCDM), benefited from institutional strengthening and capacity
building, support for project management, financial management and reporting.

1.5 Original Components

The project consisted of four components as follows:

8.      Component 1: Support for emergency response (US$5 million). This component,
implemented by the Provincial Department of Public Works, provided retroactive
financing for specific eligible expenditures made for disaster relief. Retroactive financing
covered eligible expenditures, determined to be acceptable to the Bank for: (a) any
rehabilitation and reconstruction works the RGC needed to implement after Typhoon
Ketsana had struck and before the KERRP financing agreement was signed; and (b) any
funds needed to mobilize technical expertise to conduct road surveys, and to mobilize a
managing consultant for project preparation and initial implementation.

9.     Component 2: Rural road rehabilitation and reconstruction in six selected
provinces and provision of community-level water supply and sanitation facilities
(US$25.1 million). It was implemented by MRD and comprised the following
subcomponents:

     2.1 Rural Road Rehabilitation and Improvement: Rehabilitation of gravel-surfaced
roads that were partially damaged (230 km) and those that were totally damaged (80 km),
to at least national gravel road standards. Selective sections were to be surfaced depending
on availability of materials and cost optimization. Reconstruction of three bridges, some
major culverts, and other drainage facilities were included. In addition, three years of
maintenance for some 920 km of unimproved rural roads that were affected by the typhoon
were to be supported. See Annex 10, Fig. 1, 2, 3, 4, 9 and 10.

    2.2 Dust control: The existing high levels of dust were to be controlled through a
single seal surface treatment (SSST) of about 2 km of roads for each village, up to a total
of 550 km for the 275 selected villages. See Annex 10, Fig. 5, 6, 7 and 8.

    2.3 Water and sanitation activities: Initial surveys had identified 274 villages where
an estimated 60% of households would needed water supply and 75% needed sanitation.
The activities under this subcomponent included the following: (i) Community water
supply: to install 1,400 community-based wells with hand pump at the village level
(assuming 15 households per pump); and (ii) Family-based latrine sanitation: to provide
one pour-flush latrine pit and base per household, for a total of 32,000 units. Simple,
prefabricated substructure units were available from local suppliers, and households were
made responsible for providing the necessary superstructures, including materials and
labor.




                                             3
10.     Component 3: Project implementation support (US$4 million). This component,
also implemented by MRD, was designed to address the limited implementation and
management capacity of the implementation agency. Accordingly, the proposed approach
provided implementation support through an experienced international consulting firm,
recruited through competitive selection, to act as Managing Consultant (MC). The MC had
overall responsibility for: (a) detailed surveys, engineering designs, and preparation of
contract documents; (b) construction supervision; (c) monitoring and verification of
outputs; (d) capacity building of local contractors; (e) strengthening MRD’s financial
management and reporting capacities; (e) support to the Ministry of Rural Development
(MRD) in project management; and (f) outreach and dissemination related to the water and
sanitation subcomponent. These activities comprised the costs of the MC (US$3 million),
and project incremental operating costs (US$1 million). Any additional funding required
for incremental costs would be borne by RGC through counterpart funding.

11.    Component 4: Institutional strengthening and capacity building (US$3 million).
This component supported and was implemented by NCDM through developing: (a)
national and provincial risk maps; (b) emergency management information and an early
warning system; and (c) improved housing and building codes. This arrangement was
based on the agreement with RGC that the KERRP’s support would focus mainly on
technical capacity, while the proposed Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery
(GFDRR) supported strategic and management capacity aspects.

12.     In addition, US$2.9 million in unallocated funds was available for contingencies
and other unexpected needs during the implementation period, given the emergency nature
of the project.

1.6 Revised Components

13.     The components were not revised but the physical quantities of the subcomponents
under Component 2 were adjusted during the June 2012 supervision mission. Following
detailed field surveys and investigations the targets were reduced to reflect existing service
levels, works done by others, priority rankings and detailed cost estimates that were higher
than the appraisal estimates.

1.7 Other significant changes

14.     There were no other significant changes during project implementation except that
in December 2013 the unallocated, and some unspent financing proceeds, were re-allocated
to the category for infrastructure construction (see section 2.2 for details).




                                              4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Incorporation of Lessons Learned

15. Following a first preliminary Bank mission in December 2009 to review an early draft
of the PDNA report, a full project preparation mission visited Cambodia in March 2010 to
discuss and agree on the project approach and scope with RGC. Various options were
considered for the Bank’s intervention, including a “top-up” of the then current Bank
operations, a stand-alone operation, and a “no action” option. The conclusion was that a
stand-alone post-disaster emergency operation would be most the suitable.

16.     The intervention built upon recent Bank post-disaster experience in Jamaica, China,
and Indonesia and the support provided to Laos, which was also affected by the Ketsana
typhoon. Lessons learned from these post-disaster reconstruction projects have been
incorporated in the design of the KERRP, including the following: (a) reallocation of
resources from existing projects affects the ability to attain long-term development goals
and is less effective than special reconstruction lending – therefore it was not applied in
this project; (b) use of some principles of Results-based Financing and Output-based
Disbursement has proven successful in other projects and was used in the contracts of
KERRP; (c) project design should avoid reconstruction delays, by putting in place
streamlined decision-making and procedures for contracting civil works – this was
attempted but did not work out; (d) need for relatively intensive supervision because many
details are left to be defined during project implementation and flexibility would be
required to deal with changing post-disaster conditions, so provision for intensive
supervision was included in the consultants’ contracts; and (e) priority of community and
transport infrastructure to improve rural economy and quality of life. These considerations,
among others, determined the scope of the project investments.

Rationale for Bank intervention and project

17.     The rationale for determining project activities was the focus on: (a) supporting the
poorest segments of the population, which are generally in rural areas; (b) improving the
quality of life; and (c) targeting areas where economic production had suffered the most
and where reconstruction activities would have a maximum impact. The PDNA report had
identified fourteen affected provinces, of which six were selected for World Bank support,
namely Siem Reap, Kampong Cham, Banteay Meanchey, Kampong Thom, Battambang,
and Kampong Chhnang. RGC’s selection was focused on the worst affected rural areas in
terms of damage and losses, population, and economic production. In these areas, people’s
livelihoods depended on rural roads for access to production activities and for access to
social infrastructure such as markets and schools. Their quality of life relied on access to
proper water and sanitation. The six provinces chosen for Bank intervention contained
some of the poorest segments of the national population, and were areas where economic
activity had been the most affected and which would benefit greatly from the proposed
interventions.



                                              5
18.     RGC specifically requested the Bank to deal with rural roads, and rural water and
sanitation. Furthermore, capacity building and institutional strengthening would be an
integral part of the project. This was to be achieved by providing implementation support
to the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) through an international engineering firm
(the Managing Consultant). The Managing Consultant (MC) would support: (a) the local
contracting industry in the implementation of the works; (b) behavioral changes at village
and household level with regard to water and sanitation practices; and (c) improved
national disaster management because Cambodia was one of the most flood-prone
countries in the region, and RGC had very weak capacity in disaster preparedness, response
and management.

Assessment of project design

19.     The project design was kept simple given the emergency nature of the operation
especially as it was to work in a weak capacity situation; the financing plan with 100
percent IDA financing was equally simple, and both worked well. The PDO was to restore
service levels. However, the service levels before the storm were not known and thus could
not be used as targets for the Results Framework (RF). For the road components it may
have been better to focus the PDO on restoring access. For the water and sanitation
(Watsan) component, it was not a matter of restoring service, but rather providing access
to water and sanitation in selected villages in the project provinces although many existing
dug wells had been flooded by the typhoon. The second part of the PDO, i.e. strengthening
RGC’s capacity in disaster management, was an important objective, albeit difficult to
achieve in an emergency project, and hard to measure in terms of its achievement. The RF
had some weaknesses, such as the very first Key Project Indicator (KPI) – km of rural roads
rehabilitated – not a KPI at all, but an intermediate outcome indicator. Indicator 2 – people
with access to water – would have been fine except the PDO was to restore service not
provide access. KPI 3 – percentage of roads returned to pre-disaster levels – should
actually have been the first KPI. For the second part of the PDO there should have been a
specific KPI. Overall, though, the number of indicators was about right. Lastly, in terms of
project design, the components were well aligned to achieve the PDO – if the PDO had
been better stated. There were not too many implementing agencies, the lending
instrument was right, the Bank was the sole financing agency, and safeguards were well
appraised. However, Component 4 should not have included the establishment of housing
and building codes because they require RGC approval, and this was too much to expect
from an ERL focusing on roads and water.

Risks and their mitigation

20.     The Emergency Project Paper (EPP) did not provide an overall risk rating but it
would appear to have been Substantial based on the mitigation measures taken, and it
would have been appropriate. Project appraisal had identified six high risks (before
mitigation) related to the speed of project implementation, including effective use of funds,
government and contractors’ capacity, and governance but the main risk was that the
emergency relief activities would not be provided in a timely manner. Most of the identified
risks to components 2 and 3 were mitigated by the early appointment of an experienced,



                                             6
international MC to build capacity within MRD, supervise and coordinate construction
activities, and generally manage the project. The financial management risk was addressed
by sound control procedures, a financial management manual, SOPs, quarterly interim
financial reporting, a financial management consultant assigned to MRD and NCDM, and
independent external audits. The procurement risk was mitigated through the use of the
Independent Procurement Agent (IPA), appropriate packaging of contracts, and close
supervision by the MC. And lastly, the safeguards risks were dealt with by the integration
of remedial actions into the contract documents and supervision of them by the MC.
Although the Emergency Project Paper (EPP) did not assign an overall risk rating, it would
have been rated as Substantial, even after applying the above mitigation actions.

Lending instrument

21.     The project was prepared and processed as an Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)
under OP/BP 8.00. The magnitude of Typhoon Ketsana damages called for rapid response
and action, and a streamlined ERL with simplified procedures was the most appropriate
instrument to respond to this disaster. The Bank guidelines on rapid response to crisis were
used to develop a fast, flexible and simple response. In view of the emergency nature of
the project, and as a requirement for Bank appraisal, the Bank prepared an Environmental
and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) in accordance with Procedural
Guidelines complementing OP/BP 8.00. The ESSAF for this environmental category B
project provided guidance on the approach to be taken during project implementation for
the selection and design of proposed investments, and the planning of mitigation measures,
including consultation and disclosure requirements. The ESSAF also contained principles
and basic guidelines for land acquisition and compensation. After its completion and
approval by Bank and RGC, the ESSAF was translated into Khmer and disclosed by the
Bank and in Cambodia.

Although an ambitious preparation and processing schedule was agreed to in March 2010,
it took about 15 months from the date of the disaster to project effectiveness and start of
implementation. The Decision Meeting by the Regional Operations Committee, chaired by
the Regional Vice President, was held in May 2010, but then delays occurred with the
preparation and internal reviews of project documentation, especially the safeguards
requirements, such as the ESSAF and the Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS).
Negotiations were completed in late August 2010 but Board approval only took place in
November 2010. Some of the processing delays were caused by RGC’s slo w response, in
part due to weak capacity in processing projects (Bank-RGC relations were rather strained
at that time, and no other projects were being processed). However, while the Bank was
processing the project, RGC agencies, in particular the MRD, worked on the TOR for the
MC and prepared the detailed safeguard frameworks. Therefore, at credit effectiveness,
project preparation was sufficiently advanced to allow an early start of implementation
activities by a small technical team engaged in advance of the lengthy recruitment of the
MC. Due to the accelerated processing schedule, no participatory approaches could be used
during project preparation but this was addressed during implementation (see section 3.5
(a). Quality at Entry is rated Satisfactory.




                                             7
2.2 Implementation

Implementation Arrangements

22.     KERRP was implemented by the MEF, MRD and the NCDM, with MEF
responsible for overall leadership and coordination between different line ministries. Line
ministries provided sectoral experience and implementation capacity. A senior level
Steering Committee was established and led by MEF as the umbrella ministry to oversee
the project; this was a condition of Effectiveness. MRD and NCDM, as the two responsible
line agencies established their own respective management arrangements, i.e. a Project
Management Unit (PMU) and six Provincial Project Implementation Units (PPIUs).

23.     Component 1 was managed directly by MEF’s Department of Investment and
Cooperation, and implemented by the Siem Reap Provincial Department of Public Works
using force account procedures. Components 2 and 3 were implemented by MRD, led by
the Project Director who reported the Secretary of State as the Project Coordinator. Support
to the MRD was provided by the MC. Component 4 was administered and managed
directly by the NCDM using the existing team and procedures under the then current Bank-
financed Avian and Human Influenza Control and Preparedness Emergency Project
(AHICPEP).

Progress of implementation

24.      Progress was initially slow, mainly due to delays with the procurement of the
respective key consultants for MRD and NCDM, caused by lack of capacity on the part of
the project agencies to navigate the complex and lengthy QCBS process. After one year,
the implementation was six months behind schedule, and after two years, NCDM had fallen
nine months behind schedule. However, once the MC for MRD was appointed in
September 2011, implementation of Components 2 and 3 picked up pace considerably, and
by project closing all scheduled works and activities were completed. The technical DRM
consultant for the NDCM component was mobilized in April 2013 only, but NCDM still
managed to substantially complete Component 4. The frequent and intensive Bank
supervision included technical support missions, carried out by Phnom Penh-based staff
once or twice between the regular Bank missions; they focused on progress, quality of
works, and implementation of safeguards and provided clear guidance for actions. This
approach that applied experience from the Indonesia – Infrastructure Reconstruction
Financing Facility Project for post-tsunami reconstruction in Aceh and Nias, contributed
to the timely, on-budget completion of the project.

Key Events and Issues During Implementation

25.     Management and staff problems at NCDM caused serious delays. In early 2012 the
PMU for the NCDM component was restructured; the project manager was changed and
the roles of some key staff members were adjusted. The PMU management change affected
technical capacity and caused the loss of institutional memory of the PMU which delayed
the recruitment of the key international consultant substantially. Bid evaluations had been
completed in early August 2012, but the contract negotiations had not. In November 2012,


                                              8
a Bank team identified a lack of technical capacity in the PMU management team, causing
delays of key decisions needed to accelerate overall progress of the NCDM component.

26.     The Bank and senior management of the NCDM agreed for NCDM to: (i)
strengthen technical capacity of PMU through the appointment of a technical advisor to the
project manager; (ii) complete negotiations and sign the contract of the international
consulting services; (iii) engage an individual international consultant for technical support
and review of the international consulting team’s work and documents; (iv) form a
technical team in NCDM as an advisory panel and assign counterpart staff to work with
the international consulting team; and (v) carry out PMU staff needs review and engage
necessary consultants, e.g. re-engagement of the FM consultant and assigning the
procurement specialist in the PMU. Senior management of the NCDM finally endorsed the
contract negotiations with the international firm.

27.      Adjustment of project targets. By June 2012 the detailed field surveys had been
completed, project and priority criteria were developed and agreed upon by the MC in
consultation with MRD staff, and up-to-date cost data was finally available. Serious delay
in completing the survey work was caused by: (a) amount time and staff resources needed
to carry out detailed surveys in more than 250 villages and road sections, and (b) further
severe flooding in late 2011 causing more damage and preventing consultants from starting
the field surveys. And more roads were damaged by this new flooding event. Some roads
had already been repaired by others, some were lower priority (based on the agreed
criteria), and construction costs were 25% higher because (i) damage to roads was more
extensive than first thought, (ii) more drainage structures were needed, and (iii) materials
and labor costs had increased significantly. A long list of village selection criteria –
including availability of groundwater, ease of access, village proximity and clustering, low
water and sanitation coverage – was used to choose villages for the water and sanitation
investments. As a result, the following reductions to the original targets under component
2 were discussed and agreed during the June 2012 supervision mission: (i) length of road
reconstruction from 920 to 615 km; (ii) the number of wells from 1,440 to 1,329; and (iii)
the number of latrines from 32,000 to 18,465. One essential bridge with a 60 m main span
was added to the project scope. A formal restructuring was not deemed necessary to
incorporate these simple changes in output targets (see paragraph 7 on page 2 for details).

28.     Project restructuring through re-allocations. The mid-term review (MTR) took
place in June 2013. Further to a detailed review of the project’s financing needs, Bank and
RGC agreed to re-allocate unused financing proceeds as follows: (i) as all eligible
expenditures for road reconstruction in Siem Reap City had been fully paid to RGC, the
Grant balance of SDR 460,833 was shifted from Category 1 (Retroactive Financing) to
Category 2 (Goods, works, services, etc.), and (ii) SDR 1,930,000 from the Credit under
Category 3 (Unallocated), also to Category 2. These re-allocations to Category 2 facilitated
the achievement of the infrastructure construction targets as revised in 2012.

29.    Capacity building of local contractors. Due to the known poor performance of
Cambodian contractors, one of the MC’s responsibilities under Component 3 was to build
the capacity of local contractors. This was achieved by a series of relatively simple



                                              9
measures: (i) prequalification contractors based on their actual works; (ii) provision of local
language translations of contract documents, or at least of critical bid information and
contract terms; (iii) making available reliable cost data for road construction; (iv) holding
pre-bid meetings to fully inform potential bidders of contract requirements; (v)
employment of experienced engineers and contract specialists to give on-the-job, hands-
on training to local contractors.

30.      Minor changes to the scope of Component 4 (NCDM). After the international
consultant for this component had mobilized, discussions were held with NCDM and
subsequently with the Bank, with regard to the actual feasibility of implementing certain
aspects of the program under Component 4. Under sub-component 1, landslides had been
included in the TOR as part of the risk assessment. However, the risk of the occurrence of
landslides in Cambodia was deemed to be minimal so NCDM decided to omit landslides
from the risk assessment. Under sub-component 3, the TOR required the consultant to
develop building codes. However, establishing building codes would have required
legislative action by RGC; this was not feasible during the relatively short project
implementation period. This was definitely a design problem. NCDM and the Bank agreed
that a comprehensive set of guidelines and a handbook would be prepared that could be
used to develop building codes in the future. The completed guidelines and handbook will
still yield great benefits by providing up-to-date information and instructions for resilient
building practices. However, building codes would allow enforcement action by
government in cases of non-compliance.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

31.     By the end of 2011 the MC had designed a Project Performance Management
framework, including a database and reporting formats, in close coordination with MRD
staff. The MC provided M&E training in the form of workshops and on-the-job activities.
The M&E system was implemented jointly by MC and MRD, and in the latter periods of
project implementation, key data for reports could be generated by MRD on their own. The
early availability of a good monitoring system enabled the project entities to track progress
of the key indicators that were directly related to the PDO. At the end of the project, MRD’s
monitoring and evaluation capacities in the use of M&E systems were improved
significantly.

32.    Component 4 (NCDM) did not design, implement and use a separate M&E system
but NCDM relied on, and used, the M&E framework that was already developed and
implemented by the MC for the MRD components. NCDM was able to effectively track
the progress in the implementation and to measure intermediate outcomes but the
framework did not include any impact evaluation as part of the M&E activities, since it
was an emergency operation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

33.     Safeguard. This was a Category B project and although the safeguard policies on
Environmental Assessment, Involuntary Resettlement, and Physical Cultural Resources
were triggered, there were no major adverse environmental nor social impacts. All minor


                                              10
impacts were managed very well by the MRD / MC and close supervision by the Bank.
The ESSAF was disclosed in December 2010 in English and Khmer. Using the ESSAF,
the EMF and RPF, and a detailed checklist, the MRD and consultants made sure that each
small sub-project was screened for any environmental or social impacts. Simple
environmental codes of practice (ECOPs) and EMPs were prepared and incorporated into
the contract documents; road alignments were adjusted as needed to avoid or minimize
land acquisition, and a simple RP for one specific road alignment was prepared and
disclosed. Intensive supervision by MC and MRD teams made sure the RP was adhered to.
Bank supervision followed up, even on minor issues, to ensure full safeguard compliance.
MRD project staff’s capacity in environmental and social safeguards management has
improved significantly through training and practice during project implementation. The
OP for Physical Cultural Resources had been triggered, and contractors, consultants and
all project staff were watchful. Only one physical cultural resource was encountered in the
course of project implementation, and good technical design and appropriate construction
methods avoided negative impacts. In summary, safeguard compliance was exemplary.

34.     Fiduciary. Fiduciary compliance was generally good and there were no issues to
be resolved, with the exception of the slow progress of financial management (FM) actions
in the early stages of Component 4. Eventually, NCDM did receive support from the FM
consultant attached to the MRD components before NCDM engaged its own FM
consultant, and this solution improved financial reporting of the NCDM component. MRD
and NCDM generated timely interim financial reports (IFRs), and had external audits of
their accounts done for 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 timely; all auditor’s opinions were non-
qualified, and the management letter of the auditor only had suggestions for some
improvements in internal control system. In addition to the prior reviews carried out by the
Bank, the ex-post procurement review was conducted annually for MRD and NCDM
contracts during the project implementation. There were no major issues identified, and
all procurement was carried out following the Bank procurement guidelines and
Government procedures.

35.     Bank and RGC had jointly prepared a Good Governance Framework (GGF) and
RGC made good efforts to implement its provisions, starting with timely disclosure of key
project documents on the MRD and NCDM websites. MEF assigned the IPA for all major
procurement to minimize the risk of mis-procurement. The Bank’s fraud and corruption
provisions and sanctions were incorporated in all procurement documents. An effective
complaints handling mechanism was adopted from earlier Bank projects but there were
hardly any complaints; some instances of unfair treatment were identified through the
environmental and social screening. The Bank’s frequent supervision missions did a
thorough review of the consistent implementation of the GGF.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

36.     There was no need for a handover of the reconstructed roads because MRD and
their provincial departments will maintain these roads. MRD has included regular
maintenance of the reconstructed roads in their work program, and RGC wants a follow-
on rural infrastructure project which could provide further opportunities for strengthening


                                            11
road maintenance. In addition to traffic safety signs, strong posts have been installed at the
entrance to some critical road sections to prevent heavy trucks from damaging the roads.
Following the community consultation and information sessions, brochures in the local
language were widely distributed to assist the local communities with the operation and
use of the new water and sanitation infrastructure. Spare parts and O&M training were
provided to all WSUGs to make sure they can keep the hand pumps working well into the
future. Not all beneficiaries have built the necessary superstructures on the latrine bases
(substructures) provided by the project, but MRD and the PDRDs have committed to work
with the local communities to ensure that all superstructures are completed by the end of
December 2014. MRD also committed that it will continue to work with communities on
education campaigns so that these assets will remain in good operating condition.

37.     The large turnout for the project closing workshop and the many positive comments
received from government and beneficiaries suggest strong ownership of project assets.
And in view of the successful implementation of this emergency operation, RGC has
approached the Bank for a possible “second Ketsana project”, actually meaning a rural
infrastructure project – delivering roads, water and sanitation to rural people – modeled on
the KERRP.

38.    For Component 4, NCDM will employ their increased capacity to link the risk maps
and the multi-hazard early warning system (MHEWS) to the DMIC, and follow the
roadmap provided by the specialist DM consultant. They will also continue to widely
disseminate the handbook on more resilient buildings, and work towards legislated
building codes based on the handbook. RGC / NCDM are working with the ADB on a
possible follow-up project to further develop NCDM’s capacities in DRM.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Overall Rating: Substantial
39.      RGC considered this project highly relevant for Cambodia as it was consistent with
its “Rectangular Strategy for Growth, Employment, Equity and Efficiency, Phase-III”
which was reaffirmed by RGC in September 2013. This strategy document is a clear
blueprint to guide the activities of all stakeholders to further pursue and strengthen long-
term sustainable development aimed at promoting economic growth, creating jobs,
equitable distribution of the fruits of growth, and ensuring effectiveness of public
institutions and management of resources. The project addressed three of the four
“Rectangles”; in particular: Rectangle II: (Development of Physical Infrastructure),
explicitly calls for transport infrastructure development; Rectangle III (local private sector
strengthening); and Rectangle IV, (improved water supply, sanitation and health). RGC’s
Rectangular Strategy was underpinned by a call for good governance and leveraging of
partnerships for the country’s development, reduction in poverty and achievement of
Cambodia’s Millennium Development Goals (CMDG); all of which the project has
contributed to.




                                             12
40.      As stated further above the project was fully consistent with the Bank’s country
assistance strategy (CAS) for 2005 to 20111. In particular, Pillar 1 of the CAS aimed at
improving the delivery of basic services because of their importance for growth and
poverty reduction. Improved roads, as well as provision of water and sanitation, were
critical components in support of these objectives. Project investments were also important
for Pillar 2 of the CAS since the government-led strategy for investment programs was
aimed at improved infrastructure to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. By
“building back better”, such as more and larger drainage crossings, the project was also
relevant for building in resilience to climate change. The PDO was still fully relevant at
project closing, and design and implementation remained relevant until project completion;
this was confirmed by RGC’s request for another project modeled on KERRP. The overall
rating for relevance is therefore assessed as Substantial.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory
41.     The development objectives of this project were (a) to restore the service levels of
transport and water and sanitation to the affected people in the project provinces, and (b)
to strengthen RGC's capacity in disaster preparedness and management. More than 90
percent of the project funds were expended on the first part of the PDO achievement of
project outcomes and will be weighted toward part (a).

42.     The PDNA report took about six months to be finalized; its lists of damaged roads
were very preliminary and indicative due to the difficulty of accessing remote project sites
on severely flood-damaged roads. The project as designed provided for a detailed survey
of damaged roads once a consultant had been mobilized (using retroactive financing funds).
The project scope was adjusted based on the survey and the targets were revised in June
2012. Less than 15 percent of project funds had been disbursed at that stage, mostly for the
retroactive financing of the Siem Reap urban roads.

Part (a) of the PDO – Restoring service levels (about 90 percent of project expenditures)

Restoration of transport service is rated as Highly Satisfactory

43.     (i) Urban roads. Siem Reap urban roads (see Annex 2 for details) were a high
priority for RGC because of Siem Reap’s strategic importance for the country’s tourism
sector as the base for visits to Angkor Wat, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In 2009, when
more than 2 million tourists arrived in Cambodia, the main roads in Siem Reap were in
good serviceable condition. The flooding caused by Ketsana had largely washed out the
asphalt surface and some of the base of five key road sections in the center of Siem Reap
linking it to the airport and the national road. RGC decided to repair and resurface 15.7 km
of these roads and complete these works urgently using force account procedures by the
Provincial Department of Works and Transport within four months of the typhoon. The


1
    Due to relationship issues there is a new CAS since July 2014



                                                 13
Bank agreed to retroactive financing of up to $5 million, subject to a satisfactory inspection
of the completed works. In 2011 the roads were inspected by a joint technical team, were
verified for quantity, quality, cost and fiduciary compliance and were found to be fully
acceptable. At project completion they were in very good overall condition. Due to the
early completion and maintenance of these urban roads and their great importance and
importance to Cambodia’s tourist industry this part is rated Highly Satisfactory.

44.      (ii) Rural provincial roads. After Ketsana about 30 percent of the affected rural
laterite road sections were totally damaged, i.e. total disruption of service, but even the
partially damaged roads provided very poor service, especially where bridges or culverts
were missing. The project had adopted the “build back better” (BBB) principle, and MRD
designs considered the likely impacts of climate change. After completion to a high
standard of quality – as confirmed by the supervision and inspection reports – the service
level of the roads was fully restored, and in most locations, significantly improved. The
roads were widened to the extent possible within the existing right-of-way, side slopes were
protected against erosion, larger and additional culverts and causeways (414 in total), also
with erosion protection, were added, and six new bridges were built; road and traffic signs
were installed for safety. The roads are better protected from flooding now, and
beneficiaries are very satisfied (see Annex 5). Average travel speed more than tripled to 33
km/h and traffic volumes grew by 28 percent on some sample sections. Other achievements
were MRD’s work with local agencies to (i) build better preparedness for future disasters,
(ii) manage disaster risks in the rural roads sector, and (iii) do good recovery planning.
Together with the BBB designs, these achievements contributed also to part (b) of the PDO,
i.e. “to strengthen RGC’s capacity in disaster preparedness and management. Overall, this
part of the project is rated Satisfactory.

45.     (iii) Dust control. Dust control was provided on road sections through densely
populated areas on about 48 percent of the roads. This was also guided by the “build back
better” principle, and just by using the opportunity of reconstruction. The health and
nuisance problems caused by the high dust levels – especially during the dry season – were
evident, and at relatively small additional cost a single seal surface treatment using bitumen
was added through villages and more heavily populated areas (concrete pavement was used
in front of public schools). About 200,000 people living in the more than 250 villages along
the improved roads have benefited from dust control seal on the roads through the villages
(length of about 1 km each). The health benefits of this measure were not quantified but
are considered to be substantial and beneficiaries praised the removal of the dust nuisance.

Restoration of water and sanitation is rated as Satisfactory.

46.     Water and sanitation. This was less a restoration of service level but rather a
“work of opportunity”. When carrying out the road damage survey it was noted that
villages along the affected roads had low levels of access to adequate water (about 25
percent) and sanitation (about 20 percent) services. The poor water sources that people may
have had before Ketsana struck were damaged or destroyed, and the majority of the people
used open field defecation (OFD) for sanitation due to little of proper sanitation practices.
The rural road reconstruction project provided a perfect opportunity to improve the lives
of the rural population living along these roads, to help to reduce rural poverty and


                                             14
contribute towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in Cambodia.
The project made every effort to make this sub-component sustainable by the following
measures: community participation prior to and during implementation, spare parts and
training on well pump operation and service, formation of WSUGs, user involvement in
latrine superstructure construction, and water and sanitation (Watsan) brochures for all
community members. After completion of the project, the coverage with water and
sanitation in the target villages rose to between 75 and 80 percent. Although undocumented
in this project, it is reasonable to assume that there are considerable health and gender-
related benefits flowing from this part of the project, and close to 100,000 people benefited
from these Watsan improvements. Annex 5 (Beneficiary Survey Results) and Annex 6
(Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results) document the level of beneficiaries’
satisfaction.

Part (b) of the PDO – strengthen capacity in disaster preparedness and management

This part of the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

47.    Part (b) of project used less than 10 percent of the project’s financing. It was
implemented by a different and less experienced agency. The risk mapping and risk atlas
for Cambodia were completed and are widely available for risk assessments. The DMIC
and guidelines are useful, even without legislative changes, and the agency’s capacity has
been improved as well. In the course of implementing this part of the project, NCDM
engaged with sector ministries and other stakeholders through many workshops and
through their consultant's work with theses ministries and provinces in data collection and
consultation; these interactions contributed significantly to improving NCDM’s DRM
capacity. Although there was insufficient time to pass legislation to fully establish the
DMIC and to codify the housing and building guidelines prepared by the project, the
guidelines together with a handbook are very useful to promote and guide resilient house
construction practices. However, the full PDO was not achieved for part (b).

48.    The project’s final outputs are summarized in the following Core Sector Indicator
(CSI):

 Core Sector Indicator                                          Unit         Achievement


 ROADS AND HIGHWAYS
 - Rural roads rehabilitated                                    km               615.0
 - Non-rural (=urban) roads rehabilitated                       km                15.6
 SANITATION
 - People provided with access to improved sanitation         Number            92,325
 (based on one latrine/HH and 5 people/HH)
 - Improved latrines constructed under the project            Number            18,465
 WATER SUPPLY
 - People provided with access to “improved water             Number            91,500
 sources” (based on 15 wells/HH & 5 persons/HH)
 - Improved community water points constructed or             Number             1,220
 rehabilitated under the project


                                              15
3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Substantial
49.     An economic analysis conducted on 19 representative project road sections
indicated an EIRR of 50.1 percent. It compared transport costs for road agency and
transport users for “with-project” and “without-project” options. In the “without-project”
option, roads were assumed in poor condition with a minimum level of maintenance. The
“with-project” option included only marginal widening, but substantial rehabilitation or
reconstruction to partly gravel and partial surface treatment plus regular maintenance.
Traffic before and after completion of the project indicated an average 28 percent growth
over two years (2012 – 2014), suggesting additional, above normal, growth of about 15
percent. The analysis used 2013 constant prices based on the actual construction and
supervision costs but excluded all taxes and duties. Two categories of benefits were
calculated: (i) savings of vehicle operating costs due to improved road conditions, and (ii)
savings of travel time due to increased travel speeds.

50.     The time savings and health benefits generated by the water and sanitation
subcomponent were not quantified and analyzed. There are also considerable, but non-
quantifiable health benefits resulting from the dust control on rural roads through densely
populated areas. Regarding efficiency, the unit costs for wells and latrines were established
by MRD and their consultants by comparisons with past works; they were then confirmed
by competitive bidding. For details of the economic analysis see Annex 3. Overall, the
efficiency of the project is rated as Substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

51.     As detailed above, the project was highly relevant to RGC’s strategy for growth
and the Bank’s most recent CAS. The PDO was achieved except for some elements of
Component 4, and the economic analysis for a representative sample of project roads – the
largest share of the project investments – shows a robust EIRR of about 50 percent.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

52.     The rural poor were not specifically targeted by this project, but these generally
remote and poor villages with low water and sanitation coverage were prioritized for
assistance by the project. The water and sanitation investments clearly benefited girls and
women in the target villages to a great extent although no data are available. The new
community wells reduced distances to clean water sources considerably, saving the female
members of households much time and effort. Similarly, girls and women benefit from the
family latrines due to reduced open field defecation (OFD) and the associated higher risks
of assaults and violence but this emergency operation has not gathered any data to quantify
the benefits of the water and sanitation investments.



                                              16
53.     The project also had positive impacts on social development in the benefiting
communities as shared infrastructure facilities generally promote community cooperation
and cohesion. During the implementation, the MC employed an outreach team led by an
international expert social development consultant who worked with all project villages on
outreach, education, and organizing Water and Sanitation User Groups (WSUG). WSUGs
are nation-wide government-supported mechanisms for O&M of Watsan investments:
households make small financial contributions, administered by the head of the group, and
the funds are used for small repairs as needed. For major repair or parts replacement, the
provincial rural development department (PDRD, MRD’s local branches) will be
responsible. Also, to ensure smooth operation of the wells, community members received
training in how to use, operate and maintain the hand pumps installed on ground water
wells, each shared by 15 households.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

54.      Improved capacity of MRD in infrastructure design and construction supervision:
The MC helped to improve the capacity of the MRD-PMU to plan and design roads and
conduct construction supervision to ensure that these works were built to the specified
construction quality and within the agreed budget. The MC achieved this by (i) involving
MRD staff in their day-to-day work, (ii) advising on contractual issues, (iii) conducting
joint field missions during the survey stage, (iv) doing strict construction supervision and
defects inspections, and (v) co-locating their offices at the MRD during the assessment and
design phases of their assignment. Similarly, MRD improved staff capacity in the planning,
assessment, design, and construction supervision of water wells and latrines by shadowing
the MC specialists when carrying out their duties.

55.     Management of environmental and social safeguards by MRD: International and
national environmental experts and a national social safeguard expert of the MC team
assisted MRD to prepare and implement the project safeguard instruments. MRD staff,
both at the central and provincial levels, now have a much better understanding and
capacity of safeguards management after they effectively implemented the environmental
and social safeguards required under RGC and Development Partner regulations. MRD
staff acquired the capacity to carry out public consultations and prepare such safeguard
instruments as EMPs and RPs. As a result, there were no serious environmental impacts or
resettlement issues during project implementation.

M&E capacity

56.      MRD improved its monitoring and evaluation capacity by adopting a Project
Performance Management framework, a database and reporting formats in close
coordination with provincial MRD staff. MC provided the M&E training in the form of
workshops and on-the-job training. The M&E system was implemented jointly, and after
the initial training phase, all key data for reports were generated by MRD itself.

NCDM capacity improvements
57.     Although the NCDM component experienced several implementation difficulties
as already elaborated above, the technical and institutional capacities of NCDM for risk


                                            17
identification have been strengthened significantly. This includes the capacity to work with
the provinces and communes and the use of risk information, such as risk mapping as well
as preparing measures for reducing disaster impacts. NCDM staff also increased their
capacity in handling early warning systems (EWS) and the associated software. Lastly,
they acquired experience and capacity for cooperating with a wide range of agencies to
develop the building construction guidelines and handbooks.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

58.     An unintended impact from the Project was the adoption by MRD of rural road
designs that consider impacts of climate change. The MRD adopted high quality
construction supervision for rural roads and learned new ways to design road alignments
within rights-of-way, thereby avoiding the need for land acquisition or resettlement2. The
land located along the improved roads (including effective dust control) is reportedly going
up in value, and people, particularly the poor, may be tempted to sell their land. This aspect
was highlighted during the Minister of Rural Development’s visits to some of the
reconstructed roads in June 2014.

59.     Travel speeds have increased on the reconstructed roads and greater numbers of
heavy vehicles are now using them. Although the higher travel speeds are an important
project benefit (see Annex 3 – Economic Analysis), the bigger trucks damage the roads
and, combined with higher speeds, also cause more traffic accidents – an unintended
outcome that required some mitigation. Traffic signs were included as part of the project,
but traffic safety awareness and education campaigns will still be needed to deal with this
impact. On critical road sections poles have been already installed to prevent heavy trucks
from entering.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

60.      Using a representative sample of 385 households living along the project roads, the
MC carried out beneficiary surveys in early 2012 (“before project”) and close to the end of
the project in May/June 2014. The results of the later survey were overwhelmingly
positive: 76 percent of those surveyed rated the improved roads as “excellent” or “good”
compared to 80 percent who had rated the roads as “poor” before the project. The dust
control applied through villages significantly increased the positive ratings. Survey
respondents had similar positive views of the impacts of the road improvements on their
daily life (travel to school, hospital, meetings) and their business / occupations. For details
see Annex 5.

61.     In July 2014 RGC organized a project closing workshop attended by high-level
representatives of the RGC together with project stakeholders, including beneficiaries from
target communities. All participants expressed a high level of satisfaction with the project



2
    The approach was later applied in the ADB-financed Rural Roads Improvement Project Phase II



                                               18
performance, outputs and outcomes. These positive views were confirmed by anecdotal
comments from community members. For details see Annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

62.    The following risk factors and mitigation actions were considered.

 Risk Factors                                 Mitigation
 Rebuilt roads are neglected                  MRD capacity and budgets for O&M
                                              were increased
 Rebuilt roads deteriorate and break up       Roads were built back to high quality
                                              standard
 Higher intensity storms cause larger         Additional and larger drainage crossings
 runoff volumes than before (climate          (culverts and bridges) were designed and
 change effects)                              built under “build back better” approach
 Wells and latrines are not used/not          Communities were involved, have owner-
 working                                      ship, received training and tools for O&M
 Wells run dry                                MRD staff are trained to monitor
                                              performance and functioning of wells and
 Latrine pits are full                        latrines and assist the communities
                                              concerned with periodic maintenance
 EWS and DMIC are not made functional         NCDM capacity increased and equipped
                                              with tools and roadmap
 Building handbook not codified               Wide dissemination of guidelines

63.    On the basis of the brief analysis above, the risk to development outcome has been
assessed as Moderate because a number of positive mitigation factors that have been
complied with are likely to reduce what would have been a significant risk.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

64.     The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is assessed as Satisfactory.
The Bank responded promptly to RGC’s request for emergency assistance, led and
coordinated the PDNA and, by November 2009, produced a comprehensive draft PDNA
report. The Bank promised to consider retroactive financing for any urgent works the RGC
undertook. Project processing was accelerated by making adequate staff resources
available, but the rigorous reviews (and required revisions) of the ESSAF, required for
safeguard clearance, delayed project processing. The project targeted the most affected and
poorer provinces of the country, and the proposed water and sanitation improvements
considered the benefits for women. The implementation arrangements were practical and


                                            19
clear. By using staff with recent experience in emergency operations, lessons from similar
post disaster operations were incorporated.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65.     The Bank’s performance in supervision is assessed as Moderately Satisfactory. In
the early stages of implementation, Bank supervision pushed for quick re-surveys of
affected areas to confirm and adjust the prioritization of investments. Later, Bank
supervision focused on the quality and good progress of implementation to ensure quick
restoration of service levels to the affected communities. Despite serious initial
implementation delays and more severe flooding events early during implementation, the
project was completed by the original closing date. Supervision was frequent, close and
intensive by strong and experienced Bank teams that provided support and advice. The
MTR assured that all works and activities would be completed on time and within budget.
Supervision of safeguard and fiduciary compliance was exemplary; this minimized issues
and problems. Bank rating and reporting was detailed and realistic. The Bank’s emphasis
on, and support for, intensive community development activities, such as setting up
WSUGs, contributes to the sustainability of the water and sanitation investments. However,
as noted earlier, the team failed to follow the formal level 2 restructuring process when
changing the Project’s underlying outcome indicators. Nevertheless, all changes were fully
documented in the mission Aide Memoire and all subsequent ISR reports, which were
agreed with the CMU and disclosed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

66.     Based on the above ratings the Bank’s overall performance is rated as Satisfactory.
The bank can take credit for the reasonably fast project preparation and consistent
assistance to RGC for its preparation activities. Re-assurance that retroactive financing will
be available for eligible expenditures gave RGC confidence to proceed with urgent, critical
road reconstruction works in Siem Reap. Bank supervision was intensive and resulted in a
project implemented without problems, without delays, and with high quality outputs.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

67.     Government’s performance is rated as Satisfactory. RGC cooperated with the Bank
and other development partners to produce a good draft PDNA report less than three
months after Ketsana had struck. Government also acted quickly to carry out urgent urban
road repairs in Siem Reap that later were found to be eligible for retroactive financing by
the Bank. During the early project identification stage, RGC coordinated well with the
other development partners to agree on which donors would finance the various post-
disaster interventions. The project that was identified was consistent with the current RGC
strategy document. MEF was ready to implement the project and had appointed competent
project staff in the key agencies; however, at a later stage, staff changes at NCDM caused


                                             20
some problems and delays. RGC complied with all covenants and also made good efforts
to implement monitor the GGF. MEF also appointed the IPA who was responsible for all
ICB. RGC’s insistence, though, on QCBS consultant selection of the two key consultants
caused considerable delays.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

68.     The performance of MRD is rated as Satisfactory. MRD especially showed strong
ownership and commitment, and as soon as the MC was appointed, the project scope was
finalized based on re-surveys and prioritization criteria. Although there were no
consultations during the short preparation stage, intensive participatory activities were
initiated once project implementation started. MRD supported the formation of WSUGs,
and also prepared and distributed brochures for O&M of the new infrastructure.
Environmental and social safeguard compliance was exemplary, and MRD prepared a very
good EMF and RPF, respectively, as a condition of effectiveness. There were only very
minor problems, and hardly any complaints. A good complaints handling mechanism was
set up, albeit somewhat late, and the GGF was implemented and monitored. Fiduciary
compliance was also good since timely and unqualified external audits were produced.
M&E design was adequate, and the MC, together with MRD provincial staff, gathered
baseline data for the beneficiary survey. The latter was completed in May/June 2014 and
showed large positive impacts.

69.      NCDM’s performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory because not all planned
activities were fully completed but nonetheless the capacity building goals were largely
achieved, leaving the agency more competent in DRM. Due to the much smaller size of
this component, the overall performance rating is still assessed as Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
70.     The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as Satisfactory because both
Government and the implementing agencies, performed well. Despite the emergency
nature of the operation, the delays during the early stages of implementation, procurement
delays, unusually wet monsoon seasons in 2011 and 2012, and some staffing changes at
NCDM, the project was brought back on schedule and completed on time. The quality of
the roads, wells and latrines is good, and the users/beneficiaries reported their satisfaction
in the beneficiary survey and community feedback.

6. Lessons Learned

71.    A simple project design based on the best available preliminary damage and
needs assessment facilitated quick processing and start-up of implementation. As soon
as project consultants were mobilized the final physical scope of the project was
determined and adjusted based on detailed field surveys and more accurate cost
information; this was easily done because of the simple project design.




                                             21
72.     Use of retroactive financing and force account by government to get large and
almost immediate positive impacts and reinforce collaboration with government,
especially in an emergency operation. The reconstruction by RGC force account works of
15.7 km of urban roads in Siem Reap, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, was completed in
less than six months after the typhoon struck, even before RGC and Bank had agreed on
the scope for this project. US$ 4.2 million of retroactive financing was part of the project.

73.     Use the simpler and quicker Single Source Selection (SSS) for appointing key
consultants for emergency operations in countries with weak technical and institutional
capacities. Project implementation was six months behind schedule at the end of the first
year, mainly because the MC was late being selected, contracted and mobilized by using
the rather lengthy Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS).

74.     During the implementation stage, target local contractors with simple measures
to ensure better quality construction. The initially poor quality work by the local
contractors displayed a lack of capacity, knowledge and experience, especially in
compressed timeframes; contractors also did not always comprehend, and comply with, the
contract’s general and technical requirements. As detailed in para. 30, a series of simple
measures, implemented by the MC, achieved important improvements in construction
quality and progress.

75.      If community participation during project preparation is impossible for an
emergency operation, conduct information sessions and outreach campaigns as early as
possible during implementation. Due to the emergency nature of the project and its
accelerated processing pace, community consultation and development activities before
the start of the project were not possible. Only if project beneficiaries fully understand the
project interventions, will they accept new infrastructure facilities, and also the temporary
inconveniences experienced during construction.

76.     Include public road safety awareness programs and campaigns, even for rural
road construction projects. Traffic speeds increased dramatically after the road
reconstruction and rehabilitation works were completed, as did the number and severity
of accidents.

77.    Consider applying bitumen seals for dust control on laterite or gravel roads
through rural settlements. The dust control measures on about 1 km per village through
some 250 villages, added at relatively low additional cost, greatly reduced the dust
nuisance, can protect the road base from water damage, and are likely to have some, albeit
non-quantified, health benefits.




                                             22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                      23
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
          Components                                    Estimate
                                  (US$ millions)                             Appraisal
                                                     (US$ millions)
Component 1: Support for
                                         5.00                4.40               88.0
Emergency Response
Component 2: Rural Roads,
                                        25.10               27.13               108.1
Water & Sanitation
Component 3: Implementation
                                         4.00                4.73               118.3
Support
Component 4: Institutional
                                         3.00                3.12               104.0
Strengthening&Capacity Building
Unallocated
                                         2.90                0.00                0
           Total Baseline Cost          40.00               39.38               98.5
Physical Contingencies
                                         0.00                0.00                0
Price Contingencies
                                         0.00                0.00                0
             Total Project Costs        40.00               39.38               98.5
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00                0.00                0
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00                0.00                0
     Total Financing Required           40.00               39.38               98.5




(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of     Estimate      Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing (US$ millions (US$ millions Appraisal
                                                     )             )
Borrower                                           0.00          0.00         0
International Development
                                                    40.00           39.38            98.5
Association (IDA)




                                           24
                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Retroactive financing for support for emergency response

The RGC financed the repair and reconstruction – to at least previously existing standards
– of five critical stretches of urban roads in Siem Reap City (15.7 km in total length) using
asphaltic concrete bitumen surface. The work was done by force account for US$ 4.2
million. Due to the importance of these road sections for the tourism sector in Siem Reap,
the works were completed by RGC in early 2010, within five months of the typhoon. The
roads survey carried out by the Individual International Consultant during 2010 verified
the quantity, quality and costs of these works, and based on the October 2011 Road
Construction Completion Inspection report, the Bank accepted the reconstruction and
paving of the Siem Reap urban roads for retroactive financing since this component had
restored the service levels of these critical road sections in one of the project provinces,
and thereby contributed to the achievement of the first part of the PDO.

Below are the details of the reconstructed Siem Reap urban roads:

 Name of road                                                Length in m       Width in m
 Sivuthar Street – 3 sections                                    540               8
                                                                1,820              12
                                                                2,050              8
 Total length Sivuthar Street                                   4,410

 Po KamBor Street – 3 sections                                    943              7
                                                                  285              14
                                                                 4,744             10
 Total length Po KamBor Street                                   5,972

 AcharSva Street – 2 sections                                    1,100              8
                                                                  495               7
 Total length AcharSva Street                                    1,595

 AcharHemcheav Street – 2 sections                                222               6
                                                                 1,469              9
 Total length AcharHemcheav Street                               1,691

 Hun SenSantepheap Street                                        2,000              8
 Total length Hun SenSantepheap Street                           2,000              8

 OVERALL LENGTH - ALL ROADS                                     15,668

Component 2: Rural road rehabilitation and reconstruction in six selected provinces
and provision of community-level water supply and sanitation facilities

Component 2 covers the bulk of the project investments. The PDNA report had identified
priority road sections for reconstruction but the final scope of the rural roads and Watsan



                                             25
investments was determined by a detailed survey by the project consultants in coordination
with MRD; more recent flooding in 2011, updated costs information, changed priorities
and restoration work done by others were taken into account. Six provinces (“the project
provinces”) were selected for the project interventions, based on the identified needs in the
rural roads and Watsan sectors; this more focused approach also avoided the management
of widely dispersed construction activities.

Some road sections were completed destroyed and required complete reconstruction while
others were damaged to varying degrees. All roads were reconstructed to at least their
previous service levels as evidenced by the increased traffic volumes, as observed in the
traffic counts (see Annex 3). There were few, if any, adequate water supply and sanitation
facilities in the affected villages in the project provinces, i.e. the service levels were
minimal. Watsan investments were done as a work of opportunity. The types and physical
quantities of works were determined based on the specific local needs. The detailed specific
works are listed below by sector and province.

Sub-components 2.1 and 2.2: Rural road rehabilitation and improvement,
including dust control for about 1 km through densely populated areas

                                        Con-
                   Road    Length                     No. of     No. of              No. of
                                        crete                               No. of
  Province        length   of SSST                     box        pipe               cause-
                                        road                               bridges
                   (km)      (km)                    culverts   culverts             ways
                                        (km)
                                                                              2
  Kampong
                   193.3     93.3                      14         43       +1x60m
  Thom
  Kampong
                   42.2      19.2                       4          3
  Chhnang
  Kampong
                   53.6      28.4        1.0            7         25
  Cham
  Battambang       35.8       4.7                       5         40         1
  Banteay
                   122.0     37.3        1.8          16.0       96.0                   1
  Meanchey
  Siem Reap
                   168.5     107.3                     28         131        2          1

    TOTALS         615.3     290.0       2.8           74         338        6          2


In addition to laterite surfaces and dust control bituminous seals for close to half the length
of the road sections, all roads include:
     drainage structures, i.e. pipe and box culverts, plus some bridges
     grass erosion protection on side slopes;
     erosion protection and guide posts on new and existing pipe and box culverts and
        bridges; and
     traffic signage and project sign boards.
Also, one additional bridge with a 60m long main span was constructed in Kampong Thom
Province as replacement of a previous, much shorter bridge.



                                                26
See Annex 10, Fig. 1, 2, 3 and 4 for examples of road and bridge works, Fig. 5 to 8 for
illustrations of dust control, and Fig. 9 and 10 for culvert drainage structures.

By raising the standard of road construction, including the BBB approach and considering
climate change in the designs, these road and ancillary works all contributed in large
measure towards the achievement of the fist part of the PDO, i.e. restoring the service levels
transport.

Sub-component 2.3: Water and sanitation activities

                  Table 2.2: Summary of Wells completed under the Project
                                                                                     No. of acceptable wells with
                                                      Unacceptable wells
                                                                                        hand pumps installed
                     Contract                                                                    Good
                                No. of                No. of wells                    Good
                      Target               No.                                                   Wells
      Province                  Wells                    with         Total No. of    Well                 Total
                      No. of                of                                                  depth
                                drilled              unacceptable     unacceptable   depth >               Good
                       wells               dry                                                 between
                                                        water            wells       55m &                 Wells
                                           wells                                                 30 &
                                                       quality                        <80m
                                                                                                 55m
  Kampong Thom         285       317         78           0                78           4        235        239

  Kampong Chhnang       72        72         0            4                4            0         68        68

  Kampong Cham         192       201         1            3                4           40        157        197

  Battambang            94        99         3            0                3            0         96        96

  Battambang           253       269         62           0                62          16        191        207

  Siem Reap            433       455         41           1                42           0        413        413
      TOTALS           1,329    1,413       185           8                193         60        1,160     1,220


Note: 92 percent of the targeted wells were fully completed.

                 Table 2.3: Summary of Latrines completed under the Project

                                                                No. of
                                          Province             Latrines
                                                              completed
                                Kampong Thom                     3,980

                                Kampong Chhnang                      872

                                Kampong Cham                     2,757

                                Battambang                       1,229

                                Banteay Meanchey                 4,039

                                Siem Reap                        5,588
                                TOTAL                           18,465




                                                     27
The Watsan investments did not just restore, but raised service levels greatly above what
existed before the project. The interventions were enhanced by information and
consultation sessions with the beneficiaries; water user groups were formed to better
manage the common water supply wells. Brochures on proper use, operation and
maintenance were also provided to the users. The large number of beneficiaries of new
water supply and sanitation facilities contributed in a substantial manner to the first part of
the PDO, i.e. to restore the service levels of water and sanitation to the affected people in
the project provinces. See Annex 10, Fig. 11 and 12 for photos of water supply wells, and
Fig. 13, 14 and 15 for photos of latrines and owner-built superstructures.

Component 3: Project implementation support (MRD)

This component covered the costs of the MC for providing a range of services and
support activities to central and provincial RD staff as follows:
    Detailed survey and report to determine physical scope of project
    Detailed investigation and design of roads, water supply and sanitation works
       using the BBB approach
    Preparation of bidding and contract documents for all civil works
    Design M&E system for Component 2
    Mobilize FM consultants, also working for NCDM
    Provide detailed field supervision of construction
    Verify and process progress payments for contractors
    Conduct safeguards implementation and management
    Train central and provincial RD staff with training in contract management
    Conduct information and consultation sessions with local beneficiary populations
    Prepare brochure for use, operation & maintenance of water & sanitation systems
    Conduct completion and acceptance inspections
    Organize project closing workshop
    Draft project completion report

The outputs / activities listed above helped to assure the timely completion of good quality
physical works and thereby contributed mainly to the first part of the PDO, i.e. to restore
the service levels of transport, and water and sanitation to the affected people in the project
provinces. By using the BBB approach in planning and design, especially of rural roads
and considering climate change, the outputs of Component 3 also contributed to some
extent to the second part of the PDO, i.e. to strengthen RGC’s capacity in disaster
preparedness and management.

Component 4: Institutional strengthening and capacity building (NCDM)
This component covered the engagement of an international consultant, experienced in
disaster preparedness and management. The consultant worked mainly with NCDM staff
and sector ministries and agencies concerned to produce the outputs listed below.

Sub-component 1: Development of national and provincial risk maps
   1. Five workshops/training on: (a) multi-hazard risk assessment, (b) validation of
      exposure and vulnerability, (c) validation of probabilistic risk evaluation, (d)


                                              28
      disaster risk management applications, and (e) final project workshop, in which the
      full model was presented and demonstrated to a wider audience.
   2. Preparation of a web-based Natural Hazard Risk Atlas for Cambodia with national
      and provincial risk maps
   3. Setting up of a geospatial database
   4. Preparation of a risk Assessment Report that documented the analysis of the
      quantified property, economic activity, fiscal impacts and social losses in
      Cambodia, due to the natural hazards identified.

Sub-component 2: Emergency management information and early warning system
   1.  Eight consultation meetings on early warning gap assessment in provinces
   2.  Workshops on standard operating procedures for early warning system
   3.  Two workshops on post disaster need assessment
   4.  National level DMIC consultation meeting with NCDM
   5.  Simulations & drills in 3 provinces: Prey Veng, Pursat and Kraties provinces
   6.  Installation of staff gauges on rivers in Prey Veng and Pursat provinces
   7.  Report on the Review of Technologies Available and Global Good Practices in
       Early Warning Systems and Disaster Management Information Centers
   8. Report on the roadmap for setting up (i) an End-to-End Multi Hazard Early
       Warning System, and (ii) a DMIC in Cambodia
   9. Report on the Concept of Operations for a DMIC
   10. Report on the Organizational Study to Establish a DMIC
   11. Report on the Study to Identify the Most Appropriate Equipment, Information
       Technology, Hardware and Software and Human Resource Needs for the DMIC.
   12. Report on the Post-disaster Data Collection: Standard Operating Procedures for
       DMIC, NCDM
   13. Report on the Prevailing Disaster-related Data Collection and Reporting System in
       Cambodia.

Sub-Component 3: Development of housing and building codes

   1. Consultation with local construction experts.
   2. Report on review of technology available and global good practices with regard to
      resilient housing construction for rural areas.
   3. Preparation of Handbook and Guidelines on flood- and storm-resistant rural
      housing construction in Cambodia.
   4. Wide dissemination of handbook and guidelines.
The main outputs, i.e. disaster risk maps, the DMIC and the building handbook and
guidelines supported part (b) of the PDO of strengthening RGC’s capacity in disaster
preparedness and management. The associated series of activities, reviews, reports,
training sessions, etc., involving mainly NCDM staff, all contributed to the strengthening
of RGC’s capacity in disaster preparedness and management.




                                           29
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic analysis of sample of road investments

An economic analysis was carried out using the HDM IV model by comparing transport
costs for road agency and transport users for “with-project” and “without-project” options.
In the “without-project” option, roads were in poor condition and a minimum level of
maintenance is assumed. The “with-project” option included only marginal widening, but
substantial rehabilitation or reconstruction to partly gravel and partly surface treatment plus
regular maintenance.

The analysis used 2013 constant prices based on the actual construction and supervision
costs but excluding all taxes and duties. The analysis was carried out for a representative
road section by averaging the data for all 19 road sections. The average traffic observed on
these road sections was 360 vehicles in 2012 (before construction) and 464 vehicles per
12-hour period in 2014 (after construction) indicating a 28% growth in traffic over 2 years
after completion of the project. Considering a 6% normal traffic growth, this indicated
about 15% additional traffic growth after the road construction. An analysis among the
different vehicles indicated that the additional traffic generation was distributed over all
types of vehicles other than two and three wheelers.

For the HDM model, traffic growth rates of 6% per annum were considered until 2022 and
4% beyond 2022 and additional traffic above this normal growth was taken as additional
traffic generated by the project. The HDM model was calibrated to the average speeds
observed before and after construction. The average speed had increased from about 10 km
per hour to about 33 km per hour.

The economic analysis estimated two categories of benefits: (i) saving of vehicle operating
costs due to improved road conditions, and (ii) saving of travel time due to increased travel
speeds. The vehicle operating costs and travel time costs are estimated using the HDM IV
model. The travel time “without project” and “with project” is estimated by the HDM
Model, and the value of time saved was included in the analysis.

The unit value of passenger time used in the HDM model was derived based on per capita
income for Cambodia. The value of work time for bus, two wheeler and car passengers is
taken as two-third, one and two times the per capita income. The value of non-work time
was taken as 25% of work time. The vehicle prices and operating cost inputs were adopted
based on other recent feasibility studies, making a reasonable approximation for Cambodia.
The economic analysis conducted on the representative project road sections indicated an
EIRR of 50.1%.

Travel Time Improvement
The project was expected to improve travel time along the roads after reconstruction.
According to the road speed survey, the driving speeds improved, on average from 9.2
km/h before the road was rehabilitated, to 43.0 km/h afterwards, based on a sample of 19
road sections spanning all six KERRP provinces. Figure 3.1 indicates that the project-



                                              30
      constructed roads allow speeds of up to 50 km/h. Therefore, the KERRP road improvement
      has clearly led to faster travel times and reduced wear and tear on vehicles.

      Additional road and traffic-related data
      Traffic volumes 3 had increased dramatically along the project road sections as
      demonstrated through traffic surveys conducted on a sample of 19 out of KERRP’s 67 road
      sections as presented in Table 3.1. Cargo traffic which is comprised of trucks of 2 or more
      axles, has increased very substantially by 164% while motorized passenger traffic which
      is comprised of hand tractors, buses, mini-buses, cars and motorcycles, has increased by
      25% from 2012 (before project intervention) to mid-2014 (after completion of the road
      rehabilitation works). Overall, non-motorized traffic (bicycles and pedestrians) was found
      to have decreased by 10% over the same period as these travelers apparently shifted to
      motorized means of transportation. The exception was Siem Reap province where cargo,
      motorized passenger and non-motorized traffic all saw substantial increases, pointing to a
      pent-up traffic demand in this vibrant economic area which KERRP’s road rehabilitation
      work was able to unlock.

           Table 3.1: Aggregated Traffic Count on Sample Road Lines – Before and After Project

                            Baseline (2012)             End of Project (2014)                  Percent Change
                                            Non-                             Non-                              Non-
                             Passenger-   motorized           Passenger-   motorized            Passenger-   motorized
Province            Cargo    motorized     traffic    Cargo   motorized     traffic    Cargo    motorized     traffic
Kampong Chhnang       18        475           198      8         632         160       -56%       33%         -19%
Kampong Cham          56       1,748          667     105       1,964        419       88%        12%         -37%
Siem Reap             29       1,409          739     220       2,397       1,121      659%       70%          52%
Banteay Meanchey      39       1,614          570      54       1,745        330       38%         8%         -42%
Battambang            5         485           289      7         593         268       40%        22%          -7%
Kampong Thom         32       940         446        78       1,007          314       144%        7%         -30%
Total – 19 Sample
Road Lines          179      6,671       2,909      472       8,338         2,612      164%       25%         -10%
       Source: KERRP Household Surveys – Baseline and End of Project

      Referring to the traffic count survey results presented in Tables 3.2 and 3.3, the number of
      heavy vehicles has more than doubled while light transportation have generally increased
      a little. Bicycle transport and pedestrian traffic has decreased as motorized transport was
      able to more easily use the road. The increase of traffic may also be caused by more
      economic activities and increased size of the population in the target villages.




      3
       Traffic counts were done over a continuous 12-hour period from 6AM to 6PM during a regular
      weekday on each of the 19 road sections spanning all 6 KERRP provinces, both at baseline in
      December 2012 and the end of project in May/June 2014.



                                                        31
   Table 3.2: Large vehicles traveling the 19 sample road lines in one 12-hour period
                                                                                               %
Type of Vehicle               Baseline (2012)                       End-line (2014)         change
                     Total    Average Min          Max      Total   Average Min       Max    Total
> 4 wheels Truck       53         9        2        25       139       23        1     56    162%
 4 Wheels truck       131        22        3        31       336       56        5    182    156%
  Hand tractor        236        39       17       101       388       65       24    185     64%
      Bus               2         0        0         2        74       12        0     74   3,600%
    Mini-bus           59        10        0        21       177       30        0     85    200%
      Car             153        26        6        53       430       72       12    136    181%
   Source: KERRP Household Surveys – Baseline and End of Project

   Table 3.3: Light vehicles and pedestrians traveling the 19 road sections in a 12-hour period
                                                                                                %
 Type vehicle/                Baseline (2012)                     End-line (2014)            change
   travelers         Total    Average Total Max             Total Average Min Max             Total
   3 Wheels           132        22        3   58            162     27        2   48          23%
  Motorcycle         6,574     1,096     430 1,630          7,500  1,250     513 1,881         14%
 Animal Cart           84        14        0   56            114     19        0   73          36%
    Bicycle          2,487      415      174  604           2,177   363      133  851         -12%
    Walkers           627       105       21  163            489     82       23  163         -22%
     Other            198        33        1  107            219     37        0  155          11%
   Source: KERRP Household Surveys – Baseline and End of Project




                                                   32
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
            Names                       Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Lixin Gu                Team Leader                       EASIN      TTL
Abhas Jha               Project Advisor, Regional         EASIN      Disaster
                        Disaster                                     Management
Veasna Bun              Co-Task Team Leader               EASTS Co-TTL
Cledan Mandri-Perrott   Senior Infrastructure specialist FEUFG Infrastructure
Ratha Sann              Infrastructure Operations Officer EASTS Infrastructure
Indira Dharmapatni      Senior Social Development         EASTS
                                                                     Social Safeguards
                        Specialist
Leng Bunlong            Environmental Safeguard           EASTS Environmental
                        Specialist                                   Safeguards
Vanna Nil               Social Safeguard Specialist       EASTS Social Safeguards
Seida Heng              Financial Management Specialist EASTS FM
Ahsan Ali               Senior Procurement Specialist EAPPR Procurement
Sreng Sok               Procurement Specialist            EAPPR Procurement
Luis Tineo              Senior Procurement Specialist GPOBA Procurement
Teuta Kacaniku          Economist                         FEUFG Economics
Geoffrey Read           Project Engineer                  Consultant Infrastructure
Heinz Unger             Environment Specialist            Consultant Env. Safeguards
David Stiggers          Contract Specialist               Consultant Contracts
John Richardson         Governance Specialist             Consultant Good Governance
Henrike Brecht          Senior Infrastructure Specialist EACTF Infrastructure
Roch Levesque           Country Lawyer                    LEG        Legal agreement
Yogita Mumssen          Program Manager                   EASIN      Team support
Ratha Sann              Infrastructure Operations Officer EASTS Infrastructure
Joseph Daulta Marsangap Information Assistant             SECPO
                                                                     IT support
Siagian
China Chhun             Program Assistant                 EACSF Team support
Peng Seng Tan           Program Assistant                 EACSF Team support
Inneke Herawati Ross    Program Assistant                 EASIN      Team support
Sandra Walston          Program Assistant                 EASIN      Team support
Supervision/ICR
Lixin Gu                  Team Leader                       EASIN   TTL
Abhas Jha                 Project Advisor, Regional         EASIN   Disaster
                          Disaster                                  Management
Veasna Bun                Co-Task Team Leader               EASTS   Co-TTL
Cledan Mandri-Perrott     Senior Infrastructure specialist FEUFG    Infrastructure
Ratha Sann                Infrastructure Operations Officer EASTS   Infrastructure


                                         33
Indira Dharmapatni        Senior Social Development        EASTS Social Safeguards
                          Specialist
Seida Heng                Financial Management Specialist EASTS FM
Ahsan Ali                 Senior Procurement Specialist EAPPR Procurement
Sreng Sok                 Procurement Specialist           EAPPR Procurement
Luis Tineo                Senior Procurement Specialist GPOBA Procurement
Teuta Kacaniku            Economist                        FEUFG Economics
Geoffrey Read             Project Engineer                 Consultant Infrastructure
Heinz Unger               Environment Specialist           Consultant Env. Safeguards
David Stiggers            Contract Specialist              Consultant Contracts & Proc
John Richardson           Governance Specialist            Consultant Good Governance
China Chhun               Program Assistant                EACSF Team support
Sandra Walston            Program Assistant                EASIN      Team support
Samnang Hir               Project Engineer                 Consultant Roads / Procur.
Agus Sjamsudin            Project Engineer                 Consultant Road engineer
Makathy Tep               Environment Specialist           Consultant Env. Safeguards
Latharo Lor               Procurement Specialist           EAPPR Procurement
Henrike Brecht            Senior Infrastructure Specialist EACTF Roads
Bunlong Leng              Environmental Safeguard          EASTS Env. Safeguards
                          Specialist
Vanna Nil                 Social Safeguard Specialist      EASTS Social Safeguards
Katrinka Ebbe             Economist                        Consultant
Sokhe Sun                 Water and Sanitation Specialist EASTS Watsan
Reaksmey Keo Sok          Financial Management Specialist EASTS FM


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      US$ Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          FY10               26.25                    146.84
                          FY11               17.71                     85.55
                          Total:             43.96                    232.39
Supervision/ICR
                          FY11               14.28                    278.73
                          FY12               29.22                     94.70
                          FY13               18.70                    104.03
                          FY14               21.76                    158.54
                          FY15                6.50                     46.99
                          Total:             90.46                    682.99




                                        34
                                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Road Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Based on a survey of 385 households in villages along the improved roads4 in early 2012
(“before project”) and again in May/June 2014 (“after project”), the quality of the roads
was acknowledged to have improved dramatically with 76% of respondents rating the
rebuilt roads as of good or excellent quality (96% if we include “fair”) after KERRP,
compared to 80% of respondents rating the roads as poor or very poor “before project”.

                      Figure 5.1: Opinion of Road Users on Quality of Road –
               “Before Project” (all 6 provinces) and “After Project” (excluding SRP5)
       Description                                              Covered HHs           Non-covered HHs

       How does road condition affect daily                            End of           End of
                                                              Baseline         Baseline
       life:                                                           Project          Project
       Decreased income                                          10.4%     1.6% 10.1%       13.7%
       Difficult access to health services                       35.3%         2.4%      41.9%        17.3%
       Difficult access to school                                33.5%         3.0%      26.4%        22.5%
       Difficult travel to social/ community
                                                                 47.8%         3.8%      43.9%        24.9%
       events
       Increase in traffic accidents                             65.0%         1.4%      8.10%        12.8%
       How does road condition affect your                                End of           End of
                                                              Baseline            Baseline
       HH's business/ occupation:                                         Project          Project
       Stop HH business                                            9.6%        2.2%        8.1%       11.2%
       Increased transportation costs                            40.0%         1.9%      39.2%        20.1%
       Decreased business activities                             21.0%         2.4%      21.6%        14.5%
       Disconnected from business partners                       59.2%         3.8%      52.0%     26.5%

Source: KERRP Household Survey – Baseline and End of Project

The same survey asked respondents to rate the effect of road conditions on their daily lives
and on business; the results are reported in the table that follows. Households in villages in
the KERRP road lines’ zone of influence were generally much better off than the non-
covered households.



4   The survey included 148 HHs sampled as “controls” from villages along non -KERRP road lines.

5Siem Reap Province road sections were excluded in the analysis because the work in this province were completed
very late in the program and some were still under construction at the time of the survey so the effects of road
improvement in Siem Reap would not yet be felt.




                                                         35
Effects on Daily Life: While 10.4% of KERRP households reported decreased income due
to the poor road conditions at baseline, only 1.6% felt that road conditions were depressing
their incomes at the conclusion of the project (possibly because not all KERRP road lines
extended fully to reach paved roads). At the same time, the percentage of non-covered
households believing the road conditions in their locality decreased their incomes worsened
from 10.1% at baseline in 2012 to 13.7% in mid-2014. Access to health services improved
for KERRP households between the baseline and endline (35.3% reporting difficulty in
2012 versus 2.4% in 2014) while the percentage of non-covered households reporting
difficulty also improved during the period from 41.9% to 17.3%. Similarly, 33% of covered
households had difficulty with access to schools initially and this figure improved
dramatically to 3% after road line rehabilitation, while these numbers improved only
slightly from 26.4% to 22.5% over the same period for non-covered households. Travel to
community events saw dramatic improvement in KERRP households as 3.8% of
households claim difficulty at endline compared to 47.8% at baseline, while there about
half as much improvement in non-covered households (43.9% in 2012 and 24.9% in 2014).

Finally, there was a highly significant improvement in respondents’ assessment of traffic
accidents. At the end of the project, only 1.4% of respondents (households) reported that
road conditions were a cause of increased traffic accidents, down from 65.0% at baseline.
The percentage of non-covered households believing that the road conditions in their
locality led to increased accidents, increased over the same period.

    Table 5.2: Effect of road condition on access to services and on business (% of HHs)

                 Survey Questions                    Covered HHs       Non-covered HHs

    How does road condition affect daily                     End of           End of
                                                     Baseline        Baseline
    life in terms of:                                        Project          Project
    Decreased income                                   10.4%     1.6% 10.1%       13.7%
    Difficult access to health services                35.3%    2.4%     41.9%    17.3%
    Difficult access to school                         33.5%    3.0%     26.4%    22.5%
    Difficult travel to social/ community
                                                       47.8%    3.8%     43.9%    24.9%
    events
    Increase in traffic accidents                      65.0%    1.4%     8.10%    12.8%
    How does road condition affect your             End of                        End of
                                           Baseline                    Baseline
    HH's business/ occupation in terms of:          Project                       Project
    Stop HH business                                    9.6%    2.2%      8.1%    11.2%
    Increased transportation costs                     40.0%    1.9%     39.2%    20.1%
    Decreased business activities                      21.0%    2.4%     21.6%    14.5%
    Disconnected from business partners                59.2%    3.8%     52.0%    26.5%
Source: KERRP Household Surveys – Baseline and end of Project




                                                36
Effects on Business/Occupation: While 9.6% of KERRP households reported “before
project” that the poor road conditions effectively stopped their household business, this
number decreased to 2.2% at the end of the project; non-covered households increased
from 8.1% to 11.2%. On transportation costs, the percentage of covered households that
reporting increased transportation costs due to the poor road conditions declined from 40%
“before project” to 1.9% “after project”: this is a major improvement especially when
compared to non-covered households where the number of households reporting higher
transportation costs was halved to 20.1% at the end of the project. Business activities were
reported to have improved in the project area, with the percentage of households suffering
effects of poor road conditions down to 2.4% from 21.0% at baseline. The percent of
households feeling disconnected from business partners declined from 24.7% to 0.3% after
KERRP intervention. Damage to vehicles was considered a consequence of poor road
conditions by 59.2% of KERRP households at baseline and only 3.8% at the end of the
project; non-covered households also improved over the period, but not as substantially,
from 52.0% down to 26.5%.

Roads with dust control

The project has treated 292.8 km of the rehabilitated roads with dust control (mainly SBST
and 2.8 km of concrete pavement). Dust control was applied to road sections which pass
through villages. According to the end of project road construction report and the
Commune Database 2010, 275 villages were covered by the dust control sections, with
about 43,500 households and 206,000 people benefitting from those road dust control
measures; the target for the project was 253 villages.
Households in target villages reported that the road dust affecting their residence was much
reduced. As presented in Table 6, 74.6% of covered households reported in the baseline
that the road produced dusty or very dusty conditions. This decreased to 56.2% in target
villages, while the non-target increased (71.1% in baseline to 82.6% at end-line). The
percentage of households from the covered target villages reporting “almost no dust”
increased from 5.2% to 26.3%. This would be expected to improve with time since the dust
control treatment was only performed in the last few months of the project, and in some
cases, it was not yet in place when the end-line survey was being conducted.

Respondents were also asked about dust conditions during their travel. As travelers,
household respondents also reported that the level of dust coming up from the road was
reduced. At baseline, most households (over 90% in both non-covered and covered groups)
reported conditions to be dusty or very dusty when traveling along the roads. This was
decreased to 63% along target road lines while non-project road lines barely improved with
83%. The good category of “almost no dust” improved in the project areas from 0% at
baseline to 19.3% at the end of the project, while it rose from 0% to 2.0% in the non-
KERRP roads. However, these “after project” data were collected too early to capture all
of the positive effects since the dust control treatment works were only recently completed
or were still ongoing. This was, of course, unavoidable as the survey was conducted as late
as possible – about two months prior to the end of the project.




                                            37
In general, beneficiaries expressed high levels of satisfaction with:

     Both the new roads and the quality of road construction;

     The much reduced travel times and not having to wade through mud;

     Much less dust;

     Good quality water from nearby wells;

     New latrines, conveniently located next to their houses.




                                             38
                Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A Project Completion and Dissemination Workshop took place at the Sokha Angkor Hotel,
Siem Reap Province, on July 28, 2014. It was attended by the Minister and the Secretary
of State of the MRD, the governors, respectively deputy governors, of the six project
provinces, district governors, chiefs of communes and villages, other government officials
involved in the project implementation, representatives of NGOs, project consultants, and
representatives of the project beneficiaries. Members of the Bank’s task team were also in
attendance: in total about 250 people.

The Minister MRD lauded the successful cooperation between RGC and the World Bank
in completing the project on time, and without an extension. He stressed the big
contribution the project has made towards development and poverty reduction. On behalf
of the MRD he requested all project participants to contribute towards the maintenance of
the project benefits for a long time.

A presentation of the project’s achievements was made, and the Project Director discussed
some of the challenges and problem-solving strategies, and the many valued and valuable
experiences the project provided to the various stakeholders. He praised
the efforts and the strong cooperation between RGC, Development Partners, contractors,
consultants, all level of local authorities, and local people in the region to implement this
project successfully.

Then the attendees were invited to ask questions and make comments. Below are the
highlights:
 Have arrangements been made for the O&M of this new infrastructure?
 Load limits for heavy trucks should be imposed on these roads to prevent damaging
   them.
 More rural roads of this type are needed for other villages.
 Mrs. Chres Thida from Sret Kert village, Konthraing commune, Bakong district, Siem
   Reap province, spoke on behalf of her people. She showed her appreciation for the new
   roads that are “good, clean, and easy for people to access. Nowadays, these roads help
   to increase the likelihood of the local people’s lives to be better”. Finally, she requested
   to have the same type of project road in her commune, with a length of about 5km.
 Mr. Ham Song from Banteay Chas village, Thnoat Chom commune, Baray district,
   Kampong Thom province showed his appreciation, and expressed his thanks to MRD,
   PDRDs, and WB who have reconstructed the Banteay Chas Bridge which is one of the
   important bridges in his village.
 Mr. Hoar Sophal from Boeng Proul Leu village, Boeng Proul commune, Tbong
   Khmom district, Tbong Khmom province, mentioned that not only his villagers benefit
   from the project, such as the pump wells and latrines, but also the people in Kampong
   Cham and Tbong Khmom Province.




                                              39
Further similar comments from benefiting community members were also received:
 The road is now in good condition.
 The road has been recently completed with a good standard.
 The reconstructed road is smooth and easy for travelling.
 People can drive faster than before.
 Both adults and children can now travel to take care of their business such as going to
   school, community events, and connecting to the market place.
 The road as reconstructed by the project has nearby connection to the main road
   toward the major town.
 The reduction of dust has reduced illnesses.
 Property damage and injury has been reduced because of the dust control work.
 Local authorities reported that almost all households in target villages use the wells
   constructed by the project, except if they need a large amount of water, in which case
   they have to pump from canal/pond/lake.
 Distance to clean drinking water used to be several kilometers, but now we have safe
   water within a few meters.
 The majority of households in the village now have latrines.
 The latrines are safer for the women in the household.
 We have understood the importance of sanitation for our health.




                                           40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR6


Typhoon Ketsana that struck Cambodia between 29 September 2009 and 5 October 2009
caused extensive flood damage to infrastructure, (estimated by the Post Disaster Needs
Assessment to cost $58 Million and losses of $74 Million), in 14 provinces. The RGC
formally requested IDA assistance on 9 October 2009, just four days after the disaster. The
Bank responded with the preparation of an Emergency Project Paper which contained
support for the emergency response that provided a) retroactive financing for specific
eligible expenditures made for emergency relief, b) for road reconstruction and
rehabilitation and provision of water supply and sanitation in six heavily damaged
provinces, (Banteay Meanchey, Battambang, Kampong Cham, Kampong Chhnang,
Kampong Thom, and Siem Reap); c) Project implementation support and, d) technical
assistance to the NCDM. The Paper was approved one year later on 14 October 2010, the
Financing Agreement was signed on 11 November 2010 and thereafter the loan became
effective on 30 November 2010. The project end closure date remained unchanged as 31
July 2014.

The long-term development objective of the project was to restore the service levels of
transport and water and sanitation to the affected people in the project provinces and
strengthen RGC's capacity in disaster preparedness and management. From the Project
Development Objectives, the following Project Development Outcomes have been
achieved: (a) restored levels of infrastructure service to national standards; (b) improved
access to rural road, water, and sanitation facilities for the affected communities; and (c)
improved capacity for emergency preparedness and management capacity.

       The provision of retroactive funding greatly assisted the Government to carry out
        emergency repairs of about 15km urban roads in Siem Reap city ($4.2 Million)
        and to pay for technical services to conduct road damage assessment surveys and
        to mobilize an individual managing consultant for the project preparation and
        initial implementation stages.
MRD – Components 2 and 3

Following a protracted procurement process, the International Managing Consultant (MC)
mobilized in September 2011. Surveys and detailed engineering designs were conducted
and the first package of road contracts was awarded in September 2012. The Contractors
experienced mobilization delays due to high levels of flooding and works did not get under
way until December 2012. The successive road packages were awarded in February 2013
(Packages 2 and 3), and in September 2013 (Package 4) with work commencing in
November 2013.


6
 This executive summary of the Borrower’s main project completion report as prepared by MRD
was edited for brevity and clarity, and also reformatted. Relevant sections of the separate NCDM
completion report for Component 4 were added to this annex.



                                              41
Revisions were made to Project Design Targets in June 2012 as the project was an
emergency project and therefore a full appraisal had not been carried out and without a
feasibility study or any form of engineering information collected.

By the unchanged project closing date of 31 July 2014, some 615km, (on 67 road sections),
had been restored to better than pre-disaster levels; 290km were treated with SBST for dust
control. All roads were completed with new or repaired box culverts (74), pipe culverts
(338) and 5 minor bridges and one major bridge. In addition, 2.79km of concrete roads
(“causeways”) were constructed in flood-prone villages for dust control. The total value of
road works was $27.3 Million.

Also by the closing date, 1,220 successful wells, (total value $4.2 Million), were drilled in
180 villages and 1,220 Water and Sanitation User Groups (WSUG) trained in pump
operation and maintenance and hygiene promoted to the respective WSUG.

18,645 pour-flush latrines (total value $4.4 Million) were constructed in 150 villages and
by 31 July 2014, some 11,641 (63%) superstructures had been built on the latrine
substructures by householders. Beneficiaries clearly have taken ownership and started to
use the latrines, resulting in reduced Open Field Defecation (OFD).
Considerable risks were identified by the Bank during the Project preparation. Mitigation
actions included the engagement of an experienced international engineering firm as the
managing consultant (MC), the deployment of an experienced and qualified national
financial management consultant, and the use of the IPA for procurement. No major social
or environmental issues have arisen during the Project.

Project Development Objectives and outcomes were fully met. Beneficiaries expressed
high levels of satisfaction with both the new roads and their quality: the much reduced
travel times and not having to wade through mud; much less dust; good quality water from
wells; and new latrines – conveniently located next to their houses. Project targets were
met or exceeded and the project was completed on time and within budget.
The Project built local capacity of contractors in the country, the capacity of MRD staff
and it introduced climate change resistant design elements into the infrastructure
improvements – all of which will pay dividends in the future.

The Project was considered highly relevant as it was consistent with RGC’s “Rectangular
Strategy for Growth, Employment, Equity and Efficiency, Phase-III” of September 2013,
which is a clear blueprint to guide the activities of all stakeholders to further pursue and
strengthen long-term sustainable development aimed at promoting economic growth,
creating jobs, equitable distribution of the fruits of growth, and ensuring effectiveness of
public institutions and management of resources. The Project addressed element within
three of the four “Rectangles”; in particular: Rectangle II: (Development of Physical
Infrastructure), explicitly calls for transport infrastructure development; Rectangle III
(local private sector strengthening); and Rectangle IV, (improved water supply, sanitation
and health). The Rectangular Strategy was underpinned by a call for good governance and
leveraging of partnerships for the country’s development, reduction in poverty and




                                             42
achievement of Cambodia’s Millennium Development Goals (CMDG); all of which the
will Project contributed to.

In terms of sustainability, the project design aimed to “build back better” the roads
damaged by the Typhoon, to include climate change resilient designs and to make the roads
more sustainable. This aim has been generally achieved through the construction of good
quality roads with many suitably sized cross-drainage structures. The road drainage
structures have been well protected from erosion by the use of either grouted riprap or cast
in-situ concrete. The roadside slopes have been made erosion resistant by the planting of
indigenous grass, especially in villages and road sections treated with SBST. An average
road base of laterite, with a compacted thickness of 225mm, was used on the roads.

For the water and sanitation facilities, sustainability was expected to be achieved through
the formation of WSUGs, taught their roles and responsibilities and good hygiene practices
explained to them, with a particular emphasis on the need to use the household pour-flush
latrines built under the project. There has been good uptake by householders as they have
constructed the latrine superstructures voluntarily. MRD is committed to work with all
concerned to ensure that all the superstructures are built before the target date of 31
December 2014.

All roads, wells and latrines have been constructed to national standards. Roads have been
designed with improved cross-drainage as an adaptation to the more frequent and intensive
flooding that can be expected from climate change.

A household survey of project and non-project households was undertaken at baseline in
2012 and at the end of the project in May/June 2014. The positive effect of the project road
reconstruction on daily life and livelihoods was dramatic. 10.4% of KERRP households
reported decreased income due to the poor road conditions at baseline, and only 1.6%
thought that road conditions were depressing their incomes at the conclusion of the project.

Access to health services improved for KERRP households between the baseline and at the
end of the project (35.3% reporting difficulty in 2012, versus 2.4% in 2014). Similarly,
33% of covered households had difficulty with access to schools initially and this figure
improved dramatically to 3% after road line rehabilitation. Travel to community events
saw dramatic improvement in KERRP households as 3.8% of households claim difficulty
at the end of the project compared to 47.8% at baseline.

There was a highly significant improvement in respondents’ assessment of traffic accidents.
At end line, 1.4% of respondents (households) reported that the road condition was a cause
of increased traffic accidents, down from 65.0% at baseline.

The effects of the Project on businesses or occupations were also positive. While 9.6% of
KERRP households reported that poor road conditions negatively affected their household
business at baseline, this number decreased to 2.2% at the end of the project.
On transportation costs, the percentage of covered households reporting increased
transportation costs due to the condition of the road declined between baseline and the end



                                            43
of the project from 40% to 1.9%. Business activities were reported to have improved in the
project area with the percentage of households suffering the effects of a poor road down to
2.4% from 21.0% at baseline. Damage to vehicles was considered a consequence of poor
road condition by 59.2% of KERRP households at baseline and only 3.8% at the end of the
project.

Traffic volumes have increased dramatically along the project’s road sections as shown by
traffic surveys conducted on a representative sample of 19 out of KERRP’s 67 road
sections. Goods traffic which is comprised of trucks of 2 or more axles, has increased very
substantially by 164% while motorized passenger traffic which is comprised of hand
tractors, buses, mini-buses, cars and motorcycles, has increased by 25% from 2012 (before
project intervention) to mid-2014 (after completion of the road line rehabilitation). Overall,
non-motorized traffic (bicycles and pedestrians) was found to have decreased by 10% over
the same period as these travelers apparently shifted to motorized means of transportation.

Based on a survey of 385 households from villages along the improved road lines in early
2012 (before project) and again in May/June 2014 (after project), the quality of the road is
acknowledged to have improved dramatically with 76% of respondents rating the road as
good or excellent quality (96% if we include “fair”) after KERRP compared to 80% rating
the road as poor or very poor in the baseline. According to a road speed survey, the road
driving speed improved, on average from 9.2 km/h before the road was rehabilitated, to
43.0 km/h afterwards, based on a sample of 19 road sections covering all six KERRP
provinces.

An economic analysis was carried out using the HDM IV model by comparing transport
costs for road agency and transport users under “with-project” and “without-project”
options. The economic analysis used two categories of benefits: (i) saving of vehicle
operating costs due to improved road conditions, and (ii) saving of travel time due to
increased travel speeds. The economic analysis indicated that the road investments yielded
an EIRR of 50.1%.

Generally, the Project delivered the expected impacts:

   KERRP, with the assistance of MC, improved the capacity of the PMU to plan and
    design and conduct construction supervision of the roads and these works were built to
    the specified construction quality and within the allocated Project budget.
   Similarly MRD staff capacity in the planning, assessment, design, and construction
    supervision of the wells and latrines was improved. However, the MRD thinks that
    even more capacity building benefits could have accrued for its staff, if they had been
    provided with a modest additional income to support them during the intense project
    operations, working with the MC.
   MRD, both at the PMU and PPIU levels, now have a much better understanding and
    have actually put into practice the environmental and social safeguards required under
    RGC and Development Partner regulations. There were no serious environmental
    impacts or resettlement issues during the project and the few cases were dealt with to
    the satisfaction of the Bank.


                                             44
   MRD’s monitoring and evaluation capacity was improved through the assistance of the
    MC consultants who developed a Project Performance Management framework,
    database and reporting formats in close coordination with MRD staff. MC provided
    M&E training in the form of workshops and on-the-job activities.
   The capacity of some 14 National civil works contractors has been greatly
    strengthened, particularly in construction management and in technical areas such as
    earthworks, reinforced concrete, and materials testing.
   The Project was designed to produce positive environmental and social impacts. And
    indeed interviews, discussions in several community meetings and field observations
    carried out during field visits in all road sections suggested significant initial positive
    impacts of the road rehabilitation and installation of the water and sanitation facilities.
    Road improvements have increased access to markets for agricultural products, health
    centers, schools, nearby villages and commune centers, as well as to agriculture land.
    In particular, the improved roads have significantly reduced travel time and costs,
    increased travel convenience, reduced risks of damage to home industry products (such
    as water jars), promoted densification of villages as new houses are being constructed,
    promoted new and expanded small businesses, (especially small shops), improved
    opportunities to sell higher priced agricultural products, and improved health
    conditions, (due to less road dust particularly in the SBST areas, improved air quality
    (as a result of the dust control measures/SBST in the community areas), and cleaner
    houses. Children can now reach their schools more timely. Social interactions can be
    strengthened due to improved road access, and tourist biking is more convenient in
    Siem Reap especially. Road improvement has also generated additional incomes for
    the households from the cash-for work grass and tree planting on road embankments.
   The initial positive impacts of wells and latrines installation were obvious. Villagers
    claim that the wells now provide them close access to better water which is potable and
    which will be available throughout the year. The wells are particularly benefiting
    women and children. Ownerships of the wells seem to be high as the WSUGs are aware
    on their responsibility to maintain them with the provided toolkits and manuals. The
    latrines installed by the project have also reduced the OFD of the villagers but
    awareness of avoiding OFD still needs to be increased.
Project stakeholder performance was generally very good with proactive cooperation
between the various project stakeholders, in particular between MRD and MEF and
between MRD and the MC. Direct communications between the MRD and the Contractors
to ensure they understood the contractual and cost implications of poor quality work
resulted in the final result of all works being completed according to the technical
specifications and drawings by Project closure.

Initial Loan and Grant disbursement was slow initially; this was caused by a number of
factors: (i) delayed procurement of the MC services; (ii) delayed procurement of the civil
works; (iii) extreme and unusually extensive flooding in the 2012 and 2013 rainy seasons.




                                              45
Some of the lessons learned from this project are as follows:
   Incorporation of public road safety awareness and campaigns should be included in
    future project designs, given that traffic speeds increase dramatically on improved
    roads;
   Procurement procedures for an emergency project should be streamlined and
    shortened;
   Thorough physical inspections of bidders completed (or ongoing) contracts should be
    conducted during evaluation to screen out contractors lacking the experience to execute
    quality work in compressed timeframes;
   Both technical and non-technical components of procurement documentation should
    be explicit; pre-bid meetings should be held to properly brief potential civil works
    bidders so that they can bid accurately and realistically;
   Conditions of Contract, critical bid information and a glossary of terms should be
    translated into the local language to aid contractors comprehension and compliance
    with the requirements;
   The absence of reliable cost data on road construction and rehabilitation can lead to
    shortfalls in Project outputs, therefore extra efforts and cooperation to obtain, and make
    public, this information is recommended (such as posting on relevant Ministry and
    Development Partner websites);
   Contractor capacity building was done during project implementation. It was found that
    only ”on-the -job” training, together with direct mentoring and support by practical
    engineers and contracts specialists, was really effective;
   To achieve sustainability of project outcomes, community development activities need
    to be done for WATSAN projects and for rural road maintenance. As such activities
    should start early in the project cycle and take time they may not be fully compatible
    with a short-term emergency project;
   Field based data collection and reporting using smart phones is an effective means of
    reporting especially for emergency projects. GPS-tagged smart phones may also be
    used for future projects;
   If communities are well-informed of the benefits and duration of a Project prior to
    commencement, they will be more likely to understand and be patient during the
    Project activities and accept temporary inconveniences during construction.
In summary, the World Bank had responded to Typhoon Ketsana with the preparation of
an Emergency Project Paper which contained support for the emergency response that
provided retroactive financing for specific eligible expenditures made for emergency relief.
The paper was approved one year later on 14 October 2010 and, thereafter, the loan became
effective on 30 November 2010. The provision of retroactive funding greatly assisted the
Government to carry out emergency repairs on roads in Siem Reap city and to employ
individual consultants to help prepare the project.
The Bank had prepared a generally well-designed innovative project in the 12 months
between the request and approval. The PDO were simple but clear and thus achievable with


                                             46
appropriate implementation arrangements that did not require any technical modifications
during the Project. Indeed there were few significant changes in the Project design, despite
it being prepared without the usual, time-consuming Project appraisal normally carried out
for Bank projects. The design was prepared in such a way that environmental and social
safeguards were well covered; the former through a good initial environmental assessment
and EMP, and the later by the use of the resettlement policy framework.

The Project design noted that World Bank supervision would need to be relatively intensive
given the emergency nature of the Project and because of the risks that were identified in
the Project Paper. MRD has noted that the Bank was reasonably flexible in its approach to
the Project due to the dynamic post-disaster conditions.
The Bank’s regular supervision missions, as well as the technical missions, (conducted
during the latter part of the construction activities), were of high quality and thorough and
were much appreciated by MRD as these helped to keep the Project on track and helped
highlight actions to taken by the various stakeholders to improve project progress and
implementation.

The Bank supervision met the following key criteria for good quality:
    The Bank team members were proactive throughout their supervision and with their
      support.
      There was a consistent focus on the PDO which remained unchanged, and the
       project scope was modified to still meet the PDO.
      Safeguard aspects were consistently supervised which resulted in positive
       environmental impacts and only minor problems, (that were resolved during the
       Project), as far as land acquisition was concerned.
      Financial management was consistently satisfactory.
      Full supervision teams, staffed with experienced and highly qualified specialists
       visited the project on average twice a year and conducted detailed site visits and
       intensive dialogues with MRD, MEF, the Project Consultants and the communities.
Lastly, three areas of improvement for the Bank are worth considering: a more rapid
response in the preparation of the Project Paper; more consistent Procurement advice; and
for future IDA supported projects consideration is made for the provision of project staff
support in the form of salary supplements.
MRD believed that the Bank’s performance overall has been satisfactory with excellent
and intense supervision throughout the life of the Project. In summary, MRD is pleased to
note that the Bank has ranked the overall project implementation as “satisfactory”. Despite
the difficult circumstances, the project was completed within the original Project timeframe
and nearly the entire budget was utilized. This was achieved through collaborative
teamwork between the MRD, MEF, World Bank, the MC, and the civil works contractors.




                                             47
NCDM – Component 4
Introduction

Cambodia lies within the Mekong, Tonle Sap and Bassac river basins. Hydro-
meteorological hazards dominate the hazard profile of Cambodia - serious flooding
occurred in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2009, 2011 and 2013 while the propensity for widespread
but highly localized drought is ever present. The impacts of climate change were
considered to be a major issue. Occasionally, Cambodia is affected by Pacific typhoons
and in 2009, Typhoon Ketsana affected many provinces. The rationale for the project is the
increasing hazard profile of the country, dominated by floods and other hydro-
meteorological hazards. Strengthening the country's disaster management systems and the
capacities of the NCDM, was a positive and proactive way of addressing these growing
problems.

Component 4 of the project supported the NCDM through institutional strengthening and
capacity development in national and provincial risk identification, in the generation,
communication, analysis and reporting of emergency management information, in the
strengthening of the early warning systems, and in the development of rural housing and
building codes.

Procurement

Since the NCDM did not have any procurement capacity, all procurement activities under
the project were carried out by the IPA on behalf of NCDM7. 15 out of 17 goods packages
have been procured and the expenditures exceeded went 26% over the actual budget. For
works 3 of the 4 packages were completed at estimated costs of US$ 115,306, with 8%
cost increase. The task completed included: (i) setting up of the Disaster Information
Center; (ii) renovation and setting up of 8 PCDM Information Offices in 8 provinces; and
(iii) renovation of ECC Building. Consultant services, 6 of the 8 packages were completed
using an estimated budget of US$ 1,907,998, with the main consultant services package to
the Asian Disaster Preparedness Center (ADPC) that provided implementation assistance
to NCDM.

Implementation



7
  Clarification by Bank: Use of the IPA was applied to all Bank-financed project due to the high
fiduciary risk in Cambodia. RGC and the Bank agreed on using the services of a procurement
agent (IPA) engaged by the Recipient under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for all
procurement to be undertaken under the Grant and Credit except Direct Contracting, SSS of
Firms, selection of individual consultants (regardless of value), hiring of NGOs, and procurement
of goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, procurement of works estimated to cost
less than $100,000 per contract, and procurement financed by sources other than the Grant,
including by the Recipient, which would not be undertaken through the procurement agent but by
the NCDM itself.



                                               48
The project was implemented by NCDM’s implementation unit, headed by a project
Director along with qualified staff, including procurement officer, financial management
consultant, and head of the technical operation unit. NCDM maintained an Operational
Manual that covered financial arrangements, and procurement safeguards procedures.
Throughout project implementation, NCDM maintained a financial management system.
An audit firm was engaged for the financial audits of the project for the 2011, 2012, 2013
and 2014 financial years.

Implementation of the work plan required close a working relationship between NCDM
and ADPC and also between the ADPC Bangkok team and the ADPC team in Phnom Penh.
Much of the technical work required under the contract was undertaken by a team of
experts selected under this project who worked in coordination with NCDM for validation
of outputs through workshops attended by a range of stakeholders and in discussions with
NCDM. The KERRP covered eight priority Provinces: Preah Sihanouk, Takeo, Prey Veng,
Steung Treng, Kratie, Pursat, Kampong Thom and Beantey Meanchey. Visits were made
to all these provinces for specific activities; eight communes (one per province) were
identified as focus communes for activities requiring a higher level of involvement. These
visits were particularly important for activities under Sub-component 2: the provincial level
awareness raising workshops on early warning systems and their strengthening, and the
local level group workshops for developing risk and evacuation maps.

Adjustments and justification of minor changes to project outputs

Since Cambodia is not prone to landslides their risk assessment was omitted from sub-
component 1. Under sub-component 3, establishing building codes would have required
legislation; this was not possible prior to project closing because of the short
implementation period of this emergency project. NCDM and the Bank agreed that a
handbook and comprehensive guidelines would be prepared that could be converted to
building codes in the future. These minor changes were agreed in late 2013.

Project outputs

Cambodia lacked comprehensive disaster risk information and analytical tools to assist
with risk assessment that can be used to promote safer development and to enhance
economic planning. In response to this, the sub-component 1 developed open source
disaster risk and economic modeling platforms and quantified the impacts of disasters on
the population, physical capital, and the overall economy, both in the short- and the long-
term. Following a hazard assessment covering storm, flood, drought and epidemic hazards,
the probabilistic risk was modeled using the CAPRA platform to estimate the direct disaster
risk in terms of damages and losses with their spatial and probabilistic distributions. The
CATSIM economic model was used to analyze fiscal and long-term economic risk
integrating probabilistic hazard, vulnerability, exposure and risk information. The
CATSIM model was built based on the probability distribution of annual economic damage
so as to fit the budgetary planning cycle of Cambodia. In addition, both static and time-
dependent input-output models were built to estimate the rippling effects of a particular



                                             49
disaster event, quantifying the impacts on the agriculture and transport sectors. All key
stakeholders in Cambodia were consulted in the development of the risk assessments at
each step of the analysis. Transfer of knowledge and capacity building of NCDM and
stakeholders was done throughout the project period. For the consultation with and training
of officials from NCDM and other stakeholders, a series of workshops was held. In order
to share the risk information with the risk management and the general public, a digital risk
atlas was created as a web portal. The user-friendly tool available in the atlas allows to
customize risk information for specific applications and situations.

Sub-component 2 included the setting up of a MHEWS and the preparation of the roadmap
for establishing a DMIC. NCDM held consultation meetings at national and provincial
levels i.e. in the eight project provinces. A gap assessment was carried out at the national,
provincial and commune levels to gain insights into the strengths and weaknesses of the
existing EWS in Cambodia. Based on these stakeholder consultations, the consultants
prepared a detailed road map for setting up an end-to-end MHEWS. The MHEWS has
already been set up within NCDM and is now in the initial functional stage. Some of the
important technical features of the EWS include:

      Capability to deliver automated critical alert messages to the population at risk;
      Ability to balance the traffic load and prevent congestion;
      Less or no human intervention during the alert execution enabling a more secure
       alert execution process;
      Ability to integrate with existing GIS (Geographical Information Systems),
       primarily by using WMS (Web Map Services); and
      Possibility to integrate with sirens and public address (PA) systems.

Although the system was functional at end of project, certain recommendations will need
to be implemented to make it more effective and efficient for warning dissemination.
Under sub-component 3 a working group was established to review and approve the two
key products of the sub-component, the guidelines and the handbook on flood- and storm-
resistant rural housing construction. Following a review of the current housing and building
design and standards, data on housing and infrastructure damage caused by large-scale
disaster events in Cambodia was collected. Then a study on existing building and
construction design, standards, guidelines and codes in Cambodia was done; it included a
review of technologies available and global good practices with regard to resilient housing
construction for rural areas. Lastly, guidelines and a user-friendly handbook on flood- and
storm-resistant rural housing construction in Cambodia were prepared. Dissemination
could not take place within the short timeframe of the project. However, recommendations
were made on how dissemination could be organized.




                                             50
Achievements of PDOs and project outcomes, plus key recommendations

A series of workshops were held close to the project closing date to review the project
achievements, give training in early warning systems (EWS), extract lessons and good
practices learned, and provide a discussion forum for disaster management professionals.
The project helped with general capacity development of NCDM, PCDM, DCDM and
CCDM. Through this project, NCDM’s capacity was developed for scaling up any future
activities through proper coordination and management. It also provided experience to the
focal points as well as the PCDM to become trainers for future activities, and the
stakeholders were exposed to conducting simulations and drills.

Risk maps and a risk atlas were provided to NCDM. An advanced multi-hazard early
warning system (MHEWS) was set up within NCDM for early warning dissemination; it
is in its initial functional stage. NCDM will need to follow the detailed roadmap for the
EWS and Disaster Management Information (DMIC) that was provided to them. The
MHEWS as well as the risk maps and risk atlas that were prepared during the project are
linked to the DMIC. This center will also act as a medium for effective and quick
dissemination of information in the event of a disaster. Sub-component 3 outputs are the
storm and flood-resistant guidelines and handbook for rural housing. In the post project
period, NCDM will need to disseminate the guidelines at the national and provincial levels;
the handbook should be distributed widely to districts and communes to create awareness
of how to build hazard-resilient rural housing. A dissemination work plan has been
prepared.

Intended and unintended project impacts

NCDM’s increased capacity to manage and prepare for disasters through sub-component
1 will minimize the potential damages and the time of recovery. It will not only reduce the
losses from disasters, but it will also reduce the expenditure diversions from development
funds to response and rehabilitation. Thus funds would eventually be secured for
sustainable development, improving social welfare and living standards. Under sub-
component 2, NCDM staff received hands-on training for handling the newly installed
EWS gauges and a two-week course on GIS. These courses will assist NCDM to handle
the EWS and the future DMIC. Exposure to software such as Geonode and CAPRA was
another area of capacity development for NCDM staffs. The training courses benefitted
other stakeholders, such as various line ministries and NGOs. Through sub-component 3,
the NCDM can work towards the issuance of the necessary legislation for rural housing
and building codes. The dissemination of the guidelines and handbook, developed by the
project, will increase the knowledge of government officials in rural areas, local communes,
village builder groups, and house builders in flood- and/or storm-prone areas by giving
them guidance on flood- and storm-resistant house construction resulting from the
dissemination of the documentation. An additional impact will be to provide rural people
with little or no building skills, who may use both, recycled and new local materials
traditional construction methods, with simple "how-to" guidance on rural house
construction in areas affected by floods and storms; it will also assist those who want to
improve the safety of their houses without significant/additional costs.



                                            51
Evaluation of performance
Bank supervision was relatively intensive given the emergency nature of the project as well
as considering the short implementation period. The Bank evaluated the project critically
and gave their suggestions and opinions on the project; they were taken into consideration
and implemented. The Bank’s regular support during the project period was much
appreciated as it helped to keep the project on track and highlighted actions to improve
project progress and implementation.

Comments from RGC

The Minister of Rural Development in his letter dated Jan 26, 2015 advised the Bank that
MRD had no comments. He stated, however, the following:

“On behalf of the MRD, I extend my utmost felicitation and appreciation for the support
of the World Bank in the interest of the Cambodian people. As highlighted in the report,
this project has been implemented successfully and in time. The project has also
contributed a great impact on the livelihood of the rural people of the six target provinces.”

On February 13, 2015 the Senior Minister for Special Missions and First Vice-President of
NCDM advised the Bank that there are no comments on the part of the NCDM.




                                             52
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                    53
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Aide Memoires. December 2009 to October 2014.

The World Bank and the Royal Government of Cambodia. Post-Disaster Needs
Assessment – Main Report. March 2010.

The World Bank. Environmental and Social Screening Assessment Framework (ESSAF).
April 2010.

The World Bank. Emergency Project Paper for the Ketsana Emergency Reconstruction
and Rehabilitation Project - Report No. 57322-KH. October 2010.

Financing Agreement. November 2010.

Sheladia Associates, Inc. KERRP Project Completion Report [for MRD components].
August 2014.

Asian Disaster Preparedness Center. Project Completion Report (NCDM-KERRP).
November 2014.

Project Preparation Technical Team, PMO, KERRP. Road Reconstruction Completion
Inspection Report. October 2011.




                                        54
                               Annex 10. Project Pictures




Fig. 1: Laterite road construction




Fig. 2: Reinforced concrete roads were built in locations prone to flooding


                                             55
Fig 3: Banteay Chas Bridge, destroyed by Typhoon Ketsana




Fig. 4: New Banteay Chas Bridge at Project Completion




                                          56
Photos 5 & 6: Dramatic improvement in dust control by use of SBST




                                          57
Fig. 7 & 8: Application of SBST for dust control




                                            58
Fig. 9: Multiple pipe culvert drainage structure




Fig. 10: Multiple box culvert drainage structure
with channel erosion and slope protection



                                             59
Fig. 11 & 12: Handpump on well pad with drainage channel




                                         60
Fig. 13 - 15: Different types of latrine superstructures built by householders




                                             61
62
