Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16397
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
March 21, 1997
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
End of Period
Dinars/US Dollar
1988          6.73
1989          8.03
1990          12.19
1991          21.39
1992          21.84
1993          23.34
1994          35.06
1995          47.66
1996          54.68
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCR          Entreprise Nationale de Production de Boulonnerie, Coutellerie et Robinetterie.
BEA          Banque Exterieure d'Algerie
CNP          Conseil National de Planification
EMB          Entreprise Nationale des Emballages Metalliques
ENORI        Entreprises Nationale d'Organisation et d'Informatique
EPE          Entreprise publique &conomique
FPs          Fonds de participation
IPIP         Industrial Performance Improvement Project
IRDP         Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project
PE           Public Enterprise
PROMETAL  Entreprise Nationale de Produits Metalliques Utilitaires
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President     :     Mr. Kemal Dervi§
Director           :     Mr. Daniel Ritchie
Division Chief     :     Mr. Amir Al-Khafaji
Responsible Staff   :    Mr. Charles Sterling, Financial Analyst
Mr. Ahmed El-Hamri, Consultant



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .....................................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............................................1
A. Project Objectives ....................................................................1l
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .....................................................................4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................................................8
D. Project Sustainability ....................................................................                                       8
E. Bank  Performance .....................................................................9
F. Borrower Performance .....................................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome .....................................................................11
H. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................................11
PART  II:  STATISTICAL   TABLES ....................................................................                                 13
Table 1:   Summary Assessments ....................................................................                                 14
Table 2:   Other Bank Loans/Credits ....................................................................                            15
Table 3:   Schedule Loans 3210 through 3214) ....................................................................                   16
Table 4.1: Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (Loan 3210)                                              .        .           17
Table 4.2: Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (Loan 3211)                                              .        .           17
Table 4.3: Disbursements: Cumulative Planned and Actual (Loan 3214)                                              .         .           18
Table 4.4: Disbursements: Cumulative Planned and Actual (Loan 3212)                                              .         .           18
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Loan 3210) .................................................. 19
Table Sb: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Loan 3211) ................................................. 20
Table 6:   Studies Included in Project ....................................................................                         21
Table 7:   Project Cost Breakdown ....................................................................                              22
Table 8:   Project Financing ....................................................................                                   23
Table 9:   Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................................                           24
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff ....................................................................                                26
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions .................................                                                                27
ANNEXES: Borrowers' Completion Reports * ..................................                                                          28
Annex 1: EMB ................................                                                                                        29
Annex 2a: BCR ................................                                                                                       36
Annex 2b: BCR ..................................                                                                                     41
Annex 3: ENORI ..................................                                                                                    48
* Neither the Government of Algeria nor PROMETAL submitted a completion report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Restructuring
Demonstration Project funded by Loans Nos. 3210-3214/AL in the total amount of US$99.5
million. These loans were approved by the Board on May 31, 1990, were signed on January 8,
1991, and became effective on May 31, 1991 for /'Entreprise nationale de production de
boulonnerie, coutellerie et robinetterie (BCR), I'Entreprise nationale de produits metalliques
utilitaires (PROMETAL), I'Entreprises nationale d'organisation et d'informatique (ENORI) and
the Ministry of Industry and on November 19, 1996 for /'Entreprise nationale des emballages
metalliques (EMB). The original closing date of June 30, 1995 was extended only in the case of
Loan 3211 (BCR) to December 31, 1995. The last disbursement was made on February 1, 1996,
and the undisbursed balance of US$23,935,452.27 was canceled.
This ICR was prepared by Ahmed El-Hamri, consultant, in collaboration with Judith
Press and Charles Sterling of the Private Sector, Finance, and Infrastructure Division, Country
Department I of the Middle East and North Africa Region. It was reviewed by Amir Al-Khafaji,
Division Chief, and Rene Costa, Project Advisor in Country Department I.
Preparation of the ICR is based on material in the project files and on the completion reports
provided by the various Borrowers. The report has been sent for comment to the Government and
to the individual public enterprises.



I



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)   The Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project (IRDP-Loans 3210-3214 AL) was
approved by the Board on May 31, 1990. These loans, designed to support Algeria's Economic
Reform program, were part of the Bank's involvement in the restructuring process of the
industrial sector. The project was an important aspect of a strategy to strengthen the supply
response of the productive sector and initiate a restructuring process in three representative
enterprises. The goal was to use the experience gleaned from this project to replicate the process
on a larger scale (para. 1).
Project objectives and design
(ii)   At appraisal. The IRDP was designed to implement specific actions that would result in
improved efficiency and competitiveness of the PEs (public enterprises), with the goal of
increasing productivity and profitability through a streamlining of production operations and a
reorganizing of the management structure. Two main objectives were outlined in the SAR: (a) to
help a small number of representative industrial enterprises (EMB, BCR and PROMETAL),
operating in the engineering goods subsector, to restructure successfully, with an expected
demonstration effect on the rest of the industrial sector (with respect to both the process itself and
the types of benefits that can be obtained); and (b) to strengthen local management consulting
skills, necessary to replicate the restructuring process on a larger scale and over a period of time
(para. 2). The project included three components (paras. 4-7):
* The implementation of restructuring programs for EMB, BCR and PROMETAL. Theses
programs included: i) the upgrading of management information systems, ii) investments in plant
and equipment as well as pollution control systems, and iii) studies, training, and other technical
assistance.
* A program to improve the consulting capabilities of ENORI in the areas of information
systems management, diagnostic studies, and organizational reengineering.
* Sectoral and enterprise studies for future restructuring programs.
(iii)  During implementation. The project did not achieve its stated objectives. Project
implementation was undermined by the negative impact of macroeconomic constraints on the
PEs. It was necessary to revise the corporate strategies pursued by the enterprises, including the
continuing viability of proposed investments and the ability of the enterprises to service
additional debt.



ii
(iv)   Evaluation of objectives and risks. Given  the economic conditions prevailing in
Algeria during the period 1989-96, as well as the slow pace of economic reform, the
demonstration effect sought was unlikely to materialize. The objective of industrial restructuring
was compromised by risks inherent to the socioeconomic environment. The lack of institutional
support contributed to delays in project effectiveness. Changes in the political environment and
leadership led to policy priorities away from structural adjustment (during the post-appraisal
period of 1989-early 1990's); this resulted in new macroeconomic constraints. Factors, such as
the devaluation of the local currency, import restrictions, foreign exchange rationing, the
shrinking domestic (inter-enterprise) market, and the lack of real PE managerial autonomy
represented serious obstacles to project implementation. Project objectives were also threatened
by poor production and inventory management, as well as inadequate financial management
(paras. 8-11).
(v)   Implementation experience and results. The financial and physical objectives of the
project were partially achieved; in particular BCR did improve its operating efficiency. As a
result of delays in project implementation, loan disbursements did not keep to the schedule
anticipated in the appraisal report (tables 4 and 5). The project incurred additional costs
attributable to the successive devaluations of the Algerian dinar. Furthermore, major gaps in the
utilization of funds contributed to the enterprises' poor performance in the acquisition of
production equipment essential to improving industrial efficiency (paras. 13-18). In addition, the
lack of vision among interested parties, such as the FPs (Fonds de participation) and local banks
undermined the effectiveness of the project (causing delays in setting up project implementation
units and in procurement procedures). The Borrower's commitment to the restructuring process
was not consistent with project strategy and weakened as implementation proceeded sluggishly.
Thus, the process proved to be more complex, risky, difficult and costly than perceived at the
identification and appraisal stages (para. 19). Environmental objectives were partially achieved.
However, due to poor supervision, there is no indication as to the amount of funds spent on
environmental management (para. 20).
(vi)  Key factors. The period 1991-1994 was marked by increasing civil strife and some
important reversals of economic policy. Planned adjustment and structural reform measures were
delayed. Among the major factors affecting the industrial restructuring project were: (a) the
negative effects of economic reform on industry in general and on the enterprises in particular
(industrial production declined by 3.5 percent, with output falling in most industries during the
1989-93 period); (b) the drop in oil prices, causing a decline in foreign exchange earnings; (c) the
imposition of import controls in order to ration foreign exchange; (d) the time required to
restructure the enterprises and the complexity of the process; (e) the lack of ownership of the
project by the FPs; (f) the slow implementation of market mechanisms; (g) the absence of change
in the governance of public enterprises; and (h) the deficiencies in the financial and banking
sector, which was not conducive to industrial restructuring (paras. 22-23).
(vii) Project sustainability. Given the present conditions prevailing in the Algerian economy,
the sustainability of the project is uncertain. The demonstration effect of the restructuring
operation was not realized in the short term (para. 24).



iii
(viii) Bank and Borrower performance. The Bank's identification, preparation and appraisal
of the IRDP was deficient. It should be noted that the Bank underestimated the risks associated
with the project, as well as the degree of difficulty of PE restructuring. The supervision of the
project was deficient. One annual supervision mission was not enough to allow proper followup
or the opportunity to identify and solve major problems. The Borrower's performance was
deficient and its commitment to the project and its objectives was unsatisfactory (paras. 25-29).
(ix)   Assessment of outcome. The project outcome is unsatisfactory. Most enterprises did
not perform as envisaged. The exception was BCR, whose management demonstrated a keen
interest in the implementation of the project (para. 30).
(x)   Key lessons learned. There are a number of lessons to be learned from this project:
* Borrower ownership must be sought throughout the project, from conception to
completion. The lack of commitment of the stakeholders to this project resulted in poor
enterprise performances (para. 31);
* micro-level restructuring without an enabling macroeconomic framework is unlikely
to be successful;
*    ownership restructuring should be an essential component of an industrial
restructuring project;
*  project objectives, as well as their implications, need to be stated with clarity,
consistency and transparency so that participating enterprises know precisely what is required of
them (para. 32);
a efficient and close supervision as well as dialogue should be maintained, on a
continuous basis, with the Borrowers;
* project implementation units must be familiarized with Bank guidelines so that an
efficient organizational structure is maintained during implementation.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Objectives at the Appraisal Stage
1.    At the time the project was appraised in late 1988, Algeria's industrial sector was the
focus of a structural reform program initiated at the beginning of that year, in which the first step
had been to replace centralized planning with indicative planning. This change led to (a) the
dismantling of the Ministry of Planning and its replacement by the National Commission of
Planning, and (b) enactment of a series of laws converting the country's public enterprises
(except those designated as "strategic") into financially autonomous entities known as EPEs
(entreprises publiques &conomniques), which were theoretically free to make their own decisions
regarding production and distribution. By the end of 1992, the passage to autonomy affected
about 350 enterprises that had undergone financial restructuring. In addition, the Governnent's
overall institutional and economic reform package included a number of measures aimed at
changing the way the industrial sector functioned, in particular: (a) creation of eight fonds de
participation (FPs, state-owned holding companies), to serve as the shareholders of the EPEs;
(b) financial reorganization of the EPEs, many of which were burdened with excessive debt, to
provide them with an adequate capital structure; (c) more flexible access to foreign exchange;
(d) a more flexible pricing system in line with market mechanisms; and (e) elimination of
monopoly rights on domestic production and distribution, and lifting of limitations on private
sector development and foreign investment.
2.    The project was identified as an important part of the program of ongoing economic
reform within Algeria. Therefore, in order to maximize project impact, in the context of
structural reforms in the industrial sector, two main objectives were agreed upon: (a) assisting a
small number of representative industrial enterprises to restructure successfully, to demonstrate
the feasibility of restructuring for the rest of the industrial sector; and (b) strengthening local
management consulting skills, needed for the diffusion of the restructuring process on a larger
scale and over the long term. Given the demonstration nature of the project, it was decided to
focus on the engineering goods subsector, where the typical EPE was affected by many of the
problems characteristic of the sector as a whole. Such an operation would also enable the
Government to test its reform program within a limited area of the industrial sector. The project
completion date was projected for June 30, 1995.



2
Evaluation of Objectives
3.    The total cost of the project was estimated at US$193.9 million, which was financed
with: (a) a Bank loan of US$99.5 million; (b) a contribution of US$11.5 million from the
enterprises themselves and/or from the Government; (c) local loans totaling US$34.6 million;
and (d) foreign loans totaling US$48.3 million. According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
the local currency portion of the project represented 21.8 percent of its total cost (US$42.47
million) and the foreign exchange portion was 78.2 percent (US$151.52 million).
4.    The project consisted of three main components: (a) the design and implementation of
restructuring programs with emphasis on improved productive capacity by the four selected
EPEs, namely EMB, BCR, PROMETAL and ENORI; (b) improvement of the expertise and
quality of services provided by ENORI, Algeria's most important management consulting
company; and (c) financing of the technical assistance required by industrial sector enterprises
wishing to reorganize themselves and upgrade their industrial performance. The overall project
objective was to improve the management and the operations of the selected EPEs. The goals at
the enterprise level are discussed below.
5.    The first component was based on the diagnostic assessmenits and reorganization studies
carried out by ENORI, in collaboration with two international consulting firms, for each of the
EPEs selected. These studies resulted in the formulation of an implementation program to
achieve the following objectives; for EMB, BCR, and PROMETAL: (a) renovate existing
production and warehousing equipment and facilities, while simultaneously purchasing new
production equipment in order to improve production capacity utilization rates by eliminating
bottlenecks and idle time; and to optimize returns obtained on inputs; (b) procure the inputs
needed for the installation, testing and operation of renovated/modernized production plant; (c)
acquire modern information management systems; (d) conduct economic and market studies as a
prelude to formulation of specific strategies for making product lines more profitable and
improving product distribution systems. These diagnostic assessments and reorganization plans
were also designed to identify potential partners and export markets, as well as to define
objective human resource management policies appropriate to the chosen strategy. In addition,
the assessments recommended the establishment of a technical framework (through appropriate
studies) and a logistical platform (acquisition of equipment) in order to reduce and prevent
industrial pollution.
6.    The second component, which concerned the overall improvement of services provided
by ENORI, essentially consisted of the financing of technical assistance. Training and new
computer hardware and software were needed by ENORI's management and staff to enable
them to carry out their new roles and activities (i.e., to be able to replicate the restructuring
process for other EPEs).
7.    The third component focused on the secondary effects the project was expected to have
on the industrial sector as a whole. It included financing technical assistance for development of
a program to restructure a number of EPEs willing to follow the example of EMB, BCR, and



3
PROMETAL. Sector interest in the project was expected to lead to studies similar to those that
had preceded the identification phase of this project. Funds were therefore made available to the
Government to carry out diagnostic, strategy, and sector reorganization studies that would enable
it to identify not only individual enterprises for restructuring but also the potential for private
investment in industry. Ultimately, diagnostic assessments were made of 22 PEs, with the
objective of implementing a medium-term restructuring plan based on the findings.
8.     There was an interdependence between the framework within which the project was
developed and that of the macroeconomic reform program in Algeria'. Structural adjustment,
initiated only after many delays, was concerned with the country's major macroeconomic
indicators and not with individual production centers such as its industrial sector. Consequently,
the type of program introduced to restructure industrial production units was not feasible within
the prescribed time limits, owing to the difficulties (lack of relevant framework) and pressures
from an unstable economic environment on the selected enterprises. From the outset interested
parties/shareholders (FPs) were in conflict with the Bank over the ownership aspect of the
project. In fact, the FPs had questioned not only their own roles and responsibilities vis-a-vis the
project but the whole investment program. Achievement of the project objectives was impeded
by other factors, such as: (a) delays in startup and implementation (2-3 years, depending on the
particular enterprise); (b) difficulties in reorganizing the enterprises financially and in securing
local bank guarantees (EMB, PROMETAL); (c) problems in updating the strategies developed
(in 1993) by the Bank and intemational consulting firms; (d) suspension of loan disbursements
by the Bank; (e) erroneous perception on the part of the enterprises (and the Bank) as to their
having priority access to available foreign exchange (a right not granted by the Government); and
(f) a lack of management commitment and dynamism, except in the case of BCR.
9.     The primary objective of this project was to demonstrate the feasibility and importance of
an industrial restructuring strategy and to foster action programs with similar components
throughout the industrial sector. It was believed from the beginning that the demonstration
effects of the project would fit in well with the impact of both micro and macroeconomic
reforms. The project provided important resources to the selected enterprises enabling them to
formulate rational production and distribution plans based on proactive strategies to maximize
returns on their investments. However, given the economic conditions prevailing in Algeria
from 1986 to 1996, and the constraints under which public enterprises operated, the
demonstration effects sought were unlikely to materialize2 unless the macroeconomic reformn
program resulted in concrete action plans favorable to these enterprises.
It was evident at the project appraisal stage that a restructuring policy on a fuller, indeed national, scale was necessary if
restructuring efforts at the enterprise level were to be successful. Although the Govemment was committed to reform, this
did not materialize in concrete actions to facilitate the task of restructuring and the transition to real autonomy for the
EPEs.
2   Analysis of project objectives, as they were initially defined, show that critical elements essential to their achievement
were in fact not present in the environment in which the selected enterprises were operating. See report of December 7,
1988, which refers to "critical aspects of the Algerian economic environmenf' in terms of risks that could undermine "the
successful implementation of the strategies and action plans developed for the three enterprises (EMB, BCR ,and
PROMETAL)."



4
10.  Industrial enterprises in Algeria have been adversely affected as a group by the economic
crisis the country has faced since 1986, a situation that has eroded their production capacity and
thus reduced the size of the industrial market considerably. Macroeconomic reforms, which have
been slow to stimulate industrial production activity (the economic growth rate of enterprises
averaging annually -3.2 percent during the period 1985-92), had counterproductive effects (over
the short and medium terms) on the majority of EPEs in terms of: (a) availability of financing (in
local currency and foreign exchange) to cover operating requirements; (b) management actions
compromised by the lack of real decision-making power (interference from FPs); (c) shrinking
demand; (d) a limited and unprofitable industrial (inter-enterprise) market; and (e) excessive
labor costs.
11.   Other factors also undermined the objectives of this project, and in fact constituted major
risks which the selected enterprises were unable to circumvent effectively. Despite the reforms
introduced, achievement of project objectives was threatened by: (a) excessive inventories
(resulting from inefficient production capacity management), which could not be absorbed by an
inelastic industrial market (in the midst of a serious recession); (b) difficulties of access to
foreign exchange; (c) effects of the dinar devaluation on the cost of imported parts and materials;
(d) predominance of non-market mechanisms (interference in the setting of prices and profit
margins); (e) cost overruns and (f) delays in project implementation due to uncertainties in the
social and political environment.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
12.   Macroeconomic constraints had an adverse impact on the restructuring of these
enterprises and on the synergies built into the chosen industrial restructuring strategy (i.e., the
combined effects of new business strategies, modernization of plant and equipment, and new
information technology systems). As a result, those enterprises that fell behind schedule in
carrying out project directives have experienced none of the positive consequences of
restructuring. However, as a result of the project, the enterprises have at least begun a
constructive learning process, the effects of which are likely to be: (a) gradual elimination of
bottlenecks in their productive capacity; (b) limited financial restructuring and strengthened
financial capacity; and (c) the adoption of proactive strategies in the management of their
production and marketing portfolios.
Sector Policy and Financial Objectives
13.   The financial objectives of the project were not achieved. Loan disbursements did not
keep to the schedule anticipated in the SAR, as a result of delays in project implementation. By
the end of 1995 (see Table 4, statistical annex), the disbursement picture was as follows: (a)
EMB had utilized 79.25 percent (or US$37.73 million) of its total allocation of US$47.6 million;
(b) BCR had utilized 95.75 percent (or US$27.9 million) of its total allocation of US$29.20
million; (c) PROMETAL had utilized 23.9 percent (US$3.04 million out of US$12.7 million);
and (d) ENORI 45.8 percent of the loan (US$2.29 million out of US$5 million). The
undisbursed loan balances, together with delays in both project implementation and in the



5
restructuring process, combined to undermine the achievement of project objectives. The project
also incurred additional costs attributable to the successive devaluations of the Algerian dinar. In
addition, major gaps in the utilization of funds pointed to poor performance on the part of the
Borrowers in acquiring production equipment, essential to improved industrial efficiency. EMB
was able to use only 17 percent of the funds allocated for this purpose, because the LPG
(liquified gas) bottles investment (US$ 4.3 million), and Skikda's new aerosol can production
line were canceled. The figures for BCR, PROMETAL and ENORI were 60 percent, 0 percent,
and 84 percent respectively. In total, the project made use of only 41 percent of the total
allocation for investment (see Table 5, statistical annex). The financial performance of the loans
was affected by the following factors:
* Devaluation of the Algerian dinar was disadvantageous to the enterprises (e.g.,
PROMETAL and EMB), forcing up their import costs. Inevitably, it increased (in some cases,
even tripled) the local currency costs of the project, creating an incremental cost of US$22
million (13.6 percent) or DA 3,182.1 million (38.5 percent) from 1992 onward. As a result, the
enterprises had to obtain additional financing, drawing either on their own funds or on their
shareholders (FPs).
* Financial reorganization of the enterprises did not keep pace in all instances with
restructuring schedules (recapitalization/debt conversion into quasi-equity instruments and short-
and long-term loans had been delayed from the outset of the project).
T The debt burden of two of the enterprises increased to such an extent as to be
counterproductive (BCR complied with Covenant 5.2, and none of the enterprises achieved the
debt-equity ratio of 75:25). In the case of PROMETAL, its financial structure was burdened by
major obligations incurred in funding its ironworks project, a debt which jumped from DA 59
million in 1990 to DA 944 million in 1993. Working capital requirements were high, due
particularly to the need to finance inventories of imported raw materials and other categories of
goods. In order to hedge against raw material shortages, the enterprises were holding 12-14
months of inventory on average, hence the increase in their costs.
* Operating and financial results for PROMETAL, ENORI, and EMB cannot be
considered satisfactory, in view of their high operating costs and inability to achieve adequate
profit margins, in addition to the factors cited above. BCR, as a result of strict management of its
production and export activities, was the only enterprise to improve its financial performance (Its
debt-equity ratio declined from 79:21 in 1991 to 53:47 in 1995).
14.   To summarize, the inescapable conclusion is that the restructuring process has proved not
only more complex than originally thought, but also more difficult and costly than had been
anticipated at the project identification and design phase. Up to the present time, effects
commensurate with the objectives of the project have not been observable. In light of the project
studies (carried out by consulting firms), and considering the strategic framework of reference in
which the project was set, it seems clear that the enterprises' limited autonomy (in the present
context of structural adjustment) does not enable them to carry out company strategies of the
kind formulated and applied in market economies.



6
Physical Objectives
15.   As noted above achievement of the project's physical objectives was adversely affected
by: (a) delays in awarding contracts for the procurement of capital goods, raw materials, and
other inputs; and (b) weak demand for products on the industrial and consumer markets, resulting
from unfavorable economic conditions. Even BCR, which was able to streamline and reorganize
its production activities, achieved only average results. Although its fixed assets quadrupled, its
capacity utilization rate averaged only 53.8 percent over the 1991-95 period (declining from 75
percent in 1989), while its production and productivity declined over the 1993-95 period (by 21
percent annually).
16.    EMB achieved a 53 percent performance rate for all project operations. The available
information indicates (see Table 5a, statistical annex): (a) a production capacity rate that
remained below SAR projections; (b) fluctuating production; (c) productivity gains (an increase
from 12.8 to 17.6 metric tons per worker over the 1989-93 period, followed by a decline in 1995)
due mainly to a decrease of 977 workers (from a total of 4,642 to 3,665); and (d) a mediocre
financial performance. According to EMB's final report to the Bank, describing results for 1989-
93 (i.e., the period before the enterprise revised its strategy), its metal container production
activities had been strengthened considerably. Reports submitted by international consulting
firms (which validated the conclusions presented in the EMB document) indicate: (a) an overall
improvement in the physical performance of production equipment, and higher demand
satisfaction rates despite higher costs and prices; (b) a deterioration in the enterprise's financial
situation owing to the devaluation of the dinar, very high overdraft rates (-23 percent annually),
and a debt level high enough to undermine profitability.
17.   The 1994 report by an international engineering consulting firm on PROMETAL's
strategy reveals a multitude of problems relative to the achievement of project objectives.
Because of the delays mentioned in that report, PROMETAL had withdrawn only US$1.1
million of the US$12.7 million available to it under the terms of the Loan Agreement. In the
course of 1994, it had eliminated certain product lines and introduced new products so as to
improve the returns on its production equipment. The financial results from its production units
had been catastrophic in 1990, 1991 and 1992 and no better than mediocre in 1993, while
capacity utilization rates had fluctuated from 40 percent in 1991 to 20 percent in 1992 and back
to 40 percent in 1993. Management of its production and marketing operations were affected by
the vagaries of the prevailing economic situation resulting in shortages of production inputs and
declining sales, and by inadequate worker qualifications and skills, which had led to poor
maintenance and upkeep of plant and equipment.
18.   ENORI proposed to place increased emphasis on its consulting activities by expanding
and improving them, but the results of this strategy choice were disappointing in terms of new
markets and products. Unfavorable sector economic conditions and the fact that high-value-
added markets in the management consulting field were slow to materialize, only worsened
ENORI's deficits (its losses fluctuating from -32.5 DA million in 1991, to -91.1 in 1994 to -62.2
in 1995). It used only 45 percent of the loan proceeds allocated to it. The major components of its



7
project-related investment activities were procurement of computer systems and software,
training, and strategic studies (technical assistance). It would appear that ENORI remains
focused on a market dominated by the (rapidly growing) demand for data processing and
information systems engineering. However, its competitive position is likely to be challenged by
private sector consulting firms. Whether it is able to achieve its project objectives, in terms of
the role it plays in replicating the experiment in industrial restructuring on a larger scale, will
become clear only in the longer run.
Institutional development
19.    The uncertainty of sector policy and the immaturity of the financial sector weakened the
essential support the enterprises needed. Inadequacies in institutional capacity, and a lack of
vision among interested parties such as the FPs and local banks, led to significant delays in
project implementation. This situation was exacerbated by the failure of the FPs to give the
project much importance in terms of support, commitment, participation, and allocation of
resources. Their lack of commitment (a primary qualitative project management issue)
inevitably weakened institutional support for the project.3
Environmental impact
20.    A total of US$800,000 was allocated to the environmental management component of the
project during the implementation period (US$300,000 each by BCR and EMB, and US$200,000
by PROMETAL). Although the reports from the enterprises themselves fail to mention this
aspect of the project, the assessments made by the project supervision missions indicate that no
problems were observed with regard to achievement of environmental objectives (either in the
installation of technical control processes or in terms of environmental problems).
Economic appraisal
21.    The economic evaluation of the project had underestimated not only the high risks
associated with it and the difficulty of restructuring enterprises such as those selected, but also
the time required for its implementation and achievement of its quantitative objectives. The
inherent uncertainty in the project was the result of several risks which were more likely to occur
during the implementation phase. It would appear that the updating of 1989-90 strategies
requested by the Bank (the diagnostic and strategy studies of 1993-94) could not validate the
initial choice of enterprises4.  Furthermore, the effects of both devaluation and difficulty of
3   The creation of a management structure for the EPEs that would support efforts to maximize retums is a prerequisite
necessary to improve of industrial performance. The existing structure, based on grouping EPEs by sector under the
supervision of FPs, has not been successful. See the conclusions of Report No. 12048-AL, May 25, 1994; "The
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, Country Economic Memorandum: The Transition to a Market Economy".
4   There were two major obstacles to the implementation of this project which in fact constituted serious risks: (a) the
inherent difficulties of managing the enterprises; and (b) the macroeconomic uncertainties which exacerbated the
difficulties of managing/implementing the project itself. A more rational choice of EPEs could have been made using the
highest domestic content ratio in production as the criterion for selecting the enterprises.



8
access to foreign exchange also undermined the achievement of project objectives. In this
context, it would not be relevant to reevaluate the project from the economic standpoint given the
existence of important factors (mentioned in this report) that would affect the economic
feasibility of the project.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not subject to Government control
22.   An analysis of the project and its impact reveals which factors had a major effect on its
implementation and final outcome. The following are among those that were generally beyond
Government control: (a) the drop in oil prices, which caused a decline in foreign exchange
earnings and in the financial resources available for investment; (b) the impact of the devaluation
of the dinar as part of the macroeconomic reform process, resulting in increased operational
costs; (c) on a larger scale, the effects of structural adjustment on industry in general and on the
enterprises in particular; and (d) the time required to restructure the enterprises and the
complexity of the process.
Factors subject to Government control
23.    The following factors were largely within Govermnent control: (a) delays and obstacles
to financial restructuring of the enterprises; (b) delays in procurement; (c) lack of experience in
the procurement procedures recommended for the project; (d) lengthened import cycles (12-14
months) for essential production inputs; (e) freezes or delays in the procedures for establishing
letters of credit (in reference to the Banque exterieure d'Algerie); (f) accumulation of debts by
the enterprises; (g) slow implementation of market mechanisms likely to facilitate the import of
raw materials and intermediate goods; (h) limits on markups on products sold by the selected
enterprises (e.g., EMB); (i) weakness in the FPs' commitment to the project because they could
no longer insure the autonomy of the enterprises in which they held stock, the efficiency of their
operations, or their effective restructuring; (j) the lack of incentive measures for this group of
enterprises as a whole; and (k) the slow pace at which project management teams were organized
and deployed.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.   Since the project had limited success in achieving its objectives, it would be useful to
refocus this analysis on the extent and importance of the secondary effects that would ensure its
sustainability (or, in other words, ensure that its objectives are sustainable over the long run).
Although the demonstration effect of the restructuring operation might not be apparent in the
short term, it could materialize over the medium to longer term, provided the country's
institutions and enterprises (ENORI, for example) succeed in extending this delayed effect. The
effects of the learning and experience curve may manifest themselves in: (a) better production
management as a result of the streamlining strategies; (b) production and marketing strategies in



9
line with market mechanisms, and optimal choices of activities so as to maximize profits; (c)
wider use of business management techniques such as strategic planning, financial and
organizational engineering; (d) better use of human resources, achieved on the basis of both
skills and adaptability training; (e) the ability to explore markets and take advantage of export
opportunities; and (f) initiation of a process of corporatization.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   Project identification, preparation, and appraisal were deficient. Nonetheless, this project
proved to be relevant particularly in light of the need for reform at the microeconomic level. The
objective of industrial restructuring (even on a limited scale) was very important, although
secondary to that of macroeconomic structural reform. However, the instability of Algeria's
economic environment and decision-making climate constituted a major risk which made it
difficult to justify the operation on economic grounds at the time it was implemented. The
unfavorable circumstances prevailing at the early stages of the project implementation meant that
the difficulties of restructuring industrial sector enterprises were underestimated. This, in turn,
meant that the timeframe for implementation was unrealistic and that programming of the
process was too optimistic. Thus, Bank performance must be assessed in the context of project
implementation.
26.   The delays which held up the implementation process, the suspensions of disbursements,
and the revisions of enterprise strategies simply confirm the unsatisfactory quality of the Bank's
performance in its supervision function. In all, 128 staff weeks were invested in project
supervision. It should also be noted that supervision was undermined by failures of continuity
and efficiency in followup. Both supervision and followup were adversely affected by turnover
in the Bank's task manager position (a problem pointed out repeatedly by enterprise project
teams). For instance, there were three changes of task manager in less than two years between
1991 and 1993. It is also very important to point out that a project so broad in scope requires
close supervision. Once approved by the Board (after a preparation phase necessitating 113 man-
weeks of work), this project did not receive the attention it merited. One annual supervision
mission was not enough to allow proper followup or the opportunity to identify and solve major
problems. Indeed, many problems went unchecked for several months (creating conflicts) and
were finally solved only after considerable efforts. Moreover, the Bank was perceived as a
passive and remote partner who insisted on extensive information from the Borrowers but
provided no practical, tangible support to facilitate implementation of the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.    The Borrowers' commitment to the project and its objectives was unsatisfactory,
undermining their capacity to implement and manage the restructuring process. Despite their
apparently adequate organizational structure, the enterprise project teams performed only
moderately well, the one exception being the BCR team, which proved itself to be fully capable
of carrying out its project implementation tasks. In addition, BCR demonstrated its management



10
ability to pursue goals in line with the requirements of a market economy, except that it was not
flexible enough to succeed in reducing its surplus production capacity.
28.   Despite their vested interest in the project, the enterprises lacked the capacity to translate
into operational terms what they needed to do to achieve project objectives. This liability was
the result of: (a) a lack of experience with Bank projects and Bank procurement guidelines; (b) a
preference for slow-growth investments (such as EMB's aerosol line and PROMETAL's metal
furniture), instead of a balanced approach that emphasized operational restructuring and project
implementation; (c) inability of the enterprises to foresee the effects of macroeconomic changes
(devaluation, recession, and fiscal reform), which caused delays in procurement contracts and
mediocre financial performance; (d) an accumulation of financial losses that pushed the
enterprises into solving short-term problems instead of planning and implementing investment
programs formulated in the project; and (e) a rigid attitude toward modernization of their
management methods, at a time when the strategies were being revised.
29.    Compliance with legal covenants and with financial control and audit procedures was
slow, thus undermining monitoring tasks. Two of the enterprises, BCR and ENORI, were more
attentive to providing the essential information required by the Bank (and agreed to under the
loan agreement). Patchy compliance with financial control procedures interfered with project
monitoring and led to delays in solving identified problems. In addition, the shareholders (FPs)
of the enterprises were not always available to provide support and managerial expertise. Finally,
the enterprises were operating in a difficult climate which allowed them no decision-making
flexibility in their dealings with the Bank.
30.    Compliance with procurement guidelines (in terms of equipment acquisition) was an
obstacle for the enterprises. For instance, they experienced major problems drawing up and
managing contracts for the procurement of production equipment5. It was the view of the
enterprises, as exemplified in the June 1996 report submitted by BCR, that new production
equipment should be "on the cutting edge of technology and capable of higher performance
(earning a score of 80 or more), thereby affording higher yields and shorter capital pay-back
periods, but obviously being more costly". On the other hand, Bank guidelines prescribed
acceptance of the lowest bid on production equipment contracts, as this was considered an
important factor in lowering production costs (a legitimate concern of the project as appraised by
the Bank in 1989). It is clear that the immediate aim of the enterprises was to demonstrate that
they could improve their production figures and capacity utilization-in short, their industrial
performance-to a sufficient degree to remain viable.
5   The Bank procurement procedures the enterprises were expected to follow were unfamiliar, and they experienced difficulty
utilizing and accepting them. One aspect of this issue was that the enterprises had difficulty accepting the established bid
scoring parameters (which limit the total score on the performance specifications and technical characteristics of
production equipment to 60 out of 100 instead of 80 out of 100).



11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.   Overall, the Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project is rated as unsatisfactory.
Due to the project's inadequate preparation and unsatisfactory implementation/supervision,
objectives were not attained. It should be noted that achievement of these objectives was
difficult to accomplish in the short term6 because of the inherent risks to the project. In addition,
the demonstration effect remains to be proven as a result of the ongoing corrective measures
taken by the enterprises themselves. The implementation of the strategies recommended, and the
diagnostic studies developed as part of the project, may (in the long term) confirm or invalidate
the conceptual approach employed and the industrial restructuring strategy advocated.
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The fact that this project was less then satisfactory points to shortcomings in many
essential areas, and specifically to the lack of quality, ownership, and organizational structure,
which are important dimensions of any project. The project supervision reports contain revealing
indicators of underlying problems.
a) The first lesson relates to the issue of project ownership: the FPs, whose importance
was underestimated, were not committed to the project and expressed no specific interest in
seeing it implemented. Although they were the legal shareholders of the PEs, the FPs
participation was limited exclusively to approval of the project, through which they would secure
substantial financing of their investment plans. However, there is no indication that they
participated substantially in the design and other major phases of the project (for instance, by
facilitating the organization, deployment, and work of the project teams). Moreover, the
authorities, given the slow pace and inflexibility of their procedures, did little to facilitate
completion of the formalities on which loan effectiveness depended (by providing, within the
prescribed periods, the necessary guarantees of loan repayment).
b) The second lesson has to do with the relevance of project objectives. At issue here is
the clarity and transparency of objectives,; problems, opportunities, and strategies, which should
have been specified at appraisal.  Within the context of project quality, the Borrowers
(enterprises and their stakeholders) as well as the Bank needed jointly to establish attainable
objectives from the outset. This, in turn, would have resulted in a high degree of consistency
between the project objectives and the strategies recommended to the Borrowers. Since the key
objective was a demonstration effect from a process of industrial restructuring (involving the
organizational and operational sides of the selected enterprises), the enterprises might possibly
have approached the project from a different angle or through a different strategy. Their own
title for the operation was "Industrial Performance Improvement Project" (IPIP, their concern
being with capacity utilization). Thus, there may well have been a degree of confusion in the
6   Except for BCR, which accomplished substantial results in production management, the other enterprises will need to
take corrective measures to reduce their losses and to maximize retums from streamlining their operations and modemizing
their plant and equipment.



12
interpretation of project objectives. Whereas the two perceptions of the project (IRDP and IPIP)
complement one another, they are not identical. All project implementation measures, based on
the Bank's definition of objectives, may have led to differences of interpretation, which became
constraints for the enterprises. The implications of this difference in the perception of project
objectives were numerous, manifesting themselves in divergent approaches and solutions to the
problems that arose during the implementation phase (and to the reluctance of the enterprises to
review their strategies in 1993-94).
c) A third factor that affected project quality was its organizational structure, which
should have been commensurate with, and flexible enough to meet, the likely demands of the
implementation process. Again taking BCR and its report as a case in point, it can be seen that
the organizational demands of this project represented a constraint the enterprises as a group
managed only with difficulty, which was further aggravated by the turnover of the Bank's task
manager responsible for supervising the IRDP project implementation. Such frequent change
was inefficient. In this case (in the opinion of BCR), it disrupted the smooth course of project
operations, especially by slowing down the Bank's response to requests from the enterprises for
approvals (procurement contract award decisions, disbursement procedures). In addition, the
organizational capacity of the enterprises to manage the project was below the required quality
standards.
d) A fourth lesson pertains to the need for ownership restructuring. The fonds de
participation were not an efficient corporate governance structure for the project.
Counterproductive conflicts (in terms of foreign exchange allocation, investment choices and
strategies to be pursued) existed between the enterprises and their stakeholders. This in turn
weakened the ability of the enterprises to undertake the needed strategy changes, and undermined
the implementation of the project. Therefore, ownership restructuring should have been an
essential component of the restructuring process.
33.   In conclusion, it was the lack of project ownership on the part of the stakeholders, and the
failure to ensure that objectives were matched and adjusted appropriately and realistically, that
constituted major risks not considered at the appraisal stage. The effectiveness and efficiency of
this project were thus correspondingly weakened. The project was designed in 1988-89 at a time
when the Bank possessed no frame of reference (based upon successful experiments) for
restructuring enterprises just emerging from a centrally planned economic system, and it is
against this background that one must view the problems that affected the operation. The
experience of the Eastern European countries over the last five years could provide valuable
lessons for those entrusted to design new industrial restructuring support projects for Algeria.



13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary Assessments
Table 2:     Other Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Schedule (Loans 3210 through 3214)
Table 4. 1:   Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (3210) EMB
Table 4 2:   Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (3211) BCR
Table 4 3:   Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (3214) ENORI
Table 4.4:    Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (3212) PROMETAL
Table 5a:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Loans 3210-14 (EMB)
Table Sb:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Loans 3210-14 (BCR)
Table 6:     Studies included in the Project
Table 7:     Project Cost Breakdown
Table 8:     Project Financing
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:    Bank Resources -- Staff
Table 11:    Bank Resources -- Missions



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
Table 1: Summary Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial    Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic
Sector policies
Financial objectives                                   I
Institutional development
Physical objectives                               _
Poverty reduction                                 _
Gender concerns                                   _
Other social objectives                           _
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                          _
Private sector development                                                           /
Other (indicate)
Likely                Unlikely                Uncertain
B. Project
Sustainability
C. Bank Performance      Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification       iLI
Preparation           l 
Appraisal 
Supervision 
D. Borrower              Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory              Deficient
Performance
Preparation
Implementation                                           :                       /
Compliance with                                          /
covenants
Operation (if applicable)
Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of                                                                 /
Outcome



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
Table 2: Other Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                                      Objective                          Date of          Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
3117-AL: Economic Reforrn      To restore macroeconomic equilibrium and sustainable  08/31/1989    Closed on
Support Loan (US$300 million)    growth: focus on a gradual transition toward a                  12/31/91
decentralized market economy.                                     Essentially fully
disbursed
(cancellation of
US $ 1.2 million)
3176-AL: Technical Assistance    To strengthen the financial sector, and upgrade    03/06/90     Closed on:
Project (US$26 million)        accounting and auditing capabilities.                             12/31/1995
(US$13.06
million
undisbursed)
Subsequent Operations                                                         _       _
3352-AL: Enterprise and        To restore macroeconomic equilibrium through         06/21/91     Closing date:
Financial Sector Adjustment    budgetary and monetary policy and a flexible exchange             06/30/1995 (fully
Loan (EFSAL; US$350 million)   rate policy; to liberalize prices and the enterprise              disbursed by
sector; to effect structural changes in order to                  12/07/1995).
decentralize economic decision-making and promote
competition in markets and economic activities among
enterprises (public and private); to strengthen social
and employment policies in order to protect those
groups in the population most seriously affected by the
negative effects of the reforms.
3834-AL: Economic              To support the ongoing macroeconomic stabilization  01/12/95      Closed December
Rehabilitation Support Loan    and structural reform program through: (1)                        31, 1996.
(ERL; US$150 million)          devaluation; (2) trade reforms; (3) price and interest
rate liberalization; (4) completion of public enterprises
autonorny; (5) framework for private sector
development, (6) program of limited privatization; (7)
strengthening of the social protection system.
4005-AL: Structural Adjustment   To speed up transition to a market economy through:  04/25/96   On going, first
Loan (US$300 million)          (1) public expenditure reforms; (2) large-scale                  tranche released.
privatization (for smaller enterprises); (3) liquidation          Planned closing
(closure) of local public enterprises; (4) banking                date: April 30,
reform; (5) strengthening of the social safety net.               1998.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
Table 3: Schedule (Loans 3210 through 3214)
Stage of Project Cycle              Planned Date                  Actual Date/Estimate
Identification                  April 1987                      October/November 1987
Preparation                     November/December 1988          January 1989
Appraisal                        January 14, 1989               January 14, 1989
Negotiation                      February/March 1990            February/March 1990
Board presentation               May 31, 1990                   May 31, 1990
Signing                         January 8, 1991                 January 8, 1991
Effectiveness                   May 31, 1991                    July 8, 1991 (3210: 12/30/91)
Loan closing                    June 30, 1995                   June 30 & December 31, 1995 (1)
(1) Loan 3211 -AL (for BCR) was extended by six months to December 31, 1995.



Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project
(Loans 3210-3214 AL)
Table 4.1: Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (3210)
Entreprise Nationale d'Emballages Metalliques (EMB)
in millions of US5
FY90       FY91       FY92        FY93         FY94       FY95         FY96      Total
Planned (SAR)                 .... \..         1.70       10.60      23.40         35.50      47.60 .../ ..          47.60
Actual                        ......\..        0.00        5.70       5.70        2.94 a      19.54       37.73     37.73
Actual/Planned                               0.00%      53.77%     24.36%         8.28%     41.05%                 79.26%
Actual/Planned Total                         0.00%      11.97%      11.97%        6.18%     41.05%                 79.26%
Date of
Final Disbursement              1-Feb-96
(a) FY94: Repayment of Special Account (-US$3,078,377), suspension removed on March 23, 1994 (withdrawal ofUS$68,381.00).
Table 4.2: Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (3211)
Entreprise Nationale de Boulonnerie, Coutellerie, et Robinetterie (BCR)
in millions of US5
FY90       FY91       FY92        FY93         FY94       FY95        FY96       Total
Planned (SAR)                 ...\...1.20                  5.90      13.20         21.20      29.20 ..../.....      29.20
Actual                        ......\..        0.00        2.23       2.23         4.21       11.78       27.96     27.96
Actual/Planned                               0.00%      37.80%     16.89%        19.86%     40.34%                 95.75%
Actual/Planned Total                         0.00%       7.64%      7.64%        14.42%     40.34%                 95.75%
Date of
Final Disbursement             25-Jan-96



Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project
(Loans 3210-3214 AL)
Table 4.3: Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (3214)
Entreprise Nationale d'Organisation et d'Information (ENORI)
in milions of USS
FY90      FY91        FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96      Total
Planned (SAR)                ..... \..         0.10        0.70       1.90      3,40      5.00 . ...           5.00
Actual                      ....... ..\..      0.00        0.74       1.21      1.21      1.52      2.29       2.29
Actual/Planned                               0.00%      105.71%    63.68%    35.59%    30.40%               45.80%
Actual/Planned Total                         0.00%       14.80%    24.20%    24.20%    30.40%               45.80%
Date of
Final Disbursement               1-Sep-95                                                                                                 OD
Table 4.4: Disbursements: Cumulative, Planned and Actual (3212)
Entreprise Nationale de Produits Metalliques Utilitaires (PROMETAL)
in millions of US$
FY90      FY91        FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96      Total
Planned (SAR)                .... \  .         0.50        2.60       5.90      9.30     12.70 ../   ..    12.70
Actual                      ..... \..          0.00         1.04      1.04      1.56      2.80      3.04       3.04
Actual/Planned                               0.00%      40.00%    17.63%    16.77%    22.05%                23.94%
Actual/Planned Total                         0.00%       8.19%      8.19%    12.28%    22.05%               23.94%
Date of
Final Disbursement             24-Aug-95



19
Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project
(Loans 3210-3214 AL)
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Proiect ImOlementaJion: Loans 3210-14
EMB            N                                   1989        1990|       1991        1992        19931       1994        1995
TECHNICAL INDICATORS
Capacity utilization rate (%)
Planned                                           39.00       49.00       64.00       67.00       69.00     n.a         n.a
Actual                                            54.00       43.00[      44.00       54.00       59.00        58.00       55.00
Output (tons)                                                                  I
Planned                                         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
Actual (a)                                     59808.00   52570.00   51312.00   61875.00   65356.00   54082.00   46913.00
Payroll (number of employees)
Planned                                         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
Actual                                          4642.00    4157.00    3996.00       3783.00    3717.00    3587.00    3402.00
Productivity (tons/employee)
Planned                                         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
Actual (b)                                        12.88       12.64       12.84       16.36       17.58        15.08       13.79
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Sales (millions of DA)
Planned                                         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
Actual                                          1215.00     1712.00    2188.00    2966.00       3845.00    4184.00    4364.00
Financial costs (millions of DA)
Planned                                           47.80       31.30       64.80       71.50       67.00     n.a         n.a
Actual                                            54.00      166.00      345.00      302.00      360.00      659.00     1286.00
Net income (millions of DA)                                        I
Planned                                         -271.00       -8.60|      41.00       80.60      115.20     n.a         n.a
Actual                                          -301.00     -242.00    -1123.00     -291.00      273.00    -2343.00    -2477.00
Cash flow (millions of DA)
Planned                                         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
Actual                                          -219.00     -130.00     -998.00      124.00      595.00    -2013.00    -2143.00
Net assets (millions of DA)
Planned                                          525.70      856.80      899.00      821.10      699.70     n.a         n.a
Actual                                          -430.00    -1266.00      587.00     -219.00     1076.00    -1267.00    -3744.001
Net income/sales (%)
Planned                                         neg.        neg.   j       3.00        5.00        7.00     n.a         n.a
Actual                                          n.a         n.a    |   n.a          n.a            7.00     n.a         n.a
Retum on equity (%)                                                I
Planned                                         neg.        neg.          31.00       21.00       24.00     n.a         n.a
Actual                                          n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a           19.00     n.a         n.a
Inventory (months of sales)
Planned                                            3.80        3.50        3.50        3.20        2.80     n.a         n.a
Actual                                             5.00        5.00        5.00        6.00        7.00        9 001       14.00
Debt/equity ratio (%)
Planned                                         n.a     75/25       75/25       68/32       59/41       |   n.a         n.a
Actual                                          n.a    |   n.a          n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a
This table shows data from the SAR and from EB's Completion Report (1966 [nc ])
(a) These figures (from the EMB report) are aggregates for all categories of output, and thus cannot be directly compared with those quoted us the SAR.
(b) These figures cannot be directly compared with those quoted in the SAR, which are calculated on the basis of hours of work to physical output
This is a draft version of the table. The data it contains cannot be diectly compared with those quoted in the SAR, because of methodological differences in the calculation of performance indicators



20
Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project
(Loans 3210-3214 AL)
Table 5b: Key Indicators for Proiect Implementation: Loans 3210-14
BCR                                         1989       19901     1991|      19921     1993       1994      1995
TECHNICAL INDICATORS
Capacity utilization rate (%)
Planned                                   n.a       n.a        n.a       n.a        n.a       n.a        n.a
Actual                                     75.00      54.00     56.00      57.00      53.00     51.00      52.00
Output (tons)
1. Nuts and bolts
Planned                                   n.a       4575.00    6730.00    9370.00   10620.00    n.a      n.a
Actual                                   6145.00   6121.00    6406.00    6231.00    6224.00   4012.00    4069.00
Payroll (number of employees)
Planned                                   n.a          400        455       493        496    n.a        n.a
Actual                                       400       349        310        312       310        310       308
Productivity (tons/employee)                                         l
Planned                                   n.a         11.00      15.00|    19.00      18.00    n.a       n.a
Actual                                      15.40     17.50     20.661    19.97      20.07      13.00      13.21
2. Taps and valves
Planned                                   n.a       1120.00    1290.00    1600.00    1805.00    n.a      n.a
Actual                                   1118.00    1120.00    1187.00    1071.00    1266.00   926.00    1071.00
Payroll (number of employees)
Pianned                                   n.a          560        610       584        615    n.a        n.a
Actual                                       560       560        493       493        493        490       485
Productivity (tons/employee)
Planned                                   n.a          2.00      2.10       2.70      2.90    n.a        n.a
Actual                                      2.00       2.00|     2.40       2.17      2.57       1.89      2.21
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Sales (millions of DA)
Planned                                   395.60    409.60     493.70     548.70    603.80    n.a        n.a
Actual                                    541.00     656.00    974.00    1117.00    1522.00    1643.00    1208.00
Financial costs (millions of DA)
Planned                                    99.80      92.90     77.10      60.40     41.60    n a        n.a
Actual                                    105.00     102.00    167.00     130.00     132.00    156.00    261.00
Net income (millions of DA)
Planned                                  -155.20    -115.30     -26.40     25.30     77.20    n.a        n.a
Actual                                     -86.00    -261.00    53.00    219.00      32.00      34.00    -194.00
Cash flow (millions of DA)
Planned                                   126.50      76.50     154.10    214.60    312.70     326.00    335.70
Actual                                     -18.00    -121.00    125.00    296.00    416.00     296.00     -10.00
Net assets (millions of DA)
Planned                                   567.60     545.90    485.50     438.60    330.70    n.a        n.a
Actual                                   -1342.00    125.00    320.00     688.00    2440.00   2472.00    2452.00
Net income/sales (%)
Planned                                   -42.00     -30.00      -6.00      5.00      13.00    n.a       n.a
Actual                                     -16.00    -40.00      5.00      19.60      2.00       2.00     -16.00
Return on equity (%)
Planned                                    -50.30    -59.70     -15.90     13.20     28.70    n.a        n.a
Actual                                   neg.       neg.         2.00       8.80      13.00      2.00     -11.00
Inventory (months of sales)
Planned                                     9.30       6.00      6.20       6.20      6.20   nma        nma
Actual                                      15.00     12.00      11.40     13.80      8.80       8.10      24.70
Debt/Equity ratio (%)                                     I
Planned                               73/27      79/21     79/21      73/27     58/42         n.a        n.a
Actual                                   neg.       n      184/16     75/25     41/59      41/59     63/37
This table shows data from the SAR and from BCR's Completion Report (1966 [sic]).



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                    Purpose                     Status                    Impact
Diagnostic study of 22   Enterprise level diagnostic    Completed by mid 1993  Studies lacked analysis
large loss-making PEs.   studies of the underlying                             of economic viability;
problems to develop specific                         findings were used as
strategies for future                                basis for further action
operations and restructuring                         plans for 15 of 22 PEs
Study of the development   Study and assessment of   Study was to have been    Information not
of small and medium-     economic policy as it affects  completed in the second  available.
sized enterprises        SMEs, with an outline       half of 1993.
proposal for developing the
_____________ ________ _ _  vsector.
Source: SAR and project monitoring reports.



Implementation Completion Report
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project
(Loans 3210-3214 AL)
Table 7: Project Cost Breakdown
(in millions of US$ at constant 1988 prices)
EMB                         BCR                            PROMETAL                         ENORI                             Total
Planned Actual (a)     Diff. Planned  Actual (b)      Diff.  Plarmed  Actual (c)     Diff.  Planned   Actual (d)      Diff.  Planned    Actual    Diff.
1. Production equipment               49.80     10.69     -79%      20.40      12.30     -40%      32.20       0.00    -100%       0.80        0.67      -16%    103.20       21.29   -79%
2. Spare parts & consumables          10.70     17.95      68%       0.90      11.50    117S%                      -                -                        -     11.60      31.50   172%
3. Computing equipment &               6.70       5.25     -22%      2.20       1.25      43%        1.00      1.73      73%        1.70       0.99      -42%      11.60       8.96   -23%
software                         __
4. Rehabilitation works &              5.60       1.53     -73%      2.30       3.75      63%       10.40      0.00    -100%                                -      18.30       4.80   -74%        t
services                                   I
5. Technical assistance &              9.80      3.08      -69%     11.30       5.10      -55%       5.30      1.55      -71%      7.70        0.95      -88%      40.00      10.64   -73%
studies
6. Environment T.A and equip.          0.30      0.00    -100%       0.30       0.00    -100%        0.20      0.02      -90%                  -            -       0.80       0.02   -98%
7. Training                            2.60       1.12     -57%      3.80       0.30      -92%       2.10      0.20      -90%                  0.99         -       8.50       1.79   -79%
TOTAL                                 185.50     39.62    -54%      41.20      34.20    -17%        51.20      3.50     -93%/      10.20        3.60     -65%     194.00      79.00   -59%
(a) Actual cost is calculated on the basis of data from EMB's own report.
(b) Actual cost is cakulated on the basis of data from BCR's own report.
(c) Actual cost for PROMETAL is calculated on the basis of Bank data relating to disbursements
(d) Actual cost for ENORI is calculated on the basis of Bank data relating to disbursements;
however, data relating to actual amounts disbursed by the Bank for the payment of
international suppliers (i.e. US$2.29 milfion) exactly match those given in the ENORI report.



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
Table 8: Project Financing (in millions of US$)
EMB    BCR   PROMETAL  ENORI Min. of  Total % of
Industry             Total
Enterprise funds: Planned            1.2        2.4        2.5               5.2        0.9          12.2    6
Actual                               1.89       5.6        0.00              n.a.       n.a.        n.a.     n.a.
Domestic loans: Planned              6.4        9.6        18.6              0.00       0.00        34.6     18
Actual                               0.00       0.57       0.00              n.a.       n.a.        n.a.     n.a.
IBRD: Planned                        47.6       29.2       12.7              5.0        5.0         99.5    51
Actual                               37.7       27.96      2.53              n.a.       n.a.        n.a.     n.a.
Other foreign loans: Planned         34.6       0.00       17.3              0.00       0.00        47.6     25
Actual                               0.00       0.00       0.00              n.a.       n.a.        n.a.     n.a.
Total: Planned                       85.5       41.2       51.1              10.2       5.9         193.9   100
Actual                               39.62      34.13      n.a               n.a.       n.a.        n.a.     n.a.
The above table is based on data from the SAR and from the BCR and EMIB Completion Reports (1996).



24
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan   Ref.    Covenant type    Present         Fulfillment   Description                       Comments
Status       Date
3210    5.01    Account/audit     CP            Six months   Submission of audit reports no later   EMB: Contract signed
(ii)                                   after         than six months after the end of each   with intemational auditors.
deadline.    fiscal year.
3210    5.02    Financial         C                          The Borrower shall not incur any   EMB
(a)     performance                                  debt in excess of an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$5 million
unless the net revenues of the
Borrower for the Fiscal Year
immediately preceding shall be at
least 1 .5 times the estimated
maximum of the debt.
3211    3.01    Implementation    CD                         The Borrower shall maintain the    BCR: The organizational
(b)                                                  Project Implementation Unit in a   structure and respective
form and with functions satisfactory   responsibilities were
to the Bank.                      defined. The project team
operates according to the
established guidelines.
3211    3.03    Execution of the   C                         The Borrower undertakes to have its   BCR
project                                      representatives meet with those of
(monitoring and                              the Bank with the purposes of
review).                                     reviewing together the progress
achieved by the Borrower, during the
period covered by such review, in
carrying out the Project.
3211    4.01    Management and   CD                          The Borrower shall carry out the   BCR
(b)     operations                                   Corporate Strategy in the manner
agreed upon with the Bank; adopting
corrective measures to achieve the
objectives thereof
3211    5.01    Financial review    C                        Submission of audit reports not later   BCR
(ii)    accounts/audit                               than six months after the end of each
fiscal year.
3211    5.02    Financial         C                          The Borrower shall not incur any   BCR
(a) &    performance                                 debt in excess of an aggregate
(b)                                                  amount equivalent to US$5 million
unless the net revenues of the
Borrower for the Fiscal Year
immediately preceding shall be at
least 1 .5 times the estimated
maximum of the debt.



25
3212    5.01    Financial review    CP    Six months   Submission of audit reports not later than  PROMETAL: Contract
(ii)    account/audit            after         six months after the end of each fiscal year.   signed with international
deadline.                                             auditors.
3212    5.02    Financial         C                    The Borrower shall not incur any debt in  PROMETAL
(a)     performance                            excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$5 million unless the net revenues of the
Borrower for the Fiscal Year immediately
preceding shall be at least 1.5 times the
I_____ ______             __________  estimated maximum of the debt.
3213    4.01    Financial review    C                  The Borrower shall furnish audited reports    Minstry of Industry and
(b)     account/audit                          of its financial statements not later than six   Energy
(iii)                 _                        months after the end of each fiscal year
3214    3.01    Implementation    C                    The Borrower shall maintain the Project  ENORI
(b)                                            Implementation Unit in a form and with
I_____ ______             ___________  functions satisfactory to the Bank.
3214    3.03    Execution of the   C                   The Borrower undertakes to have its      ENORI
project                               representatives meet with representatives of
(monitoring and                       the Bank with the purposes of reviewing
review).                              together the progress achieved by the
Borrower, during the period covered by such
_______ _______                            review, in carrying out the Project.
3214    4.01    Management and   C                     The Borrower shall carry out the Corporate   ENORI
(b)     operations                             Strategy in the manner agreed upon with the
Bank; adopting corrective measures to
achieve the objectives thereof.
3214    5.01    Financial review    C                  Submission of audit reports not later than  ENORI
(b) (i)  account/audit                         six months after the end of each fiscal year.
3214    5.01    Financial review    C                  Submission of audit reports not later than  ENORI
(b) (ii)  account/audit                        six months after the end of each fiscal year.
3214    5.02    Financial         C                    The Borrower shall not incur any debt in  ENORI
(a) &    performance                           excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to
(b)                                            US$5 million unless the net revenues of the
Borrower for the Fiscal Year inimediately
preceding shall be at least 1.5 times the
_ _________  estimated maximum of the debt.
3214    7.01    Effectiveness     CD                   Signature of the Agreement by the Bank and
agreement.                            the Shareholders (the State-owned holding
companies), and opinions showing that it is
______________ ______ _   ______    _legally  binding.
Covenant type:
1.      Account/audit
2.      Financial performance
3.      Management aspects of the project
4.      Special conditions relating to the implementation of strategies, criteria, and procedures
5.      General and institutional conditions
Status:
C       = Complied with
CD      = Compliance after delay
CP      = Complied with partially
NC      = Not complied with



26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
Table 10: Bank Resources -- Staff
Stage of Project Cycle       Planned (weeks)    Actual       Planned      Planned
(weeks)      (US$)    Isicl (US$)
Preparation                               n.a.           51.6         n.a.      125,900.00
Appraisal                                 n.a.           34.9         n.a.       86,300.00
Negotiation through Board Approval        n.a.           26.6          n.a.      74,200.00
Supervision                               n.a.          128.2         n.a.      364,300.00
Completion/Closing                        n.a.           9.1          n.a.      22,600.00
TOTAL                       n.a.          244.9          n.a.     661,200.00



27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
Table 11: Bank Resources -- Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of       Month/       No. of    Staff-       Specialized Staff  Implementation   Development    Type of Problem
Project        Year         Persons   Weeks in    Skills              status            objectives
Cycle                                 Field        Represented
Through        1988         3          1.4         Financial          n.a.               n.a.           Financial
Appraisal                                          Analyst,                                             reorganization of BCR
Economist,                                           and PROMETAL
Consultants,
Project Officer.
Appraisal      1989/90      n.a.      n.a.         Procurement        n.a.                n.a.          Access to foreign
through                                            Specialist,                                          exchange for financing
Board                                              Industrial                                           imports of inputs.
Approval                                           Economist,
Financial
Analyst, Division
Chief,
Consultants.
Supervision    January      2         2.5          Consultant,        2                   1             Project cost overrun of
1991                                Project Officer.                                     about 26.3%.
December   2           2.8          Financial          3                   3             Cost overrun of about
1991                                Analyst,                                             38.5%.
Consultant.                                         Time overrun: 2.5
years (procurement).
Lack of foreign
exchange.
December   3            1.2         Economist,         3                   3             Reorganization of
1992                                Financial                                            project. Suspension of
Analyst,                                             disbursements. Lack
Financial                                            of "ownership" of
Specialist.                                         project on the part of
the fonds de
participation (State-
owned holding
companies).
June 1993    2         2.2          Consultant,        U                   U             Reorganization of
Project Specialist.                                 project. Suspension of
disbursements.
February     1         0.8          Task Manager       U                   U             n.a.
1995                                (Financial
Analyst).
Completion/   None
Closing      I                       I_I                                                               I                      I
Other project supervision and development missions took place (to Paris and Tunis) after December 1993.
Performance Ratings: 1- Satisfactory.  2--Moderate problems.  3--Major problems.  U--Unsatisfactory.



28
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
ANNEXES
Borrowers' Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
Annex 1: EMB
Annex 2a: BCR
Annex 2b: BCR
Annex 3: ENORI



29
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
ANNEX 1: EMB-Completion Report
STATUS OF THE AEFI PROJECT
BACKGROUND NOTE
Implementation of EMBVWorld Bank Loan Agreement Number 3210/AL, signed on January 8, 1991,
did not take effect until November 19, 1991 (telex from the Bank on November 20, 1991), i.e. three
years after the EMB Action Plan, designed to improve the industrial efficiency of the enterprise, was
developed (1988/89). The amount of the loan agreement was US $47.6 million.
POINT 1: PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The main objective of the project was to prepare a realistic action plan for improving the efficiency of
the enterprise. This modular plan, complete with intermediate objectives and critical paths, was
intended to be consistent with the resources of the enterprise and the constraints of the Algerian
environment, which is in a state of evolution as a result of the enterprise reform process. Actions
targeting facilities were to focus on operations to elimninate bottlenecks and did not include operations
to increase capacity.
Implementation of the plan was expected to produce rapid results, achieving a measurable impact
within three years. The project's subsidiary objectives included, in particular:
-     cost reduction,
-     improved productivity,
-     improved quality,
-     management development.
The project comprised two phases:
Phase 1: Diagnostic Study and Strategy of the Enterprise
Once a diagnostic study of EMB was performed, the principal strategic options were to be drawn up,
quantified, and discussed with the enterprise Management in order to identify the optimal strategy for
the enterprise and variants thereof The choice was to be based on criteria such as the financial
objectives of the enterprise (profitability, leveraging), the accepted degree of risk, and the goal of
improved efficiency and competitiveness within the international context.



30
In addition, based on the strategic objectives identified, the main thrust of efforts to improve the
efficiency of the enterprise (through investments to upgrade production facilities, cost controls, etc.)
were to be defined and serve as the basis of the detailed action plan anticipated for the second phase.
Performance indicators for measuring the outcomes of the action plan were to be identified.
Phase 2: Action Plan
Each of the proposed actions was to be defined in terms of objectives to be achieved within a given
time frame, estimated cost, human resource requirements, and anticipated profitability.
A structured overall plan was to be developed on the basis of the modularity, complementarity, and
priority of the actions identified. The plan was also to define the performance indicators to be
monitored and the intermediate objectives to be achieved.
Expected impact of the plan on enterprise performance:
Plant:
* Achieve a utilization rate of 80 percent of terminal design capacity for the three years of the action
plan. The performance indicators were to identify the progressive rates to be targeted.
Materials:
* Reduce overall casting yield by 3 percent.
Personnel:
* Decrease the size of the production support staff to 40 percent of total unit staff.
Organization and management systems:
* Improve organization and relations between headquarters and the production units.
Market:
* Satisfy demand in terms of quantity and quality.
* Improve relations with clients in a spirit of partnership.
Profitability:
. Improve the productivity and financial equilibrium of the enterprise.
Achievement of Project Objectives
Phase 1: The diagnostic study of the enterprise was performed and the resultant strategy developed in
1988/89 in collaboration with the SEMA consulting firm (France), and an action plan was identified:
* Actions financed under the IBRD loan agreement:
-    acquisition of spare parts               US $ 1.5 million
-    acquisition of raw materials             US $ 7.4 million
-    upgrading of facilities                  US $17.4 million
-    organization, assistance, studies, etc.  US $21.3 million
TOTAL                US $47.6 million
* Actions financed by other sources:
-    the electric welding project (DA 240 million, implemented between 1989 and 1990)
-    the aluminum aerosol can and flexible tubing project (DA 464 million, implemented between
1989 and 1992)



31
In 1994, the strategy identified in 1988/89 was reviewed with the assistance of the SOFRES consulting
firrn (France). The purpose was to perform a diagnostic study of the enterprise for the period from
1987 to 1993, confirm the EMB strategy, and update the action plan:
-    acquisition of spare parts               US $ 2.1 million
-    acquisition of raw materials              US $13.4 million
-    upgrading of facilities                  US $13.2 million
-    organization, assistance, studies, etc.   US $ 8.5 million
TOTAL                US $37.2 million
-    the electric welding and the aluminum aerosol can and flexible tubing projects were completed
in 1992
Phase 2: The various actions in the updated plan were carried out almost totally, with the exception of
the operations cited in Point II below. However, the full benefits of the different operations were not
obtained due to problems and delays in implementing the action plan (see Point I1).
The actions carried out enabled the enterprise to lay the necessary foundations for achieving its mid-
term objectives in terms of industrial efficiency and improved management (see Point III).
Principal changes occurring between 1987 and 1993:
*    Overall improvement in the physical performance of the production facility and fuller
satisfaction of demand in spite of higher costs and prices.
*    Major progress in technology and installed capacity for packaging preserved products, which
improves the enterprise's position in this strategic segment in terms of satisfying local demand
with respect to both quality and quantity.
*    Improvement in the raw materials procurement policy of the enterprise in terms of quality,
availability and regularity, although this entailed greater dependence on foreign suppliers.
*    The average rate of growth in the output of the enterprise was 10.8 percent (in weight) from
1989/90 to 1992/93. The capacity utilization rate remained stable at approximately 43 percent
during the period from 1989 to 1993, the capacity increased by roughly 16 percent over the
same period. The capacity utilization rate increase was primarily due to the decrease in
demand, particularly for the LPG bottle activity, and difficulties in the manufacturing
technology for aluminum aerosol cans and flexible tubing.
*    Productivity increased from 12.6 to 19.5 tons per worker between 1989 and 1993; over the
same period the number of workers declined from 4642 to 3665, for a net reduction of 977
workers.
*    The metal packaging activity, which is EMB's main business, was strengthened significantly (
by refocusing on the core business).
*   Most of the EMB units had a profitable year in 1993, with the exception of the three units that
had operated at a deficit for some years: the Batna and Mascara LPG bottle units and the Gue
de Constantine aluminum unit.
For the entire enterprise, operating income showed a loss from 1988 to 1991 and a profit in
1992 and 1993; net income showed a loss from 1988 to 1992 and a profit in 1993.
*    The structure of EMB operating costs has changed somewhat since 1987, reflecting, in
particular, a larger proportion of financial costs.
*    Despite the very clear improvement in gross (an increase of DA 1,084 million from 1989 to
1993) and net (an increase of DA 818 million) internal cash generation, EMB's capital structure
remains fragile. In fact, exchange discounts (DA 418 million in 1992 and 208 million in 1993)



32
and financial costs (up DA 300 million from 1989 to 1993) absorbed and even exceeded the
enterprise's benefits from financial adjustment measures in 1991/92.
In terms of operations, EMB's vulnerability to foreign exchange risk has greatly increased since
1987, particularly for the purchase of raw materials: based on total purchases, the percentage
of imported tin plate rose from 33 percent to 99 percent between 1988 and 1993; in the case of
sheet metal for barrels, the percentage rose from 0 percent to 73 percent.
The principal financial ratios for EMB between 1990 and 1993 are as follows:
1990      1991      1992       1993   Objective
Financial autonomy                -3.4      -52.2      -102.4    +3.1   3
(total debt/equity)
Financial structure (%)           -304.2    -4.3      -2.8       +51    >75
(equity/invested capital)
Liquidity ratio (% cash in relation to   -33.9  -34.9  +4.7      +6.9   >10
assets)
Creditworthiness (% assets/total debt)  106.7  150.6   99        132.1  >150
POINT II: SHAREHOLDER'S BEHAVIOR
1. ALGERIAN SHAREHOLDERS
1.1 EMB
The enterprise initially experienced some difficulties in mastering the applicable IBRD loan procedures,
which are rigid and entail an extended timeframe. Thus, in 1991/92, thirteen specifications packages
were submitted for World Bank approval. As of February 20, 1993, only one of the packages had
been approved by the Bank (on January 5, 1993).
1.2 Banque Exterieure d'Al0erie (BEA)
The BEA was one of the main impediments to project implementation because:
a) The timeframe for implementing the various operations were abnormally drawn out by the slowness
of the BEA departments in opening letters of credit (roughly one month in each case), plus an
additional delay of one week or more to issue the registration document for opening the letter of credit.
This document is required by IBRD to confirm coverage of letters of credit. This situation persisted in
spite of various overtures by ourselves and by the Ministry of the Economy.
b) The BEA did not grant us the bridging facility of DA 258 million that we requested to cover
expenses in dinars incurred within the framework of the project. This led to a stoppage, with
predictable consequences (deterioration, theft, overcharging, etc.) and equipment and materials left at
ports and airports for several months before clearing customs, since EMB's cash balance was unable to
meet these expenses. After several efforts to resolve the problem, the BEA imposed the requirement
that EMB shareholders provide a guarantee before the credit could be granted.



33
1.3 EMB Shareholders
As shareholders in the loan agreement, our shareholders, with the exception of the Fonds de
Participation - Biens d'Equipement(FPs), have not always demonstrated readiness to come to our
assistance. Thus, following the BEA requirement for obtaining the bridging facility, we requested a
joint guarantee from EMB shareholders, based on the guarantee agreement signed by IBRD and the
FPs on January 8, 1991, which stipulates that "the Shareholders specifically undertake, whenever there
is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower, or cause the Borrower to be provided, with such funds
as are needed to meet such expenditures."
Only the FPs - Biens d'Equipement gave its approval; the two remaining FPs did not respond to our
requests.
2. THE WORLD BANK
Our relationship with the Bank has gone through two phases: the first was rigid and difficult, while the
second was characterized by collaboration and assistance.
2.1 First Period: January 1991 to December 1994
The project was managed by the Industry and Energy Division of the World Bank's Maghreb and Iran
Department and experienced many difficulties, notably including: a high turnover in the number of
project managers during this period. In addition, the rigidity of the project's management often led to
unnecessary freezes, to the detriment of the project. Two examples illustrate this point:
. On February 8, 1993, the World Bank informed EMB by fax that all project-related
operations not yet carried out were henceforth frozen, specifically pending a review of its
strategy and the financial restructuring of EMB. In further correspondence, the Bank went so
far as to indicate the probability of partial or total termination of the AEFI loan if the stated
conditions were not lifted by June 1993.
Subsequent to this fax, a document was prepared by the enterprise and presented on March 3,
1993 to the FPs. It covered four scenarios:
1.    Accepting the conditions set by the Bank;
2.    Providing for recapitalization of EMB but rejecting the idea of carrying out
additional studies;
3.    Terminating the loan agreement and financing the project through other
sources;
4.    Terninating the loan agreement with the Bank and dropping the AEFI project.
The Bank supervision mission, which visited Algeria from June 5 to 20, 1993, drew certain
conclusions after the various meetings that were held and concluded, in particular, that it was
advisable to proceed with studies to review the strategy and with implementation of priority
actions unrelated to the strategy. On August 23, 1993, the Bank confirmed the conclusions
reached by the supervision mission.
The strategy review study, conducted by SOFRES, concluded that the major strategic options
defined in 1987 remained valid.
. On June 3, 1994, the Bank informed us by fax that it was considering terminating the project
prematurely: the deadlines proposed were June 30, 1994 for signing contracts and December



34
31, 1994 for disbursements. Estimates of the amount of finding required to finance the project
were on the order of US $11 million. Funds needed to date are more than three times the
amount estimated by the Bank in June 1994.
2.2 Second Period: December 1994 to June 30. 1995
The project was taken over by the Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
within the same department of the Bank. This division provided the project with all necessary
assistance and the required flexibility for carrying out a project that had experienced multiple
difficulties. Critical support was provided to the project by Mr. Amir AL-KHAFAJI's team and
particularly by Mr. Charles R. STERLING. Our only regret concerning this period is that the Bank
refiised our request of February 21, 1995 for a six month extension of the termination date.
3. OTHER DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED
3.1  There were frequent difficulties with communications, in terms of mail and also in terms of
telephone and fax. With respect to incoming mail, some telexes reached us more than a week late,
while others never arrived; with respect to outgoing mail, express services (such as Chronopost and
DHL) were not operating between Algeria and the United States, with the result that we had to rely on
agents of the enterprise leaving on a mission or the services of our suppliers to send documents by
express mail to the Bank.
3.2 The departure of foreign companies, due to the situation in Algeria, led to delays and to difficulties
in firming up contractual commitments and carrying out studies, assembling equipment, and putting
equipment on line.
POINT I: DEGREE OF SUCCESS IN ACHIVING PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The action plan initially adopted was covered by the IBRD loan agreement in the amount of US $47.6
mnillion. The initial action plan was subsequently amended and, in particular:
Two operations related to the LPG bottle activity were not carried out because of uncertainty
about the future of this activity (US $4.3 million);
*     Acquisition of computer software packages and equipment, initially budgeted at US $14
million, was decreased to US $4.5 million. This cost reduction was the result of the choices
made with respect to computerization:  microcomputers instead of heavier systems
(minicomputers) and the purchase of standard application programs instead of developing
special application programs.
These amendments were corroborated by the results of the revised strategy. Thus, the initial plan
calling for US $47.6 million was discounted to US $37.2 million.
The actions carried out under the program to improve industrial efficiency included those regarding:
equipment; computer systems, management and organization; human resources; and markets and
products mix.



35
Actions carried out regarding production equipment
*    Acquisition of equipment, tools and materials, including, in particular, revamping the tin
aerosol can production line of the Gue de Constantine packaging unit (FG/DU) and converting
the 6 oz (FG/DU) and 1/6 h (Azzaba packaging unit - AZ/DU) lines to 1/2 h cans;
*    Renovation of the printing equipment and acquisition of laboratory equipment for the FG/DU
unit;
    Purchase of spare parts, raw materials and other consumables.
Actions carried out regarding computer systems. management systems and organization
Completion of the organizational chart and the computer master plan;
Purchase of computer equipment, office equipment, software packages (including training and
maintenance) and devices to protect the equipment.
Actions carried out regarding human resources
Project on evaluating the human assets of the enterprise and identifying training needs;
Training activities, primarily involving training programs at HEC Paris and computer training
programs (software packages) in Algeria and abroad.
Actions carried out regarding markets and product mix
    Carrying out of the EMB diagnostic study in 1989, development of the enterprise strategy and
an action plan which served as the basis for the loan agreement with the World Bank;
I Updating of the EMB diagnostic study in 1994/95, revision of the enterprise strategy and the
AEFI action plan;
('Canying out of market studies for the enterprise's products;
Development of short-term commercial management tools;
*    Development of medium-term forecasting tools.
The operations identified in the revised action plan that had not been carried out as of June 30, 1995
concerned the following acquisitions:
*    additional equipment for the aerosol can production line, specifically for testing aerosol
containers and making the top and bottom parts;
*    two automatic production lines for drilling and welding the top section of cylindrical 5 liter
cans;
*    staggered cutting equipment for large sizes.
The commitments signed on June 30, 1995 amounted to US $33.5 mil}ion. Commitments carried out
came to US $31.3 million. Payments carried out under the loan agreement came to US $37.7 million
(including reimbursement of 80% of handling costs related to merchandise cleared through customs
before October 30, 1995). Payment of an invoice from the SOFRES consulting firm in the amount of
FF 127,900 is still pending at the World Bank.



36
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
ANNEX 2a: BCR-Completion Report
ENTREPRISE NATIONALE DE PRODUCTION
DE BOULONNERIE-COUTELLERIE-ROBINE'TERIE
MANAGING AN INDUSTRIAL SECTOR PROJECT
FINANCED BY AN INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTION
March 1996
Document prepared by:
Mr. Mohamed-Tayeb Doghbal:  Chairman and Managing Director, BCR
Mr. Mustapha OMER:      Industrial Engineering Assistant / AEFI Project Chief
AEFI/BCR Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. FOREWORD
2. ORGANIZATION TO BE SET UP
3. DEFINITION OF ROLES
4. WORK COORDINATION
5. CONSTRAINTS
6. CONCLUSION



37
1. FOREWORD
In 1986 and 87 negotiations took place between the Algerian public authorities and the World
Bank about a loan to finance a pilot project of industrial restructuring of enterprises in the
heavy industry sector. These negotiations resulted, in 1988, in an agreement to select four pilot
enterprises with different industrial product lines to serve as a test case for the industrial
restructuring project with an effect to be replicated on the rest of the industrial sector. Four
enterprises (BCR, EMB, PROMETAL and ENORI) were selected by the World Bank on the
basis of predefined criteria which focused on: a) the enterprise's past performance; b) its
specific product lines; c) its organization; d) its human resources (management team); and e)its
production capabilities. Following execution of the strategic studies, the loan agreement
between the enterprises and the World Bank was signed in January 1989. The substantive part
of the agreement provides that the borrowers (the enterprises) having subscribed to the project
objectives, would set up a multi-tier organization, entitled the Project Team, to ensure smooth
and proper execution of the project. In the present document we shall seek to identify, in light
of BCR's experience with implementation of the Industrial Efficiency Upgrading (Amelioration
de 1'Efficacite Industrielle--AEFI) project financed by World Bank loan no. 321 1-ALG, the
major organizational features that, in our view, contributed to the successful execution of the
project and optimal utilization of the loan. We shall confine our discussion to the phase
subsequent to selection of the pilot enterprises since selection was the exclusive responsibility
of the World Bank staff, by means of an evaluation based on the criteria listed above.
2. PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM
In approving the loan, the World Bank recommended that a Project Team be set up to ensure
the success of the operation and to undertake, with the Bank's supervision mission, a periodic
(every six month) review of project implementation activities that were agreed upon. In
addition, the team  would evaluate the enterprise's performance in terms of the project
objectives (performance criteria being defined in the loan agreement).
The issues at stake and the scope and magnitude of such an intra-enterprise industrial
restructuring project demand, however, commitment on the part of the personnel at every level
of the organization, to the project objectives. Such a commitment in crucial if the project team
is to manage effectively and efficiently such an undertaking. This project called for measures
to achieve a structural reorganization of the enterprise but above all to identify a normative
corporate structure capable of upgrading its performance. With this in mind, we at BCR gave
priority to the communication and information aspect of the project, with a total commitment
of management in order to achieve the project objectives. Therefore, based on this approach,
we designed a project management organization built around subprojects components and
objectives, and designated a restricted team for each subproject, headed by a component
manager or officer (Responsable Composante) with clearly-defined administrative and financial
roles in order to ensure the smooth and sound implementation of the project. A Coordination
Committee was set up to monitor the activities for components common to all the product
lines, such as the strategic studies and investment studies.



38
Top management of the AEFI project was entrusted to a Project Team leader responsible,
among other functions, for coordinating implementation activities with the World Bank.
3. DEFINITION OF ROLES
3.1 Role of the Project Team Leader
The AEFI Project team leader oversees the implementation of the operation as a whole. As
part of his mission, the Project team leader must) establish, in collaboration with the
concerned departments of BCR, the conditions, specifications, and conditions for the awarding
of procurement and services contracts; b) obtain the Bank's approval with respect to all
documents governing procurement transactions; c) regularly evaluate project's implementation
and keep the members of BCR's General Management and Board of Directors informed, as
need be; d) prepare for and organize the working meetings with the World Bank mission
responsible for monitoring the project works; and e) draw up the project documents and status
reports and transmit them to the governmental institutions and BCR's shareholders.
3.2 Role of the Coordinating Committee
The Coordinating Committee was concerned with project aspects such as the strategic studies,
market and investment studies carried out by international consulting firms. The Coordinating
Committee comprises officials of both parties (BCR and the consulting firm). It convened as
often as necessary. The number of meetings, which was prescribed by the contract, varied
according to the scope and magnitude of the services. On BCR's side, the team to consisted of
departmental managers headed by BCR's chief executive officer. The Committee's role was
extremely important, particularly in formulating, with the international consulting firms,
BCR's mediuir. aad long-term strategies. The strategy was based not only on analysis of the
environment, ma-kets, competition, but also, and above all, on an internal diagnostic study
of the enterprise. The findings of this diagnostic phase allowed the consultants to draw up a
coherent and structured development plan for the enterprise.  The members of the
Coordinating Committee, each in their particular field, verified the relevance (timeliness) and
reliability (accuracy) of the data before it was to be used by the consultants. The second aspect
of the Coordinating Committee's task was to ratify the work done by the consultants during the
various phases of the project, to enable them to move forward with their analyses and
recommendations. These procedures resulted in realistic strategy recommendations and an
optimal and coherent development plan for BCR. Finally, active involvement of the client was
always desired by the consultants because of the relatively short time allowed to implement the
project. This enabled them to move ahead quickly with their work and to draw up
recommendations and guidelines in line with the company's current situation.
3.3 Role of the Component Manager (Responsable Composante)
BCR's strategic plan identified about 45 components to be implemented under  BCR
performance upgrading project. BCR decided to have a separate task manager for each
component instead of a project team managing all the investments components (the component
manager may be appointed from the management staff or be selected from the production
units management staff).



39
The component manager's role was to ensure the s.--ooth implementation of the contract
concluded with the partner (equipment assessment and control, acceptance, preparation of the
plant foundation base, preparation of connection cabling, etc.). Participation by the component
manager in the process of writing specifications, particularly for the sections dealing with
technical matters, was mandatory. BCR's management was responsible for all phases of the
contracting process. Certification of "services performed" was one of the prerogatives of the
component manager.
4. WORK COORDINATION
An organizational structure designed to improve management efficiency is not by itself
adequate to ensure the success of the operation. This measure has to be accompanied by a
definition of the role of each participant, thus clearly delineating their administrative and
financial roles. It was the responsibility of the component manager to assess the progress of the
work on his component at regular intervals and report it to the agencies concerned. The AEFI
project team leader coordinated the work and ensured compliance with the World Bank's
directives. The Finance Department coordinated his task with the Bank's Disbursement
Division, to ensure sound and smooth implementation of the financial operations (opening of
letters of credit, payment for services performed under the loan agreement and the special
account, etc.). It was also necessary to ensure that all the agencies concerned by a given
component were kept equally informed.
5. CONSTRAINTS
BCR's implementation of the project was affected by operational constraints in certain
situations. One of the constraints was attributed to the process of awarding equipment
contracts. (the process of accepting the lowest bid, after establishing the bid appraisal
parameters, by limiting the rating component for the technology, equipment performance and
technical specifications aspects to 60 points out of a maximum of 100). Modern production
equipment,  using the latest technology, and providing more efficient performance and
consequently higher yields, is undoubtedly more expensive, but it also allows more rapid
payback. Therefore, we believed that adjusting the technical appraisal rating (in the range of
60-80 points out of 100) could have allowed us a more judicious and appropriate selection of
the equipment to be procured. A second constraint concerned overall management of the
project during its implementation. The Bank's department, responsible for supervising project
implementation,  frequently changed the task managers dealing directly with BCR. This
excessive turnover of project officers disrupted the smooth conduct of the operations,
particularly in terms of the time taken to respond to borrowers' requests. The cumulative
delays, that this represented, adversely affected total project implementation time and
jeopardized achievement of the project objectives.
In dealing with the Algerian public authorities, BCR often faced difficulty in complying with
the formalities governing loan implementation (such as government loan guarantees, and



40
shareholders' guarantees to make the necessary resources available in order to achieve
project's objectives). The issuance of guarantee documents took up to six months or even a
year. Situations of this kind adversely affected BCR's restructuring project by undermining
timely implementation of the   necessary strategic actions to improve the enterprise' s
performance.
Moreover, macroeconomic reforms and microeconomic changes (implementation of the PE
autonomy program) took place when the project had already been identified and approved (in
1988), and represented counterproductive factors even before the loan became effective. These
changes had repercussions on both the ongoing management of BCR's business operations and
the management of the project. furthermore, the very rapid depreciation in the value of the
Algerian dinar substantially increased project cost, from DA 292 million,(in  the initial
estimate), to DA 1,600 million. In addition, unregulated foreign trade practices caused an
unfair competition, and loss of market share to imported products that did not even meet
technical norms and quality standards of the Algerian industrial market.
6. CONCLUSION
Despite the unfavorable implementation conditions, characterized by a rapidly changing and
constraining environment (exchange rate adjustment, high inflation rates, new market
mechanisms) in Algeria, and the difficulties encountered in obtaining external financing to
ensure regular input procurement, BCR has succeeded in mobilizing the energies of its
workforce, (without neglecting day-to-day management of its business operations), around a
project with implications of prime importance to its future and its development. rhe fruit of
these efforts is evident in: a) the partial recovery of BCR's initial production capacities
resulting from the streamlining operations of its existing plant; b) the elimination of the
bottlenecks in certain production lines through new investments; c) a diversification of BCR's
products; d) the implementation of an organizational structure tailored to a market driven
environment; and e) the institution of a continuous training program for management,
administration ,production and maintenance.



41
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATICAND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
ANNEX 2b: BCR-Completion Report
ENTREPRISE NATIONALE DE PRODUCTION
DE BOULONNERIE-COUTELLERIE-ROBINETTERJE
INDUSTRIAL EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
World Bank Loan No. 3211-AL
FINAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
March 1996



42
1. INTRODUCTION
During 1986 and 1987 discussions took place between the Algerian public authorities and the
World Bank which culminated in an agreement in principle concerning an operation of industrial
restructuring of Algeria's heavy industry enterprises. Pilot enterprises, designed to serve as models
and test cases with a view to possible general expansion of the operation to the remaining
enterprises in the sector, were selected in light of criteria and requirements predetermined by the
Bank. The main objectives of the pilot Industrial Efficiency Improvement Project (Amelioration
de l'Efficacite Industrielle--AEFI), based on the selection of four enterprises operating in
different subsectors, are built around the following four main lines of action:
(a) To accelerate the industrial restructuring process by providing the pilot enterprises with the
necessary technical and financial resources to enable them to remain viable and efficient in a
competitive environment.
(b) To demonstrate the success of a restructuring operation to the industrial sector as a whole,
highlighting its costs and benefits.
(c) To develop local expertise in enterprise diagnostic study and assessment techniques able to
assume responsibility for the tasks of restructuring the remaining industrial enterprises.
d) To allow the authorities to monitor and control the impacts of macroeconomic reform,
particularly on prices and exchange rates.
BCR was one of the pilot enterprises selected. A prefinancing (PPF) loan was made in July 1988
to enable it to:
*  carry out an in-depth diagnostic study of the enterprise;
*  define the main strategic lines of action required to improve the company's performance
*  finally, translate this strategy into a detailed and quantified plan of action.
The studies were carried out between July 1988 and January 1989. The findings served to
identify the financing plan to be put in place and the measures needed to upgrade BCR's
operational efficiency. The recovery plan drawn up as part of BCR's strategy focused on the
following lines of action: (i) an investment program designed to boost production capacities in
highly representative sectors; (ii) supplemental (market and feasibility) studies to firm up
definition of the products/markets mix; (iii) additional investments to eliminate bottlenecks and
modernize BCR's existing plant; (iv) a program of basic and refresher training of BCR personnel;
(v) setting up a computerized management information system. The World Bank's contribution to
BCR's restructuring effort, financing the foreign exchange portion of the project, was evaluated at
US$29.2 million, distributed as follows:
US$
production plant                        13,300,000
spare parts and consumables               900,000
computer equipment and software         2,100,000
rehabilitation works and services       1,600,000
environment                               300,000
technical assistance and studies        9,600,000
training                                1,400,000



43
The Bank's Executive Directors approved the project on May 31, 1990 and the loan agreement
was signed on January 8, 1991. However, entry into effect of the loan, effectiveness originally
scheduled for April 8, 1991, did not take place until May 31, 1991. The delay in putting the loan
into effect was due to failure to comply with certain requirements imposed by the World Bank,
including:
*   conversion of BCR's bank overdraft into a medium-term loan;
*   issuing the government and shareholders' guarantees.
2. PERFORMANCE CRITERIA
The enterprise strategy finalized in 1989 and then translated into a plan of action prescribed a
number of criteria to be met by the end of the project (four years). In addition, the following
objectives were set for this execution period:
* to increase nuts and bolts production capacity by 5,020 t;
* to boost taps and valves production capacity by 910 t;
* to reduce finished products stocks to standard levels (6 months' worth);
* to improve financial performance and thereby reduce the debt-equity ratio to 75:25.
As part of the strategy revision finalized and approved by the World Bank in 1994, the
incremental production capacity targets were reduced to 4,500 tons for nuts and bolts and 600
tons for taps and valves. Achieving these objectives depends, however, on meeting several prior
requirements:
m financial restructuring of the enterprise;
* conversion of the bank overdraft into a medium-term line of credit;
*  facilitating access (for BCR) to the necessary foreign exchange for regular financing of its
inputs.
3. PROJECT EXECUTION
Upon receiving official notification of the effectiveness of the loan, BCR initiated a number of
components, essentially concerning the provision of services (market study and production
management studies), training, and investments geared to revitalizing BCR's commercial activities
and the installation of a computerized management information system. The remaining
investments (about US$16 million), designed to boost production capacities, for which the
bidding documentation was under preparation in BCR, were briefly suspended by the World Bank
pending the implementation of new recommendations resulting from the revision of the original
strategy. Thus, during the World Bank supervision mission, which visited Algeria from June 5 to
20, 1993, recommendations were presented to all the enterprises involved in the AEFI project
calling on them to proceed without delay to revise the strategy drawn up in 1989. These
recommendations were justified by the major changes that had taken place since the initial
economic and financial appraisals of the project.
These changes dealt with the exchange rates and inflation rates applied at the time, and the
opening up of the Algerian market as part of the process of initiating a market economy.
Accordingly, while continuing to execute the components not frozen by the Bank, BCR began
work on the revision of its development plan, in close collaboration with the consultants who did



44
the work on the original strategy. In light of the initial data furnished by the results of the market
and production management study, the main lines of BCR's development strategy were redesigned
to tailor them to the prevailing characteristics of the Algerian environment. In brief, the revision
work, which took place over the period October 1993 to January 1994, recommended that BCR:
Prices
* Control its costs to enable it to compete in all three of its product lines, first on the domestic
market, to lock itself in by erecting penetration barriers, and subsequently on the international
market so as to seize export opportunities and thereby enable it to finance part of its inputs.
Products
* Offer high-quality products meeting international standards.
* Introduce innovative product design by strengthening its research and development facilities.
Investments
* Invest in new plant in order to install new technologies specifically in the areas of raw materials
preparation and treatment and thermal and surface treatment of finished products.
 Procure the necessary equipment to strengthen its quality control facilities.
m Invest in specific areas in order to boost production capacities to enable it to meet the needs of
the market fully and implement a volume strategy.
Or2anization
* Over the medium and long term, move toward specialization of its production units.
* Develop its sales force by strengthening its commercial facilities.
* To enable it to meet the challenges ahead, set up an appropriate organization equipped with
suitable facilities and resources.
* Set up a computerized management system in order to optimize its operational management.
* The estimated total cost of implementing all the recommendations adopted in the new strategy
is US$55 million.
The new strategic plan was approved by World Bank staff on February 18, 1994.
REMARKS
BCR focused the bulk of the investment (US$18.9 million) on the more remunerative product
lines (taps and valves, and nuts and bolts), which generate greater value added.
In nuts and bolts, BCR produced 4,300 tons against the expected 4,500 tons (a 96 percent
performance rate).  This deliberate reduction reflected the findings of the market studies
conducted in 1992 and 1993, which served to quantify the real demand of the Algerian nuts and
bolts market. In addition, in view of the heavy new investment in the nuts and bolts sector, BCR
focused its efforts on revamping and rehabilitation of the existing equipment (US$7 million,
representing 71 percent of total investment in this product line). In the case of taps and valves,
actual production was 640 tons, against a target of 600 tons (106 percent). This rate is explained
by the acquisition of the new plant, particularly the low-pressure machine and the four smelting
furnaces. BCR geared its taps and valves strategy to competitiveness, through renewal of its
product range (license and know-how purchases) and lowering of product prices consequent to
the appreciable gains in raw materials utilization. In parallel with these measures, BCR proceeded



45
to rehabilitate its waste and rejects treatment facility; this will yield foreign exchange savings by
reducing input imports (e.g., of brass). In the case of silverware, the investments are reduced to
the purchase of plant to diversify BCR's product range and of a buffing facility to eliminate the
persistent bottleneck in this sector.
4. BCR PERFORMANCE
FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1991-94
The sharp change in these indicators is due essentially to the revaluation difference (DA 1,722
million) arising out of the fixed assets revaluation carried out pursuant to Executive Decree no.
993.250 of October 24, 1993. While this operation strengthened BCR's equity situation, it also
seriously affected its operating result for FY 1993 (posting of the incremental depreciation charge
of DA 153 million for FY 1952). The upward trend of the item Net Assets is explained by non-
distribution of 1993 and 1994 net operating earnings.
Stocks, which posted a net decrease in 1993 and 1994 as a result of BCR's success in disposing
of a large proportion on the export market, are rising again, according to the closure forecasts for
1995, owing (i) to unfair competition on the domestic market, and (ii) to public operators
awarding contracts financed by international institutions to foreign producers, even though BCR's
products are competitively priced and, moreover, of better quality. This increase in stocks in
1995 is in fact justified by the rise in the prices of inputs and consumables (parts bought in), the
costs of which have almost doubled as a consequence of the very rapid depreciation in the value
of the dinar and international inflation.
The debt increases in 1994 and 1995 are explained by the debt deriving from the investments
made under the World Bank-financed AEFI project. The debt ratio will improve in the years
ahead now that BCR has begun to repay the World Bank loan (it repaid DA 100 million in 1995
and will repay about DA 200 million in 1996).
PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTIVITY EVALUATION
The sharp fall in production during FY 1994 is explained by BCR's chronic difficulty in finding
external financing resources to ensure regular procurement of inputs (raw materials and
consumables). When lines of credit are available, they are negotiated on draconian terms, since
the foreign partners take into account:
* The country risk;
* The fact that the insurance companies refuse to guarantee any credit to Algeria.
This situation was aggravated by the abnormally long cycle to firm up a major operation (about
12 months), a serious impediment to production and stocks management.
5. CONCLUSION
The main conclusions to be drawn from the pilot industrial restructuring project, taking into
account the conditions under which it was executed and the results posted by BCR since it was
started, an be summarized under the following headings:



46
Impact of the Project on BCR Management
The essential purpose of the pilot project was to improve BCR's efficiency by implementing a
number of activities previously identified by means of strategic studies. BCR was able to use the
resources of the World Bank loan judiciously to:
* Introduce innovation in the design of its taps and valves and silverware products through the
acquisition of plant and know-how;
* Diversify its product range by integrating new products (kitchen sinks) and elevating this
branch of its activities into an autonomous entity, thereby permitting redeployment of its
personnel;
* In the case of taps and valves, convert from a complex and expensive technological process to
a simpler (foundry) process that allows it to save large quantities of raw materials and
consequently of foreign exchange;
* Set up a management system to control costs at the various production stages;
* Invest in highly representative sectors to enable it to respond fully to the needs of the market;
* Revitalize the activities of its commercial and export departments in order to penetrate new
markets.
Despite an unfavorable situation and the very difficult conditions under which its strategic plan
was implemented, BCR was able to mobilize its efforts in order to honor its commitments. Its
financial performance has improved substantially since the project began, as the operating results
for FY 1991 through 1995 (provisional in the case of 1995) demonstrate.
This improvement in efficiency could not have been achieved without the Government's
participation in meeting the contingency requirements with respect to recovery, in particular
financial restructuring of the enterprise, which inherited an unstable situation at the time of the
reorganization of the parent enterprises in the early 1980s. However, while the Government fully
subscribed to the objectives of the pilot project, the market suffered severe disruption, over a
period of more than a year, because of delays in the implementation of market mechanisms and
rules of competition as set by the public authorities in the context of Algeria's new economic
policy. In recent years BCR has in fact had to contend with unfair competition generated by
uncontrolled imports of dubious quality without standards control.
This situation, if it persists in the years ahead, could seriously jeopardize the project objectives
and cause difficulties to BCR. This being the case, BCR, which does not question the principle of
instituting a market economy, is ready to face the competition in a regulated market and expects
the government and its institutions to implement the necessary regulatory framework to ensure
fair and equitable treatment of the operators present in the market.
Organization of the Project
Sound management of the BCR pilot industrial restructuring project was facilitated by the setting
up of a suitable organization able to:
* ensure smooth implementation of the project with the World Bank;
* involve all the actors, particularly the management team, in the diagnostic study and
strategy formulation phases for the preparation of a coherent and structured development plan;
* inform BCR's entire workforce concerning the sound justification of the project, by
clearly setting forth its objectives and the resources to be deployed to ensure its success.



47
During FY 1996 BCR will focus its efforts on installing the new plant and facilities acquired under
the project and also on implementation in the field of the operations of revamping and
rehabilitating the existing plant and equipment to enable them to function at full capacity and
thereby ensure a return on investment within the prescribed time limits.



48
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOANS 3210-14 AL)
ANNEX 3: ENORI-Completion Report
ENTREPRISE NATIONALE D'ORGANISATION ET D'INFORMATION
IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW OF THE ENORI-LBRD AEFI PROJECT
February 1996



49
INTRODUCTION
The AEFI project began in 1987. At that time, ENORI was seeking to initiate a process for improving
the performance of the heavy industry sector through programs that could be financed by international
institutions. Contacts initiated with the World Bank in this connection, starting in 1987, ultimately led
to the terms of reference for a pilot project, which was then approved by the former Minister of
Industry and the World Bank in late 1987.
On this basis, PPF (Project Preparation Facility) funding was authorized by the Bank. This funding
was used to conduct evaluations of four enterprises within the sector and to develop an action plan for
each of them. The four enterprises were selected after site visits to some fifteen enterprises within the
sector were made by IBRD experts. The four selected enterprises were as follows:
EMB (Entreprise nationale d'emballages metalliques): a strategic and large-scale enterprise
situated at the downstream end of the Algerian iron and steel industry and engaged in a key subsector
of country development (agroprocessing).
BCR  (Entreprise nationale de boulonnerie, coutellerie et de robinetterie): a standard
manufacturing enterprise assigned a key role in the Algerian industrial sector as the supplier of
components to other industries; in addition, BCR enjoys new production facilities, which has raised
serious issues of capacity utilization.
PROMETAL (Entreprise nationale de produits metalliques utilitaires): an enterprise with a
highly diversified portfolio of activities, combining reconverted older facilities with more modem
facilities.
ENORI (Entreprise Nationale d'Organisation et d'Information): an enterprise that provides
services to industry and operates in areas directly linked to improving the performance of industrial
facilities (data processing and computer software, consulting, communication and information).
The justification for the pilot nature of the project was to promote similar approaches to other Algerian
state-owned enterprises. The four enterprises were evaluated and their respective action plans
developed between June 1988 and February 1989. Following international consultation, this work was
contracted to two consulting firms: SEMA and BOOZ-ALLEN & HAMILTON. ENORI consultants
participated in the various stages of the work alongside the two international firms, essentially for
educational purposes and after attending a training session on methods of consulting conducted by
Booz-Allen.
Because of ongoing changes in the legal framework of the concerned enterprises (implementation of
the policy reform, movement towards autonomy), it was not until May 1990 that the Board of
Directors of the World Bank could approve the financing for the AEFI project. Moreover, the
Government of Algeria did not sign the loan agreement until January 1991. Thus, the project was
already two years behind schedule. In addition, these delays occurred at a time when the Algerian
economy was in a profound state of upheaval, particularly in relation to the devaluation of the dinar,
which necessitated a significant reappraisal of both project costs and the cost of Bank financing
(interest, fees, etc.). Nevertheless, in operational terms, ENORI made good use of the delay by laying
the groundwork for the operations defined in its action plan:



50
* Preparing the specifications for the various packages,
* Issuing invitations to bid,
* Discussions with bidders. Thus, at the end of 1992, ENORI was ready to undertake the
basic elements of its action plan.
* A contract had already been signed with a selected supplier for high volume laser printing
equipment to improve its position in data processing.
* There had already been considerable progress in arranging partnership agreements in the
areas of management consulting and software engineering (in fact, a management consulting contract
with Booz-Allen was signed by the partner in early January 1993).
In January 1993, a Bank appraisal mission concluded that it was necessary to reassess the strategies of
the four enterprises in view of the changes that had taken place within the Algerian economic context.
Concurrently, the Bank decided to freeze all of the investments specified in the various action plans
until such time as the strategies of the four enterprises were updated. This decision led to an additional
delay, lasting more than a year, in proceeding with implementation of the ENORI action plan. The task
of updating ENORI's strategy began in August 1993 and was completed in November of the same
year. The results were presented to the Bank in January 1994 and subsequently approved. On the basis
of this approval, ENORI then resumed efforts to implement its updated action plan. The initiatives
taken were designed to commit nearly the full amount of the Bank financing by the end of August 1994
and thus commit the entire loan before its termination date, set by the Bank for June 1995.
EVALUATION OF THE AEFI PROJECT
The World Bank loan agreement entails certain conditions related to corporate strategy. These
conditions, which are largely spelled out in a study conducted by a major consulting firm, Booz-Allen
& Hamilton, were designed to strengthen ENORI's capacity to cany out studies (consulting and
software engineering) and thus position the enterprise at a level of expertise and ability that would
ensure its leadership in these areas. In addition, material investments (specifically computer equipment)
were anticipated for two primary purposes: to support the above-mentioned strategic options and to
enable our Data Processing Unit to ensure the continuity of the services it provides to its clients. These
options, while entirely consistent with market hypotheses, were to a certain extent compromised by the
emergence of the following factors:
* The hypotheses (1988 strategy) concerning the speed with which changes caused by
movement toward a market economy would take effect, as well as their impact on structural changes
within the enterprise (a rapid decline in data processing activities in favor of studies and other more
intensive activities), were not fulfilled within the anticipated time frame. To the contrary, the data
processing activities continue to account for the bulk of all ENORI turnover, in spite of occasional
reversals.
* Investments made within the framework of the AEFI project were carried out for the sole
benefit of the enterprise and, as a result, any negative effects on income and cash flow were the
responsibility of ENORI.
* The partnership operations in the areas of consulting and engineering, which represented
two thirds of the project, could not be caried out for the reasons mentioned above. Indeed, beginning
in 1992 and in view of the delay in starting up the training/action and partnership operations planned
for the AEFI project, most of the consultants (approximately thirty) left ENORI to work independently
or to offer their services to other enterprises.



51
* Training-related investments invoiced in foreign currency and solely appearing on the books
of the enterprise as deferred charges for a given fiscal year represent, because of the slippage of the
dinar, the primary cause of the deficits recorded by the enterprise.
* The investment related to the acquisition of a high-volume laser printer has not yet yielded
the expected results.
* The delay in firming up high value added contracts in the area of management consulting
simply compounded the deficits recorded for this activity (the first major contract in this area was not
signed until January 1995).
* The delay in starting the training of computer specialists (May 1995) and acquiring the
computer equipment and materials needed for software engineering (May 1995) effectively
demobilized the engineers, many of whom decided to leave ENORI.
* Since the end of 1994, ENORI has had a new Board of Directors, as well as a new chairman
and managing director, who has deemed it necessary to review the project operations and assign top
priority to those that can yield a profit in the short or medium term.
FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR EACH ACTIVITY
CONSULTING
The current hypotheses provide evidence of the trend stated in the strategic plan prepared by Booz-
Allen & Hamilton, which considers this activity to be ENORrs most important service. The
reorientation of enterprises toward a market economy, its impact on the restructuring of various
branches of the economy and the expected consequences of the adjustment plans all suggest the
potential for a vast market in both management consulting and software engineering. The policy
followed by ENORI, which consists of developing a core of permanent consultants, supported by a
well-tested doctrine and methodology and surrounded by a network of external resources (both
national and intemational), has placed the enterprise in a leading position within the national market.
The remedies that have been set in place, include:
* Training/action.
* Attractive compensation.
* Project monitoring by modem methods (MS project).
* Improved documentation.
* Better use of the skills pool.
* Better logistics.
These remedies will enable ENORI to assert itself in the coming years and are reasonable grounds for
anticipating a 20 percent annual increase in total turnover from 1996 to 1999.
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
As explained above, the market for software engineering is growing rapidly. The material constraints
impeding this unit until the present year have been removed. The training activities scheduled to take
place within the framework of the AEFI project are now being carried out. These training activities
focus on the development of major computer projects and they are expected to improve the enterprise's
image among ENORI clients and thereby lead to a greater presence in the domestic market.
Implementation of projects currently being negotiated raises the real possibility of growth for this unit,
as well as an opportunity to further develop the expertise of technicians through contact with foreign
partners (e.g., with a Canadian partner in the project on commercial management of water resources).



52
In addition, the effort to locate partners who produce equipment and software packages represents one
area that will contribute to increasing the unit's marketability. If the present year remains a year of
setting up and firming up technical and logistical foundations, then this unit should develop in
accordance with the strategic goals and a minimum annual growth rate of 20 percent should be
expected, beginning in 1996.
DATA PROCESSING
The market trend of this unit remains poorly understood. The delays that have occurred in the
Algerian market with respect to the implementation of fully automated information systems have given
new life to an activity that was expected to vanish. The scarcity of foreign exchange prevents
enterprises from importing large systems and may ensure that this activity lasts even longer. However,
the hypotheses embraced by the ENORI strategy must assume the eventual disappearance of the forms
of data processing now being used. The efforts to be made by ENORI during the second half of 1995
should produce the following results:
* Refocusing this activity on other, more profitable approaches,
* Structural reorganization required by such change,
n An improvement in the quality of services provided to clients,
m Saturation of the laser workshop.
During a two-year period in the faithful relationship with its principal client (SIDER), a compromise
will be sought between the financial balance of this unit and its movement toward other forms of
activity, entailing a programmed plan of action that will affect all aspects of the unit (staffing,
organization, synergy with other units, etc.). It is expected that this compromise will provide stability in
terms of turnover during the next two years. Regardless of the specific organizational approach
ultimately chosen for this unit, its output should in no case jeopardize that of the enterprise as a whole.
Based on the current hypotheses, turnover is expected to decline over the next five years by
approximately 5 percent per year.
CONCLUSION
In spite of the delays resulting from upheaval in the Algerian economy and the various contingencies
described above, the AEFI project has had a positive impact on ENORI by:
* highlighting the existence of a new market for enterprises that provide services to industry;
including diagnostic services, development of strategies and related action plans, computer services,
etc.;
* providing new impetus to the work of consultants in Algeria; by positioning ENORI as a
leader in consulting work and software engineering in Algeria;
*   providing ENORI with the means to successfully implement its corporate strategy by:
strengthening its primary activity, data processing, through the acquisition of equipment that improves
the quality of its services (high-volume laser printing);
* investing in the training of its computer specialists;
* acquiring modem means of support for its key activities;
* training certain managers in modern management techniques.



53
Thus, if the AEFI project had been carried out in its totality and within the anticipated time frame, it
could have provided ENORI with the opportunity to register significant growth in its key activities,
corresponding to the steady growth in demand for services within the Algerian economy. Given our
country's lateness in adopting these types of services, characterized by a high degree of technicality and
sophisticated resource management, the AEFI project could provide ENORI with the opportunity to
gradually increase its professionalism and thereby solidly position itself within a highly competitive
market. In evaluating the project from a short-term financial perspective, it is clear that the balance
does not show a profit, since all of the operations carried out served either to support the project itself
(auditing of accounts and strategic studies) or to support the enterprise through the acquisition of
computer equipment (laser printer, computer equipment and materials) and the training of software
engineers and management staff Nevertheless, this investment laid the foundation for significantly
developing the work of consultants, which had remained until recently the prerogative of large foreign
firms.
Although ENORI has not yet shown a financial profit on this investment, the enterprise has indeed
introduced into the Algerian market teams of consultants trained with the help of this project who have
accumulated knowledge that equips them to conduct operations on a national scale, for Algerian
enterprises or on their own behalf, and with or without foreign assistance.
ENORI faces two major problems at the present time: first, its increased costs, which cannot
reasonably be passed along in its selling prices in view of the specificity of its products and services and
the competition that exists within its areas of activity; second, its very limited funds, which prevent it
from operating normally in the face of rigid payment schedules (reimbursement of CCCE and World
Bank debt, 30 million dinars annually for ten years, i.e. 25 percent of annual turnover). This bottleneck
in ENORI's financial position has worsened since 1993, when implementation of its rehabilitation plan
began; to date, the recommended adjustment measures have not been taken. Rehabilitation of ENORI
and the profitability of this major investment cannot be assured without input from its shareholders in
the form of recapitalization.
STATUS OF AEFI-ENORI PROJECT OPERATIONS
* Acquisition of the laser printing workshop took place in 1992; the workshop has been operational
since July 1992. The contract with Siemens-Nixdorf was settled.
*     The contract for auditing the accounts of fiscal years 1989, 1990 and 1991 was settled in late
1992.
* Contract for acquisition of computer equipment and materials was signed with RTI/HP; delivery of
equipment and installation was in late May 1995. Account remains to be settled.
*   The strategy review operation was completed in November 1993; the contract with Booz-Allen &
Hamilton was settled in January 1994.
*  The contract for auditing the 1992 and 1993 accounts was signed with BEFEC Price-Waterhouse
in November 1993; the operation was completed in late October 1994 and the contract was settled.
*     The contract for auditing the 1994 accounts was signed with BEFEC Price-Waterhouse in
January 1994; the operation was completed in late October 1995 and the contract was settled.



54
*   The HEC, INSEAD, and CGI training contracts signed in October 1994 were settled, the training
operations have been completed.
*    The PGA contract for assistance to the FPs was settled in July 1995.












IMAGING
Report No.:          16397
Type:     ICR



