Page  1
Mr. Ali Chabi                           July 5, 1991
President Directeur General
Entreprise Nationale d' Emballages
  Metalliques
Route de Barati
Cue - de - Constantine
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
               Re:  Loan No. 3210 AL
               (Industrial Restructuring Demonstration
               Project-EMB) Amendment to Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer, in respect of the above-referenced Project, to each of the Loan 
Agreement (the Loan Agreement) entered into by and between the Enterprise Nationale 
d'Emballages Metalliques (the "Borrower") and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank"), the Guarantee Agreement entered into by 
and between the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (the "Guarantor") and the 
Bank, and the Shareholders Agreement entered into by and between the Bank and the 
Fonds de Participation Numero (1) - Industries Agro-Alimentaires, Fonds de 
Participation Numero (3) Biens d' Equipement and Fonds de Participation Numero (6) - 
Electronique . Telecommunications et Informatique, each dated January 8, 1991.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as 
requested in EMB's letter to the Bank, dated May 14, 1991, and in the Guarantor's 
telex to the Bank, dated June 1, 1991. The Loan Agreement is, therefore, hereby 
amended as provided hereinbelow.
1.
Section 7.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement is deleted, and Section 7.01 is amended 
to read as follows:
"Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Bank and the 
Shareholders have entered into the Shareholders Agreement in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank."
2.
Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified: (a) that the Statutes shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement; and (b) that the Borrower shall have failed 
to achieve, by December 31, 1991, a debt to equity ratio not greater than 
75:25. For the purposes of this Section, the term "debt" shall have the same 
meaning as set forth in Section 5.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement, and the term 
"equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover specific 
liabilities."
3.
Section 6.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the events 
specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur."
Kindly confirm the Borrower's agreement, the Guarantor's agreement, and each 
Fonds de Participation's agreement to the foregoing amendment by ensuring that the 
respective confirmation spaces set forth below are duly signed and dated, and then 
returning this duplicate original amendment letter to us at your earliest convenience. 
This amendment letter shall become effective when fully executed by all parties 
hereto, and on the last date on which a party hereto executes it. A signed duplicate 
original of this amendment letter is enclosed herewith for your records.
Very truly yours,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rene Costa
       Acting Director
       Country Department II
       Europe, Middle East and North Africa
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
 ENTERPRISE NATIONALE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
  REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ 
By /s/
       Authorized Representative          Authorized Representative
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
  FONDS DE PARTICIPATION
FONDS DE PARTICIPATION
    NUMERO (1)                       NUMERO (3)
By /s/ 
By /s/
       Authorized Representative          Authorized Representative
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
  FONDS DE PARTICIPATION
    NUMERO (6)
By /s/
        Authorized Representative
