Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER
3212
AL
(Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project
-
PROMETAL)
 
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ENTREPRISE NATIONALE DE PRODUITS
METALLIQUES UTILITARIES
Dated January
8,
1991
LOAN NUMBER
3212
AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January
8, 1991 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and ENTREPRISE NATIONALE DE PRODUITS METALLIQUES 
UTILITAIRES
(the Borrower).
 
WHEREAS
(A)
the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
(the Guarantor) and 
the Borrower,  having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement
(the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth
in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
by an agreement
(the Shareholders Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Bank and the Borrower's shareholders
(the Shareholders), the Shareholders have 
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in  respect of the Project, and to
undertake such other obligation as set forth in the Shareholders Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
 
Section
1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
 
(a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(b)  "Corporate Strategy" means the Borrower's plan of short-and  medium-term 
measures for the restructuring and further development of its  operations over the
1990
to
1994
period, adopted pursuant to a resolution of  the board of directors of
the Borrower dated April
29,
1990, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Bank;
(c)  "Statutes" means the constituent instrument of the Borrower done and
notarized at Algiers, Algeria, on March
13, 1990;
 
(d)  "Project Implementation Unit" means the unit responsible for coordinating 
and supervising the overall day-to-day carrying out of the  Project, established by 
the Borrower and to be maintained in accordance with  the provisions of Section
3.01
(b) of this Agreement; and
 
(e)  "Fiscal Year" means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower's fiscal years, which period coincides with the calendar year.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twelve million  seven
hundred thousand dollars
($12,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of  the proceeds 
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
 
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement for  expenditures
made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in a
commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, a special deposit  account in dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5
to this
Agreement.
(c)
Pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated December
15,
1987
and December
17, 
1987, the Bank granted to the Guarantor a project preparation  advance (Project 
Preparation Advance), and subsequently the Guarantor advanced  a portion of the 
proceeds of the Project Preparation Advance to the Borrower. The Borrower agrees, 
therefore, that promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay  to itself the amount of said portion
of the proceeds required to repay the  principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date, and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Page  3
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section
2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
 
Section
2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each  Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in  respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the  preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
 
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section
2.06
of
this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
investments; and
(B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
July
1,
1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
 
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
of a calendar year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to
the Borrower, paragraphs
(a),
(b)
and
(c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of
one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such
Interest Period."
 
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
 
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January
1, April
1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section
2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1 
and October
1
in each year.
 
Section
2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  4
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering  practices, and safety, health and
environmental standards, satisfactory to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, and 
in order to facilitate the proper carrying out of the Project,  the Borrower shall
maintain the Project Implementation Unit, in a form and with functions satisfactory to
the Bank, and shall staff the said unit with personnel in numbers and with
qualifications and experience and terms of employment all satisfactory to the Bank.
 
Section
3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the  goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule
4
to this
Agreement.
Section
3.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon its obligations under 
Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, not later than December 31 of  each Fiscal 
Year, beginning in the Fiscal Year
1991, the Borrower undertakes to have its 
representatives meet with representatives of the Bank with the purposes of reviewing
together the progress achieved by the Borrower, during the period covered by such
review, in carrying out the Project.
 
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section
4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices
and appropriate safety, health and environmental standards, under  the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
 
(b)
Without limitation on the generality of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Corporate Strategy with due  diligence and efficiency and
at all times take all necessary measures to achieve the objectives thereof.
 
Section
4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in  accordance with sound
engineering, financial and environmental practices.
 
Section
4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
 
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section
5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) and the records and accounts for the Special
Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six
(6) months after the end of each such year (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
Page  5
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section
5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur  any  debt, in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to five million
dollars
($5,000,000), unless the net revenues of the Borrower for  the Fiscal Year 
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence, or for a later twelve-month period 
ended prior to  the  date  of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least
1.5
times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for
any succeeding Fiscal Year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term
"debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing
by its terms more than one
(1)
year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.
 
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract
or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for
the modification of its terms of payment on  the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee
agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into.
 
(iii)
The term
"net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations adjusted to take account of the Borrower's
prices in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, and
net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt.
 
(iv)
The term
"net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
incurred in the generation of revenues in
(A)
above.
 
(v)
The term
"debt service requirements" means the aggregate of
repayments
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and
interest and other charges on, debt.
 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Bank.
 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section
6.01. Pursant to Section 6.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Statutes shall have  been
amended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
 
Section
6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  6
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
 
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section
7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Bank and the Shareholders have entered into the
Shareholders Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
 
Section
7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section
12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, a separate  opinion on behalf of each
of the Shareholders showing that the Shareholders Agreement has been duly executed and
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the Shareholders in accordance
with its terms.
Section
7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section
8.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
 
Section
8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423
(RCA),
64145
(WUI) or
82987
(FTCC)
 
For the Borrower:
Enterprise Nationale de Produits
Metalliques Utilitaires
Route de Mejtah
BP
25
Oued-Smar
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria
Telex:
 
64512
64524
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in
Algiers, Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, as of  the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By
/s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ENTREPRISE NATIONALE DE PRODUITS
METALLIQUES
By
/s/ M.S. Mouaci
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
%
of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods and equip-
3,400,000
)
100% of foreign
ment under
)
expenditures, and
Parts A
(2)
and
)
80% of local
B of the Project
)
expenditures
)
(2)
Goods and equip-
5,000,000
)
ment under
)
Part A
(1)
of
)
the Project
)
)
(3)
Equipment and
200,000
)
consultants'
)
services under
)
Part D of the
)
Project
)
(4)
Consultants'
2,500,000        100%
services and
training under
Parts B and C
of the Project
(5)
Refunding of
500,000
Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-
suant to Section
tion Advance
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
1,100,000
 
TOTAL
12,700,000
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: (i) the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the  Guarantor, for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country  other than that of the
Guarantor; and
(ii) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of the Guarantor, or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
1
above, no withdrawals shall be made
in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of  this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $500,000, may be made  in  respect of Categories (1) on account of 
Page  8
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July
1
,
1989
; and
(
b
)
for
expenditures under Part A
(1)
of the Project unless the Borrower shall have furnished
to the Bank a study, satisfactory to the Bank,  establishing the economic, financial,
technical, commercial and environmental viability of the Borrower's metal furniture
production line.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the management of the Borrower and
expand its operations.
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
 
Part A:
 
(1)
The modernization and expansion of production lines for metal furniture.
 
(2)
The rehabilitation of other production and warehousing facilities, and
acquisition of related equipment to increase production capacity utilization and
improve feedstock yields.
 
Part B:
 
The provision of modern management information systems.
 
Part C:
 
(1)
The provision of studies and market and other surveys to develop  appropriate
strategies for: (a) improving productive profitability; (b) improving product 
distribution systems; and
(c)
identifying potential business partners.
 
(2)
The development of suitable recruitment and employment policies, including the
formulation of career development programs for staff.
 
(3)
The carrying out of a training program to upgrade the skills of management and
staff personnel.
Part D:
 
The carrying out of a study and the acquisition or rehabilitation of equipment to
eliminate the industrial pollution emitted by the Borrower's operations.
 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31,
1994.
 
SCHEDULE
3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April
1
and October
1
beginning October
1,
1995
through   October
1,
2004                       635,000
 
And on April
1,
2005                                 635,000
Page  9
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section
3.04
(b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid  shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
 
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
More than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but
0.88
not more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE
4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA
Credits"
published by the Bank in May
1985
(the Guidelines).
 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A
Page  10
hereof, goods manufactured in the Democratic and Popular Republic of  Algeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and   paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 
thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded through limited international bidding  procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set
forth  in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 
2.56 thereof).
 
2.
Goods and services which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature may  be
procured through direct negotiations with the proprietors thereof, on terms  and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $500,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of 
the Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph
2
(d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs
3
and
4
of Appendix
1
to the  Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph
3
shall be furnished to  the Bank as part of the evidence
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph
4
of Schedule
5
to this Agreement.
 
2.
The figure of
15%
is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines.
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out the Project, the   Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such   consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
 
SCHEDULE
5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term
"Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the  Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term
"Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph
3
(a)
of this Schedule.
 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  11
3
.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do  not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of  such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested.
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been made out of the
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under  the
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,  as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the  Borrower
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to  the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made  exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
3
of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section
5.02
of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
 
6.   (a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out  of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree,  no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in
the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for Eligible
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
Page  12
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account
.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6
(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this  Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
