Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 21505
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24200)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 30 MILLION (US$4 I MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FOR A TRANSPORT RECOVERY PROJECT
December 13, 2000
Transport
Africa Region
nThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2000)
Currency Unit = Kwanza (Kz)
Kz I = US$ 0.070
US$ I = Kz 14.228
FISCAL YEAR
January 01  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           -             Country Assistance Strategy
CCCE          -             French Aid Agency (Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique)
CFL           -             Luanda Railways (Caminho de Ferro de Luanda)
CIF           -             Cost Insurance Freight
DANIDA        -             Danish Intemational Development Agency
DCA           -             Development Credit Agreement
ERR           -             Economic Rate of Retum
FMS           -             Financial Management Specialist
GOA           -             Govemrnent of Angola
GPS           -             Geographical Planning System
GNP           -             Gross National Product
ICB           -             International Competitive Bidding
ICR           -             Implementation Completion Report
IDA           -             lnternational Development Association
IMF           -             International Monetary Fund
INEA          -             Angola Highway Institute (Instituto de Estradas de Angola)
IRE           -             Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project
LCB           -             Local Competitive Bidding
MINPLAN       -             Ministrv of Planning
MINOPU        -             Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development
MINTEC                      Ministry of Transport and Communication
MINTRANS   -                Ministry of Transport
MTR           -             Mid-Term Review
NTS           -             National Transport Strategy
PIU           -             Project Implementation Unit
PPF           -             Project Preparation Facility
PRGF          -             Public Reduction and Growth Facility
RF            -             Road Fund
SAR           -             Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           -             Special Drawing Rights
SIDA          -             Swedish Intemational Development Agency
SME   .       -             Small and Medium Enterprises
TA            -             Technical Assistance
TOR           -             Temis of Reference
UNCTAD        -             United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
VOC           -             Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:   Mr. Cagisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Mr. Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:   Ms. Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mr. Abdelmoula Ghzala



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ANGOLA
TRANSPORT RECOVERY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design. and of Quiality at Entrv 
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implemenitation and Outconme                                 1l
6. Sustainability                                                                       13
7. Bank and Borrower Peiformance                                                        14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      1 5
9. Partner Comments                                                                     16
10. Additional Information                                                              24
Annex I. Key Performance Indicators/Log Framiie Matrix                                  25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Finanicing                                                   26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Beniefits                                                   28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievemnent ol Objectives/Outputs of Components                   31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfonrance                                       32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   33
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000050                                        Project Name: TRANSPORT RECOVERY
7'eamn Leader: Abdelmoula M. Ghzala                        11 UJnit: AFIlT1
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                         R?eport Date: Decelmiber 13, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TRANSPORT RECOVERY                              LI/C'TI Number: IDA-24200
Country/Department: ANGOLA                                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector4subsector: TT - Transportation Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/4ctual
PC'D:  01/08/91                                Efftcihve:                     09/15/93
A-ppraisal:  03/05/92                                  AfIIR:                      07/17/94
Approval:  09/03/92                                  Closing: 06/30/96             06/30/2000
Borrower/Implemnenting Agen cv: Govermnment of Angola/Ministry of Planiing/Ministry of TransportflNEA
Other Partners: None
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
V'ice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         E. V. K. Jaycox
Country Mianager:     Darius Mans                                F. Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Alanager:      Maryvomie Plessis-Fraissard                Marc Blanc
Team Leader at ICR:   Abdelmoula M. Ghzala                       Jean-Jacques Raoul
ICR PrimaryAuthor:   Ajay Kumar; Gualberto Lima
Campos
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory,BL=High1y Likely, L=Likely, UN=UJnlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, H1U=Highly Unsatisfactory,H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest. N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any T'ime: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  At project preparation, Angola had just emerged from a 15 year civil war that had severely
hurt the economy.  Infrastructure inadequacies were proving to be a major bottleneck to
economic development and improvements in the quality of life. Controlled prices, ineffective cost
recovery, departure of most of the skilled Portuguese highway personnel during the civil war



period and unclear institutional responsibilities made the situation worse and decapitalization
widespread in the sector. Physical infrastructure was in urgent need of repair and sector agencies
needed institutional reform and strengthening.
3.1.2  The main objectives of the project were to:
*  preserve and restore access through urgent road rehabilitation and maintenance support;
*  promote employment by supporting labor intensive maintenance and creating an enabling
environment for the private sector;
*  improve management of main roads and operation of Luanda's railway system and the ports of
Luanda, Lobito and Namibe; and
*  improve sector policies particularly with regard to cost recovery and transport facilitation.
3.1.3 The project objectives were clear and realistic and supported the Government's transport
recovery program. The road and bridge rehabilitation component was expected to reopen most
important trunk roads; the port and rail components were expected to provide access to the
central plateaus with the highest agricultural potential. The project objectives were consistent
with the Government's priorities and the Bank's country assistance strategy at the time of Project
preparation, which recognized the need to expand the relationship between Angola and the Bank
by broadening the dialogue on the countrys development needs... through lending operations,
economic and sector work.....
3.2 Revised ObNective.-
3.2.1 The original project objectives were not changed though the project design was revised
during implementation. The componenrs were first revised at mid-term review (MTR) in July
1994 taking into account the renewed civil war and subsequently the project was restructured in
December 1996 and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) amended in June 1997.
3.2.2 The war restarted in September 1992, six months after the project was appraised. The
project remained somewhat inactive during the following four years due to civil unrest.  With
improvements in the peace process and inauguration of a unified Government in 1996, the project
was restructured to meet the new priorities. Even under the changed circumstances, most
development objectives were still valid, though the relative urgency of different actions had
changed. The most urgent priority was to improve living conditions of the main metropolitan area
of Luanda as more than 50% of the country's population was living there. A revised action plan
for the use of undisbursed funds was drawn up and agreed with the Government. Lack of access
to the roads proposed to be financed under the project required restructuring of the original
project design. New roads were selected to be financed by the project, with a view to improve
accessibility to the capital city and the surrounding areas, where almost half the population of the
country lived.  Action plans for the Luanda railway and Lobito port were revised taking into
account events such as the virtual closure of the railway and loss of traffic at the port.
3.2.3 In view of the financial constraints faced by the Government, the DCA was amended to:
(i) change the percentage of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for road
rehabilitation components from 80 percent to 95 percent; and (ii) include Government's
-2 -



commitment to allocate for road maintenance activities (Road Fund) US$5.0 million in 1997,
US$10.0 million in 1998 and US$15.0 million in 1999.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 The total cost of the project, inclusive of physical and price contingencies, was estimated
during appraisal at US$ 64.9 million, with financing by IDA of US$41.0 million (63%); SIDA,
US$3.3 million (5%); (French Aid Agency) CCCE, US$3.0 million (5%); DANIDA, US$3.0
million (5%); and Government of Angola, US$14.6 million (22%).
3.3.2 The original four components of the project were:
* Road and bridge rehabilitation-preservation of about 500 km of highways and repair of
about 25 bridges;
* Improve Luanda railway operations through an action plan, institutional assistance, and
overhaul of the rolling stock and equipment;
* Improve Lobito port operations through an action plan, procurement of spare parts,
equipment and port structure repairs; and
*  Institutional capacity building through liberalization of road transport and improved regulatory
framework and facilitation of inter-modal transport.
3.3.3 Technical assistance was provided to support:
(i) Ministry of Transport. TA was provided to develop the capacity of the Depaitment of
Planning, Ministry of Transport to: (i) prepare proposals for the modernization of the legal
framework of the transport sector; (ii) study and suggest to the Government strategies and
policies; and (iii) identify, evaluate, program and follow-up on the implementation of projects
and actions.
(ii) Port of Luanda. TA focused on: (i) improving the efficiency of port management,
including port operations and technical.services, port safety and environmental control; and
(ii) promoting human resource development and improving maintenance of port assets. An
action plan was agreed upon to improve operations and financial management systems,
including budgetary control, operations and maintenance, asset management, staffing
rationalization plan.
(iii) INEA/RF. Technical assistance for the institutional strengthening of INMA (Angola
Highway Institute) included: (i) develop technical capacity of IN1EA to identify, evaluate,
program and follow-up the implementation of road construction, up-grading, rehalbilitation
and maintenance; and (ii) train and promote small and medium enterprises (SMEs) for road
works and generate employment in road maintenance. Component costs were estimated as
follows:
-3 -



Project Costs Initial Estimates
(US$ mllion)
Component           Total Cost    IDA      GOA       Donors
Road/Bridge Rehabilitation    48.50      32.90      12.30     3.30
Luanda Railways               6.90        5.40      1.50
Ports                         7.20        0.40      (.8(      6.00
Institutional Support         2.30        2.30
Total              64.90       41.)0    14.60      9.30
3.4 Revived Components:
3.4.1 Most of the sites where works were to be carried out as part of the original design were
not secure. Components were significantly revised at the MTR in July 1994, taking into account
the renewed civil war. Project priorities had shifted and revisions to the project were required to
allow contractor mobilization. The road component was further revised in 1996 to include
rehabilitation of three main access roads to Luanda: (i) Lot 1--LuandalBarra to Kwanza; (ii)
Luanda/Viana trunk road; and (iii) Rotunda da Boavista/Kifangondo. The fourth road section
(Catete/Kinfangondo road), included in the revised design, which was to be funded by DANIDA
(because of insufficient funds under IDA Credit), was subsequently dropped by GoA.
3.4.2 Most sub-coiiponents of the Namibe and Luanda port systems and CFL (Luanda
Railways), included as part of the IRE Project, were transferred to the TRP. In addition,
technical assistance was provided to restructure the functioning of the existing Road Fund (RF).
3.4.3 Component costs were revised as follows:
Project Costs Revised Estimates
(US$ millo
Component           Total Cost    IDA      GOA       Donors
Road/Bridge Rehabilitation    39.16      34.66      1.50      3.00(
Luanda Railways               0.43        0.43
Ports                         4.45        4.45
Institutional Support         1.46        1.46
Total              45.50       41.00      1.50     3.00
Note: Donor financing for road rehabilitation was subsequently dropped.
- 4 -



3.5 Quality at Entrv:
3 5.1 The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory for the following reasons.
3.5.2  Consistency of objectives with CAS and government priorities. The project objectives
were consistent with both the Government priorities and the CAS. (see para. 3.1.3)
3.5.3 Project preparation. The project was appropriately designed as a first step to address
Angola's highly deteriorated infrastructure and supported the first phase of the Government's
transport recovery program. Key issues were correctly identified and adequately addressed by
providing for studies, technical assistance, critical equipment and rehabilitation of the maLin roads.
The project was appraised and negotiated during a small window in the peace process and it was
hoped that with the signing of the Peace Agreement, key deficiencies in the transport sector
(including ports, railways and roads) could be addressed. However, peace was short lived and
political uncertainty overtook the country within six months of effectiveness, which delayed
implementation of the project as originally planned.
3.5.4 Project design. Although the project took eight years to implement (as compared to the
original time frarne of three years) a number of project components had to be restructlred, and
the reform program could not be fully implemented as originally agreed with the Government.
The original design of the project was satisfactory with implementation delays resulting from an
uncertain political environment surrounding an unanticipated renewal of hostilities. One key
weakness of the design was the requirement to introduce substantial policy changes and
restructure institutional arrangements within a three-year project period. Given that the country
had just emerged from a long civil war, lacked experience in dealing with the Bank and had
limited institutional capacity, it was somewhat optimistic to expect major policy changes within
this short period.
3.5.5 Complernentarity with Other On-goingProjects. This project complemented the on-going
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering (IRE) project, which was conceived prior to the peace
agreement in 1991. The focus of the IRE project was on providing access to large parts of the
country, strengthening institutions in the infrastructure sector and introducing basic principles of
cost recovery. The TRP project gained from the project coordination arrangements set up under
the IRE project.
3.5.6  Project Coordination and Management Arrangements. The project was complex and
risky because it involved several Government units and was being implemented in an uncertain
environment with regard to future progress of the peace and reform process. Government
agencies lacked experience in implementing Bank financed projects and institutional capacity was
limited. The following implementation measures were designed to reduce risks:
(i)    Ministry of Planning (MINPLAN) was responsible for the overall coordination cif
project implementation, with support from the implementation unit established
under the IRE within its National Directorate of Investments. The project steering
- 5 -



committee, already established under IRE, included the four component
coordinators as well as representatives designated by the Ministry of Finance and
the Angolan Central Bank;
(ii)   the project implementation unit (PIU), established for the IRE, provided
administrative support to the project coordinator and the project steering
committee. In addition to the four advisors provided by a single international
consulting firm under the IRE, a transport expert was hired to provide guidance to
the transport agencies; and
(iii)  establishing an intensive IDA supervision plan.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcomte/achievement of objective.
4.1.1 Although the project had unsatisfactory IP and DO ratings during the initial years, when
instability resulting from the resumption of war impeded progress, the project outcome is rated as
satisfactory. The physical targets were achieved in terms of improving access to the capital city
for movement of both people and goods. In addition, the project was successful in sensitizing the
Borrower to reform issues, particularly with respect to cost recovery, enhancing the role of the
private sector in small maintenance contracts and strengthening transport agencies. Over the past
few years, there has been a significant improvement in the dialogue between Government and the
Bank on specific issues related to road user charges and establishment of sustainable arrangements
for road maintenance. The pace of reforms was slowed by the civil war and the poor
macro-economic environment facing the country. Angola faced a major economic crisis during
the mid-1990s, affecting project implementation. An economnic reform program with the IMP and
the Bank was suspended in November, 1995; hyperinflation reached 7,400% in May 1996 and
the budget deficit increased to 29% of the GDP. Prospects for improved economic performance
have improved recently with the GOA's decision to undertake an IMF staff-monitored program
from April 2000.
4.1.2 The routine maintenance program to be funded using the road fund in 2001 is expected to
involve about 15 local contractors and provide employment to about 1000 to 1200 unskilled
workers. The road works have improved access to the capital city and have resulted in a
significant increase in daily vehicular traffic and economic activity along the road side (local trade,
car repair, small industries, markets, etc.). However, since improvement in road quality, a number
of accidents have been occurring, resulting from an increase in traffic speed. In an effort to calm
the traffic, safety humps and other measures are being installed in the proximity of pedestrian
crossings.
-6 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Based on the following assessment, overall implementation of the road components,
accounting for about 87% of the physical investments, is considered as satisfactory;
implementation of Lobito port components (about 12% of the physical investments) is also
satisfactory, considering that port operations have improved; and implementation of the much
smaller components of Luanda railways (less than 1% of the total physical investments) is rated as
modest.
(I)    Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
(a) Luanda/Viana Trunk Road. The construction contract was successfully completed, on time
and within the overall planned budget. The works supervision contract was fully accomplished
and monthly progress reports maintained.  The road is 17 km and rehabilitation included: (i)
widening of the carriageway and paving of the shoulders; (ii) rehabilitation of the pavement,
involving:  reinforcement (4.8 km); rebuilding (1.2 km) and resealing (11.0 km); and (iii)
rehabilitation and maintenance of the drainage systems. This road constitutes one of the main
access links to Luanda, with high average daily traffic and high percentage of heavy goods
vehicles. With an aim to improve traffic safety, 11 lay-by-areas were built to enable ingress and
egress of passengers and goods in a proper and safe place out of the carriageway.
Table I - Luanda/Viana Trunk Road
Summary of the works values, planned and concluded (in US $ million)
Activities    Planned    %/         Executed   'Vo        Variation   %/ll
Value                 Value
Earthworks   1.24       29.7        0.94        22.3      -0.3 1       -7.4
Surfacing    1.74       41.6       2.33         55.5      0.58         13.9
and Paving
Drainage     0.13       3.0         0.05        1.3       -0.07        -1.8
Sundries     1.08       25.7       0.88         20.9      -0.20       -4.7
TOTAL        4.19       100,00     4.20         100.00    $0,00       0,100
(b)   Luanda/Barra Do Kwanza Trunk Road (Lot 1)
The road is 61.5 km and rehabilitation sub-components included: (i) widening of the carriageway
and paving of the shoulders; (ii) rehabilitation of the pavement, including: reinforcement (31.4
km), rebuilding (8.4 km) and re-sealing (21.9 km); (iii) rehabilitation and maintenance of the
drainage system; and (iv) rebuilding and reinforcement of al I existing structures on the road. Due
- 7 -



to a delay in works execution of about two years since initial planning, final plans had to be
altered somewhat in the surfacing of bitumen concrete to improve the quality of works and reduce
maintenance cost. This resulted in an increase in initial cost estimates by about 11 %.
Table 2 - Luanda/Barra Do Kwanza Trunk Road
Summary of the works values (estimated and actual, in US $ million)
Description               Initial amounl   Final amount   Deviation %
(estimale)      (actucll)
Bill nr.0- Preliminary and  1.36          1.21           -11.4
General
Bill nr. I - Earthworks   2.31            3.99           67.8
Bill nr.2 - Bases         0.73            0.29           -60.5
Bill nr.3- Surfacing and  5.07            6.77           33.4
Pavements
Bill nr.4 - Structures    4.06            2.83           -30.4
- Drainage
Bill nr.5 - Structures    0.15            0.17            11.6
- Bridges
Billnr.6-Incidentals      0.61            0.77           26.5
Sub Total                 14.37           16.03          11.6
Bill nr.7 - Work days     0.13            0.03           -76.8
TOTAL GENERAL             14.49           16.06          10.8
(c)   Luanda/Kifangondo Trunk Road (Lot 4). This is 17.5 km road and rehabilitation
sub-components included: (i) widening of the carriageway and paving of the shoulders; (ii)
rehabilitation and maintenance of the drainage system, including widening of the box-culvert; (iii)
rehabilitation of the pavement; and (iv) widening of the bridges. This is an artery with high traffic
volume, including heavy goods vehicles and tankers carrying water to Luanda. Due to delays in
work commencement by about two years following preparation of plans and support studies
(plans were prepared in early 1996 and works commenced in mid-1998), it became necessary to
adapt the works to conditions prevailing at the later date. However, the final cost amount did not
change from the initial estimates (see Table 3).
(d)   Bridge Rehabilitation. INEA has completed the repair of 25 bridges with installation of
948 meters of metallic bridges at a total cost of US$6.0 million.
- 8-



Table 3 - Luanda/Kifangondo Trunk Road
Summary of the works values (estimated and actual, in US $ million)
Description             Initical amnount   Final amount   Deviation %
(estimate)      (actual)
Bill nr.0 - Preliminary  0.87           0.86           -1
and General
Bill nr.1 - Earthworks  0.95            1.48           +56
Bill nr.2 - Bases       0.53            0.67           +28
Bill nr.3 - Surfacing and   1.83        2.24            +23
Pavements
Bill nr.4 - Structures -  1.87          1.54            -18
Drainage
Bill nr.5 - Structures -  1.50          0.83            -45
Bridges
Bill nr.6 - Incidentals  0.29           0.21            -26
Bill nr.7 - Work days   0.11            0.16            -85
TOTAL GENERAL           7.95            7.86           -1
(II)   Port Operations (total cost: US$4.8 million). This component included repair to berths 5
and 6 of the Lobito port, including heavy-duty pavement adjacent to the quay apron and
upgrading of part of the electric system. Spare parts for the ports of Luanda, Lobito and Namibe
were procured, including: spare parts for generator groups and tugboats and launch; equipment
for two lighthouses of Luanda port; 15 meter GRP tower-shore installation at Lagostas, islands,
39 meter metallic tower shore installation at Palmeirinhas; materials for beaconnage of Corimba
bay; electrical and hydraulic material for the port of Luanda; crane plugs for existing port cranes;
spare parts for Hyster equipment; spare parts for Toyota tractor; office equipment and urmiture;
procurement of forklift trucks, electrical material and divers material for the Namibe port.
Technical assistance and training was provided to strengthen administration and finance,
computerize Lobito port operations and set up a data base. In addition, the environmental
regulations for ports were approved by the Ministry of Transport.
(III)  Luanda Railways (total cost: US$0.25 million). This component was considerably
down-sized during the MTR and subsequent project restructuring with the virtual closure of
railways resulting from resumption of war and a lack of access to vast tracks in the country. The
investments in this component were confined to procuring sleepers for about 10 km of railway
-9-



line and rehabilitating 18 rail cars and three locomotives. This reduced program was successfully
completed.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate oJfreturn:
4.3.1 Restoration of the main road links to the capital city is expected to result in substantial
benefits to the economy. The direct benefit of the improved roads was quantified in terms of
lower vehicle operating costs and savings in future reconstruction costs. When compared against
the estimated Project costs, the ERR for the road and bridge sub-components ranged from 20
percent to 38 percent, with 31% for the overall roads component. However, road sections
planned to be rehabilitated as part of this project had to be significantly revised during 1996,
taking into account the renewed civil war. Most of the sites where work had to be carried out
were not secure and given the destruction caused by war, Project priorities had shifted. New
roads were selected to be financed under this Project, with a view to improve accessibility to
Luanda and the surrounding areas.
4.3.2 All assumptions and key parameters adopted at appraisal were applied in the economic
evaluation of the revised components. The ERR for the Luanda/Barra-Kwanza section is
estimated to be 44%; for Luanda/Viana Trunk 43%; and for Rotunda da Boavista/Kifangondo
section 23%. The overall ERR for the roads component is 38%. The higher ERR for the roads
under the Project as compared to the original design components is because of the high volume of
heavy vehicles entering the city and the resulting savings in VOC. No savings for light vehicle
traffic were included in computation, as proposed in the SAR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for this Project.
4.5 Institutional developmnent irnpact:
4.5.1 Many of the institutional reforms were undertaken in the last year of the Project and the
Government is still in the process of implementing the various study recommendations. As a
result, it is rather early to document specific achievements and the impact is rated as modest. Key
achievements include:
*  Improved sector policies, particularly with regard to cost recovery and transport facilitation;
*  National Transport Strategy (NTS) for multi-modal integrated transport sector needs was
prepared and adopted. The Strategy included preparation of short, medium and long term
action plans for the transport sector. The priority investment program was developed and the
role of the public and private sectors was defined. The Strategy also identified future training
needs. A national seminar to discuss the Strategy was held in November, 1999 with
participation from the public and private sectors;
*  The restructuring of the Ministry of Transport (as recommended by the NTS) is on-going,
including strengthening of the National Road Authority and arrangements to manage the road
fund are being put in place; TA to INMA and the study on RF have also been completed and
the RF is being restructured along the recommendations;
* MNEA is currently under a restructuring process with the objective to transform itself into a
- 10-



small unit focused on managing the road network, planning maintenance works and
controlling the quality of works developed by private contractors (300 former INEA workers
have already been laid off). Its capacity to manage contracts and works has improved with a
focus on: (i) preparing terms of reference for the bidding process for rehabilitation and
maintenance works; (ii) managing quality control issues through a consultants network; and
(iii) installing a data base for the whole road network (the Geographical Planning System is
being installed and INEA  is now preparing a data base for the bridges).  All these
achievements were achieved through intensive training in particular in Portugal and Brazil and
learning by doing with technical assistance experts, both activities largely financed by the
Credit.
4.5.2  One of the agreements during prn ;ect preparation was development of an action plan for
cost recovery to finance road maintenance through road user charges, with the objective of
ensuring collection of at least US$15 million per year, starting in 1993. However, as a result of
the major economic crisis confronting the country in early to mid-1990s, the project was
restructured and the DCA amended to include Government's commitment to allocate for road
maintenance activities equivalent to US$5.0 million in 1997, US$10.0 million in 1998 and
US$15.0 million in 1999. Due to continued worsening of the macro-economic environmnent, this
revised objective has not been fully achieved.  There have been delays in financing the RF
account. In 1999, about US$1.5 million was transferred for road maintenance activities, which
was less than expected but sufficient to maintain about 1500 km of the road network, which is the
total length of the currently accessible network due to the prevailing war situation. With a return
to peaceful condition, the development objectives would not be sustainable unless
recommendations of the RF study were utilly implemented.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outsidie he control of government or implenmenting agencl:
5.1.1 The project was implemented during a period of great economic and political volatility.
The 1991 peace agreement and the momentum for reform were short-lived as hostilities renewed
in 1992. Despite a further period of limited peace between 1994 and 1998, harmony 'was never
fully achieved. Renewed civil strife increased military spending and diverted resources away from
the development activities. A constant uncertainty on several fronts inevitably affected critical
project decisions and slowed implementation of policy reforms.
5.2 Factors generally sub ject to government control:
5.2.1 The Government's pre-occupation with the civil war and the resulting political turmoil,
resulted in inadequate attention to macro-economic and structural reform issues. Delays in
providing counterpart funds and allocating funds for road maintenance activities adversely
impacted project outcomes. Because of Government's failure to move forward consistently with a
program  of macro-economic stabilization and reform, the Bank has largely suspended the
preparation of new lending activities pending successful completion of the TM\F's Staff MIonitored
Program and an agreement between the Government and the IvF on a successor arrangement.
- 11 -



5.3 Factors generally.subject to ihnpkmenting agency control:
5.3.1 In spite of the uncertain political environment and limited institutional capacity, the
implementing agencies have kept to the timetable, including preparation of tenders and
supervision of works. Successful efforts were made by the coordination of the project and other
sub-agencies to respect the schedule agreed during supervision missions. The supervision of road
rehabilitation works was carried out with due diligence in spite of delays in procurement of
consultants and finalization of bid documents. The studies supporting the rehabilitation project
were conducted in early 1996. The works began in mid-1998. This required a need to adapt the
final plan to the then existing conditions. This adaptation resulted in several variations of the
predicted quantities for each working unit as well as alterations in improving the quality of the
works. Still, work deadlines and broad financial estimates were respected. The unit prices
established by contract were also respected, as well as its overall value. Specific factors impacting
the project implementation were:
*   limited institutional capacity of the implementing agencies has added significantly to the time
needed to review design, prepare and process procurement documents;
f  delays in preparation of technical specifications and bid documents, partly because of
inadequate command of the English language;
*   delays in receiving construction material; frequent and lengthy shortages of bitumen in the
country; and
-  component coordinators were overloaded with work, reducing the time and attention available
for project coordination.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 While consultants conducting road rehabilitation studies performed satisfactorily, costs
escalated for one of the road sections. This was primarily because the studies supporting the
rehabilitation project were conducted in early 1996, while the works began in mid-1998. This
required a need to adapt the final design to the then existing conditions. This adaptation resulted
in several variations of the predicted quantities for items of the bill of quantities as well as
alterations in improving the quality of the works, though the unit costs of the contract were
respected in the final cost assessment. Main modifications were aimed at improving the quality
of work and road safety and reducing maintenance cost. The project modifications for Lot 4 were
the most significant, resulting in a 10% increase in cost. The changes in cost are small when
compared to uncertain conditions prevailing in the country and lack of adequate experience with
Bank projects. In addition, the modifications will improve service perfornance of the roads from
what was initially planned.
5.4.2 The Credit was signed on September 15, 1992 and became effective in September, 1993.
The initial closing date was June 30, 1996. However, the project remained almost inactive for the
first three years of implementation because of insecure conditions prevailing in the country. In
September 1996, total disbursement had only reached 6% of the total Credit amount, mainly
towards the award of the metal bridge sub-component.  The closing date had to be extended
three times to achieve project objectives and allow completion of the following outstanding tasks:
(i) rehabilitation of three main access roads to Luanda; (ii) procurement of spare parts for the
- 12-



three main Angolan ports; and (iii) provision of technical assistance programs to the M[inistry of
Transport, Port of Luanda and INEA.  The closing date was first extended by one year from
June 30, 1996 to June 30, 1997. The second extension was granted until June 30, 1999, after
restructuring of the project in December 1996. However, particularly due to delays encountered
in launching and evaluating the various tenders and in mobilizing the contractors, and the
consultants, road works and consultant services could not be completed. The closing date was
extended for the third time to June 30, 2000.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale/for suslainahility rating:
6.1.2 Sustainability of the project benefits is unlikely in view of continued conflict within the
country and instability of the macro-economic environment. This is despite the considerable
progress made during the project to open up a dialogue with the Government on the reform
process and provide technical assistance to the Port of Luanda, INEA and the Ministry of
Transport. Significant achievements of the project included: (i) introduction of the concept of
cost recovery; (ii) decentralization of port tariff, (iii) creating an enabling environment for
participation of the private sector in road maintenance activities. The Govemment is just
beginning to restructure the road agency and provide a sustainable basis for road maintenance.
However, it would require a continued dialogue with the Govemment to ensure that appropriate
mechanisms are put in place and adequately supported. Technical studies to strengthen capacity
of the port of Luanda, Ministry of Transport and INEA have just been completed prior to closing
of the project. Failure to follow on the recommendations of the studies and provide continued
assistance to the Government in advising and monitoring the agencies' performance may adversely
impact successful implementation of thi recommendations.  Considering that there is no other
transport project in the Bank's current lending program, it is unlikely that the progress made under
the project would be sustained. However, if there is a satisfactory completion of the ]IMF Staff
Monitored Program and subsequent IMF-Govemment agreement on a PRGF, it is possible that
Bank support in the transport sector will resume. That will allow continuation in the support for
reform policies and capacity building initiated under this project and could lead to sustainability of
the project outcomes.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  Future operations should be considered when the Govemment and the IMF agree on a
program to address the critical macro-economic issues confronting the country. In the long run,
in order to attract intemational investment, the Government will need to increase the confidence
of the investment community by increasing the role of the private sector and by addressing the
macro-economic issues raised by the IMF.  In the short-to-medium term, in absence of any
foreseen transport operation in the pipeline, it is imperative to continue with some TA to maintain
the dialogue on the transport sector with the Government and to follow up on the implernentation
of the restructuring of MINTRANS and the RF. There is also a need to: (i) launch a detailed
study on traffic safety in the new upgraded road section; (ii) conduct a careful inspection of the
rehabilitation works (some of the road signs were stolen subsequent to installation and it is
necessary to build adequate safeguards); and (iii) proceed with maintenance works of the drainage
- 13 -



system as well as prevent erosion of the embankment slopes caused by rainfall.   If these
operations are not adequately carried out, the whole integrity of pavement may be threatened,
which may also adversely impact traffic safety. In the absence of adequate maintenance, localized
phenomena such as erosion of embankments may damage the pavements.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 The Bank clearly identified, prepared and appraised the project which met the needs of the
Borrower and was consistent with the Bank's lending strategy. The objectives were appropriate
and components provided for flexibility during implementation. The Bank's performance was
satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1    Considerable efforts were made by the Bank and the Government during implementation
to realize project objectives in spite of the difficult economic and political environment prevailing
at the time. Overall Bank supervision took place in three phases. During the first phase which
lasted until late 1994, the project was implemented as appraised, though project activities
remained almost inactive and total disbursement was less than 5% of the total Credit amount.
During the secondphase, which lasted between early 1995 and late 1996, the DCA was amended
and attempts were made to improve implementation, though disbursements remained slow. A
number of personnel changes took place in the Bank's supervision teams during the first and
second phases, adversely impacting effective implementation. During the third phase which
lasted from 1996 to project closing, a continuity was maintained in the Bank's supervision team
resulting in improved dialogue with the implementing agencies. Since 1996, the supervision
missions contributed significantly to improved project performance. Specific actions taken by the
Bank supervision missions to improve project performance included: (i) flexibility and adaptability
shown by the project team to changed circumstances and restructuring of the project to suit the
specific national priorities; (ii) recruitment of short-term consultants to support document
preparation and provide "hands-on" procurement training; (iii) providing support to the PIU to
assist in the preparation of a Procedure Manual; and (iv) inclusion, with the approval of the
Government, of preparing an integrated national transport strategy.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1  Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 The Borrower's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The Government performance during implementation was marginally satisfactory
considering that counterpart funding was provided after considerable delay, which delayed
- 14-



contractor payments and adversely impacted the implementation schedule. However, the delay
was not surprising considering the serious macro-economic problems faced by the country during
this period. The real strength of the Government's commitment was ownership of the reform
process. The Govemment maintained an open dialogue and was receptive to suggestions from the
Bank.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 As observed earlier, overall Project implementation took place in three phases. During the
first phase, communication between the PrU and some implementing agencies was weak due to
the poor understanding of these agencies of their role vis-a-vis the PIU. These factors resulted in
decision making delays. In the second phase, the Govermnent entrusted project managlement to
inexperienced local staff and as a result experienced a series of procurement problems. During the
third phase, the PIU staff and the Bank's project team worked effectively together to resolve
problems and by the end of the Project, the PrIU had become a highly effective unit capable of
making rapid decisions and complying with Bank procedures and guidelines. The supervision
teams responsible for contract management and the quality of works have performed
satisfactorily.
7.6.2 The borrower, in spite of constraints and little experience in the management of large
contracts, has kept to the timetable including preparation of tenders; successful efforts were made
by the Coordination of the project and other sub-agencies to respect the schedule agreed during
supervision missions. INEA and its Supervisors showed remarkable performance and readiness in
the road rehabilitation works. Throughout the development of different works, there was a
genuine concern to respect the Contract Technical Specifications and initial cost estimates by all
concerned parties (INEA, supervisors and contractors).
7.6.3  During the past two years, the financial statements of the Project's management have been
prepared on an annual basis and audited by independent auditors. The procurement procedures
were observed to be in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines as stipulated in the
DCA.
7.7 Overall Borrower perjbrmance:
7.7.1 The overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 The following lessons can be learned from the Transport Recovery Project:
8. 1.1  During project preparation, special efforts should be made to provide training in Bank
guidelines on procurement, disbursement and financial management to the staff of implementing
agencies. This is especially important for a new Borrower and when the implementing agencies
are unfamiliar with Bank's operational guidelines. Focused short-term technical assistance should
be used during early phases of the project to provide practical training. Detailed Implementation
manuals should be prepared to assist the Borrower in project implementation and monitor project
performance. In addition, continuity in the Bank project team and Govemment's ownership of the
- 15-



project are critical to maintain a dialogue with the Government to ensure successful
implementation of the reform program.
8.1.2 It is important to pay adequate attention to all aspects of road policy reform to ensure
sustainable improvements in the sector and transparency in financial arrangements. To provide
sustainable financing for road maintenance, the consultants have prepared a detailed study on
restructuring the functioning of the existing Road Fund. However, adequate resources to finance
the RF have not been forthcoming. At project completion, given the still on-going civil war
situation and lack of access to most of the road network, no specific agreement has been reached
with regard to sufficient overall funding levels in the long-term and transparent mechanisms to
channel funds to the RF.  In this context, it is important that the road agency (INEA) is
restructured to improve planning and monitoring of the financing arrangements.
8.1.3  Agreements sought from the Government as part of project preparation should be realistic
and based on institutional capacity and local knowledge. Over-optimistic conditionalities which
are not fully supported by detailed action plans make the reform program difficult to implement
and make the project objectives unsustainable.
8.1.4 It is necessary to implement measures of quality assurance related to design, works and
operation stage.  The design plan must be carefully evaluated by the Administration to ensure
compatibility with all programs and local specifications. All revisions to the plans must be
forrnally introduced to eliminate any discrepancy during the works stage. It is important to
establish quality auditor assessment throughout the contract works. The auditor group may
include representatives from the Administration, the State Laboratory, the University and other
interest groups. In addition, in order to adequately program activities related to maintenance and
rehabilitation, a good knowledge of road condition is essential. This requires maintaining all
technical drawings in a computerized form capable of easy consultation and storage, possible
updating and a good reference system.
8.1.5 The road improvement/rehabilitation works must pay particular attention to improving
road safety. Often, road surface improvements and road widening allow achievement of much
higher speeds which can result in compromising road safety standards. This requires that as a part
of road design and technical specifications, special attention should be paid to improving road
safety with construction of lay-bys, safety humps or other traffic calming measures to improve
service performance of the roads.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerlimplementing agency:
Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
INTRODUCTION
The object of this report is to presenit a summary of the final evaluation of the TRP Project (IDA) Credit 2420
ANG), from the point of view of the Angolan Govermment, in order to make its contribution to drawing up the
Final Implementation Report (ICR).
-16-



This contribution takes the form of a development of the following themes: (a) evaluation of Project
objectives; (b)evaluation of the performance of the Bank and of the Government during the clifferent phases of
the Project; (c) the relationship between the Government and the Bank; (d)knowledge gained; (e) the
environment where the Project was developed; (f) economic and finance information about the project
(attached), and (g)the analysis of the sustainability of the project.
The Project was identified during the visit of His Excellency, Brig. Eduardo dos Santos. the President of
Angola, to the World Bank Headquarters, in Washington, in September 1991, as being of the "emergency"
type, anticipating the IRE Project, in such a way as to enable the riestoration and upkeep of naeans of access to
the economically important zones of the country, in order to support the reactivation and development of
national economic activity. Later on, in October of the same !'ear, with the visit of the, Bank Technical
Mission to Angola, and the Staff Appraisal Report of 4 May 1992, the need for a project with the
characteristics of TRP was confirmed.
In September 1991 the first Bank Mission caine to Angola and, jointly with the Ministry of Transport and the
Ministry of Public Works and Urbanization. worked on preparations for the Project. The evaluation of the
Project was carried out from 14-29 Febmiary 1992, in Luanda. The Development Credit Accord (IDA 2420
ANG) was negotiated with the World Bank in May 1992 and signed on 15 September 1992 by the Angolan
representative to the United Nations.
The TRP Project was envisioned as the first physical intervention in Angolan infrastructure, mainly at the
level of rehabilitation of some priority stretches of the Basic Road Network. It was rationalized as anticipating
the IRE Project, given that the latter was more directed towards carrying out studies and, while such studies
were carried out by the TRP, would help with questions which at the time were identified as being
emergencies, covering the basic priorities of the three sub-sectors - roads, ports and railways. In this respect
the TRP Project may be considered as complementary to the IRE Project, which terminated on 31 March
1999.
By Jtuie 1997 the various Task Managers W]ho had moved over to the Project, along with their respective
teams, were those who oversaw the execution of the IRE Project. At a certain juncture different Task
Managers were nominated for each of the Projects, and as of that time there were no more changes in task
managers. This decision, taken by the Bank, helped considerably in improving the performance of the Project.
In the same way the Co-ordination of the TRP Project, including the Management Unit, was that which
oversaw the IRE Project co-ordination, due to the limited number of trained personnel availalble at that time.
Thus it was possible to achieve certain economies of scale in tenrs of personnel and materials. Given that (i)
the greater part of the administrative, logistical and technical support materials made available to the TRP
Project were financed by the IRE Project, (ii) the daily activities colmected with Project implementation were
guaranteed by the Project Coordination UCP
Effective Date                      l5 September 1993
Conclusion date (originally)        30 June 1996
Conclusion date (final)             30 June 2000
Initial financing of Project
* IDA credit                   USD41 million
* GOA                          USD14.8 million
Project finance after Mid-
- 17-



Period Revision (final)
* IDA                          USD41 million
* GAO                          USD1.5 million
Adverse circumstances made the execution of some aspects of the Project more difficult, which meant that the
Credit Accord suffered some amendments, both in tenns of deadlines and in the adaptation of some clauses to
the realities of the Project.
The following amendments were made to the Credit Accord:
At the Mid-term Review Mission, from 18-24 July 1994, and confirmed by letter of 17 January 1994,
ProJect components were reoriented and resources accordingly reallocated (it is worth mentioning that up to
30 June 1994, nine months after the effective date of the credit, only USD76,000( had been disbursed, for the
reimbursement of the PPF. Given the situation that prevailed at the time, and the urgent needs of the country,
most of the actions plained for the Transport Component of the IRE Project were re-grouped into the TRP, as
will be seen later.
*  Amendment to the Credit Accord on 28 September 1997, which extended the date of conclusion of the
Project to 30 June 1997, reallocated items. and a new Component is introduced. the Urban Sanitation of a
Pilot Macaque (Sarnbizanga), which was moved to the TRP Project from IRE, due to a lack of funds;
*  Second amendment to the ACD on 9 June 1999 extends the conclusion date of the Project to 30 June
1999, introduces alterations to the structure of the credit, with Government participation changing from 20%
to 5% of the contribution of funds for the rehabilitation of roads.
* Letter from Ms Barbara Kafka dated 22 June 1999, authorizing extension of the conclusion date of the
Project to 30 June 2000.
III - INITIAL OBJECTIVES OF TRP PROJECT/ASSUMPTIONS AND RISKS
As mentioned above, at the time of signature of the Accord (IDA Credit 2420 ANG), there were strong
expectations of peace, and consequently great optimism about the relenting of the economy, and thence
possible opportunities for reforming institutional policies.
Another assumption was that it would be possible, despite their run
o     periodic maintenance work on tracks, including: (i) provision of approximately 10 km of
track, 14,000 metal sleepers and 80,000 M3 of ballast, (ii) rehabilitation of stations, and
(iii) carry out maintenance work on locomotives; and rehabilitate approximately 18
carriages and three principal locomotives.
Institutional Support
o    provision of technical assistance to Ministry of Planning and the Unit responsible for
Project implementation;
o    carry out first phase of institutional capacity strengthening for roads sector, ports and
railways; and
o     carry out the following: (a) study for the privatization and liberalization of the roads
sector; (b) studies. including: (i) institutional framework of maritime transport, (ii)
- 18-



customs documentation and  operations, and (iii) freight and  insurance; and  (c)
strengthening National Directorate of Merchant Marine.
Definitive Components of TRP Project
ROADS AND BRIDGES COMPONENT
o      Acquisition of 25 metal bridges;
o      Prequalification of contractors;
o      Rehabilitation of approx. 150km of roads;
o      Supervision of roads rehabilitation works;
o      INEA training program;
o      Road engineering studies for rehabilitation of roads;
o      Technical assistance for [NEA  in the  implementation of the  Road  Ftnd  and
Maintenance Program;
PROGRAMME
o      Development study for the Port of Namibe:
o      Technical assistance for the Port of Lobito;
o      Acquisition of parts and spares for the Ports of Luanda, Lobito and Namibe;
o      Acquisition of sleepers and fixings for CFL;
o      Technical assistance for Port of Luanda and development of Blocks 2 and 4;
o      Technical assistance for Ministry of Transport for the preparation of National Transport
Sector Strategy; and
o      Personnel training program.
- EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
The costs arising from the non-realization of the Project would doubtless have been greater than the overall
cost of the Project. The cost savings that can be expected from the Improvements in rehabilitated roads, from
the efficiency of the three ports, in the substantial improvements in stevedoring activities, the existence of
feasibility studies designed to assist the Govermment in taking important decisions regarding infrastructure
sector rehabilitation which, if implemented opportunely will make an important contribution to the attempts at
stabilization and relenting economic activity in the country, are all significant. In fact, during the eight years
that the Project has existed, dialogue with the Bank regarding policy reform  in the infrastructure
sector/transport infrastructure, and the studies carried out will provide important support for the Government
in defining its development strategies for the transport sector, including roads, and in designing new policies
for the sustainability of the system through private initiative with the possible introduction of private
operators.
In terms of the impact of the most significant rehabilitation and conservation policies anid strategies, these
should be analyzed in respect of the implemeentation of the two Projects (IRE and TRP), as a result of which
the following is seen:
o      A  management structure was developed, jointly with INEA, for roads; and road
maintenance;
o      The Government has already created the legal framnework which will apply the Roads Fund
with the introduction of the following: (i) Decree nO 27/94 of 22.07.94 of the CM which
- 19 -



created the Roads Fund; (ii) Joint Executive Decree nO 61/95, wlhich defines the source of
income for the Funds; and (iii) Executive Decree nO 14195 of 28.04.95, which governs the
use of various existing Funds.
o      Three main access roads into Luanda were rehabilitated with IDA assistance. totaling
around 100km, under the ambit of the TRP Project;
o      The Master Plan for the Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads and Bridges (which
enabled the start of local procurement for roads maintenance to be financed by the Roads
Fund);
o      Creation of a cooperation protocol between tlle Portuguese roads authority (JAE) and
INEA for professional training;
o      Completion of the Development Study for the Port of Narnibe:
o      Teclnical assistance for the Port of Luanda for administrative and organizational capacity
strengthening and lhmtan resources management:
o      Acquisition of parts and equipment for the Port of Gnarring;
o      Acquisition of parts and equipment for the Port of Luanda;
o      Acquisition of 7,500 metal sleepers and related fixing materials for the Luanda Railway;
o      Acquisition of parts and spares for the Port of Lobito;
o      Technical assistance for the Port of Lobito; and
o      Institutional support to the Ministry of Transport with a view to defining policies and
strategy for the period 2000-2015, computerization of the Studies and Planning Office of
the same Ministry, carrying out a training course for Transport Planning and Economics.
VII - Evaluation of Performance
Government Performance
This evaluation will observe the periods mentioned above. i e (i) October 1991  June 1992, the period of
identification, preparation, evaluation and negotiation of the Project, (ii) June 1992 -December 1995, the
initial implementation period with techlnical assistance from WSA. and (iii) Januarv 1996 to the conclusion of
the Project on 30 June 2000. the final phase of Project implementation with local personnel.
In general terms it may be considered that Government performance in each of thie periods was satisfactory,
taking into account the fact that each period had its own character. and consequently its own dynamic, which
taken all together resulted an overall satisfactory performance of the Project
In terms of disbursements, as can be seen in the attached tables, the highest levels of disbursement were seen
at the time when the Project was under local management, and this is also the time when a considerable
number of actions were realized. At the start of the Project, with a reduced number of technical staff, it was
possible, with the Bank's assistance, to identify and make available all the infornation that the Bank needed
for the various Missions it undertook. It was possible to create the necessary conditions for negotiating the
credit. The limitations of this phase were due to the assimilation of this first experience of working with the
Bank.
The development of the following phase was adversely affected by the new outbreak of war. TRP Project
completions were reduced, with significant delays which brought into question the continuation of the credit.
Up to 31 December 1996 approximately USD5-6 million had been disbursed - 13%) of the total of the credit.
The relenting of the Project came with the Supervision Mission of 16-20 December 1996. From this date the
Project took on another dynamic and perforned better, in tandem with the IRE Project. Thne capacity of the
- 20 -



Project Coordination Unit also improved substantially from this time on.
At any given time the Government's compliance with its obligations under the Credit Accord was in
accordance with the strictures of the credit. It should be observed however that this compliance was often
partial or delayed.
Bank Performance
The Bank's performance in the identification and preparation phase of the Project was good: the objectives
were clear, appropriate and realistic. However, the Bank could have suggested the prior approval of a
Procedures Manual in order to mitigate the lack of local experience.
(a) The Supervision Missions were sufficient in number and aided the Government in resolving concrete
problems related to the implementation of the Project; (b) the time taken to give 'no objection" was
reasonable; (c) during the Mid-term Review Mission the Bank showed itself to be flexible and capable of
adapting to the new reality; (d) from 1996 the Bank team made a significant contribution to tlhe substantial
improvement in Project performance: and (e) dialogue with the Bank was always beneficial.
VIII - Factors Which Affected Project Implementation
Factors Outside Government Control
The following were the main factors outside Government control which affected Project implementation
The unexpected fresh outbreak of war in October 1992 and again towards the end of 1994. affecting a large
part of national territory, preventing the credit from being made effective within 90 days of signature.
Lack of security for carrying inspection visits for Project members. which resulted in some adjustments and
cuts in the road and rail components. The war was partly responsible for delays in restructuring and
implementing the Project.
Difficulties for the contractor MOTA and Co. in finishing road rchabilitation works Lots I and 4 with delays
of between 6 and 8 months.
Difficulties in implementing the contract for supply of sleepers anud fixings for CFL. The material supplied did
not correspond to the technical specified in the bid document.
Difficulties with disbursements from the special account during the last four months of the Project, with
delays of more than 30 days and a lack of effective communication with the Disbursement I)ivision of the
Bank.
Factors generically under Government control.
Administrative procedures, macroeconomic policies and conditions at times unfavorable for carrying out
projects in accordance with Bank procedures. namely: (i) the problem of obtaining work visas for expatriate
personnel; (ii) delays in exemption decisions for customs dutics: (iii) the problem  of materials and the
construction industry in the country; (iv) slowness in the implementation of the Roads Fund; (v) difficulties in
providing counterpart funds; (vi) excessive workloads for most Component Coordinators; (vii) limited
institutional capacity for overseeing Project dynamics: (viii) excessive bureaucracy in customs procedures for
- 21 -



materials.
Factors under UCP and Implementing Agencies' control
Slowness in identifying, drawing up technical specifications and bid documents for acquisition of materials for
Luanda, Lobito and Namibe ports;
Poor knowledge of English language, giving rise to substantial delays in preparing bid documents;
Communications difficulties with the Bank, particularly at the start of the Project;
Inadequate mechanisms for controlling and planning activities;
Lack of experience in the management of large works contracts.
IX - PROJECT MONITORING
Internal Monitoring
During the course of the eight years of the Project Supervision Missions averaged two per year.
These Missions were extremely useful in that they helped to idenitify and overcome some of the obstacles
encountered during Project implementation. helped in harmonizing decisions (strategic and operational), and
made a significant contribution to improving Project performance.
External Monitoring - Auditing (Financial and Technical)
All planned audits were carried out annually, and in accordance with Bank norms and procedures. The
physical and financial data were verified and tested without special comment, as also for the existing records
system.
From 20 to 31 March 2000 a Mission came to evaluate the quality of works and supervision of execution Of
works on the three stretches of, road. This evaluation was carried out by an expert from the National Civil
Engineering Laboratory in Lisbon, Portugal, LNEC.
VIII - Experience of implementation and lessons learnt
In terms of lessons learnt we mention, among others, the following: (a) Technical Assistance should be better
incorporated in order to allow the inclusion of local personnel and the effective transfer of expertise; (b) there
should be more support for procurement activities, in cases where national expertise is still insufficient; (c) the
Bank should reduce the alterations/ substitutions in teams responsible for the preparation and supervision of
the Project, mainly as refers to the Task Manager, since such changes generally bring in their wake negative
consequences for implementation and dialogue with the Bank; (d) the Implemenitation Manual should be
drawn up before the Project becomes effective; (e) the current state of transport systems will mean continued
significant investment to ensure reasonable recuperation, and (f) it is possible to develop and implement
projects of this kind based on local technical personnel with timely support and technical assistance; (g) the
process of recovery of the special account should be previously agreed with the borrower, before the start, so
as to avoid possible bottlenecks in the event of invoices towards the end of the Project.
- 22 -



IX - Project Sustainability
As seen above, the TRP Project in tandem with the IRE Project has had a significant impact on the country,
with implications for future development. There is no doubt that it will be a benchmark, for the changes
brought about in the legal sector of transportation (ref. the list of decrees already approved or being
approved).
New concepts were introduced, partly with the implementation of the Project, such as: (a) the concept of
cost-recovery; (b) decentralization of decisions on port tariffs: and (c) private sector participation in the
implementation of the Road Fund and in roads maintenance.
It should be noted, however, that if finiance is niot made available for works implementation with complete bid
documentation, there is the risk that they will become outdated and in need of extensive revislion. If such a
sitLation came about it would have a negative impact on the viability of investment made in the stldies for the
project.
The sustainability of roads rehabilitation works carried out under the ambit of the project, which represented
an investment of the order of USD32.18 million (project plus works plus supervision), i e. around 75.7% of
the total value of the credit, is based on the immediate implementation of a regular mainteniance policy for the
parts already rehabilitated, assumed to be financed through the Roads Fund.
Institutional strengthening studies should be applied as proposed.
x - CONCLUSIONS
It can be concluded that the objectives of the Project corresponded to the priorities defined by the Govemment
at the time. In addition, the structural method, followed gradually anld flexibly, meant that the needs of the
sector could be met.
The key questions in relation to Project implementation were identified and sufficiently pondered, with the
adoption of measures to minimize the negative effects of the advanced state of disrepair of most of the
transport infrastructures targeted for Project intervenitions.
Other risk vectors were previously identified and solutions found. cither by thle Bank or by the Govermnent,
and adjusted to the realities of the Project.
In the absence of a Project Implementation Manual defining from the outset the procedures to be followed in
the management of different contracts and the quantities of information produced, a functional model of
project management was adopted which answered the needs.
We feel that the objectives of the Project were attained, given that besides the phvsical improvements seen in
the radical change in the physical structure of the entities involved in the Project, it was possible, with the joint
development of the Project, to introduce new ideas linked to the reform of the transport sector, including
roads.
It should also be noted that the political and social climate for sectoral reform improved considerably due to
the influence of the IRE and TRP Projects. and the Govemrment took irreversible positive measures by
adopting new laws and decrees.
- 23 -



The unstable situation in the country, the lack of experience in the ways of the Bank and lack of knowledge of
English among local staff, together with the inefficient transfer of knowledge from the consultants working in
the Project Coordination Unit were, amnong others, placed significanlt limitations on performance.
However, such constraints did not prevent the Project from developing to a level that may be considered
acceptable, taking into account the factors mentioned above, and the Project concluded successfully.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(cO Other partners (.V'GOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
None
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome IImpact Indicators:
a - dicatorM  trix                   Projected in last PS           -=       Actual/Latest-Estimate
Local contractors involved in road      RF established and support provided to local About 15 local contractors expected to be
rehabilitation, and in maintenance activities,  contractors                     involved in road maintenance programs in
under Road Fund financing.                                                      2001.
Prepare National Transport Strategy (NTS)  NTS has been completed and adopted by the Discussions on-going in the Government to
Government. National seminar held in   implement recommendations of the strategy
November, 1999 with participation from both
public and private sectors.
Provide technical assistance to Luanda port  TA to Port of Luanda completed. The Credit Study recommendations in the process of
financed computers, software and training as being implemented.
identified in the study recommendation.
Provide training to implementing agencies    Courses in English language training  Completed
and the PIU                             courses organized; seminar organized for
INEA, and MINTRANS
Road Fund restructured and operational by   Study to restructure INEA completed and    Government is in the process of
end of project;                          US$1.5 million deposited in the RF     implementing recommendations of the study
Strengthen Institutional capacity of    TA study for institutional strengthening of the The restructuring of the Ministry of Transport
MINTRANS                                Bureau of Studies, Planning and Statistics of is on-going in light of the study
the MINTRANS completed                  recommendations.
Strengthen institutional capacity of INEA  INEA is in the process of being restructured  On-going
with the objective to transform itself into a
small unit focused on management, policy
planning and quality control.
Promote employment by supporting labor    Routine maintenance program is expected to On-going
intensive maintenance programs          provide employment to about 1000 to 1200
I unskilled workers.
Output Indicators:
Incicato,lMatrix                    Projected in last PSR   -X              ActualatestEstimate
Rehabilitation of 83 km of roads in the  Rehabilitation of three access roads to  Completed
Luanda area by end of project;          Luanda and the surrounding areas
completed successfully.
Rehabilitation of stretches of railway after    7500 sleepers procured; 3 engines  Sleepers are in the process of being installed
railway sleepers received;              rehabilitated
Improvement of Lobito, Luanda and Namibe  Spare parts procured and installed; TA  Completed
ports' operations.                      provided; equipment for two lighthouses of
Luanda port procured; installation of 15
meter GRP tower-shore at Lagostas islands
and 39 meter metallic tower shore at
Palmeirinhas; procurement of forklift trucks,
electrical materials and divers material.
Rehabilitate road bridges               Completed repair of 25 bridges with     Completed
installation of 948 meters of metallic bridges.
Eind of project
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Comparative Project Costs: Appraisal Estimate, Revised Estimate and Actual
Appraisal     Revised                        Actual
Estimate     Estimate    IDA   Donors GOA   Total   (Ao of    % of
Component        n1,1  MilJon! (USI Million!         (US$ Million)         Apzraisal Revised
Road/Bridze Rehabilitation   48.50         39.16     32.75           1.38   34.13    (.70     0.87
Luanda Railways               6.90         0.43       0.25                  0.25    0.04      0.58
Ports                         7.20         4.45       4.83                  4.X3    0.67      1.09
Istitutional Support          2.30          1.46      1.85                   1.85    (.80     1.27
Total              64.90         45.50     39.69   0.00    1.38  41.06    0.63     .()9(0
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurem ent  Meth [d (1L
Expenditure Category   ICB               NCB          Other t2) N.B.F        Total Cost
1. Works                      28.82                                            28.82
(26.88).                                         (26.88).
2. Goods                       4.91          0.15                               5.06
(4.91).      (0.15).                             (5.06).
3. Services                    7.18                                             7.18
(7.18).                              7_ 7.18).
4. Miscellaneous                                         0.57                   0.57
(0.57).                (0.57).
Total                      40.91          0.15        0.57                   41.06
(38.97).      (0.15).    (0.57).                 (39.69).
(1) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
(2) icludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project; and (ii) re-lending prqject linds to local government umits.
- 26 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
|-a- ; X     .-  .                      -.        -          -         -
Roads and Bridges        32.90      12.30     3.30      32.75       1.38              99.5   11.2   0.0
Rehabilitation
Luanda Railways           5.40      1.50                 0.25                          4.6    0.0
Ports                     0.40      (.8(      6.00       4.83                        1207.5  0.0    0.0
Institutional Support     2.30                           1.85                         80.4
- 27 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
ECONONMC ANALYSIS              (000 US$)
Luanda/Baya-wanm                unarliana Thnk                Rohunda da BoaksfMdo    Total Net
Year     Cost       Beneft    Net Benefit Cost     Benefit    Net Benefi Cost     Benefit    Net Benefit Benefit
1998      1100          0     -1100       4230         0      -4230      2543          0     -2543    -7873
1999      2800          0     -2800       8560         0     -8560       3896          0     -3896   -15256
2000       298       2125      1827       3257       7688     4421       1423       2188       765      7012
2001       300       2168      1868       1124       7841     6717        550       2231      1681     1C2fE
2002       300       2211      1911       1124       7998     6874        550       2276      1726    10511
2003       300       2255      1955       1124       8158     7034        550       2321      1771     10760
2004       300       2300      2000       1124       8321     7197        550       2368      1818     11015
2005       300       2346      2046       1124       8488     7364        550       2415      1865     11275
2006       300       2393      2093       1124       8657     7533        550       2463      1913     11540
2007       300       2441      2141       1124       8831     7707        550       2513      1963     11810
2008       300       2490      2190       1124       9007     7883        550       2563      2013     12086
2009       300       2540      2240       1124       9187     8063        550       2614      2064    12367
2010       300       2590      2290       1124       9371     8247        550       2667      2117     12654
2011       300       2642      2342       1124       9558     8434        550       2720      2170     12946
2012       300       2695      2395       1124       9750     8625        550       2774      2224     13245
2013       300       2749      2449       1124       9945     8821        550       2830      2280     13549
2014       300       2804      2504       1124      10143     9019        550       2886      2336     13860
2015       300       2860      2560       1124      10346     92g2        550       2944      2394     14176
2016       300       2917      2617       1124      10553     9429        550       3003      2453     14499
2017       300       2976      2676       1124      10764     9640        550       3063      2513     14829
ERR             44%                            43/a6                           23%o      38/o
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialtl               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, clc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
October, 91                    4   TE,RE.PE,CE
AppraisalNegotiation
Februai7. 92                   6   CE, TE, UE, FA, RE. PE
Sulervision
November, 92                    5  TE, RE. PE, FA, CE                     S                 U
February, 93                   5  TE, RE, PE, FA, UE                      S                 U
May, 93                         1  TE                                     S                 U
January, 94                    4  TE, FA, SE, CE                         S                  S
May, 94                        4  TE, SE, CE,HE                          S                  S
July, 94                       4  TE. HE, FA, CE                         S                  S
November, 94                   3  TE, HE. CE                             U                  U
February, 95                   4  TE,CE.TE.FA                            U                  U
May, 95                        3  TE,CE. FA                              U                  U
October, 95                    3  FA, CE. TE                             U                  U
January, 96                     1  FA                                    S                  U
June, 96                        2  FA, TE                                 S                 S
October, 96                    2   PA, TE                                S                  U
December, 96                   2   HE, FA                                S                  U
April, 97                      4  HE, FA, CE,TE                          S                  U
November, 97                    1  HE                                     S                 U
April, 98                      2  HE, OA                                 U                  S
November, 98                   2   HE, FA                                S                  U
March, 99                       2  HE, OA                                S                  S
October, 99                    2  HE, FA                                 S                  S
ICR
March, 2000                    3   HE, OA. FA                             S                 S
TE: Transport Economist; PE: Port Engineer: RE: Railway Engineer; CE: Civil Engineer, SE: Sanitary
Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; UE: Urban Economist; HE Highway Engineer: OA: Operations Analyst
- 29 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of ProJect Cycle                      Actua/Latst Estirnate:
No. Staffweeks          i$: (,O)
Identification/Preparation                  153                         337.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                        70                         167.)
Supervision                                 300                         752.0
ICR                                           6                          141)
Total                                       529                        1270.)
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                             O ) H  O SU    Adf O N  ON. I
O Sector Policies                            C H  0 SlJ 0 Adl O N  O N I
O Physical                                    O H  0 SU (; Ad O N   O N I
O Financial                                  C) H  OSU OAl ON   ON'
O Institutional Development                  O H  0 Sl 0 Ad 0 N  0 Ni/
O Environmental                              O H  O SU    Af 0 N  0 N.
Social
O Poverty Reduction                   OH  0 SU  AI   0 N  0 N.
i Gender                              O. H  O SU( Adl O N  0 NI
3 Other (Please specify)              f H  0n SV   ' Ad 0 N  O N. l
l Private sector development                 C H  0 SU 0 M0 N  (9V N.!
E Public sector management                   K H  0 SU 0 Ad 0 N  O6 NI
nI Other (Please specif                      O H  0 SJ ' Ad ON N          :..
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=High10 Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
O Lending                                            0 HS OS   OU   O U U(r
F Supervision                                        O HS * S   0 U  C fU
K] Overall                                           O HS * S   O  U  C  1(1
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
K Preparation                                        O HS * S   O  U  C  flu
G ;overnment implementation perjormance              O H   * S   O U s      ITflU
Implementation agencyperformance                     IS *       0C  U  C  [[U
1 Overall                                            7 HS *S   0  J ( f-IU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project, Staff Appraisal Report. August 10. 1992, The World Bank
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development to the Executive Directors on an Proposed Credit of SDR30.0 Million to the
People's Republic of Angola for a Transport Recover! Project, The World Bank
Credit Number 24200 ANG. Development Credit Agreemenit between thePeople's Republic of
Angola and the Intemational Development Association. The World Bank
Assessment of Progress anid Quality of Road Works, Luanda, March, 2000
Technical assistance for the Institutional Strengthening of INEA and to the Restructuring of Road
Fund Final Report (in PortLugese), Angola. Jtne 2000
Technical Assistance for the Institutionial Strengthening of the Bureau of Studies. Planning and
Statistics of the Ministry of Transport (in Portugese), Angola, Julne 2000.
Transport Recovery Project Supervision Reports including Impementation Summaries (Fonns 590)
or Project Status Reports (PSR) from 1993 to 2000, The World Bank
- 33 -



