Page  1
September 28, 1994
Minister of Planning
Ministry of Planning
Largo do Palacio
P.O. Box 1205
Luanda
Republic of Angola
Dear Sir:
ANGOLA:
Credit No. 2420 ANG (Transport Recovery Project)
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) in respect of 
the above-mentioned Credit entered into between the Republic of Angola (the 
Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association) dated 
September 15, 1992.
   In accordance with the views expressed by the Borrower and the Association at 
the midterm review which took place in respect of the Project from July 18, 1994 
to July 28, 1994, we propose to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.
Article I, Section 1.02, is amended by the addition of two new definitions:
"(j) "Port of Luanda" means the Borrower's enterprise established to 
administer the Port of Luanda pursuant to  Desioacho Conlunto of the 
Borrower dated March 29, 1980; and
(k)
"Port of Namibell means the Borrower's enterprise established 
to administer the Port of Namibe pursuant to Despacho Conlunto of 
the Borrower dated March 28, 1980.";
and, consequentially, the word "and" appearing after definition (h) is deleted, 
and the period appearing after definition (i) is deleted and replaced by a 
semi-colon.
2.
Article II, Section 2.03 is amended to read: "The Closing Date shall be 
June 30, 1997 or such later date as the Association shall establish. The 
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date."
3.
Article V, Section 5.01 is amended by the insertion in paragraph (d) of the 
words "Despacho Conjunto dated March 29, 1980 establishing the Port of Luanda and 
Des-pacho Conjunto dated March 28, 1980 establishing the Port of Namibell after 
the phrase "the Port of Lobito Enterprise".
4.
Attachment 1 to this letter contains the proposed amendment to Schedule 1 
to the Agreement. Attachment 2 to this letter contains the proposed amendment to 
Schedule 2 to the Agreement.
5.
In Schedule 4, Part A, paragraph 3, subparagraph (a), replace "four" by 
"five".
6.
In Schedule 4, Part A, paragraph 3, subparagraph (a) , a new (v) is added:
"(v) one CC for Part E of the Project.";
and, consequentially, the "and" after (iii) is deleted, and the period after (iv) 
is replaced by "; and".
7.
In Schedule 4, Part C, paragraph 2, af ter subparagraph (b) , three new 
subparagraphs are added:
"(c) Luanda Ports Operation Rehabilitation implementation Agreement between 
MINPLAN and the Ministry of Transport and Communication for Part B of the 
Project;
(d)
Namibe Ports Operation Rehabilitation Implementation Agreement 
between MINPLAN and the Ministry of Transport and Communication for Part B 
Page  2
of the Project;"
(e)
Urban Pilot Project Implementation Agreement between MINPLAN and the 
Province of Luanda (GPL) for Part E of the Project.";
and, consequentially, the present subparagraphs (c) and (d) are realphabetized 
(f)
and (g), respectively.
If you agree to these amendments, please sign and date one of the two 
duplicate originals of this letter at the form of countersignature below, and 
return it to us for our records. The amendments shall both become effective on 
the date of countersignature by you.
Yours sincerely,
Ulrich Thumm
Acting Director
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
Confirmed:
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
Jose Pedro de Morais, Jr.
Authorized Represent
Date: October 14, 1994
