Page  1
September 10, 1993
His Excellency Jose Pedro de Morais
State Secretary of Planning
Secretariat of Planning
Luanda
Republic of Angola
Excellency:
Re:
Credit No. 2420-ANG (Transport Recovery Project)
Amendment to DeveloDment Credit Acrreement
     We refer to the above-mentioned Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) 
dated September 15, 1992, between the former People's Republic of Angola (the 
Borrower) and International Development Association (the Association). Further to 
discussions held between representatives of the Borrower and the Association, and 
to your letter dated September 8, 1993 requesting the postponement of certain 
conditions of effectiveness, we are pleased to inform you that the Association 
hereby agrees to amend the Agreement, as follows.
1.
Section 6.01 (a) (i) of the Agreement is deleted.
2.
Sections 6.01 (a) (ii) and 6.01 (a) (iii) are renumbered as 11 6.01 (a) (i)
and "6.01 (a) (ii)."
3.
Paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 is deleted.
4.
Paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 is renumbered as "6.01 (c)".
5.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended by inserting a new 
item (d) which reads as follows:
"(d) expenditures under Category (1) (a)(i) unless the Association has 
received documentary evidence, satisfactory to it, certifying that: (i) the 
Borrower has approved, taking into account the recommendations made by the 
Association, fuel taxation measures to recover the cost of road use to 
ensure collection of at least the equivalent of $15,000,000 (Fifteen 
million dollars) per year, starting in FY 1993; and (ii) the Project 
Account referred to under Section 3.03 of this Agreement has been opened 
with an initial deposit in local currency, or such other currency as may be 
acceptable to the Association, in an amount equivalent to one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000)."
6.
Paragraph (c) of Section 3.03 is amended and replaced to read as follows:
"(c) make monthly deposits into the Project Account, of such amounts in 
local currency or such other currency as may be acceptable to the 
Association, as shall be required to timely replenish the Project Account, 
and maintain it throughout Project implementation, at a permanent amount 
equivalent to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)."
     Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and 
dating the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this letter 
provided and returning one original, as countersigned, to us.  This Amendment 
shall become effective as of the date of receipt by the Association of this 
letter duly countersigned by you.
Sincerely,
Franciso Aguirra-Sacasa
Director South-Central Africa
  and Indian Ocean Department
Confirmed:
Page  2
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
Jose Pedro de Morais, Jr.
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 25, 1993
