Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-                           C  jR. ~~~~~~~~~/>  3-A),t
Report No.P-4426-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THiE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERPATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 71.70
TO INDIA
FOR THE
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
December 19, 1986
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 19, 1986)
US$1.00      =  Rs 13.19
Rs 1.00      "  US$ 04O760
Rs I million * US$75,804
The US dollar/rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 13.00.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AAU       -    Assam Agricultural University
ADA       -    Assistant Director Agriculture
ADO       -    Agricultural Development Officer
AEO       -    Agricultural Extension Officer
CADA      -    Command Area Development Authority
CDD       -    Community Development Department
DAO       -    District Agricultural Officer(s)
DDA       -    Deputy Director of AgricuLture
DOA       -    Department of Agriculture
DOE       -    Directorate of Extension
GOA       -    Government of Assam
COUP      -    Government of Uttar Pradesh
COI       -    Government of India
COHP      -    Government of Himachal Pradesh
HP        -    State of Himachal Pradesh
JDA       -    Joint Director of Agriculture
MOA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
M&E       -    Monitoring and Evaluation
NAEP      -    National Agricultural Extension Project
NARP      -    National Agricultural Research Project
?CC       -    Project Coordinating Committee
SAU       -    State Agricultural University/Universities
SDAO      -    Subdivisional AgricuLtural Officer
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
SSP       -    Special Subproject
T&V       -    Training and Visit System
VEW       -    Village Extension Worker



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:           The States of Assam, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttar
Pradesh, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Government
of India (COI)
Amount:                  SDR 71.70 million  (US$85 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
On-lending Terms:        From COI to the State Governments of Assam, Himachal
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh (UP), as part of Central
Government assistance to state development projects
on terms and conditions applicable at the time. GOI
will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:    The project would (a) introduce the Training and
Visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension in the
State of Himachal Pradesh and in Eastern Uttar
Pradesh; (b) further strengthen the reorganized
agricultural extension system and the linkages
between extension and research introduced in the
State of Assam under the Assam Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 728-IN of June 30, 1977);
and (c) assist in the implementation of special
subprojects on extension related activities at the
central and state level through the replenishment of
the Special Subproject Fund established in the
Ministry of Agriculture under NAEP I (Credit 1523-IN
of December 12, 1984).
There are no major project risks although a number
of administrative problems that are frequently
encountered in extension projects, such as pressure
on extension staff to perform non-extension duties
and inadequate linkage between extension and research
may impede implementation. Such risks would be
mitigated under the project because all incremental
extension staff would work exclusively on extension
within the Department of Agriculture (DOA) and
through the establishment of formal committees Link-
ing research and extension institutions. Furthermore,
the provision made for strong monitoring and evalu-
ation units in each state, the proposed mid-term
review and the important role DOE wouLd play in proj-
ect monitoring and coordination would ensure constant
review of implementation problems that might arise.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: I/
(USs million equivalent)
Local         Foreign         Total
State Subprojects
Incremental Staff                         24.7              -            24.7
CiviL Works                               26.6             1.4           28.0
Vehicles and Equipment                     4.5             0.9            5.4
Incremental Operating Costs               12.2             0.3           12.5
Training                                    3.8             -             3.8
Special Subprojects                           40.2            2.1           42.3
Subtotal            112.0             4.7          116.7
Physical Contingencies                         2.2            0.1            2.3
Price Contingencies                           20.5            0.7           21.2
Subtotal             22.7             0.8           23.5
TOTAL                134.7            5.5          140.2
Financing Plan: 1/
(US$ milLion equivalent)
GOI/States   EDA         Total
Himachal Pradesh (COHP)                            7.8       14.8        22.6
Uttar Pradesh (GOUP)                              24.1       36.3        60.4
Assam (GOA)                                        5.9        9.0        14.9
Special Subprojects/GOI                           17.4       24.9        42.3
TOTAL                        55.2       85.0       140.2
Estimated Disbursements: 2/
(US$ million equivalent)
FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93
Annual                    0.8      5.6     8.6    18.0    20.0    19.0    13.0
Cumulative                0.8      6.4    15.0    33.0    53.0    72.0    85.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: No. 5794-IN, dated December 19, 1986.
1/ Includes taxes and duties of approximately US$1.9 million equivalent.
2/ IDA fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Government of India (GOI) far SDR 71.70 million
(US$85 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, to help finance a national
agricultural extension project for the purpose of introducing the TFV
agricultural extension system in the State of Himachal Pradesh (HP) and in
Eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) for the first time, and further strengthening and
expanding the reorganized agricultural extension system in the State of
Assam. The proceeds of the credit would be channeled to the State
Governments of Assam, HP and UP in accordance with COI's standard terms and
arrangements for the financing of State development projects. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by COI.
I.  THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      A country economic report, "India:  Economic Situation and
Development Prospects" (6090-IN, dated May 9, 1986), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 12, 1986. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
780 million (in mid-1986) and an average per capita income of about US$260.
Agriculture continues to dominate the economy, accounting for about
two-thirds of employment. The steady increase in population, which continues
at a rate of 2.0% a year, has put increasing pressure on natural resources,
in particular cultivable land. By the mid-1960s, nearly all productive land
had been brought under cultivation. Although irrigation continues to expand
total cultivable area, an increasing share of the labor force will have to be
absorbed in non-agricultural activities. Industrial development has not
progressed rapidly enough to provide employment opportunities for the growing
labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result, the
long-term growth of per capita income has only averaged about 1.4% p.a. and
close to one-half of India's population continues to live beLow the poverty
Line. Alleviation of poverty has been and remains thus at the core of
India's development strategy.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(No. 4412-IN), dated November 19, 1986.



-2-
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was
characterized by slow economic growth, moderate inflation and a sustainable
external position. CDP grew at about 3.5%, agriculture at 1.8% and industry
4.8Z; imports grew at 4.6Z and exports at 5.8Z a year. Although India was
able to reduce its dependence on foodgrain imports, from a peak of 14% of
total consumption in 1966/67 to 4.5Z in 1969/70--mainly as a result of the
Green Revolution--progress in poverty alleviation was slow.
5.      The steep rise in international oil prices and accelerating global
inflation led to a sharp deterioration of India's terms of trade in the early
1970s, eroding its capacity to import. In response, the Government
intensified its export promotion efforts and Liberalized access to imported
inputs. As a result of these efforts, which were helped by the expansion of
export markets, particularly in the Middle East, export growth rose from an
average of 2.2% a year during the 1950s and 1960s to 7.3% in the 1970g. In
turn, this expansion of exports together with continued import substitution,
particularly in food grains, and increased remittances made it possibLe for
India to attain a surplus in its current account between 1976/77 and 1978/79.
Thus India was able to achieve, in a relatively short time, a comfortable
foreign exchange position, which was further enhanced by a steady increase in
concessional aid. Towards the end of the 19709, India experienced a series
of domestic and external setbacks. Industrial production, plagued by labor
unrest and a shortage of key inputs began to stagnate. One of the worst
droughts in India's history reduced agricultural output in 1979/80 by more
than 15%. And, in the same year, a second major increase in international
oil prices more than doubled the costs of India's oil import bill. As a
result, the current account showed again a deficit and the remarkable price
stability that the Indian economy had enjoyed after 1975 came to an abrupt
end. The Government responded by mounting an economic adjustment program,
which was eventually embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85). The
principal objective of the program was to raise the GDP growth rate from its
historical level of 3.6% to 5.22 per annum, through alleviation of
infrastructure and supply constraints, increased energy independence,
improved efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and efficient
import substitution.
The Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85)
6.      Overall the adjustment program has been successful, despite
unfavorable weather in several years, a continued worsening of the external
environment and adverse political developments. The developments of the
Indian economy during the Sixth Plan underscore the fundamental soundness
of key policies and programs, particularly in agriculture and energy, and
attest to prudent and skillfuL macro-economic management, which allowed
production to grow while at the same time keeping external borrowing well
within acceptable levels of risk and holding inflationary pressures in check.
But the results during the Plan period also highlight the disappointing
performance of industry, continuing shortfalls in electric power generation,
rising public sector deficits and the importance of regaining and sustaining
momentum in export growth.



-3-
7.      During the Sixth Plan period, CDP grew by 5.4% per annum, 1/ well
above India's long-term growth rate of 3.62. This increase in the average
growth rate reflects improvements in the performance of several key setors.
In agriculture, the ambitious Plan target. with respect to foodgrain and
oilseed production were virtually attained, and the average growth of
agricultural value added of 4.5% a year exceeded the Plan target of 3.8%.
The progress achieved is an indication of the effectiveness of programs to
expand irrigation, strengthen research and extension and encourage the
efficient use of other agricultural inputs. At the same time, while
achieving output gains, agriculture appears to have become more resilient and
resistent to poor weather. During the Sixth Plan, India also succeeded in
raising the output of most raw materials. Domestic production of petroleum
grew at 201, well above the planned rate of 12.12, natural gas output at
19.2%, coal output at 6.9%, and the production of cement and fertilizer at
10.6% and 8.1%, respectively. The Sixth Plan also witnessed rapid growth in
the services sector, in particular transport and communications.
8.      However, this dramatic improvement in performance did not occur
evenly throughout the economy. The manufacturing sector performed relatively
poorly, growth averaged about 4.3% (1980/81-1984/85) a year--below the growth
rates achieved in the 1960s and 1970s. Industrial growth has been inhibited
by an inadequate policy environment, coupLed with a depressed domestic
demand, power shortages, and labor unrest. In addition, quantitative
restrictions and high tariffs on imports of inputs and capital goods have Led
to high inflated costs and prices of industrial goods and manufactures, which
has severely impaired India's competitiveness in world markets. India's
export performance under the Sixth Plan reflects this. Instead of the
targetted 9% a year, exports grew only by 4.5%. The savings performance of
the economy also deteriorated somewhat. The national savings rate, which had
risen steeply in the 1970s, fell from 24.3% to about 23%, and remained well
below the rate required (24.5%) to finance the investment program of the
Sixth Plan. As a consequence, gross investment grew only at 6.4% a year
instead of the targetted 8.9Z. The shortfall in savings was most noticeable
in the public sector, mainly because of the low profits or financial losses
of public enterprises and lower than expected tax revenues.
The Seventh Plan (1985-90)
9.      The Seventh Plan aims to buiLd upon the accomplishments of the Sixth
Plan, which is regarded by many as a turning point in Indid's development
experience. To deal effectively with the dual challenges of alleviating
pervasive poverty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor
force, the Seventh Plan will neee to sustain the growth momentum attained
under the Sixth Plan. India's policy makers have become acutely aware in
recent years of the development constraints and, in particular, the
shortcomings of the existing policy framework. The Seventh Plan portends to
break new ground in dealing with these constraints. More so than previous
i/ Actual CDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.4% per
annum. However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years because
of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5% CDP growth per annum
and 3.3% annual agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983/84 (two "normal"
years) are more representative of the growth rates during the period.



-4-
plans, it focusses on the urgent need for greater efficiency, productivity
and competitiveness in the economy. In its various sectoral strategies the
Plan adopts some new approaches: in agriculture, the Plan gives top priority
to the completion of ongoing irrigation schemes; in industry, the Plan
emphasizes improvements in productivity, reductions in costs, and improved
competitiveness. Unlike previous plans it encourages a greater role of the
private sector and promises to provide the incentives needed to attract
private industrial investment; in the wake of the liberalization measures
taken under the Sixth Plan, which provided entrepreneurs with greater
Elexibility in decision making, the Seventh Plan envisages further changes in
licensing policies and the pricing of comnodities which are subject to
administered price controls; the Plan aims also for continued trade
Liberalization and places particular emphasis on the promotion of export
growth; the Plan also seeks to ensure that, even with accelerated growth, the
benefits of that growth are distributed proportionately. Sufficient
availability of food, which would have a dampening effect on food prices and
thus protect real incomes of the poor, as well as additionaL employment and
productivity increases which would raise per capita incomes, remain the top
priorities of the Plan.
10.     Recent Developments.  In its effort to implement che economic
strategy embodied in the Seventh Plan, the Government has provided, in the
past year, the cricicaL details of its new economic policy framework through
a series of policy scatements and committee reports. The latter incLuded the
Hussain committee report and the import and export policy statement on trade
policies; the Narasimham committee report on shifting from physical to
financial controls; a report on the black economy; the Chakarvarty committee
report on monetary policies; and a statement on long term fiscal policy
issues by the Ministry of Finance. These reports deal with many of the major
is9ues that constrain economic growth in India. Attainment of the Sevench
PLan targets depends now to a large extent on the early implementation of
their recommendations. The Covernment's commitment to policy change is
underscored by its decision to introduce, in short succession, a series of
new policy initiatives in the industrial sector and with respect to trade and
fiscal policy.
11.     In addition to the measures implemented in 1984185 that aimed
primarily at improving industrial efficiency--including the opening up of the
telecommunication equipment manufacturing industry to the private sector, new
initiatives in the development of the electronics and computer industries,
introduction of "broadhanding" into the automotive and machine tool
industries--the focus of the policy changes introduced by the Government was
directed at further reducing industrial controls: the number of industrial
units coming under the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Policies act was
reduced by 230 to 1505 units; the number of industries required to obtain
licenses to install new capacity or expand existing capacity was reduced
substantially; the number of industries benefitting from "broadbanding" was
increased; and chere was also a series of improvements in procedures that
reduced delays in obtaining clearances especially for large units and firms
with foreign collaboration.
12.     Unlike the changes in industrial policy, many of which represented a
radical departure from the past, recent changes in trade policy, in
particular those with respect to export promotion, failed to show the same
strong commitment. In its new Import-Export policy, the Covernment provided



-5-
both measures to liberalize imports incLuding substantial import duty
reductions and export incentives. While che import liberalizing measures led
to a surge in imports, the export promotion measures--which included a
simplification of the administrative requirements for duty free imports, a
widening of the eligibility for advance licenses, and a reduction of export
taxes and improvements in foreign exchange forward cover facilities--had only
a marginal impact on the overall ease and profitability of exporting. This
result was at least in part due to several poLicy changes that undermined the
export promotion effort. The advance licensing system, for example, was
tightened and a number of facilities previously available to large export
houses were withdrawn or restricted. A future strengthening of existing
export promotion policies is clearly of high priority, if India is to meet
its export targets under the Seventh Plan.
13.     In parallel with the policy changes in the industrial and trade
sectors, the CovernmenL introduced significant changes in the tax policy. In
its 1985/86 budget the Government reduced income tax rates for individuals
and abolished the surcharge on income tax. Wealch taxes were also lowered
which together with Lower income tax rates reduced the maximum marginal tax
rate on income from wealth from aver 110% to 70%. In the 1986/87 budget,
further concessions and simplification foreshadowed by the Long Term FiscaL
Policy statement were made. But perhaps the most far-reaching poLicy change
in the 1986/87 budget was the introduction of the modified value added tax
system for 37 of the 68 chapters of the excise tariff covering about 35% of
its manufactured production. Other potentially important policy changes
included a new, more smoothly phased, excise tax concession scheme for small
scale industry and simplification of the excise tariff schedule through the
elimination of special excise duties covering 132 items.
14.     The performance of the economy in the first year (1985/86) of the
Seventh Plan attests not only to the soundness of the Government's overall
approach, but also its determination to attain the ambitious Plan targets.
Economic growth during this past year was indeed robust. ReaL CDP is
estimated to have grown by almost 6% with industry growing somewhat faster
than the Seventh Plan's target of 6.6%. Agricultural CDP growth is expected
to be roughly on target with foodgrain production reaching about 150 million
tons, just a little beLow the peak production level of 1983/84. There was
also a marked improvement in the performance of the key infrastructural
sectors. During the first ten months of the fiscal year, electricity
generation increased by B% on top of the 13% increase achieved in the
previous year, mainly because of better utiLization of thermal plant
capacity. Coal productiDn grew more slowly than in the previous year,
reflecting the Government's efforts to reduce large pithead stocks. Railway
freight traffic increased by more than 9% during the first nine months as
larger quantities of cement, coal, petroleum and fertilizer were shipped.
The strong performance of the agriculture, energy, and transport sectors,
combined with the new initiatives in trade and fiscal policy have lead to a
surge in industrial oucput and a buoyant stock market.
15.     Inflation, in terms of the wholesale price index, rose by onLy 6%
during the first nine months of the fiscal year, compared to 7X during the
same period in 1984. High foodgrain stocks, sugar and edible oiL imports,
the strict control of non-pLan expenditure, and increases in the statutory
Liquidity ratio of commercial banks were key factors restraining inflation.



-6-
The recent price increases of coal, fertilizer, grain and petroleum products
are not expected to significantly affect the inflation rate.
16.     However, with respect to one of the principal objectives of the
Seventh Plan, namely to accelerate export growth to a level that would allow
India to finance its imports, performance during the past year has been
disappointing. Preliminary data indicate a 1X decline in the US dollar value
of non-petroleum exports and a 212 increase in imports during the first halE
of the fiscal year over the same period in 1984/85. Most of the increase in
imports was due to a bunching of bulk imports by canalizing agencies in the
first two quarters of the year to take advantage of declining commodity
prices. During the third quarter, import growth subsided significantly and
there was also a discernible improvement in exports. Despite the expected
increase in the trade deficit for the year as a whole, however, reserves are
expected to increase by US$600 million. This is in part due to a moderate
increase in worker remittances, tourism receipts and a surge in non-resident
deposits which amount now to almost US$1.4 biLlion.
17.     Development Prospects and Policies.  Attaining the objectives of the
Seventh Plan in the years ahead will place heavy demands on policy adjustment
and entail major challenges. India will need to: maintain the recent higher
rate of expansion of agricultural production; accelerate industrial
production and export growth through policy changes which enhance competition
and efficiency; expand supply capacities in the economy by improving basic
infrastructure services and the availability of energy; improve the
efficiency with which resources are used, including the existing and new
capital stock in infrastructure and industry; and further improve the already
high resource mobilization effort.
18.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the Sixth Plan,
Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the second half of the decade.
As possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink, agricultural growth
will depend on finding new ways of increasing the productivity of land
through further development of irrigation, better water management, more
intensive use of new technology, efficient delivery of inputs and services,
and appropriate pricing policies. High priority must be given to the
expansion of the country's irrigabLe area through completion of ongoing
irrigation projects, as well as selective investment in new undertakings.
Besides creating new irrigation potential, the efficiency of irrigated
farming will have to be enhanced through the improvement of water management
practices in existing irrigation systems. Greater emphasis should also be
given to obtaining higher yields under rainfed and dryland farming
conditions. Finally, even greater efforts must be made to build and
strengthen institutions to ensure the efficient delivery of agricultural
services, input supplies, credit and technology.
19.     IndustrX and Trade.   Prospects for raising India's CDP growth rate
will, to a large extent, depend on more rapid industrial production and
export growth. A key requirement will be greater competitive pressure on
industry than has been the case in the past. The size and domestic
orientation of the Indian economy make it necessary that this competitive
pressure come mainly from within the domestic economy. An important
complement, however, will be greater exposure to foreign trade to stimulate
domestic competition as well as to induce technological innovation and
modernization.



-7-
20.     To increase domestic compatition, domestic policies will need to
allow freer entry and exit of firms in the industrial sector and greater
reliance on market price signals. As indicated above the Government has
taken various initiatives in the above directions during the past several
years. These changes have begun to produce a marked favorable impact on the
investment climate, private corporate profitability and the growth of the
stock market. All these suggest that the manufacturing sector is beginning
to respond to the new policy changes in industry. However, the policy
changes initiated to date only begin the long process of adjusting the trade
and industrial policy environment under which industry operates. Much more
remains to be done to transform the policy onvironment from one based on a
system of extensive direct physical controls to one in which competitive
pressures both within the country and abroad induce the improvements in
productivity and technology upgrading which are required by Indian industry
for accelerated investment, production and export growth. As indicated
above, the Government has introduced a number of measures to promote exporcs.
Up to now these changes have had little impact on export growth. If further
efforts fail to bring the export growth rate closer to the 7% target of the
Seventh Plan, the prospects for sustaining the import liberalization effort
and in turn the prospects for accelerating industrial and overall GDP growth
will be seriousl! affected. Thus, there remains an urgent need for the
Government to intensify its efforts in improving direct export incentives and
to provide greater access to imported inputs and capital goods through
continued import liberalization; review tariffs, eliminating anomalies and
lowering their overall Level; and modify trade policies in such a way that
the net impact of incentives i3 more neutral between exports and import
substitution.
21.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in these sectors currently
constitute about one-third of total investment in India, and the efficiency
with which these investments are managed has an important bearing on the
efficiency of total investment and the growth rate of the entire economy.
There is substantial evidence that better planning and management of public
investments in power, coal, railways and irrigation could improve returns
and lower the current capital-output ratios. For example, more efficient use
of investment could be achieved by better water management in irrigation
projects, improved load factors in thermal power generation, better capacity
utilization in the fertilizer industry and improved efficiency in railway
transport.
22.     Resource Mobilization.  India's gross national savings rate (22.6%
in 1980-85) is already high for a country at India's level of income. The
Seventh Plan calls for a public sector outlay of 1,800 billion rupees. Out
of this total, 42% is to be financed from the public sector's own resources,
compared to the 37% level during the Sixth PLan period. Financing of the
Plan--while holding foreign savings as a share of GDP at prudent levels--wilL
require, apart from restraint in current expenditures (including a reduction
in the rapidly growing food and fertilizer subsidies), some further increase



-8-
in the aggregate savings rate especially in public savingo.1/ Economically
efficient pricing policies in public enterprises, supporced by improvements
in their operational efficiency, would be the preferred means for increasing
public resource mobilization.
23.     Balance of Payments.  A policy of sustained CDP growth of 5% per
annum will need to be complemented by measures which assure a viable balance
of payment. position. Acceleration of Lndustrial growth will lead to a
substantial increase in import requirements, even after allowing for
continued import substitution of key bulk commodity items. Bank staff
estimates place the export volume growth necessary to support these growing
import requirements without excessive increases in external borrowing at
about 7% a year over tho Seventh Plan period. Proupects for India to attain
the needed higher export growth ratos will depend heavily on changes in
domestic policy to improve the profitability of exports.
24.     Even assuming EavorabLe export performance, India will continue to
need substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for the
foreseeable future. Even with 8% export growth, the 5% CDP growth implies an
increase in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion to US$23.5 billion
between the Sixth and Seventh Plan periods. In the past, the bulk of this
financing was provided in the form of official development assistance. In
more recent years the availability of concessional assistance to India has
declined. Total bilateral grants and concessional loans declined from a
level of about US$1.3 billion per annum over the years 1979/80-1981/82 to
US$1.1 billion in 1984185. Moreover, there was a large deterioration in the
terms of aid from multilateral sources. For example, while total lending
from the Bank Group continued to increase in nominal terms, the grant element
declined from 71% to 41% as new commitments of IDA decLined from a peak of
$1,535 million in FY80 to $673 million in FY85 and about $600 million in
FY86.
25.     In the event that official development assistance does not increase
significantly from recent levels, nearly the full additional financing
required would have to be provided from additional non-concessional borrowing
from official and commerciaL sources. This will increase India's debt
service ratiL from the present level of 15.5% to 21.6Z by 1989190. Provided
India can, in fact, expand export earnings along the lines described earlier,
the country should be able to raise the projected amounts.
26.     In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing,
including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to
cope with the balance of payments consequences of the growth strategy
described earlier. Although India is currently in a position to increase
borrowing on commerciaL terms from the very low levels of the past, there
are, of course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth
1/  As indicated above, the Government has introduced significant changes
in its tax poLicy, including a reduction of income tax rates for
individuals and the introduction of a modified value added tax system.
While it is too early to judge the longer term impact of chese changes,
it is encouraging that the Central Government's tax receipts during
1985186 were running well ahead oF last year and of the budget estimates.



-9-
objectives rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms.
While therefore a greater volume of both official concessional and
non-concessionaL assistance is warranted, concessional assistance, in
particular, will be invaluable in moderating the build-up in India's debt
service burden. Apart from the quantitative arguments for concessional aid,
there remains the imperative to assist India in addressing the problems of
pervasive poverty. While India is now better pLaced than other poor
countries to tackle its development problems, the mobilization of additional
resources to address poverty problems is heavily constrained. Concessional
asaistance can play an important role in relieving this constraint.
II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
27.     Since 1949, the Bank Croup has made 100 loans and 185 development
credits to India totalling US$10,228 million and US$14,000 million (both net
of cancellations), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,735 million has been
repaid, and US$9,169 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1986.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1986 totalled US$182 million, representing an increase of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a sumnary
statement of disbursements as of September 30, 1986.
28.     Since 1959, IPC has made 45 commitments in India totalling
US$396 million, of which a total of US$209 million has been repaid, sold,
terminatad or canceLled. Of the balance of US$187 million, US$179 million
represents loans and US$8 million equity. A suunary statement of IC
disbursements as of September 30, 1986, is also included in Annex II.
29.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy
and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricuLtural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic
agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing,
storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also
been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while
curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks
which have hampered economic growth in India, particularly through power
generation and distribution, and raiLways and telecommunications projects.
The Bank Group has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and
small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through
its support of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance
of improving the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural
populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition and family planning
programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and
other urban infrastructure projects.
30.     This pattern of assistance remains relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the the Seventh Plan. Priority will
continue to be given to COI's agricultural program. While India has made
significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be
sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to
contribute to poverty alleviation arid employment. Thus, the Bank Group will



-10-
continue to support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and
agricultural extension, research and credit. Second, alongside COI's efforts
in promoting greater efficiency and faster development of the industrial
sector, increased assistance wiLl be provided for industrial development.
Third, in line with the stress which the Seventh Plan gives to the expansion
and more efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the
development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources, the Bank will
continue to provide substantial support to the development of the energy,
transporc and telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical shortages
which constrain output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors.
Fourth, support of urban deveLopment and other GOI basic social services
programs for the poor will also continue in Light of the growth in population
which, despite successes in lowering birth and death rates, still increases
by about 16 million each year.
31.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
India continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to
offset the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to
sustain the relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the
Sixth Plan period. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India
imports relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and
competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the
foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects. This is
particularly the case in agriculture and the social sectors.
32.     India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.5
billion in FY80, mostly due to funding constraints. The amount of IDA funds
available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs for
external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will have
to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to
supplement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to
achieve growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of
savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of
population growth should result in continued economic growth and improvement
in the balance of payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about
15.2Z in 1984/85. This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90,
mainly due to the hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase
slightly over this leveL through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt
service ratios are considerabLy above historical levels, they are still
manageable and will not adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
33.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. tn 1970/71, the Bank
Group accounted for 22% of total commitments, 11% of gross disbursements, and
10% of net disbursements as compared with 62%, 40% and 51%, respectively, in
1985/86.  In 1985/86, about 23.8% of India's total debt service payments were



-11-
to the Bank Croup. On March 31, 1986, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was estimated to be about US$26.7 billion, of which the
Bank Croup's share was US$11.9 billion or 452 (IDA's US$9.8 billion and
IBRD's US$2.2 billion). As of September 30, 1986, outstanding loans and
credits to India held by the Bank totalled US$22,492 million, of which
US$9,169 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$13,323 million.
III. AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN INDIA
Agriculture
34.     A major objective of agricuLtural policy in India during the past
15 years has been to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains and to increase
farm incomes in an equitable manner. Significant progress has been made in
recent years enabling India to become self-sufficient in the production of
foodgrains, although a shortage of edible oils persists. Nevertheless,
continuing efforts to improve agricultural productivity are essential to meet
the projected increase in the demand for food for a population that is
growing at about 2.2% per annum. These projections require an annual growth
of about 2.7%, compared with the growth rate of about 2.52 per annum for the
period 1967/68 to 1981/82. Moreover, in recent years the rate of yield
increases has been falling, and parts of the country have shown little growth
in agricultural production. The projections of demand for foodgrain by 1990,
the last year of the Seventh Five-Year Plan, call for foodgrain production of
168-170 million tons annually, compared with the production of about 150
million tons in 1984/85.
35.     Nearly 90% of the recent increases in food production have come from
wheat and rice, predominantLy in irrigated areas. Further increases in wheat
and rice yields are expected to be more difficult to achieve as cultivated
areas benefiting from improved technology are beginning to experience
problems not confronted previously, including increasing incidence of pests
and disease and micro-nutrient deficiencies, demanding even more
sophisticated technology. Moreover, most of the future increase in foodgrain
production will have to come from rainfed regions, which are expected to
constitute more than 50% of the area under cultivation, even after the
nation's irrigation potential has been fully developed. Given the ecological
diversity of such regions, greater problems can be anticipated, both in
developing the improved technology needed for such heterogenous agroclimatic
conditions and in transferring this technology and know-how to farmers.
36.     The future pattern of agricultural development in India points to the
crucial roLe that improved agricultural extension and research will have to
play in helping the country sustain selE-sufficiency in foodgrains.
Agricultural extension remains a major, yet relatively low-cost means of
increasing agricultural productivity, of making more effective use of past
investments in infrastructure and research, and of reaching all farmers,
especially small farm.ers.



-12-
AgricuLtural Extension
37.     Soon after independence in 1947, the Covernment of India (COI) began
sponsoring a number of programs designed to meet the need for more effective,
countryside agricultural development, but these programs only covered a small
proportion of farmers and mostly met the needs of larger ones. In order to
achieve a more broadly based increase in agricultural output and in response
to changing rural conditions, COI, with IDA assistance, introduced the
training and visit (TMV) system in 1977. The T&V system aimed at increasing
farm productivity and the income of farmers by simultaneously addressing
constraints to the transfer of new agricultural technology, the dissemination
of the results of research, and obtaining feedback on actual farm problems.
rt did so by providing farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with
up-to-date advice on proven farming practices best suited to their specific
conditions. These objectives were accomplished through a fixed schedule of
training and visits by field staff supported by professional advice from
state-level institutions.
38.     Organizationally, the T&V system has sought to establish a single
line of command from the State Director of Agriculture to the Village
Extension Worker (VEW) and to merge all agricultural field staff into a
unified extension service employed exclusively on agricuLtural extension.
Between 700 and 1,2C0 farm families are served by a VEW, working through
selected contact farmers. An Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO)
supervises about eight VEWs and works with them during field visits.
Subdivisional staff include a Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO), with
an Assistant SDAO in larger units, to ensure satisfactory supervision,
training, and guidance to about 6 - 8 ABOs. To strengthen technical support
and training, a team of Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) at the subdivisional
level instructs VEWs in agronomy, plant protection and related topics. At
the district level, a District AgricuLtural Officer (DAO), also supported by
a SKS team, supervises the work of subdivisional staff.
World Bank Activities in Agricultural Extension
39.     World Bank assisted projects have introduced the T&V system of
agricuLtural extension in 14 Indian States. Introduction of the T&V system
has not been easy and the shift from a system based on multi-purpose
Community Development functionaries to one based on single-purpose
professional agricultural extension workers involves major administrative and
conceptual reform that inevitably encounters bureaucratic, political, and
logistical hurdles. In addition the new system calls for attitudinal changes
on the part of farmers and concerned Government officials. The experience of
early years of implementation of the T&V system has highlighted a number of
underlying problems in agricultural extension projects financed by the World
Bank in India which need continuing attention.  These include:  the
involvement of extension staff in non-extension activities; weak technical
supervision of field staff; inadequate or delayed budgetary provisions;
insufficient location specific research-generated technology especially for
rainfed and tribal areas; poor feedback from field to research institutions;
weak interministerial and interdepartmental coordination; and slow starc-up
of monitoring and evaluation. The continuing involvement of extension staff
in non-extension activities, the probLems concerning the generation and
transfer of relevant technology to farmers and the adequacy of fieLd stafE
supervision, which are the three most intransigent constraints, are being



-13-
addressed under the First and Second National Agricultural Extension Projects
(NAEP I & II) and the Second National Agricultural Research Project (NARP
II) 1/, and would be given equal attention under the proposed project.
40.     Indicators of the impact of completed five-year, IDA-supported
agricultural extension projects are favorable. Statistical analysis of
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) results for seven states 2/ shows that 85% of
contact farmers are visited at least once a month by VEWs. Yields on farms
that rely on the VEW as the main source of technological information are
higher than on farms that rely mainly on other sources of information. Yield
indices for wheat and rice 3/ for farmers receiving VEW advice are 114.5; for
farmers reLying mainly on advice received from other farmers, 99.1; and for
farmers receiving no advice at all, 86.1; these values suggest a 15-28% yieLd
advantage from VEW presence 4/. Other less rigorously analyzed M&E data
demonstrate a positive relationship between the frequency of VEW visits and
technoLogy adoption and yields. In Haryana, 73% of the farmers visited once
a month applied the recommended basal fertilizer to rice, compared with 33Z
for farmers not visited. In Maharashtra, 51X of the farmers visited twice a
month used the pesticide recommended for wheat, as compared with 16X for
farmers not visited by VEWs. In 1983-84, Cujarat surveys indicated that
yields of groundnut, millet, and rice increased as the frequency of VEW
visits improved. Surveys conducted by the project M&E unit in Assam have
demonstrated that 90Z of the contact farmers and 84% of the non-contact
farmers knew their VEW by name, but that the regularity and reliability of
VEW visits to contact farmers are less than ideal, emphasizing the need for
more intensive VEW supervision. Surveys conducted to measure technology
adoption and impact on production in Assam have proved co be inconclusive
indicating little difference between contact and non-contact farmers. On the
other hand, farmers accepting extension advice from VEWs in Assam have shown
higher wheat yields as compared with those who do not seek such advice (1,400
kgs/ha as against 1,000 kgslha). While preliminary results are favorable,
more work needs to be done on the measurement of production impact.
41.     Appreciable improvements in output and the adoption of recommended
practices have been achieved in states which have adopted the T&V system. In
Gujarat, average foodgrain production during the period 1978/79-1982183
increased by about 25%, compared with the five-year average of the preproject
period. Increases were also registered in the average yields of pearl millet
1/ NAEP I, Cr. 1523-IN; NAEP II, Cr. 1569-IN; and NARP II, Cr. 1631-IN of
February 25, 1986.
2/ Cershon Feder, Roger H. Slade and Anant Sunderam, "The Training and
Visit Extension System, An Analysis of Operations and Effects," World Bank
Staff Working Paper No. 719, 1985.
31 Index of 100% = state average yields weighted according to irrigated
and rainfed conditions and contact and non-contact status.
4/ For the seven states included in the analysis (Assam, Bihar, Cujarat,
Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu) and after an average of
about 2.5 years of T&V experience and without accounting for initial
differences or other confounding factors.



-14-
(471), sorghum (24%), wheat (22Z), and pulses (11%) during the same period.
In Karnataka, agricultural production has increased significantly over the
past few years. In 1983/84, a year of unusually favorable weather
conditions, Karnataka reached record production levels in foodgrain (7.1
million tons), pulses (0.9 million tons), oilseeds (1.3 million tons), and
sugarcane (14 million tons). As a result, the State moved from being a
traditionally foodgrain-deficit area to one reporting a marginal surplus. In
Haryana, fertilizer consumption almost doubled from 1977/78 to 1982/83 and
pesticide usage increased by 65Z, with resulting gains in average foodgrain
production during 1980/81-1982/83 of 25.6% above the average level of
1976/77-1978/79. Furthermore, a special study carried out in Haryana 1I has
also shown that since 1981 wheat yield increases of 22 per annum are directly
attributable to the effects of improved extension. Although it is difficult
to ascertain and quantify to what level these improvements are directly
attributable to extension, it is not unreasonable to infer that improved
extension services and closer Links between extension and field-based
research activities account for a significant share of the gains which have
been observed.
42.     Overall, the World Bank's experience with improving agricuLtural
extension services in India has been positive. There is growing evidence of
its favorable impact and it has received wide support from the farming
community and State Departments of Agriculture. The Project Performance
Audit Report for the Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 737-IN) notes that the project has demonstrated that the T&V system of
aricultural extension is an effective way of managing a large number of staff
to spread innovations and of providing disciplined review of technical
messages; cLearly stimulated a demand for extension services from many
farmers; brought discipline to the overview and formulation of technical
messages and to the focussing of agricultural research efforts. Project
Completion Reports for the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr. 712-IN), Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN),
and the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN) stress the
considerable advances made in institutional development of extension services
and the establishment of links with research. Experience also shows that
the system adopted for technology transfer is fundamentally sound and that
the impact on production, even in the short term, can be substantial. In
severaL States, the extension service is now able to identify constraints at
the farm level and to exert pressure for improved performance in its own
operations and on other support services. It is also exerting considerabLe
pressure on the research supprrt network to re-orient its research priorities
to meet the needs of farmers. Hence, the World Bank should continue
supporting the introduction of the T&V system of extension in the States chat
currently operate a different system but wish to change. Moreover, since
extension reorganization is still institutionally immature in many States
which have accepted the T&V system, it is essential that the technical and
supervisory support of the Bank be sustained.
1/ Cershon Feder and Roger H. Slade, "The Impact of Agricultural
Extension," A case study of the T&V System in Haryana, India. SuP 756.



-15-
Assam Agricultural DeveLopment Project (Cr. 728-IN)
43.     The conclusions of the Project Performance Audit Report for the Assim
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN) which closed on March 31? 1985,
indicate that the extension component of this project was well formulated and
the efforts made to adhere to institutional objectives have been encouraging.
Despite the frequent changes in higher level management and the prevailing
security conditions in the State during much of the project period, most of
the physical objectives of the project were achieved. After initial delays,
civil works construction improved and over 92Z of planned construction and
renovation of staff accommodation was completed. Over 95Z of the staff
required to implement the extension component was employed on time, including
the smooth transfer to the extension services of approximately 960
Panchayat/Community Development staff. While the civil works program for the
project's research component was satisfactorily accomplished, the recruitment
of research staff needs to be improved significancly to strengthen adaptive
research at the zonaL level. Also, little progress has been made in the
transfer of responsibility for zonal research from the Department of
Agriculture (DOA) to the Assam Agricultural University (AAU). Despite these
shortcomings, encouraging progress has been achieved in the field of
research, particularly in the context of NARP E as noted below. In short,
while Credit 728-IN successfully established the institutional framework of a
professional extension service with priority being given ta the transfer of
low-cost, simple, proven technology to farmers, much remains to be done, even
in basic areas, and the extension service has to move into more sophisticated
areas such as improved fertilizer and water use, and pla.Lt protection. A
foLlow-up project is required to remedy these shortcomings and to build on
the achievements already accomplished.
IV. THE PROJECT
44.     The proposed project was prepared by the Government of India and the
State Governments of Assam, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The project
was appraised in March 1985. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report -
Third National Agricultural Extension Project" (No. 5794-IN, dated
December 19, 1986) is being distribuced separately to the Executive
Directors.  Negotiations were held in Washington, D. C., in November 1986.
GOI and the participating State Governments were represented by a delegation
coordinated by Nr. Sundaram Krishna of the Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale
45.     The overall objective of the proposed project is to increase
agricultural production through the development of professionaL extension
services closely linked with appropriate research and manpower development.
During the initial years of an extension project, emphasis is placed on the
establishment of an administrative framework for reformed extension and of an
information service focused on the transfer of Low-cost technology. i'nder
the proposed project, this would be the objective in Himachal Pradesh and
Eastern Uttar Pradesh where the T&V system of extension wouLd be introduced
for the first time. While an administrative framework for extension has been
established in the Eirst phase of the Assam Agricultural Development Project



-16-
is required to firmly establish the T&V system in the State on a continuing
basis. With IDA's assistance, improvements in the quality and depth of
extension coverage would allow the State Government to provide a more
professional and complete service capable of addressing all aspects of farm
improvements and ensuring strong linkages with agricultural research
currentLy being supported by IDA under the National Agricultural Research
Projects. 1/
46.     The proposed project seeks to achieve the following specific
objectives:
(a) Administrative Consolidation and Institutional DeveLopment. The
project is directed toward consoLidating the administrative changes
introduced under the Assam Agricultural Development Project and would thus
provide an incentive for ensuring the continuation of extension reform in
Assam. It would also ensure continued support to the Directorate of
Extension (DOE) through the provision of financing to replenish the special
subproject fund established under NAEP I thus providing for the continued
reform and development of DOE as a central extension, coordination, and
technical assistance agency with a capacity to prepare and appraise
agricultural development projects. In addition, the proposed project would
introduce the reorganized extension service aLong with related training and
on-farm adaptive research, supported by monitoring and evaluation (M&E), to
the State of Himachal Pradesh (HP) and to 21 districts in Eastern Uttar
Pradesh (UP), based on the experiences gained in previous extension projects
in India. It is expected that the T&V system would be introduced in the
remaining 36 districts of Western UP once the eastern districts are covered.
In the meantime, the multi-purpose extension services provided by the
Community Development Department would continue to function in Western UP.
(b) Expanded Coverage. Experiences gained from past extension
projects have identified the need for more specialized extension support in
order to meet the needs of all farmers and address all aspects of the farming
system. The project is designed to address this need by broadening the scope
of technical subjects covered under agricultural extension to include, inter
alia, soil and water management in the newly developed irrigated areas of
Eastern UP as weLl as horticulture and farm forestry in Assam.
(c) Quality Improvement. The project would seek to ensure
improvements in the quality of extension services. In addition to training
programs required in the reorganization of extension in HP and Eastern UP,
special emphasis would be placed on expanded and improved extension training
programs to address the additionaL technical subjects to be covered and the
need for improved extension management and communication skilLs. Given the
specialized nature of such training, most of it would be planned and execuced
on a national basis with the Directorate of Extension (DOE), of GOI's
Ministry of Agriculture, playing a critical role in its organization. DOE
would also assist in developing the training capabilities of the States and
guide them in coordinating extension approaches, improving the roles of SKSs,
AEOs and contact farmers, and in estabLishing cLose permanent links with
1/ NARP I, Credit 855-IN closed on September 30, 1985; NARP II, Credit
1361-IN of February 25, 1986 is currently under implementation.



-17-
research. Other areas which require qualitative improvement include
extension and training management and information/ communications support,
including improved utiLization of mass media to complement the T&V extension
system.
(d) Strengthening Extension/Research Linkages. Although research
is providing increasingly effective support to extension, improvements are
needed in the organization of adaptive research and on-farm trials so that
research programs respond to actuaL farmer needs. The project would aim to
strengthen research/extension linkages by ensuring farmer/extension staff
participation in the design of research programs and by encouraging the State
Agricuiltural Universities (SAUs) to adopt research strategies designed to
generate appropriate location specific technical recommendations.
Project Description
47.     Incremental Staff Requirements (US$32.1 million) 1/.  As the T&V
system LS introduced into HP and Eastern UP, agricultural extension, on-farm
research, information services and training will need strengthening. Project
Monitoring and Evaluation will also need to be undertaken. Incremental
staff 2/, disciplines, qualifications, and training requirements have been
based on the experience gained with similar T&V projects in other states. In
Assam, additional staff will be required to meet the needs of increased
specialization and broader extension coverage. To this end, SMSs will be
required in disciplines s'ach as horticulture and soil and water management.
Incremental staff will also be required in Assam for newly created
administrative subdivisions and to maintain VEW to farmer ratios in view of
population growth since the introduction of the first extension project in
1977. In each state, incremental staff positions created under the project
would be filled by staff with satisfactory qualifications and experience in
accordance with agreed schedules. Furthermore, all extension staff under the
project would be used excLusively for agricultural extension activities and
the emoluments, benefits, and promotional prospects of staff assigned to the
extension service wouLd not be adversely affected as a result of such
assignment. Moreover, by June 30, 1990, each participating State would
furnish IDA for its comments, a mid-term review of project execution, which
inter alia would focus on the adequacy of excension field staff arrangements
and recommend any adjustments to staffing and facilities found necessary by
the review after taking into account IDA's comments.
48.     Project Facilities
(a) Buildings (US$37 million). The availability of appropriate housing
within the field workers' areas of operation is critical to effective
extension. Low-cost housing would be provided to meet these needs
where they are required. Participating states would, however,
1/ All costs estimates in paras. 47-51 are inclusive of contingencies.
9,' Additional staff requirements over the project period amount to
approximately 41 SMS and 983 field staff (SDAOs, AEOs, VEWs) in HP; 253
SMS and 4,303 fieLd staff in Eastern UP, and 57 SMS and 450 field staff in
Assam.



-18-
continue to encourage the use of rented accommodation by extension
staff wherever this is possible. The project would also provide for
additional office and training facilities, as well as farm
information units in each state.
(b) Tnort (S4   million). Effective agriculturaL extension is based
on a system of regular and frequent farm visits by field staff
supported by regular supervision. Adequate transport would be
provided to maintain fixed visit schedules and to enable incremental
supervisory and SMS extension staff to reach the field easiLy and
frequently. Motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles would be provided on a
Loan-purchase basis under satisfactory terms to meet project needs
and to ensure their use by field staff. Accordingly, project states
would provide staff with credit for the purchase of vehicles and
financiaL incentives, including appropriate travel allowances, to
encourage their optimal use.
(c) Equipment (US$2.2 million). To meet the needs of expanded coverage
of extension activities and increased training, the project would
provide funds for the additional requirements of office equipment and
furniture and for audio-visual aids to support extension operations.
49.     Training (US$5.4 million).  Given the increased sophistication and
speciaLization of extension services to be developed in Assam, training
programs followed under the Assam Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 728-IN) would be further intensified and brc,adened to cover such new
areas of specialization as soil and water management, horticulture, farm
forestry, and plant protection. Training programs for HP and Eastern UP
would ensure adequate basic staff training and understanding of the T&V
system. The programs would include pre-service, induction and orientation
courses; regular fortnightly in-service training of AEO and YEW, monthly SMS
and special courses for Eield staff. The extension education units of the
SAUs of Kanpur (UP), Faizabad (UP) Solan (HP), Palamphar (HP) and Assam would
be responsible for the monthly training of SMS and other senior staff.
Through the special subprojects fund (see para. 52), ic is anticipated that
national cencers of excellence for key speciaL subjects would be developed
for SMS and senior staff training purposes. Emphasis would also be given to
management and communication training of senior and mid-level extension, MHE,
and training staff. Where appropriate, staff development training programs
leading to undergraduate or postgraduate degrees would aLso be supported.
Such opportunity for staff upgrading is considered as one of the most
effective incentives availabLe to extension staff. Additional training
facilities (seminar halls, trainee hostels, training equipment) and training
coordinators would be provided to meet participating State needs as required.
50.     Operating Costs (US$16.6 million). The project would provide funds
to cover the incrementaL operating expenses of training and demonstration,
operation of vehicles, office operating costs, housing and travel allowances
and publicity.
51.     Special Subprojects (SSP) Fund (US$42.3 million). The proposed
project would replenish the SS fund established under NAEP I. Fourteen
State SSPs have been selected under NAEP I for appraisaL along with two
centraL SSPs, of which four have already been appraised. Of these, two are
central SSPs which provide for the establishment of a National Center for



-19-
Agricultural Extension Managemenc and the strengthening of Extension
Education Institutes. The remaining two SSPs finance (a) the establishment
of a Central Training institute and the strengthening of monthly workshops in
Kerala, and (b) the strengthening of forthnightly training and installation
of a computer for M&E in Maharashtra. Funds provided Eor SSPs under NAEP I
(about US$8 million) are expected to be fuLly committed by late 1987. The
funds provided under the proposed project would continue to be used as
previously to finance special short-term and discrete subprojects prepared by
States with assistance from DOE, or MOA for specific activities designed to
further strengthen extension development in areas not covered under ongoing
state or national extension projects. SSPs will generally fall under two
broad categories: (a) those which seek to strengthen or augment a particular
aspect of the extension system across states or at the national level; and
(b) those which are state-specific and whose objectives are to strengthen the
extension system selectively in individual states. The types of activities
to be covered wouLd include: strengthening of State Agricultural University
extension/training units; establishment of management training facilities;
improvement of the processing and analytical facilities at state M&E units;
strengthening of training i-stitutions to provide nationwide training
facilities in specialized areas such as M&E management, or SMS training in
specific crops; and improving the utilization of audiovisuaL aids and the
mass media in support of extension. The SSP Fund would also be used to
finance the improvement of the existing extension service in the State of
Punjab through a strengthening of its Department of Agriculture and
university based training, and better utilization of audio-visual equipment
and mass media in support of extension activity. Preparation of the Punjab
SSP, in which the special features of the states agriculture was taken into
consideration is completed and appraisal will be completed in early 1987.
Similarly, SSP Funds would be used to strengthen the existing T&V extension
services financed under Credit 761-IN in 16 districts in the State of Bihar
and the introduction to a further 11 districts in that State. The SSP would
finance civil works, incremental staff, vehicle and equipment, training and
operating costs required tD strengthen and expand and improve the quality of
extension services in the State.
Project Organization and Implementation
52.     At the central level, the DOE will be responsible for overseeing
project implementation, policy guidance of extension strategy on a nationwide
basis, and coordination with related government departments and other
institutions, particularly in resptct of training. DOE wiLl also be
responsible for providing the project states with such technical assistance
as they may require and for assisting state or central agencies in the
preparation of SSPs, their appraisal, and subsequent monitoring and
coordination. SSP appraisals will foLlow a format agreed with IDA; and would
be subject to final review and approval by IDA prior to implementation.
Because of their size the Punjab and Bihar SSPs (para 51) would be jointly
appraised by IDA and DOE. The reporting requirements for SSPs would be the
same as for state subvrojeccs (see para 56) buc, in addition, DOEIMOA would
undertake to prepare a summary completion report Eor the entire special
subproject component.
53.     At the state leveL, the Secretarv of Agriculture and the Director
of Agriculture will have overall responsibility for implementing the project.
Within each state, an Additional Director (Extension) wilL be responsible for



-20-
the day-to-day management of the extension service supported by the
administrative machinery of the department. The Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC) already existing in the State of Assam wouLd continue to
function as previously. A PCC would be established in Himachal Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh by June 30, 1987. The PCCs will be chaired by the Agricultural
Production Commissioner or Secretary for Agriculture with the Additional
Director of Agriculture (Extension), acting as Secretary, and the Vice
Chancellor of the SAU, Directors of Agriculture and Horticulture, and
representatives of concerned departments and agencies as members. The PCCs
would meet at least twice a year to review the progress of project
implementation, resolve problems, and ensure interdepartmental cooperation.
54.     Coordination among extension, research, and allied agencies (input
supply, finance, credit, irrigation, and the SAU) would be maintained through
a series of interdisciplinary committ2es at state, zonal and district levels,
as weLl as through informal contacts, exchange of staff, workshops, training
courses, and collaboration in field testing programs. Programs of research
and extension would be reviewed by existing State Technical or Research
Advisory Committees, priorities decermined, and recommendations formulated
for adoption in the next agricultural season. The project would also support
programs of on-farm research triaLs in participating states.
55.     DOE would undertake comprehensive semi-annual field reviews of each
state subproject and together with the States be responsible for the
preparation of semi-annual progress reports giving a summary of activities
undertaken during the prior six-month period for each subproject. DOE would
submit these reports to IDA each June and December. The project States and
COI would undertake a mid-term review of overall project implemenLation
performance by June 3G, 1989 for the purpose of making any mid-course
corrections, if necessary. The proposed review which would be furnished to
EDA for its comments and would cover, inter alia, the need for adjustment of
project targets, fund reallocation or cancellation, the progress made in the
transfer of zonal research responsibilities from DOA's to SAUs (see paras 43
and 46 (d)) and the adequacy of existing staff. The project States would
also prepare completion reports for their respective subprojects.
56.     To enable participation in the proposed project, the governments of
the project states confirmed that they have made adequate financial
provisions to cover the entire costs of their respective subprojects.
Beginning July 15, 1987, and each year thereafter, the project states would
furnish their project annual budgets to the Association for its review. COUP
had issued administrative orders abolishing 890 Command Area Development
Authority (CADA) field staff posts and mandating the non-reversible transfer
of these posts and 425 Agricultural Development Officer (ADO) posts from the
Community Development Department CCDD) to DOA. Schedules for the transfer of
these staff posts have been established and COUP had already transferred 283
of the 890 CADA staff to DOA. COUP and GOA had furnished IDA with agreed
Memoranda of Understanding with their SAU's defining the SAU's role in
project implementation, and COHP agreed to submit such memoranda by March 31,
1987. The individual elements of the project components are summarized
below.



-21-
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
57.     The proposed project would strengthen the analytical capacity of the
M&E unit already established in Assam through the provision of computer
facilities and additional technical supervisory staff to improve work quality
and speed the publication of results. A new M&E unit would be estabLished in
UP on the basis of the model developed for other Indian states. It would be
equipped with computer facilities, and special training for M&E, technical,
and management personnel wouLd be provided. In addition, a special study
designed to estimate and attribute the impact of the reformed extension
system on farm-level productivity would be undertaken by the University of
Kanpur in UP. The study will be supervised by a three man committee
consisting of the Director of Agriculture (DOA), Assiscant WDA (Extension),
and the Joint DOA (M&E).
58.     Under the proposed project, monitoring, reporting, and analysis of
physical and financial inputs wouLd be the responsibiLity of each State's
DOA. The Stares wouLd undertake M6E of the project in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IDA and the summaries of results would be
forwarded to IDA (through DOE) annually. DOE's FieLd Extension Unit would
aLso provide technical guidance to state M&E units.
Project Costs and Financing
59.     The total project cost is estimated at US$140.2 million, of which
US$5.5 million represents foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies
(US$2.3 milLion) of 5% have been applied to civil works, vehicles, equipment,
traveL expenditures, vehicle and other operating costs, and 10% for training
and the cost of the special ME6 study. Price contingencies of US$21.2
milLion have been added to local costs at 7% for 1986/87 through 1987/88,
7.5% for 1988/89, 7.7% for 1989/90, 7.6% for 1990/91 and 4.5% for 1991/92
through 1992/93 and for foreign costs at 7% for 1985/86 through 1986/87, 7.5%
for 1987/88, 7.7% for 1988/89, 7.6% for 1989/90, and 4.5% for 1990/91 through
1992/93.
60.     The proposed IDA credit of US$85 million equivalent would finance
61% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties, and would cover all
foreign exchange costs and 58% of Local costs. The balance of funds for the
project would come from GOI and participating State governments. GOI would
channel the credit to the participating states in accordance with its
standard terms and conditions for Central Government deveLopment assistance.
The project would provide for retroactive financing of up to US$2 million for
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1985, for essential start-up activities
includinjg induction, orientation, and pre-service training of extension
staff, as well as the recruitment of key staff, and the establishment of M6E
units in Uttar Pradesh.
Procurement and Disbursement 1/
61.     Annex TV attached, details the manner in which items would be
procured under the project. Civil works contracts, mostlv for houses and
1/ All figures in this paragraph are incLusive of contingencies.



-22-
training facilities (US$37 million), would be smalL And widely dispersed both
geographically and over time, and therefore would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the banis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with existing State Government
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Where contractors are not
forthcoming to execute the works, small civil works estimated to cost
US$25,000 equivalent or less may be carried out through force account.
Vehicles (US$4.6 million) and equipment (US$2.2 million) of various types
would be required under the project. These would be purchased in small
quantities over several years and their use would be widLly dispersed in
ruraL areas. To ensure adequate maintenance and the availability of spare
parts, they would be procured under the State Governments' normal procurement
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. All bidding documents and award
proposals for contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be subject to prior IDA
review. Orders for the purchase of minor equipment, furniture, and supplies
wouLd be bulked, wherever possible, and purchased according to established
local competitive bidding procedures, except where valued at less than
US$50,000 equivalent, in which case they would be purchased by prudent
shopping through normal commercial channels. The balance of project coscs
(US$54.1 million) for the three project States would consist of training and
special evaluation survey costs (US$5.4 million), incremental salaries
(US$32.1 million), incremental operating expenditures for offices and
vehicles, and travel allowances (US$16.6 million).
62.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the incremental
costs of civil works (60% of expenditures); vehicles, equipment, furniture
and materials (100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures);
training, the special M&E study and on-farm trials (!00t of expenditures);
incremental salaries 1/ (662 of expenditures on a declining basis);
incremental operating expenditures (55% of expenditures on a declining
basis); and special subprojects (602 of expenditures). Disbursements against
staff costs, operating expenses, payments of less than Rs 300,000 under civil
works contracts, and payments under Rs 150,000 for training, locally-procured
vehicles and equipment would be made against certified statements of
expenditures. Supporting documents for these expenditures would be retained
by State Governments and che DOE for inspection in the course of project
review missions. Disbursements against expendicures for all other items
would be fully documented. Disbursement applications would be channeled
through DEA to IDA with copies provided to DOE. A seven year disbursement
period is projected for this project based on the average disbursement
profile for completed extension projects in eight Indian States and the
agricultural project profile for India. The proposed profile is considered
realistic given the likely absence of start-up delays in the second-phase
Assam subproject, and since U.P. has already begun training staff required
for project implementation and can draw on graduate (qualified staff for
recruitment as needed. ALl project accounts would be audiced annually for
each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
11 Actual disbursements against this category in thp dates wruld he made
against a declining proportion Ot total eligible szaff costs; over the
life of the project, such disbursements would in total be equivaLent t3
66Z of incremental salaries.



-23-
applied. Certified copies of project accounts and financial statements with
certified audits of statement of expenditures including a separace opinion as
to whether expenditures withdrawn against the credit on the basis of
statements of expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they are
provided would be submitted to IDA within nine months after the end oE the
fiscal year, and audit reports submitted when finalized.
Benefits and Risks
63.     The principal benefits of the proposed project would be to increase
crop production and farm incomes in the project States by providing improved
extension services to farmers.
64.     Attributing a precise Level of economic benefit to this type of
project is difficult, since it is often impossible to determine what
proportion of benefits expected from improved agricultural practices is due
to extension alone and what is due to such other factors as past research
efforts, the use of additional inputs, or more work by the farmer. in
practice, it is generally the combination of all these factors, with
extension services acting as the catalyst that brings the desired benefits.
In areas where the reformed extension system has been in operation for some
time, including the State of Assam, yield increases are indicated which wouLd
give a rate of return well in excess of the opportunity cost of capital
(12%). Both K&E studies and crop production statistics (paras 40-42) provide
strong indications of the significant beneficial impact of T&V extension upon
crop yields, rates of technology adoption, and improvement of cropping
patterns and systems.
65.     A study undertaken in 1981 by the World Bank in collaboration with
Haryana Agricultural Uni*ersity I/ concluded that the T&V extension svstem is
more successful than the traditional extension system in delivering
information to farmers, achieving direct contact with farmers and diffusing
knowledge for all farming practices. The results of the study suggested
that, in the case of wheat, a yield increase of 2Z per annum had been
achieved over the first four years of the Phase I project, which was directly
attributable to extension and independent of the increased use of other farm
inputs. The Study also concluded that the inicremental wheat cutput alone was
sufEicient to generate an internal rate of return in excess of 152.
Moreover, there is clear evidence from areas where the T&V system is well
established that it is exerting considerable pressure on other support
services? particularly research and input services, to improve performance in
parallel with axtension, which underscores the important lead effect of a
strong extension service.
66.     As mentioned above, however, maintenance of a reformed agricultural
extension system is not achieved without difficulty. Direct IDA involvement
in the project wouLd decrease the risk that che extension service would be
used for non-extension functions and that extension staff would be
transferred to handle other administrative activities within the Department
of Agriculture. Although extension activity would continue to be vuLnerable
1/ "The Impact of Agricultural Excension." A case scudy of the T&V System
in Haryana, India, by Gershon Feder and Roger H. Slade. SWP 156.



-24-
to outside pressures, there is increasing recognition that its primary
function must be technical and that it cannot substitute for weaknesses in
other support services. To reinforce this concept an assurance was obtained
that the extension staff of alL Project Scates assigned to DOA for the
purposes of the Project would be used exclusively for agriculturaL extension
work and that such staff would not be adversely affected in respect of their
entitlement to emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects.
67.     Without effective two-way communication between research and
extension personnel, it is unlikely that the technology needed by farmers to
increase productivity would be developed and transferred. To promote such a
linkage between extension and research, each State participating in the
project has or will shortly provide a written Memorandum of Understanding
between its SAU and the Department of Agriculture spelling out university
responsibilities for the support of the extension services (para 56). To
date, technology has not been a major constraint, but as the backlog of
research findings becomes more widely adopted, additional adaptive research,
field testing and development of new technology would be required. While
early work may be aimed at zonal and district recomnendations, ultimately
technology deveLopment needs to be directed more at meeting the more
location-specific requirements of farmers and the needs of farmers in more
remote and difficult areas. The Second National Agricultursi Research
Project is helping to strengthen research efforts to provide relevant
technology for extension transfer to such farmers.
68.     Apart from monitoring, coordinating, and providing technical
assistance to state subprojects, MOA/DOE will play the major role in the
appraisal of special subprojects. The capacity of DOE to adequately perform
the latter task has been developed and is being tested under NAEP r.
Possible risks of DOE not being able to maintain the quality of personnel
needed to carry out chese tasks in a sustained manner would be mitigated by a
close monitoring of the staffing requirements and performance of DOE both
under NAEP I and the proposed project.
69.     Various administrative constraints typically encountered in the early
years of implementation could impede project execution and would require the
continuing attention of GOI and would be closely monitored by IDA in the
course of project supervision. Among these problems are late or inadequate
budgetary provisions, frequent staff transfers, and failure to implement
objective selection criteria for training. Some success has, however, been
achieved in the resolution of administrative constraints under earlier
projects; these include the installation of a technical, single-function
extension service, greater delegation of authority, provision of additional
monthly travel allowances and increased vehicle maintenance allowances to
extension staff, as well as loans for individual purchases of vehicles Dy
staff engaged in extension field work.
Employment and Poverty Impact
70.     The proposed project would have a substantial indirect impact on
employment and income generation throughout the rural areas in the
participating States. The dissemination and adoption of improved
agricultural production and farm management techniques would lead to
increases in on-farm productivity and farm output, thereby generating
additional employment and income among the farming community and agricultural



-25-
laborers in the States of Asian, UP and UP.  The project wouLd also provide
direct employment to approximately 6,200 persons and limited employment to
skilled, and unskilled workers during the period of civil works construction.
There are about 7.8 million farms with an average holding size of 1.4 ha each
supporting five to six family members and additional landless farm laborers
in the proposed project area. Based on 1981 statistics, 7OZ of India's labor
force is employed in agriculture, and the average value added per farm family
is US$304 per annum. With an average family size of more than five members,
this implies an average annual income equivalent to about US$60 per
person--about half of the income level judged to be the absolute poverty
level in India. Civen the land and income pattern of the proposed project
area, the project's indirect employment and inuome effects will predominantly
accrue to the ruraL poor.
V. RECNKEUDATION
71.     1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
B. Conable
President
December 19, 1986



IV
,;kX
41j
'-I



AM=Z I
-27 -                                           a  I of 2
tW 0t CADIYT 1. '933 UniOO *i
0001  ObttIrt SAOdITC IN 1644136 lb                                                                'FLago P YI  s  0%7.t fltCESS l 
uLL1Sn.6 3ftift                       IlLZjiSmm   9511t1L3T   lDylI-1dl?1  711113-flh00  U2RLIIfLLDA
GOP Pt Markel Wrices            1 ",34  100.0              3.?         3.3           3.?           2.9           4.13.
Groom bamestlt lAwgImonit        al."S   33.4
Cream batlnol  6a''.8        315-32  30.3
C. r0t Lttewlt falanca            SAn      i.e
Salgoe ILai, lot      Labor Pertoy it          V..PPamU
USS Ol.-  -11  a Mg,  -i-                   Wa igno
9.1c;:Wr    U921 333I?.                        TO.:      30s          St~a
Induolr              24.5    12.          1.        2.3.1.Do?             IDS
TatoIlA.oraoae      146.2   100.0       244.3    100.0        3on          loB
Cenerat  awaninvnt at                  tnrlCvruah
l334t ~ 334/3   np3i-c~am      anson,       meussoalos
C'rrant Eacempta                  423.23       20.43       II."l      240.33         IS."0       10.02
C.:,:n: tapendllw.a               416.26       22.24       2306S      27d.31         13330       11.20
cmrran  SvrobluoOalVclt           -40.33       -.3        -0.4,       -33.63         -,.S8       -0.03
Capital v:s.unols.si              1424           .6         0.412     1".18           3.36        6.03
Estrna -  aslotrta  mtet  j        15.7         374         3.3             --
fwfwg. cEStOI AN0 koICK             1392171  1,767   IN.ILT "I                     Di 33/3  Ijfl   633   164dm    fl5jP3J
mna-a ae OassI-Uonav                   '00 3    224.8    412.3    317.7   4637.3    728.?    3306  1.022 7  I.002.d  '.104.0
Sank CredIt to Ca~nr.ina  (.at)         460 0   on. 3    200 1    n1.2    2011.3    363.3    403.3    So015    4130.6'   633.2
3m.l-  (remit go CaoroecIal sectsr     64.3    156.2    210.1    3113.4    *aS.3    511.1    012.?        r        ma..      in7. 
197071?  '?!*LI*tnm.              4NJKt   IS8 il                   NR    Mar~.2a  Amr...
Us'Cv and Q..aal-Uanap aa at~ ~   ~      ~ ~ l101211  IndL
of &OP ne                            37.3    310.3      42.3      42.69    42.6      44 .2    44.4      43.0       - 
PntpIaaale PIca ine..
(t170111-1001                        00 0    6173.0    211.6      9 37.3    236.3    286.7    363.0    336.4    338.0    337.3
an...l  Pric   nolt..               77        11       17.1     16.21      6.4      2.3       3.6       7. 1     7.1      6.0
*.mCca:.t: ia: rCdwerneant: SIO-C    15.0    22S. 7     266        6.      13-.1     13.3     1.        23.:302l    I7.  LI
7 ~ ~ ~       1     1|  1D           fC>se  e% 
S.,..~~ ~ ~ Crdi  Ia(acel   ata   1.4    3.7       213        32       6.       1         3.0lt"   10.2e    12.2*t#t   *|{ lB   10.4 hI
gr Ins *or capita  Ewp aallaato is at wwral  1prICOM. mni.g MarId Sans Atlas ftbaoolagv.  ame" 00rtap 131-82.
all  or coAtOrstaAO is altars In tlls toals are atol a reXn aienna rsub   rouI1411 a.rt ,, lb. parts conrad.
lo    IL&% wsileaCnrol LSatouIsmIc   Ora.ntation-
Cin.tal tram Eras  ie lof 659 at fac-tr cost aoraes. Inclwiiuo we fleruStlan SoPwa ft-at vmanas ofl
masesavtt In tar  east vooe *f li st" pariod.
aWomar I   at eattbatas of not ditsbrsamnt at cda.cabsaemia ala ad 3330.
a. ransftars Nobsoon Cantra no States noan been1 tottea out.
II= loans       saoncus to    re   r        fttas b boon nr tted aoul.
It Precntasa  anorv  frea eon-march 13346 to no.-Folbr"ar  I33.
1-T.1 PVlt    .mang  rand poheu.oPf  13 33 to1osld-Pabr.forv 13 3m
It 1.1.1 Labor Part  on  p.csng  oraka   Ira o36  Coma   Isl                   aafa   o



i.  I
-28 -                                                 Wafi of 2
SFatmCt C.PMI                          a         u        au   1i' jfUlj4              C        16 p0411 __ea    p    p- *lj5 
".'saiu  0f Geodb gd                g3it        6447       Sa3s       3,1 ISO         stulmoerl   boods                  Ifl           1I.E
lasuret oe  G aun  Ito             243         lMO         123       5440             TOe                                 Lu7          a.7
TYuc  *alng                        -3939       .5333      -44t       -3241            GaM                                lea           iI
hU    cii                            021        ito"        63.1       11,01I         Clauuitno                           712          6.6
L*taut.      te .ther               alln 31      4.3
*etiiusip Sal tes                 U-6064       -443d      .340       '424             Jtee fhmta&cume                     2332          1.3
Ira' Se e Oru                                    4.,
CaSte Tm.iimual                     33           us 
i. 1-e..u Intome  Inet  *1           bfl        714        -El.      -44              StIfr                                74          0.0
hat lsa.mmlett ii          *30~~2%4    243033232             2233            rInes                              3341         43.4
Oeihit* Du. C..rranu ttrhsui      *2616       -211       -1030      -236
---__ *-___--- ______________T tal                                                                                       N           100.0
I           33         62        0. 3...
t5-Fas InltUtiInl
Ole lElal LOenS  & Grans (atil    Oros          1501        IN         3 2103         UEMIL Myt. mam   2. so, ai
C..,,  Obtt,kaSmeents               2321        2142       21i        3312
&ar.Itest,n                          413         &I?         613        00                                                       Lsa mills ia
&. t. veto   musig (net)             IV?         44         seeI        404          OSulstao ng od Disbursed                       24.32
lIAoi~Sssoa                                   10.67
hu.rlsl^deflt Oggoalte               434         731        one        13a ouiauwnoie  oc$lsolai gr4lstsre d  El 3C.0
ruensataon att  IP 4netl            ipt         1271          6        3242
All1ether Itee  gd                 -1343         622       -745        -2aw
OUT SIVICI 3*7I0 PONS n140111 I  a             6.0 S
Icre-se *n *1,*,,  1-       ~     -50         -III       -263       -10 -~--------------------------
Guam A1.sn.re lenb I-d ,ar,  *      4944        5147       SIll        6670
hoet Reseivee  (ana rear Lil        20410        697       21S        2314
I'S*I LEndI. I            21O   1  jr/!r1len
OuistuiW   and DIteursed                   25r   333
Iadrta IP.tv.uleaol                 in ?117     3430.      312        3511            und i"Mrs"                                 4710   3953
at  tI eh,  Cr,,-m                304         2n40       1331       2416            OitelWtA  autolledthusreed                 7340  13162
1 rodurite            tell        1210       3432       1ose
k.1t                                          00 tACnAftGt
J..ne 5946 ito OlU-06OcIfr' 1971        .U5  0     al
At' 00 - uSA. 13233
Uun-0OaerW  1971 ti  enan-J.e, 13?2  I US  .0D * *s7.2l7
Cml 00 * uSia.1321210
Anaer ond-J-e     1972                       s Platling late
5gtv Sate anl-March 1335                tuSSlC00 - 5a12.4320
Set 007 ' *  B 
Set Rite enie-renr IPS6                  USS .00 *  a12.3413
Is, 00 * USSO.060
' Pt.re  given cover all mnveasesit Iome  (nil.  Majer _psit*  re Interest ou foreign lees  moo there"
pmin to ltar. na ajar raceppab are  nterest earned ea fer-sin estate.
is  -leae  give  n e    afre  rsatttncem  bust e*ctege eF l      coat Ilrict aeinstetf  a_e  i s IiiCltsd  *itRIn
sf#tciCl Inane &nn greats. nasi non-fltteeft nesofita stIct ore aRea.n Gapralkotp.
-, tntucalI v f*ns n-etsel6es sIt imp _Csr_edit.
"}Cel rWi moo of _N creeli.
n, Amortizat Con an  interast peyrmits an foeign lesne me a percentag  af tot aturrent1 receipta.
j, inchainesticange rate anetments  e th tne welstien at raenetw as  fleenemus dof iflhasoce  In rise  trae.
3!' ILCs1I5t.0 gole.
Sma  of cr.I  a   etralea oil asperte.
ZKInc.ue IMF.



Annex II
- 29 -                                    Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1986)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
59 Loansl                                               2,858.5          -
113 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        6,987.6            -
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0          -             8.55
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -           30.0           0.52
788-IN    1976      Karnataka Irrigation                   -          117.6           0.04
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                               200.0           4.41
806-IN    1978      Jamu-Kashmir Horticulture              -           14.0           7.58
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -          196.0          62.89
848-tN    1979      Punjab Water SuppLy & Severage         -           38.0           2.79
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -           27.0           7.53
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0          -            32.83
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -           20.0           9.36
981-IN    1980      PopuLation II                          -           46.0          11.44
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -           32.0           9.18
1011-IN    1980      Cujarat Irrigation II                  -          175.0          51.39
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -           22.0          10.75
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -          300.0          64.90
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -           10.0           3.23
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -           56.0          11.43
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -           54.0          15.15
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -              80.0          29.39
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -          225.0          35.83
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0          -            25.00
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0           -            11.93
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -           35.0           6.87
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -           83.0          27.81
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -           42.0          13.99
1108-IN    1981      H.P. Medium Irrigation                 -          140.0          58.08
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -          301.2           2.60
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -           54.0          23.90
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -          399.1          41.92
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -           23.0           3.18
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -           28.0          10.41
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -           37.0          23.14
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -          125.0          42.06
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II         -          400.0         201.31
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -          220.0         124.41
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -           29.0           18.84
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -           25.0           11.84
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0          -              3.63



ANNEX II
30                                    Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA lt     Undisbursed 2/
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0          -           222.48
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -               6.0           3.80
2123-tN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0          -            49.95
2165-EN    1982      Rural Electrification III            304.5          -           138.31
1269-tN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0          15.15
2186-ZN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3          -            20.00
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -           72.0          59.30
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          19.11
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Hadbya Pradesh
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          14.28
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -          127.0          91.88
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Codavari Exploration         165.5          -            81.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         134.61
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development        139.3          -           114.86
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                  -          150.0          85.11
1332-EN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II               -          101.0          76.25
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power            -          170.0         136.76
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4          -           156.01
1369-tN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III         -          147.0         131.57
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission           250.7          -           250.07
2295-IN    1983      HimaLayan Watershed Management        46.2          -            43.42
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          -           32.0          20.52
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         22.7          -            22.64
2329-EN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                  24.1          -            22.47
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II                   -          105.0          59.99
1424-IN    1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.           -           31.0          35.17
1426-IN    1984      Population III                         -           70.0          65.94
1432-IN    1984      Karnataka SociaL Forestry              -           27.0          21.19
2387-IN    1984      Nhava Sheva Port                     250.0          -           234.52
2393-IN    1984      Dudhichua Coal                       151.0          -           131.33
2403-IN    1984      Cambay Basin Petroleum               242.5          -           218.84
2415-IN    1984      Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer            203.6          -           141.32
1454-IN    1984      TamiL Nadu Water Supply                -           6.5           42.20
SF-12-IN   1984      Tamil Nadu Water Supply                -           36.5          42.83
1468-IN    1984      Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation           -           17.5           5.53
SF-16-IN   1984      Periyar Vaigai ri Irrigation           -           17.5          20.14
1483-IN    1984      Upper Canga Irrigation                 -          125.0         134.02
1496-IN    1984      Cujarat Medium Irrigation              -          172.0         146.99
2416-IN    1984      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric         157.4          -           153.71
SF-20-IN   1984      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric           -          129.8         147.48
2417-IN    1984      Railways Electrificacion             280.7          -           268.11
2442-IN    1984      Farakka II Thermal Power             300.8          -           295.24
2452-IN    1984      Fourth Trombay Thermal Power         135.4          -           125.98
1502-IN    1984      National Cooperati;e
Development Corporation III         -          220.0         211.87
1514-IN    1985      Kerala Social Forestry                 -           31.8          33.33
1523-IN    1985      National Agric. Extension I            -           39.1          44.95



ANNEX II
- 31 -                                  Page 3 of 4
US$ miLlion
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1544-IN    1985      Bombay Urban Development               -          138.0         145.11
2497-IN    1985      Narmada (Cujarac) Dam and Power   200.0             -           Z00.00
1552-IN    1985      Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power        -          100.0         103.93
1553-IN    1985      Narmada (Gujarat) CanaL                -          150.0         170.82
1569-IN    1985      Second National Agricultural Ext.   -              49.0          53.65
1611-IN    1985      National Social Forestry               -          165.0         l84.67
1613-IN    1985      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric           -           13.2          15.05
2498-IN    1985      Jharia Coking Coal                   248.0          -           248.00
2505-IN    1985      Maharashtra Petrochemical            300.0          -           290.12
2534-IN    1985      Second National Highway              200.0          -           200.00
2544-IN    1985      Chandrapur Thermal Power             300.0          -           275.37
2555-IN    1985      Rihand Pover Transmission            250.0          -           248.14
2582-IN    1985      Kerala Power                         176.0          -           175.97
1619-IN    1986      West Bengal Minor Irrigation           -           99.0         122.56
1621-IN    1986      Maharashtra Composite Irrigation    -             160.0         198.26
1622-IN    1986      Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation  -              41.0          5l.81
1623-IN    1986      West Bengal Population                 -           51.0          59.32
1631-IN    1986      National Agricultural Research II   -              72.1          83.96
2629-IN    1986      Industrial Export Dev. Finance        90.0          -            90.00
2630-IN    19B6      ICICI-Indus. Exp. Dev. Finance    160.0             -           160.00
1643-IN    1986      Gujarat Urban*                         -           62.0          70.99
2653-IN    1986      NABARD I                             375.0          -           375.00
2660-IN    1986      Cement Industry*                     165.0          -           165.00
2661-IN    1986      ICICI - Cement Industry*              35.0          -            35.00
1665-IN    1986      Andhra Pradesh II Irrigation*          -          140.0         154.71
2662-IN    1986      Andhra Pradesh II Irrigation*        131.0          -           131.00
2674-IN    1986      Combined Cycle Power*                485.0          -           485.00
2729-IN    1986      Cooperative Fertilizer*              150.2          -           150.20
2730-IN    1986      Cooperative Fertilizer*              152.0          -           152.00
Total                                    10,227.8    13,999.5
of which has been repaid                1,458.6        276.8
Total now outstanding                     8,769.2    13,722.7
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         8.769.2    13,722.7
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           5,231.88    3,937.31
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for effective SDR-denominaced IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US doLlar equivalents at
the SDRIUS dollar exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1986.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



-32 -                             ANNLX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
?As of September 30, 1986)
Fiscal                                                   Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             KirLoskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8         -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.5        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0        0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1       0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Cbemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976-87         Escorts Limited                        15.2         -       15.2
1978            Housing Development Finance Corp.    4.0           1.2       5.2
1956             Bajaj Tempo Limited                   29.3         -       29.3
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.2       8.7
19B1             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9         -       15.9
1981-86         Tata Iron and SteeL Company Ltd.    50.4            -       50.4
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9        0.2       3.1
1981-86         Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3        0.3       2.6
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5        0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8         -       18.8
1986            The Great Eastern Shipping
Company Ltd.                        8.0        2.0      10.0
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.8         -       15.8
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.1         -        8.1
1984-86          The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       15.9         -       15.9
1987            The Cujarat Rural Housing
Finance Corp.                        -         0.2       0.2
1985             Bihar Sponge                          13.7        0.8      14.5
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        23.5         -       23.5
1985            Modi Cement                            12.9         -       12.9
1985             India Lease Development Ltd.           5.0        0.4       5.4
1986             Larsen and Toubro Lcd.                20.6         -       20.6
1986             India Equipment Leasing Ltd.           2.5        0.4       2.9
1987            Gujarat Fusion Class Ltd.               7.5         -        7.5
1987            Hero Honda Motors Ltd.                  7.5         -        7.5
1987            Wimco Limited                           4.7         -        4.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         379.4       16.1    395.5
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales            201.0        8.1    209.1
Now Held                     178.4       8.0    186.4
Undisbursed                  114.6        3.5    118.1



- 33 -
ANNEX III
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL ACRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      TiVtabla of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About 12 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
GOI and the participating State Governments.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
December 1984, January 1985.
Cd)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
March 1985
se) Date of completion of negotiations
November 1986
Cf) Planned date of effectiveness
February 28, 1987
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
lone.
Section III:    Special Conditions
None.



-/4----



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD /1
(US$ Million)
Pro ject
Element             ICB  _      LCB       Other        N.A.         Total Cost
Incremental
Staff Salaries    -            -           -        32.1            32.1
(18.3)         (18.3)
Civil Works          -          37.0         -          -             37.0
(21.8)                               (21.8)
Incremental
Operating Costs   -            -           -        16.6            16.6
(9.6)          (9.6)
Vehicles and
Equipment           -           6.8         -          -              6.8
(5.0)                                (5.0)
Training             -            -          -         5.4             5.4
(5.4)          (5.4)
SSPs 2/              -            -         42.3        -             42.3
(24.9)                    (24.9)
TOTAL                -          43.8        42.3      54.1           140.2
(26.8)     (24.9)    (33.3)          (B5.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Credit.
2/ Procurement procedures for SSPs will be in conEormity with IDA guidelines.



I
MAP SECTION



JBIRD 19057R
J                        i ~~~~~~~.~ tM1AtAt _   I
if      ~PAKISTAN                 Ch
PAKISTAN         PUNJB2                      .r                C H I N A
NEP A LV-~-1~r%r
UTTAR -*E                                Ow IahJ --UTAN
BIHARj~!(WGLAESH
5&,;-MAHARASHTRA
-   KAIIv$Ry-   YMI,,A                    - f EXSnNG PKJECDO   Ei. p
/\  *NADwU;b0ndIRD NATIONAL
ANDNRA.AGRICULTURAL
Arc 6aPADi o                                       E             E XTENSION PROJECT
00,,,, - N.A.E.P. III AREAS
Sea                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.A.E.P. I1 AREAS
-sei aK                A 4 &N.A.E.P. I AREAS
KA~ ~~~~~~Mda                         EXISTING PROJECTS
0 5TATE CAPITALS
- NADU:         ~~0  NATIONAL CAPrrAL
\'\~~TAMIt   ~-   STATE AND UNION                           i
TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
KERAL                              -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARMES
-- kinayfl.r-v;wyeaV.......g-.. d_.eS
*   if                                        ar~~~~~~Tfvo*
May 1986






