Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C ,o?. K> '? ' JzyA
Report No. 5794a-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
December 19, 1986
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                                   FISCAL YEAR
US$ 1 = Rupees (Rs) 13.0                              April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                =  (10.000 m2) =  2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)               =  2.205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.6214 miles
1 meter (m)                   =  3.281 feet
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =  0.386 square miles
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AAU              Assam Agricultural University
ADA              Assistant Director of Agriculture
ADO              Agricultural Development Officer
AEO              Agricultural Extension Officer
ADO              Agricultural Development Officer
CDD              Community Development Department
DA               Director of Agriculture
DAO              District Agricultural Officer
DDA              Deputy Director of Agriculture
DEA              Department of Economic Affairs
DOA              Department of Agriculture
DOE              Directorate of Extension
FAO/CP           Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GOA              Government of Assam
GOHP             Government of Himachal Pradesh
GOUP             Government of Uttar Pradesh
GOI              Government of India
IDA              International Development Association
JDA              Joint Director of Agriculture
KVK              Xrishi Vigyan Kendra
MOA              Ministry of Agriculture
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MT               Metric Ton
NAEP             National Agricultural Extension Project
NARP             National Agricultural Research Project
PCR              Project Completion Report
PWD              Public Works Department
SAU              State Agricultural University/Universities
SDAEO            Subdivisonal Agricultural Extension Officer
SMS              Subject Hatter Specialist
SDRs             Special Drawing Rights
SSP              Special Subproject
T&V              Training and Visit System
VEW              Village Extension Worker
VLW              Village Level Worker
CROPPING SEASONS
Uttar Pradesh                                       Assam
Kharif  -   June to September                 Sali  -  June to November
Rabi    -   October to February               Boro  -  November to April
Summer  -   March to Kay                      Ahu   -  March to June
Himachal Pradesh
Kharif  -   May to September
Rabi    -   October to February
Summer  -   March to May



FOR OFMICL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND .................................................   1
Introduction ............................................    1
Agriculture in India ....................................   1
Agricultural Extension in India .........................   3
Experience with Past Lending ............................   4
Problems ............................................   5
Achievements ........................................   6
Performance of Assam Agricultural Development
Project ..........................................   9
Assam Extension Service Development ..............  10
Assam Agricultural Research ......................  11
Irrigation Component ....................             12
Performance of National Agricultural Extension
Project (NAEP I) .....................                  13
The Second National Agricultural Extension
Project (NAEP II) .....................                 14
Summary of Main Tessons Learned .....................  14
II.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE ...........................   16
Administrative Conslidation and Institutional
Development ...........................................  16
Quality Improvement .....................................   17
Expansion and Broadening of Extension Coverage ..........   17
Strengthening Linkages Between Extension and Research...   17
The report is based on the findings of appraisal missions to India in October
1984 and March 1985. Mission members included: Messrs. M. C. Macklin
(Agriculturalist. Mission Leader) G. Galgali (New Delhi Office) and
K. Sreekantiah (New Delhi Office) who appraised the Himachal Pradesh.
Uttar Pradesh, Assam, and special subproject components, and Mr. R. Slade,
who appraised the state monitoring and evaluation components.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continuation)                                    Page No.
III. THE PROWJECT .................................................... 18
A.  General .............................................  18
B.  The Project Area ................. ..................  18
Uttar Pradesh ...................................  18
Assam      ....a................a.*......a...... *................   21
Himachal Pradesh ................ ................  22
C.  Detailed Features . ...................................  23
Additional Staff              .        .    24
Civil Works                 . .    25
Vehicles and Equipment ........... ............  25
Training   ........................................   26
Incremental Operating Expenses       .     .      26
Uttar Pradesh Subproject ........... .............  27
Assam Subproject    ................ ................  29
Himachal Pradesh Subproject          .      .        31
Special Subprojects (SSP)           ..               32
Mid-Term Review                .         .     35
IV.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCES ................................  35
A.  Cost Estimates .     . ....................................  35
B.  Financing ...........................................  38
C.  Procurement . . ........................,.,       ...  38
D.  Disbursements. Accounts and Audit ...................  40
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ................................  42
A. General   ..                                             42
B.  Project Management        ...................  43
State Subprojects       ..................  43
Special Subprojects ............................   43
C.  State Extension Organization ........................  44
D. Monitoring and Evaluation              .       .         46
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .........................................  47
A.  Benefits of Improved Extension           .      .       47
B.  Risks ...............................................  49
Employment and Poverty Impact ...................  51
Impact on the Environment           .       .        51
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS..   52



Table of Contents (continuation)                                           Page No.
ANNEES
1.  Summary Data on State Subprojects ..........................   57
2.  Summary Project Costs:
Table 1 - NAEP III - Summary Accounts by Ye ar    59
Table 2 - NAEP III - Project Cost Sur ar.    59
Table 3 - Uttar Pradesh - Summary Accounts by Yea r                  60
Table 4 - Uttar Pradesh - Project Cost Sua ary    60
Table 5 - Assam - Summary Accounts by Ye ar    61
Table 6 - Assam - Project Coat Summary ,,. , ....   61
Table 5 - Himachal Pradesh - Summary Accounts by Year          .    62
Table 6 - Himachal Pradesh -  Project Cost Summary                   62
3.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements .....................   63
Disbursement Profile ... a....... *....... s ..........,.......... .   64
4.  Implementation Schedlule for State Subprojects .           .         65
5. Special Subprojects Received under NAEP I                   ..        67
6.  Uttar Pradesh:  Special Evaluation Study.                            69
7.  Crop Calendar (Illustrative of Conditions in
Uttar Pradesh) ..... .................   73
8.  Selected Documents Available on Project File ..............   75
ORGANIZATIONAL CHARTS
Chart No. 27512 Assam Subproject
Proposed Organizational Plan of the
Department of Agriculture Extension
Service)             . . ........... 77
Chart No. 26609 Assam Subproject
Linkages Between Extension and Research . ,             78
Chart No. 27510 Uttar Pradesh Subproject
Proposed Organizational Plan of the
Department of Agriculture (Extension
Service)    ... .......... 79
Chart No. 27511 Uttar Pradesh Subproject
Existing Organization of the Department
of Agriculture ......... .             ............   80
Chart No. 27513 Uttar Pradesh Subproject
Linkages between Extension and
Research . ......... . ................   81



Table of Contents (continuation)                                   Page No.
Chart No. 26806 Hi-achal Pradesh Subproject
Proposed Extension Organization ....    ...........  82
Chart No. 26805 Rimachal Pradesh Subproject
Linkages between Extension and Research .......  83
MAPS
IBRD No. 19057R  -  India
IBRD No. 19060   -  Uttar Pradesh
IBRD No. 19058   -  Assam
IBRD No. 19059   -  Himachal Pradesh
PROJECT FILE C.1
Itemized in Annex 8 and available in printed form.



INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:          The States of Assam. Himachal Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh, and the Ministry of Agriculture. Government
of India (GOI).
Amount:                 SDR 71.70 million (US$85 million equivalant).
Terms:                  Standard.
On-Lending Terms:       From GOI to the State Governments of Assam, Himachal
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh (UP). as part of Central
Government assistance to state development projects
on terms and conditions applicable at the time. GOI
will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   The project would (a) introduce the Training and
Visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension in the
State of Himachal Pradesh and in Eastern Uttar
Pradesh; (b) further strengthen the reorganized
agricultural extension system and the linkages
between extension and resarch introduced in the
State of Assam under the Assam Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 728-IN of June 30. 1977);
and (c) assist in the implementation of special
subp:ojects on extension related activities at the
central and state level through the replenishment of
the Special Subproject Fund established in the
Ministry of Agriculture under NAEP I (Credit 1523-IN
of December 12. 1984).
There are no major project risks. although a number of
administrative problems that are frequently
encountered in extension projects, such as pressure
on extension staff to perform non-extension duties
and inadequate linkage betweeen extension and research
may impede implementation. Such risks would be
mitigated under the project because all incremental
extension staff would work exclusively on extension
within the Department of Agriculture (DOA) and
through the establisbment of formal committees linking
research and extension institutions. Furthermore, the
provision made for strong monitoring and evaluation
units in each state, the proposed mid-term review and
the important role DOE would play in project
monitoring and coordination would ensure constant
review of implementation problems that might arise.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST: 1/
USS Million
Local         Foreign          Total
State Subprojects
Incremental Staff                       24.7              -             24.7
Civil Works                             26.6             1.4            28.0
Vehicles and Equipment                    4.5            0.9             5.4
Incremental Operating Costs             12.2             0.3            12.5
Training                                 3.8              -              3.8
Special Subprojects (SSP)                  40.2             2.1            42.3
Subtotal                        112.0             4.7           116.7
Physical Contingencies                       2.2            0.1             2.3
Price Contingencies                         20.5            0.7            21.2
Subtotal                         22.7             0.8           23.5
Total                           134.7             5.5           140.2
FINANCING PLAN:
Project Financing
(U1S$ Million)
Sub-project                      GOI/States        IDA           Total
Uttar Pradesh (GOHP)              24.1            36.3            60.4
Himachal Pradesh (GOUP)            7.8            14.8            22.6
Assam (GOA)                        5.9             9.0            14.9
Special Sub-projects/GOI          17.4            24.9           42.3
Total                   55.2            85.0          140.2
Percentage              40.0            60.0          100.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS: 2/
(US$ Million)
FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93
Annual           0.8      5.6      8.6    18.0   20.0    19.0    13.0
Cumulative       0.8      6.4     15.0    33.0   53.0    72.0    85.0
1/  Including taxes and duties of USS1.9 million equivalent and with
figures rounded off.
2/ According to IDA Fiscal Year.



INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01    The proposed Third National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP III)
would be the fifteenth in a series of IDA-assisted projects designed to reor-
ganize and strengthen agricultural extension in India. This chapter reviews
the relevance of such assistance to the Bank's agricultural program in India,
experience with some of these projects, main problems encountered during
implementation. achievements, and lessons learned. The Government of India
(GOI) requested IDA to provide assistance for the establishment of professional
extension services in the States of Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and
follow-up assistance to the State of Assam, which completed its first phase
project on March 31. 1985. Uttar Praderh, the fifteenth of seventeen major
states in India 1/ to request IDA assistance for reform of agricultural exten-
sion, has only now come forward after several years of discussion with the Bank
on its participation. GOI also requested provision of additional funds for
special subprojects to replenish that fund initially established under the
First National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP I. Cr. 1523-IN), and which
will be fully committed by late 1987.
Agriculture in India
1.02    Agriculture is the dcminant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 37% of the gross national product. It engages about two thirds
of the labor force and agricultural production accounts for 24% of the
country's merchandise exports.
1.03    The Bank's agricultural program in India during the past 15 years has
aimed at assisting India to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains and increase
farm incomes in an equitable manner. The Bank is actively involved in some 60
agricultural projects representing large investments in infrastructure and
expanded agricultural services. With substantive increases in foodgrains.
especially wheat production in recent years. India has attained effective
self-sufficiency despite an annual population growth rate of 2.2%. although a
shortage of edible oils persists. Yield increases of edible oilseeds have not
been significant and recent increases in production are mainly due to the
extension of areas under cultivation. Nevertheless, further efforts to improve
1/ With participation of Himactal Pradesh and the Punjab as a special sub-
project under the proposed project all seventeen major states would have
participated in IDA-assisted extension project.
,. -



-2-
agricultural productivity are needed to meet future demand increases. The rate
of overall crop yield increases has been falling and agriculture has stagnated
in some parts of the country. The projections of demand for foodgrains by the
terminal year of the Seventh Five Year Plan (1990) call for annual foodgrain
production of 168-170 million MT. compared with 1984-85 production of about 150
million MT. This represents an annual growth rate of about 2.7Z. compared with
a growth rate of 2.5X for the period 1967-68 to 1981-82. A number of factors
point to the increasing difficulties which India will have to overcome to
achieve this ambitious target.
1.04    Almost 90% of the increase in foodgrain production in the post-Green
Revolution period came from wheat and rice, which together cover only about
half the total area under food crops, mainly the relatively better endowed.
more homogeneous regions in the States of Punjab. Haryana, western
Uttar Pradesh, and the delta regions of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. These
are also predominantly irrigated areas. Future yield increases in both wheat
and rice, the main sources of past growth. will be more difficult to achieve
than past yield increases and are likely to give less impressive results. In
the past, the increase came mostly from the adoption of high-yielding variety
fertilizer-irrigation technology by farmers who were capable of taking the
limited risks associated with adoption of such new technology. Such areas are
now beginning to experience second generation problems, such as increasing pest
and disease problems and micro-nutrient deficiencies. Thus, sustained
increases in yields in wheat and rice will depend in part on the development
and adoption of even more sophisticated technology.
1.05    Irrigation systems now being developed, and those most likely to be
developed in the future, are mainly in the southern regions where cropping
intensities in irrigated areas have been low. Production efficiency in these
areas can be achieved through development of better managed and operated sys-
tems coupled with improved farm management relevant to a particular system.
Such techniques can only be generated through appropriate research. The poten-
tial for wheat and rice production in the eastern region is large. but has
generally lagged through poor farmer servicing and because the specific tech-
nology requirements of heterogenous farm systems have not been supported by
adequate research. Though there is considerable scope for increasing produc-
tion in irrigated areas, most of furure 4-presse in foodgrain production will
have to come from rainfed areas, from oilseeds and pulses. and from sorghum and
millets which are the staple diet of the rural poor.  These rainfed areas are
more ecologically diverse and present greater problems, both in developing the
technology needed for the many agroecological situations and in its transfer to
farmers.
1.06    The above underscores the need for continuing improvements in agricul-
tural extension and associated research services in helping India meet future
challenges facing agriculture. Improving extension services remains one of the
relatively low-cost means of increasing agricultural productivity, making more
effective use of past investments in infrastructure and research, and reaching
all farmers. particularly the smaller ones.



-3-
Agricultural Extension in India
1.07    Soon after independence. GOI began sponsoring a number of programs
designed to meet the need for more effective. country-wide agricultural
development: the Community Development Program in 1952. National Extension
Service Blocks in 1953. Intensive Agricultural District Program in 1960. Inten-
sive Agricultural Area Programs in 1963-64. and the Small and Marginal Farmers
Development Program in 1969-70. Despite their proliferation, these programs
covered a small proportion of farmers, generally the larger ones. Recognizing
that a different approach was required to achieve a more broadly based increace
in agricultural output and in response to changing rural and administrative
conditions, GOI, with IDA assistance, introduced an extension approach tried in
several countries before India and generally known as the "training and visit"
system (T&V). It was first tried in India through pilot projects in the Rajas-
than Canal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 502-IN. 1974) and in the
Chambal Command Area Development Project in Madhya Pradesh (Cr. 562-IN. 1975).
It was subsequently adopted in various states commencing in 1977. The
methodology, organization, and components financed under this system are
described in Project File Cl item 1. The T&V system aims at increasing farm
productivity and farmers' income by simultaneously addressing constraints
impeding the transfer of new agricultural technology from research to the
farmer and the feedback from farmers that must orient research and other
government organizations to actual farm problems. Some of the changes intro-
duced are organizational (single line of control, exclusive responsibility).
others are operational (fixed, regular contact between farmers and extension
workers. coverage, mobility. and housing in the field), and still others relate
to the linkage between research and extension (regular meetings and workshops
of extension and research staff, systematic feedback of farmers' problems. and
responses by research).
1.08    Under the system of multi-purpose field workers, which the reformed
extens-:on system has replaced, extension personnel were burdened with substan-
tial administrative work and such non-extension duties as input delivery and
administration of various subsidized schemes, which tended to dissipate exten-
sion efforts in many uncoordinated directions and divert attention and resour-
ces from the need to reform the main line extension agency. Staffing was
usually insufficient to adequately cover the farming community. Field workers
lacked mobility to reach farmers systematically and regularly, had practically
no training in relevant technology, and saw limited prospects for advancement.
Most extension personnel had low status, low pay, and poor morale.  In addi-
tion, there was virtually no linkage between extension and research. Without
this linkage, it is difficult to justify the considerable investment being made
in agricultural research. Improved technology is of ''ttle benefit if it
cannot be made available to farmers and, conversely, it is difficult to develop
useful research unless there is sound feedback from farm to research--both
roles for extension.
1.09    The Bank's experience over the past ten years with India's considerable
effort to improve agricultural extension and research has confirmed what was
recognized when the T&V approach was first being introduced on a larger scale:



-4-
in a state, with a well-entrenched bureaucracy, institutionsl change takes time
and causes many sensitive administrative problems that require dynamic and
committed leadership to resolve expeditiously. The seventeen states. including
those which under the proposed project would have introduced improved agricul-
tural extension with IDA assistance. together will eventually reach about 90%
of Indials farm families. In these states, there are to be some 73,500 Village
Extension Workers (VEWs). 8.500 Agricultural Extension Officers (AEOs), 4.000
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), 1.100 Subdivision Agricultural Extension
Officers (SDAEO). 60 Assistant SDAEOs. 410 District Agricultural Officers (DAO)
and Assistant DAOs. and 100 Zonal Joint Directors and Additional Directors of
Agriculture (Extension). However. the extension service represents only a
small part of the total civil service in any state (e.g.. in Karnataka only
about 1%) but. because of the close and often unique field relationship with
farmers (which represent the vast majority of state's population). agricultural
extension is particularly vulnerable to outside pressures for purely
non-technical reasons. The new system also calls for major attitudinal changes
on the part of extension staff, farmers. agricultural researchers and govern-
ment officials, both within and outside of DOA. Given these circumstances and
as IDA's experience with these projects confirms, firm commitment at government
level and strong departmental management are central to successful agricultural
extension. Staff Appraisal Reports (NAEP I, No. 4983-IN. August 8. 1984. and
NAEP II. No. 5254-IN. MatcL 3, 1985) include detailed reviews of the particular
problems and achievements of all individual state projects assisted by IDA.
This report will confine itself to a summary of problems and achievements and
make particular review of the performance of the Assam Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (Cr. 728-IN), whose second phase is included under the proposed
project, and of the progress so far made under NAEP I (Cr. 1569-IN), which
became effective April 12. 1985.
Experience with Past Lending
1.10    Significant prcject implementation experience has been gained in 14
Indian states assisted by IDA under 14 credits (totalling $200 million).
Whilst the range and sererity of problems encountered and the extent of
achievements have varied considerably between states, four (West Bengal.
Cr. 690-IN; Bihar. Cr. 761-IN; Madhya Pradesh Phase II. Cr. 1138-IN; and
Andhra Pradesh, Cr. 1129-IN) of the 14 can be classifiea as having performed
poorly and to have severe problems. These are discussed more fully in para
1.12. A common feature that deserves to be stressed is that the most sensitive
and intransigent problems have resulted from indifferent management, frequently
accompanied by a lack of government commitment. In no case has the validity of
the central objective "aincreasing agricultural production through introduction
of professional extension linked with appropriate research and manpower
development and designed to reach the mass of small farmers" been questioned.
Similarly, the T&V extension methodology has been accepted as an appropriate
and workable system by all the participating states, whether or not they have
performed well.
1.11    Project Completion Reports (PCRs) have been prepared for:  Rajasthan
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr- 137-TN). Orissa Agricultural



-5-
Development Project (Cr. 682-IN), and Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 712-IN). for the states of Gujarat. Haryana and Karnataka
that were included under the Composite Agricultural Eztension Project
(Cr. 862-IN) and for Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN).
Project Performance Audits have been ccupleted for Rajasthan Agricultural
Eztension and Research Project (Cr. 737-IN). Orissa Agricultural Development
Project (Cr. 682-IN). Madhya Pradesh-Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 712-IN). Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN). Composite
Agricultural Eztension Project (Cr. 862-IN). In addition to the above. a great
deal of data has been generated by state M&E units. The following paragraphs
summarize the main findings and some common features of these reports.
Problems
1.12    Problems commonly experienced in agricultural extension projects.
especially during the early years of implementation, have included:
(a) Involvement of extension staff in non-extension activities;
(b) Excessive reporting and statistical workload on field staff;
(c) Insufficient location specific research-generated te-hnology. espe-
cially for rainfed and tribal areas;
(d) Poor feedback from field to research;
Ce) Weak inter-ministerial and inter-departmental coordination;
Cf) Transportation shortages and restrictions;
(g) Slow start up of M&E;
(h) Late submission of audited financial reports;
(i) Weak technical supervision and shortages of appropriately trained
subject matter specialists;
(j) Slow provision of housing for field staff; and
(k) Slow use of training funds.
In addition, the expansion of village level non-extension activities, since the
introduction of T&V extension, has been unexpected and under-estimated, leaving
Panchayat (local government) staff unable to cope with the increased work load
and aggravating pressures on extension workers to assist in non-extension work.
The above problems have been continuously addressed during project supervision
and most have diminished over time. or at least kept to manageable proportions.
In the particular cases of the poor performing states (pars 1.10), weak manage-
ment--coupled vith a lack of government support in Bihar (Cr. 761-IN) -led to
inadequate budgetary provision and a failure to employ critical staff and to



-6-
construct the planned civil works. Similarly. in West Bengal (Cr. 690-IN).
persistent administrative. political. and budgetary constraints, worsened by
legal disputes with labor unions over recruitment and staff promotion issues.
stifled the implementation efforts of DOA. Nerertheless. it has been observed
that, an those districts of West Bangal where a reasonable extension structure
was put in place, M&E surveys indicated that extension functioned as well and.
in some aspects. better than in other states classified as good performers.
Both credits 690-IN and 761-IN are expected to close 50Z undisbursed. In the
cases of the ongoing problem projects. both Andhra Pradesh (Cr. 1219-IN) and
Madhya Pradesh (Cr. 1138-IN) are suffering from similar sets of difficulties:
(a) Inadequate budgetary provisions;
(b) Failure to recruit or transfer staff;
(c) Slow civil works construction;
(d) Poor supervision of field staff;
(e) Lethargic project management; and
(f) Resulting slow rate of credit disbursement.
Achievements
1.13    While considerable scope remains for improving the design and effec-
tiveness of the agricultural extension system once the new structure is in
place. the Bank's experience in India to date has been positive overall. The
new system has now stood the test of nine years of implementation in several
states; there is growing evidence of its favorable impact; and it has received
wide support from the farming community and state DOAs. Although achievements
have been mixed, experience with these projects show that there is a lead role
for a technical extension service, that the system adopted for technology
transfer is fundamentally sound. and that the impact on production. even in
the short term, can be substantial. Many of the changes introduced are now
generally recognized as worthwhile:
(a) Fixed visit schedules;
(b) Regular meetings of extension field workers and supervising officers
and specialists;
(c) Regular in-service training of extension staff;
(d) Use of extension staff in helping to identify research priorities and
in advising research on farmers needs and reactions to research recom-
mendations; and
(e)  A single line of co mand and exclusive DOA responsibility for the
extension service.



-7-
In several states where a strong technical extension service has developed, it
is able to identify constraints at the farm level and to exert pressure for
improved performance accountability in its own operations and on other support
services. In particular. the extension service is not only becoming increas-
ingly aware of its own need to improve timeliness and quality of the technology
it transfers to farmers. but is also inducing the research support network to
reorient its research priorities. The Project Performance Audit Report for the
Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-IN) says, "The
project has demonstrated that the T&V system of agricultural extension is an
effective way of managing a large number of staff to spread innovations and of
providing disciplined review of technical messages. The project has also
clearly stimulated a demand for extension services from many farmers, it
brought discipline to the overview and formulation of technical messages and to
the focussing of agricultural research efforts." 1/ PCRs for Madhya Pradesh
(Cr. 712-IN). Orissa (Cr. 682-IN), and the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 862-IN) stress the considerable advances made in institutional
development of extension services and establishment of links with research.
1.14    The first wave of M&E surveys were designed to measure the estab-
lishment and functioning of the newly introduced extension system. This has
been achieved in participating states, and greater emphasis is now placed upon
assessing the impact of reformed extension on technology adoption and produc-
tion. Whilst there is considerable variability between states, statistically
analyzed results summarized for seven states 2/ show that 85% of contact
farmers are visited at least once per month by VEW. Whilst some bias in favor
of visits to larger farms is indicated, the size of this bias is very small.
Yields on farms that rely on the VEW as the main source of technological infor-
mation are higher than on farms that rely mainly on other sources of informa-
tion. Although the other sources (radio, other farmers, etc.) do not differ
greatly from one another in terms of their effect on yields, any source of
information appears to be better than receiving no advice at all. Yield
indices for wheat and rice 3/ for farmers receiving VEW advice are 114.5; for
farmers relying mainly on advice from other farmers. 99.1; and for farmers
receiving no advice at all, 86.1; these values suggest a 15-28% yield advantage
1/ Project Performance Audit Report (Cr. 737-IN, November 1984).
2/ G. Feder, R. Slade and A. Sunderam, The Training and Visit Extension Sys-
tem: An Analysis of Operations and Effects (Staff Working Paper No. 719,
1985).
3/ Index of 100% = state average yields weighted according to irrigated and
rainfed conditions and contact and non-contact status.



-8-
from VEW presence. 1/ Other less rigorously analyzed M&E data demonstrate a
positive relationship between the frequency of VEW visits and technology adop-
tion and yield. In Haryana. 73% of farmers visited once a month applied the
recommended basal fertilizer to rice. compared to 33Z for farmers not visited.
In Manarashtra, 511 of farmers visited twice a month used the pesticide recom-
mended for wheat. as compared to 16% for farmers not visited by VEW. In
1983-84, Gujarat surveys indicated that yields of groundnut. millet. and rice.
all increased as the frequency of VEW visits increased.
1.15    While the above data provides encouraging indicators of a positive
impact of T&V extension on agricultural production. extension effect is not
separated from the effects of other influences on production. such as input
use, soil fertility. input supply problems and prices. etc. Until now. such
disaggregation has only been achieved under a special study conducted by the
World Bank in association with the Haryana Agricultural University. Results
from the study 2/ indicate that the T&V extension system was more successful in
delivering information to farmers than the traditional system. that it achieved
significantly higher rates of direct contact with farmers. and that rates of
knowledge diffusion for all wheat practices and for some paddy practices were
higher than comparable rates under the former system. The study showed that,
in the case of wheat, a yield increase of about 2X per annum over the first
four years of the Phase I project, was directly attributable to extension and
independent of the use of farm inputs and other complicating factors. Further-
more, the study concluded that the increased incremental wheat output.
attributable to extension is. alone, sufficient to generate an internal rate of
return in excess of 15% with a high degree of confidence.
1.16    State production statistics also provide positive indicators of the
impact of improved extension on productivity. The Project Performance Audit
Report for Rajasthan (Cr. 737-IN) notes that foodgrain production was more or
less sustained during the drought years of the project and that there is
evidence of a significant lift in crop yields from 1980-81 onwards compared
with pre-project levels. Crop yields for 1981-82 and 1982-83 were between 7%
and 30% higher than for the two years preceding the project (1976-77 and
1977-78) even though kharif rainfall in 1981-82 was well below the normal
average. Fertilizer consumption rose consistently over the life of the
project, despite drought, and more so in the project than in non-project areas,
the planted areas under improved high yielding sorghum, millet and wheat also
increased markedly. Equally important have been changes in cultural practices.
1/ For the seven states included in the analysis (Assam, Bihar, Gujarat,
Haryana. Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu) and after an average of
about 2.5 years of T&V experience and without accounting for initial dif-
ferences or other confounding factors.
2/  G. Feder, L. Lau, and R. Slade. 'The Impact of Agricultural Extension.  A
Case Study of the Training and Visit System (T&V) in Haryana, India",
(Forthcoming Staff Working Paper).



-9-
The introduction of socybean. adoption of ridge and furrow cotton cultivation,
and an increase in mustard planting from 70.000 to 350.000 ha are but a few of
such changes related to extension reform. 1/ In Karnataka (Cr. 862-IN). crop
production increased consistently over project life, more significantly there
have been important positive changes in cropping patterns and cultivation
practices which are clearly the consequence of extension advice given to
farmers. Output gains attributable to these changes are, thus, measurable
results of the impact of the reformed extension service. Major examples of
such changes in farming practices include:
(a) The emergence of sunflower cultivation on a large scale. with acreage
increasing from 10.000 ha in 1977-78 to 276,000 ha 1983-84;
(b) Rapid spread of safflower cultivation from 163.000 ha in 1982-83 to
356.000 ha in 1983-84;
(c) Expansion of high yielding variety paddy cultivation from 2.4 million
ha in 1978-79 to 2.85 million ha in 1983-84;
(d) Introduction of high-yielding red gram in the southern districts on
83.000 ha in 1983-84;
Ce) Cultivation of gram in tank-irrigated areas which rose from nil in
1981-82 to 83.000 ha in 1983-84; and
(f) Growth in overall pulse acreage and yields which caused total produc-
tion of pulses to increase from 710,000 MT in 1977-78 to almost 1.3
million MT in 1983-84. 2/
1.17    In the case of Gujarat (Cr. 862-IN). 2/ average total foodgrain produc-
tion during the project period (1978-79 to 1982-83) increased by about 251
as compared to the five-year average of the pre-project period. During the
same period, the average yield of pearl millet increased by 47%. sorghum by
25%. wheat by 22%, and pulses by 11%. Significant changes in cropping patterns
and cultivation practices, clearly the consequence of extension advice given to
farmers, include the introduction of summer groundnut into new areas with the
total area planted increasing from 19,600 ha in 1977-78 to 165.000 ha in
1982-83. Similarly, the acreage under rape and mustard increased by about
63.000 ha and that of castor by about 70.000 ha during the project period.
Performance of Assam Agricultural Development Project
1.18    The Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN, dated
June 20. 1977, US$8 million) became effective in September 1977 and was
I/ Project Performance Audit Report (Credit 737-IN).
2/  NAEP II Staff Appraisal Report No. 5254-IN. March 1985.



-10-
originally scheduled to close on March 31. 1983. Credit closure was, however.
extended until March 31, 1985 (but in fact fully disbursed by January 1985). as
project implementation had been seriously disrupted over a three year period
(1980-83) by civil disturbances. Frequent changes in state agricultural
leadership over the period 1978-85 1/ also caused problems of management
continuity. Notwithstanding these difficulties, implementation performance has
been generally satisfactory with most project objectives achieved. The Project
Performance Audit Report of July 1986 concluded that the extension component of
the project was well formulated and efforts to adhere to institutional objec-
tives have been encouraging. especially considering the security conditions
prevailing during much of the project. A follow-up project is required to
remedy the shortcomings and build on the achievements of the first phase. The
irrigation component had no real bearing on the main extension component; it
was implemented by a different authority and the project provision involved
(less than US$1 million) was too small to influence events and policies. Some
of the hydrological investigative objectives of the component were partially
achieved, but the envisaged expansion of the shallow tubewell program did not
occur, partly due to poor choice of project area. Linkages between the exten-
sion service and SAU research hen been established and field trial stations
developed, but research performtnce has to be improved.
1.19    Assam Extension Service Development.  Most physical objectives were
achieved and 95% of extension etaff have been employed on time and are in post.
This has included a smooth tran;fer of 960 VLW from the Panchayat/CDD and 700
VEW from special crop schemes to the new extension service (a process that has
been achieved only with much dLfficulty in some other states). Vehicles and
equipment have been procured as was planned, although 20% less than anticipated
bicycle and motorcycle purchase loans were made due to unfavorable GOA loan
conditions, which did not cover the full cost of vehicle purchase. After
initial delays, civil works construction improved (once the DOA engineering
unit took over its management from Public Works Department (PWD)) and 921 of
planned new construction and house renovations were completed.
1.20    Training programs introduced have undoubtedly resulted in a better
equipped VEW than before. although project training did suffer during the
period of civil disturbance, when travel and the assembly of training groups
was difficult. The quality of SAU and DOA trainers requires improvement.
particularly in communication skills. The limited availability of new, loca-
tion specific ciop technology has also tended to make in-service training
repetitive and increasingly less interesting to extension staff. Simultaneous
efforts to improve planning and coordination of training, to strengthen the
university extension/training unit, and the productivity of zonal adaptive
research is required to remedy this situation. The Assam Agricultural Develop-
ment Project has successfully established the institutional framework of a
1/ During the period the Minister of Agriculture, Secretary of Agriculture
and Vice Chancellor of Assam Agricultural University (AAU) each changed
four times and the Agricultural Production Commissioner seven times.



-11-
professional extension service under a single line of command within DOA.
Extension priority has so far been given to the transfer of low cost. simple,
already proven technology to farmers, particularly in the improvement of cul-
tural techniques such as seed treatment. timeliness of sowing. and plant
populations. Whilst much still remains to be done. even in these basic areas,
the extension service has to move into more sophisticated areas of crop hus-
bandry. improved fertilizer and water use, plant protection, and more
specialist crops in order to respond to farmer demands and to maintain staff
interest and dynamism.  Whilst it is noted in para 1.22 that location specific
crop recommendations are now emerging from research, their late generation and
a persistent lack of area and/or seasonal specific technical recommendations
for several of the many diverse seasonal and geographic situations in Assam
remains a challenge to research and a constraint to extension.
1.21    Supervision of VEWs has been less than satisfactory due to:
(a) Diluted management control resulting from large geographic size of
subdivisions;
(b) A low AEO to VEW staffing ratio exacerbated by 60 vacancies in the KEO
grade; and
(c)  A tendency for VEW to get involved in non-extension work, particularly
input supply problems.
Farmers still regard the VEW as a general advisor and it will take time before
they get used to the reformed VEW role and until the VEW can work solely on
extension. To deny farmers assistance in such non-extension areas as input
supply at this time would. however, deleteriously affect farmer confidence in
VEW.
1.22    Assam Agricultural Research.  Although responsibility for fundamental
and applied research was officially transferred to AAU from DOA in 1973. AAU
has not yet taken full responsibility for applied research at agro-ecological
zone level. DOA has continued to carry much of this burden at it's field trial
stations. giving little attention to the designed role of managing on-farm
trials. Initial reasons for slow AAU zonal development were a lack of zonal
physical facilities and staff shortages. The civil works program for research
under the Assam Agricultural Development Project has been largely accomplished
and. under National Agricultural Research Project (NARP I. Cr. 855-IN, December
1978). progress has been made in identification and establisbment of multi-crop
zonal research stations. but research staff shortages continue with 40% of AAIJ
research posts unfilled. Progress will, however, continue to be gradual.
limited by research officer recruitment rates. Continued support to the
development of AAU adaptive research capacity will be ensured under NARP II.
Research facilities are available in all the four main agro-ecological zones
but certain ecologies. such as flood prone young alluvwium. and the south bank
of the Brabmaputra in western Assam. are not covered by existing facilities.
Despite delays in AAU zonal research development. the efforts of AAU and DOA at
their respective trial stations have resulted in the generation of some zonal



-12-
recommendations, including the use of bio-fertilizer (azolla algae), introduc-
tion of "gram" as a summer "catch" crop. 1/ identification of improved drought
tolerant-rice-varieties for-the rainfed autumn crop (ahu) and short duration
rice for the flood prone areas. Much remains to be done. however, as improved
rice varieties are lacking for the winter season (sali) and little work has
been started on the improvement of cropping patterns and systems.
1.23    Establishment of the M&E unit was delayed and the unit only started to
function in June 1982. Nine reports have so far been published. A main
shortcoming of M&E under the Assam Agricultural Development Project has been
delayed result analysis and publication of findings. Surveys conducted in
Assam have measured the establishment of the reformed extension system and
demonstrated that 90% of contact farmers and 84% of non-contact farmers know
their VEW by name but that the regularity and reliability of VEW visits to
contact farmers is less than ideal (50% of contact farmers visited twice a
month, 30% once a month. and 20% not at all. with just 60% of visits made to
the farmer's field). These figures emphasize the need (para 1.21) for more
intensive VEW supervision. Sixty three percent of contact farmers had less
than 2.0 ha of land and only 11% more than 4.0 ha; this distribution is con-
sidered representative of the state. The M&E unit has recently conducted
surveys to measure technology adoption and impact on production. Early results
are conflicting; some 2/ indicate little difference in techn.ology adoption
between contact and non-contact farmers. while others show a positive relation-
ship between the frequency of VEW extension visits and crop yields. It was
also shown that wheat yields of farmers accepting advice from VEW were higher
than those accepting advice from other sources or no advice at all (e.g. 1.000
kgs/ha for the no advice situation against 1,400 kgs/ha with VEW advice).
Whilst first indications are positive, more work on measurement of production
impact is requirel.
1.24    Irrigation Component.  At an early stage in project implementation, it
became apparent that the irrigation component did not reflect the priorities of
the state irrigation authorities. After a quick start, the water-level
monitoring work was discontinued. Of the intended 15.000 pumps and shallow
tubewells, only 4.198 were installed. However, statewide progress in tubewell
development was in general better; it seems that the four project areas
selected for irrigation development under the Assam Agricultural Development
Project were less favorably suited and the farmers less prepared to install
pumps. than other areas. Credit closure for the irrigation component was
applied on the due date in March 1983, without the extension granted to the
remainder of the project.
1/ November to April season.
2/ From Assam M&E Report. Rabi 1983-84.



-13-
Performance of National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP I)
1.25    NAEP I (Cr. 1523-IN. October 2. 1984. for US$ 39.1 Nillion). the first
of a second phase of extension projects. is designed to provide follow-up
support to three already participating states but. more importantly, to further
strengthen the Department of Extension (DOE) in MOA. a process started with
limited success under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project
(Cr. 862-IN). To this end, NAEP I will:
(a) Provide continuing assistance initiated under earlier credits to three
states (Orissa. Madhya Pradesh. and Rajasthan) iu the improvement of
statewide agricultural extension services; and
(b)  Reorganize and strengthen DOE in MOA to allow it to perform its coor-
dinating and policy guidance role more effectively in the development
of agricultural extension throughout India and enable it to assist
states in preparing projects for extension reform.
The project has provided for core staff to the Extension Division of MOA and
has further strengthened existing units of Farm Information. Extension Training
and Field Extension of the Extension Directorate. Core administrative staff
are responsible for administrative, organizational, planning and logistic
aspects, as well as for follow-up of visits and correspondence with state
governments. The Farm Information Unit, in addition to organizing exhibitions,
publicity. and preparing pamphlets and periodicals. will provide audio-visual
and agricultural comunication support to the states. The Extension Training
Unit is responsible for extension related training. and the Field Extension
Unit for state subprojects and for the appraisal, supervision. and monitoring
of special subprojects. In addition, the project provides funds for further
project preparation and for financing special subprojects prepared by MOA,
states, or other agencies designed specifically to strengthen support of exten-
sion activities at the central, regional, or state level. NAEP I was declared
effective April 12. 1985. and project implementation has started in the states
of Orissa and Rajasthan. At central level, all new staff positions provided
for DOE under NAEP I have been sanctioned. The process of recruitment is well
advanced both for NAEP I incremental staff and outstanding staff not yet
appointed under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project. Five new Joint
Directors of Agriculture (JDAs) have recently been appointed, four Deputy
Directors of Agriculture (DDAs) and two additional JDAs have been selected and
should be posted shortly and two Joint Commissioners are expected to be
selected soon. The above would represent a considerable strengthening of DOE.
Both the Extension Technical Advisory Committee and the Project Funding Commit-
tee responsible for approval of special subprojects (SSP) have been con-
stituted. A total of 34 state and two central SSP have already been submitted
to DOE. After first screening, 14 state SSP were selected for appraisal, three
were rejected, and 17 returned to the states for further preparation. From
these, two state and-two central SSP have already been jointly appraised by the
Bank/DOE. These are:



-14-
(a) Establishment of a National Center for Agricultural Extension Manage-
ment;
(b)  Strengthening of Extension Education Institutes-
(c)  Strengthening of information support to extension. and extension train-
ing in Kerala State Agricultural University; and
(d) Strengthening of fortnightly training and establishment of technology
testing centres in Maharashtra.
It is currently estimated that the special subproject funds under NAEP I
(US$8 million equivalent) will be committed to appraised special subprojects by
late 1987.
1.26    The Second National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP II).  NAEP II.
(Cr. 1569-IN. signed on May 10, 1985 for US$49 million declared effective
December 13. 1985) will provide follow up assistance to the states of Gujarat,
Haryana, and Karnataka, and introduce reformed extension in the state of Jammu
and Kashmir. Implementation is now underway.
Summary of the Main Lessons Learned
1.27    The problems and achievements of IDA's nine years of experience with
extension projects in India are described in paras 1.12 to 1.17. While this
experience has to date been positive, there are, nevertheless. several clear
lessons to be learned from past experiences and which have been taken into
consideration in the design of the proposed project. These are:
(a) Firm commitment of state governments and strong departmental management
are central to the successful establishment of reformed extension.
Without them, it is unlikely that the administrative and budgetary
problems that inevitably arise during institutional reform., will be
either anticipated and prevented or expeditiously resolved. Extension
reform should not. therefore, be introduced into a situation where
either commitment or management capacity are obviously inadequate. In
the same vein, project size and phasing should be related to the
management capacities of the respective executing agencies.
(b) Establishment of clear lines of responsibility, incorporating an effec-
tive single line of administrative and technical command for extension
within DOA. has proved necessary for effective management and in order
to minimize administrative disturbances.
(c) Community Development (CDD) or Panchayat Departments Village Level
Workers (VLW) should only be transferred to a reformed, professional
extension service. if those departments are clearly overstaffed and
providing such transfer is effected on a voluntary basis and is
non-reversible. Depletion of CDD staffs through transfer on reversible



-15-
deputation has contributed to difficulties in previous projects.
including:
(i) Pressure on VEW to perform non-extension duties;
(ii) Unplanned return of VEW to CDD causing serious staffing gaps in
DOA; and
(iii) Legal disputes between CDD and DOA staff on recruitment and
promotional issues. etc.
(d) Inadequate supervision of village level activities has frequently been
a problem and provision of sufficient. trained. and fully mobile
mid-level management staff requires particular attention.
(e) M&E units should be established as early as possible to allow base-line
data collection and early identification of implementation constraints
that require management action.
(f) Delayed generation of appropriate location-specific technical crop
recommendations by research is sometimes a problem and priority should
be given to the early establishment of extension research links.
(g) Civil works management has normally been most successfully executed
when carried out directly by an engineering wing within DOA (as in
Assam) except in occasional cases where state PWD has proved effective
in managing the typical extension project building program that com-
prises a large number of low cost individual units widely dispersed in
rural areas.
(h) Strong project support from IDA has been an important factor in past
achievement. Although the various problems. noted in para 1.12 and in
the review of Bank experience (paras 1.19 to 1.27). are being specifi-
cally addressed in the ongoing projects, it will take time to resolve
them. Past achievements must not, therefore. mask the vulnerability
that persists and the undercurrent of pressure to revert to a more
traditional extension service with multipurpose field workers. Exten-
sion reorganization is still institutionally immature in most states,
and it is essential that the technical and supervisory support of IDA
be sustained. IDA should continue to aupport efforts both to adapt
technology to the needs of farmers and to improve the transfer of that
technology to them by assisting state and central efforts through the
NARP I, NAEP II. NARP I, NARP II, and NAEP III.



-16-
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
2.01    Over the past nine years. the Bank has supported a series of state.
composite. and national 1/ extension projects with the objective of increasing
agricultural production through the development of professional extension
services closely linked to appropriate research and manpower development. The
proposed project would continue to support this overall objective.  The inclu-
sion of Uttar Pradesh. Hijmachal Pradesh and the Punjab (as a special sub-
project) under NAEP III would bring to 17 the number of major Indian states
participating in IDA-financed agricultural extension projects. Uttar Pradesh.
one of the largest and by far the most populous state in India (population
estimated to be over 110 million in 1985). will now participate after a period
of hesitation and following several years of discussion with the Bank which has
consistently sought its participation in an extension project.
2.02    Experience has shown that. during the first five years of an extension
project. the administrative framework for reformed extension can be established
and an information service provided for the transfer of low cost technology.
This will be done in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. intro-
ducing T&V extension for the first time under this project. While such an
administrative framework for extension has been established in the first phase
of the Assam Agricultural Development Project. training and visit extension is
not established firmly enough in Assam that it could be considered
self-sustaining, and further strengthening and broadening of the extension
effort is required. The following specific objectives would ue addressed.
2.03    Administrative Consolidation and Institutional Development.  While the
T&V extension system has already been introduced in Assam. resulting benefits
can be further increased. The project aims to consolidate administrative
changes introduced under the Assam Agricultural Development Project and sustain
the commitment among decision makers and extension staff to a full acceptance
and improved effectiveness of T&V extension. Thus. the project would provide
an important incentive for ensuring the continuation of extension reform in
Assam. The project would also provide continued support to DOE through the
provision of special subproject funds that would replenish the special sub-
project fund established under NAEP I. Therefore. incentive would also be
provided for the continued reform and development of DOE as a central exten-
sion, coordinating, and technical assistance agency with capacity to prepare
and appraise agricultural development projects.  In addition. the project would
introduce reorganized extension services. related training. and adaptive
research to the states of Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. based on the
experiences gained in previous state and composite extension projects in India.
1/ National projects have comprised a mix of first and second phase individual
state subprojects, as well as centrally managed development funds.



-17-
2.04    Quality Improvement.  The project would seek to ensure improvements in
the quality of extension services. In addition to training programs required
to establish reorganized extension in the states of Himachal Pradesh and
Uttar Pradesh are which is seeking to reform their existing services. special
emphasis would be placed on expanded and improved extension training programs
addressing additional technical subjects, improved extension management, and
communication skills. Given the specialized nature of such training, most
would be arranged on a national basis with DOE playing an important role. DOE
would also assist in:
(a)  Developing the training capabilities of the states;
(b)  Guiding them in extension methodology, improving the roles of SMSs.
AEOs. and contact farmers; and
(c)  Establishing close permanent links with research.
Special efforts would be made to qualitatively improve extension and training
management through the provision of more responsive and advanced training in
management and communication methodology for supervisory. training, and SMS
staff. The quality of communications with farmers would also be improved by
better selection and training of contact farmers and increased utilization of
the mass media to complement T&V extension.
2.05    Expansion and Broadening of Extension Coverage.  Greater area coverage
will be achieved by geographic expansion into the states of Uttar Pradesh and
Himachal Pradesh. In addition, special subprojects will provide for expansion
into the Punjab and into 11 districts of Bihar. Typically, these first phase
extension interventions would focus on the development of extension services
concentrating on the transfer of simple low cost technology for selected major
crops grown by the mass of small farmers. Such technology is already available
for major food crops, i.e. wheat and rice (see examples in Project File Cl,
Item 10). However, there is a need to address the whole farming system by
providing a wider range of specialist support. for crops already covered, new
crops, and such activities as soil and water management, horticulture, and some
aspects of farm forestry. Such a broadening of extension would be emphasized
under the proposed Assam subproject. Provision would also be made under the
Uttar Pradesh subproject for early expansion into water management to ensure
adequate extension coverage of newly developed irrigated areas.
2.06    Strengthening Linkages Between Extension and Research.  Although
research is providing increasingly effective support to extension. much remains
to be done. There is still considerable ambiguity about adaptive research.
verification, and field trials, and the division of responsibility for these
between research and extension institutions. The division of responsibility
would be spelled out as part of a memorandum of understanding between each
state agricultural university (SAD) and state government.  Rationalization of
applied research at the agro-ecological zone level is particularly important in
Uttar Pradesh and Assama where DOA's are currently carrying out much of this
work. The agreed organizational goal is that SAU is to be responsible for



-18-
research at central. zonal, and substation levels. while DOA (supported by the
project) would be responsible for refining these recommendations by carrying
out field trials (verification and modification) under farmers conditions at
different locations. This would be a joint effort by research and extension,
with the SMSs at the subdivision/district having full responsibility for the
trials with technical backup from the zonal research station. The
knowledge-practice gap in agricultural technology must be further reduced by
refining technology to suit the farmers' resource, management. and risk situa-
tions. The project would also help SAIJ to finance other assistance to exten-
sion services. mainly the training of SMS. not covered under NARP.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01    The six-year project would. as its main goal. provide first time assis-
tance to the States of Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, as well as continu-
ing assistance to the State of Assam. initiated under an earlier credit (see
paras 1.18 to 1.24) in the improvement and organization of agricultural exten-
sion services. In addition, the project would assist in the financing of
special subprojects, to be prepared by MOA, states, or other implementing
agencies, specifically designed to strengthen support of extension activities
at central, regional, or state levels.
3.02     While the basic approach to strengthening of agricultural extension
services is common to all participating states, necessary adjustments have been
made to take account of differing levels of agricultural development,
administrative arrangements. socio-economic conditions. population densities,
communications, and progress made under earlier projects. Summary data on the
state subprojects, including the staffing of the agricultural extension serv-
ices before and with the proposed project, are given in Annex 1. Detailed
proposals. outlining the particular features of each state component, are given
in Project File Cl. Items 5 to 8, and overall project costs in Annex 2.
B. The Project Area
3.03     The three state subprojects of the project. Eastern Uttar Pradesh,
Himachal Pradesh and Assam, would involve a total rural population of 69 mil-
lion (13% of the national rural population). managing 7.8 million operational
farm holdings, and cultivating 11 million ha of land (8% of the national
total).
Uttar Pradesh
3.04     Uttar Pradesh, one of the largest states in India, is centrally
located in the plains of North India. It is bounded by Tibet and Nepal to the



-19-
north. Himachal Pradesh to the northwest, Delhi and Haryana to the west, Rajas-
than to the southwest, Madhya Pradesh to the south, and Bihar to the east. It
is the most populous state in India, with a population of 110.8 million (17X of
the national total), of whom about 96 million or 87Z live in rural areas. In
terms of area, it ranks fourth afte: Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra,
with an area of 0.3 million km2, which is 9.2Z of the total area of the
country. Administratively, the state comprises 12 divisions and 57 districts.
10 agro-ecological zones have been identified within the state. Annually, 24.8
million ha of land are cultivated at a cropping intensity of 143%. The state's
economy is dominated by agriculture which generates 60% of the state's income.
3.05    The subproject area would cover the four eastern administrative divi-
sions of Uttar Pradesh: Gorakhpur, Varanasi. Faizabad. and Lucknow. comprising
21 districts. 85 subdivisions. and 430 blocks. The total population of the
proposed subproject area is about 52 million (47% of the states total). of whom
46 million or 88Z live in rural areas and are predominantly dependent upon
agriculture for th2ir livelihood. Rural population density is high, averaging
401 persons per km . In the subproject area, an estimated 5.2 million farm
operational holdings, with an average net farm size of 1.4 ha. cultivate 7.5
million ha of land annually. In total, 10.9 million ha are cropped annually.
The average annual cropped area per family is 2.1 ha (cropping intensity of
146%). The average family size. excluding hired labor. is six persons. Within
the subproject area, 76% of holdings are of less than 1.0 ha in size. compared
to 69% for Uttar Pradesh as a whole, and contrasting with 31% in neighboring
Haryana. The literacy rate is only 27.4%. compared to a national average of
36.2Z. The climate of the project area, classified as a sub-tropical monsoon
type. has an average annual rainfall varying from 990 mm in Lucknow to 1.274 mm
in Gorakphur. Most rain falls in the months of June to October. and tempera-
tures are lowest in January (8-90 C) and highest in May (40-420 C).
Topographically. the subproject area is flat with elevation between 150 to 300
m above sea level. It is drained by three main rivers. all tributaries of the
Ganges: the Ganga, Ghaghra, and Yamuna. running northeast to southwest. The
bulk of the project area has alluvial soils of variable texture. tending to
alkalinity. Generally. such soils are potentially highly productive and
respond well to manuring but. in more arid regions, are prone to problems of
alkalinity. In the soi theast (Mirzapur district). soils are shallow.
coarse-textured with low organic matter status and low water retention capacity
(Vindhyan soils). Such areas are most suited to the cultivation of millets and
short duration oil seeds. In eastern areas, Deoria and Gorakphur districts.
lowland highly calcareous soils (Bhat soils) are most suited to tuber crops and
sugarcane cultivation. Four agro-ecological zones have been identified in the
subproject area. 1/ Of the 7.5 million ha of land cultivated in the subproject
area, some 3.4 million are double cropped. An estimated 3.9 million ha, or
52Z of 'he total cultivated area, is irrigated, as compared to 55% for
1/ Fully described in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Research
Review Committee for Uttar Pradesh.



-20-
Uttar Pradesn as a whole. While net cultivated land area has not increased
over ten years 2/. the area double cropped has increased by 26Z. This is
reflected by a 13Z increase in the area under dry season (Rabi) crop and a
tripling of catch-cropping in the sammer season. Rice is the dominant wet
season (Kharif) crop, occupying 75% of the area planted to foodgrains. Sor-
ghum. maize, and pearl millet are other major cereals, with gram the most
widely planted pulse. Over 10 years 3/, the area under wet season rice has
increased by 20X. mainly at the expense of sorghum and millet. Wet season
pulse planting has increased by about 20Z. with a marked increase in gram, but
reduction in kidney bean cropped areas. Over the same period, dry season
cereal planting has increased by 45Z. with the wheat area expanding by 67Z.
from 2.1 to 3.5 million ha. while the barley area has declined.  Dry seaP,n
pulse plantings have declined by 282 and the overall area under oilseeds
remained static, despite a significant increase of rape and mustard planting.
During the 10 year period since 1971-72, crop yields have increased both in the
subproject area and state as a whole. In the subproject area, rice and wheat
yields have increased by 45% and 36%. respectively. The exception is oilseeds
whose yields have remained static. Despite significant growth in crop yields
(due to irrigation development and the introduction of high yielding
varieties). subproject area yields remain lower than those of the state of
Uttar Pradesh, the national average, and the neighboring state of Haryana.
Table 3.1: YIELDS a/
(Kgs/Ha)
Subproject       Uttar        Haryana        All
Area         Pradesh                     India
Rice                  983           1.088        2.559         1,291
Wheat               1.524           1.717         2.414        1,719
Oil Seeds             460             560           667          574
a/  Average of yields for the triennium ending 1982-83.
3.06     Farm inputs and seed distribution is handled by a mix of government,
cooperative, and private institutions. assuring an adequate input supply
coverage throughout the state. Within the subproject area, there are an
2/ For the period 1971-72 to 1981-82.
3/ For the period 1971-72 to 1981-82.
N.B. Crop area statistics source: Uttar Pradesh Crop Production Statistics
19 81-82. MA.



-21-
eatiuated 10.600 farm input sales points (mainly private retail stores), of
which 850 are managed by DOA.  In 1983-84. 700,000 nutrient tons of fertilizer
(43Z of total state sales), 19.700 tons of seed (35Z of total state sale). and
1.200 tons of plant protection chemicals (42Z of total state sales) were sold
in the subproject area; of these. 62 of the fertilizer. 442 of the seed, and
302 of the plant protection chemicals were supplied through the DOA. Agricul-
tural credit is available, mainly through cooperatives. and. to a lesser
extent. commercial banks. Improved seed is produced by DOA, Uttar Pradesh Seed
Corporation, and the National Seed Corporation. Within the subproject area.
there are 73 D0o seed production farms. Agricultural research is the respon-
sibility of the SAUs at Kanpur and Faizabad and, to a lesser extent, of the
Banaras Hindu University. Until now SAU's have been little involved in
research at the the agro-ecological zone level. Although some zonal resejirch
ba been carried out by DOA at four regional research/testing centers situated
at Hardoi, Azmagarh, Varanasi, and Barabanki, linkage between extension and
university research has been lacking. Agricultural extension is currently one
of the many responsibilities of CDD; however, little attention is given to
extension as the VLWs of CDD are most occupied by administrative work (subsidy
administration. etc.) and other development works (wells. clinics. and roads)
funded under the integrated rural development program. Other field staff
mployed under the Command Area Development Authority work only at assigned
irrigated sites. Apart from junior staff manning DOA farm input stores and a
limited number of special crop extension workers, DOA has no staff at subdivi-
sional or village level (see Organization Chart No. 27511). Thus, no profes-
sionel extension service currently exists in Uttar Pradesh.
Assam
3.07    Assam  with a total area of 78.000 km2 and a population of 21 million,
is the largest state of the northeastern region, an isolated group of five
states and two union territories bounded by Bhutan and Tibet/China to the
north, Burma to the east, and Bangladesh to the south. Assam can most easily
be described as that portion of the Brabmaputra valley within India. The
valley, about 650 km long from east to west, and 50 to 100 km wide from north
to south, has been formed and remains dominated by the Brabmaputra. Each year.
with the melting of the sncws from the Himalayas and the torrential monsoon
rains (usually over 2,000 am), the river swells to ten times its normal winter
flow. Repeated year after year, this process has built up the valley floor
vith layers of asni> si8t and gravel until there are now rich alluvial deposits
covering 50,000 km . Separated from the Brabmaputra valley by the Mikir and
North Cachar hills is the gmaller Southern Barak valley (Cachar district). The
subproject is confined mainly to these two broad alluvial valleys, which comr-
prise 14 agricultural districts and 33 subdivisions, contain 972 of its popula-
tion. and grow 952 of its annual crops. Rainfall averages 2,252 - per annum,
with most areas enjoying a well distributed and reliable rainfall pattern
spread over a six month monsoon season (May through October). Soils are
alluvial and generally highly fertile; however, 102 of the cultivated area is
chronically flood prone and a further 32 occasionally flooded. Four main



-22-
agro-acological zones are identified within the project area. 1/ Ninety one
percent of the population (19 m2ilion) live in rural areas. at an average
population density of 250 per km , in an estimated 2 million operational farm
holdings that average 1.4 ha in size. Ninety percent of holdings are of less
than 3 ha. and 60X less than one ha in size. Annually. 2.2 million ha of land
are cultivated, of which 0.9 million are double cropped (cropping intensity of
133%). and approximately 10% irrigated. The dominant crop is rice. 2.3 million
ha being sown annually and occupying 80g of the areas devoted to food grain
production. The most important commercial crops are tea. oilseeds. jute. and
sugarcane. with Assam producing a little over half of India's total production
of tea mainly from hill districts outside the subproject area. Rice production
has increased only by 10% over the past decade 2/ in contrast to all India.
where rice and wheat production have increased by 21% and 60%. respectively.
aver the same period. Average rice yields in Assam at 1.075 kgs/ha are 20X
lower than the national average of 1.291 kgs/ha. This is a reflection of a low
fertilizer usage of four kgs of nutrient/ha. compared to 123 kgs/ha in the
Punjab. or 52 kgs/ha in Uttar Pradesh; 50% coverage of the rice area with high
yielding varieties compared to 93% in Haryana and little irrigation develop-
ment; only 10% of the cultivated area is irrigated, compared to national
average of 29%. Given this low production base, the favorable soil and
climatic conditions. and considerable untapped irrigation resources, the poten-
tial for increased agricultural production in Assam is high.
3.08    Farm input supplies are presently assured through the Assam
Agro-Industries Development Corporation, private retailers. and multipurpose
cooperative societies which together operate 2.800 retail sales points (2.500
private). Existing sales of farm inputs are relatively low (just 12.800 tons
of fertilizer in 1983-84), and the private sector is the main supplier. As
input demand increases. it is anticipated. as in other states, that the private
retailing sector will develop to meet it. Farm credit is available mainly
through cooperative banks and, to a lesser extent, through commercial banks.
Himachal Pradesh
3.09    Himachal Pradesh, located in the north-western Himalayan region. covers
56.000 km2 and is administratively divided into 12 districts and 69 blocks.
Topographically the state is mountainous varying in elevation from 300 to 3.500
meters above sea level. Despite the terrain all major centers are linked by
bitumized road and, except for some higher areas that are cut off by snow in
winter months. the movement of agricultural inputs and outputs is not a major
constraint. Farmers tend not to live in villages but in dispersed hamlets of
1/  Fully described in the Indisn Council of Agricultural Research, Research
Review Committee for Assam Agricultural University.
2/ Comparison of Average Production Statistics of the Triennium Ending 1973-74
with the Triennium Ending 1983-84. Source: Area and Production of Prin-
ciple Crops, 1981-84. GOI.



-23-
two to three houses. The state is divided into four main agro-ecological
zones, depending on elevation. varying from sub-tropical to alpine. Precipita-
tion varying from 1,000 to 1.500 mm is generally concentrated in the months of
March to September with only light occasional rains occurring during the rest
of the year. However, the high dry temperate zone is virtually without summer
rain. but enjoys heavy winter snow. of a total population of 4.5 million. 1/
at least 4.1 million or 922 live in rural areas and are primarily dependent
upon agriculture or related activities for their livelihood. A prevailing
literacy rate of 42% is above the national average of 36x. Overall population
densities are relatively low at 80 per km2 but as cultivable land is scarce.
populations are concentrated on the agriculturally favorable valley bottoms and
south facing lower valley slopes. There are an estimated 620,000 holdings with
an average holding size of between 0.7 and 1.0 ha. Fifty five percent of
holdings are less than 1.0 ha and 92Z less than 4 ha. It is estimated that
some 620.000 ha of land are presently cultivated, of which 92.000 ha or 152 are
irrigated. Some 73.500 ha. 12% of the total cultivated area, are under per-
manent fruit tree crops, particularly apple. Given the scarcity of cultivable
land. there is limited scope for expansion in farm size and increased agricul-
tural production must come through either crop intensification or diversifica-
tion. The irrigation potential of the State is estimated at 190.000 ha, 2/ and
even at full irrigation development some 70% of agricultural land would remain
under rainfed conditions. Most farming is practiced on nar.ow hillside ter-
races and mechanization of cultural operations is generally not possible.
Except in the northern ,dry temperate" agro-ecological zone, where only one
s-mmer irrigated crop from snow melt waters is possible, double or multicrop-
ping is practiced in all areas. Under rainfed conditions two crops are nor-
mally possible and with supplementary irrigation three to four crops can be
grown. The main staple food crops are maize and rice (kharif) and winter wheat
and barley (rabi). Cash crops vary according to agro-ecological zone but the
main ones are fresh vegetab'les and potatoes and orchard fruits such as apples,
stone fruit, citrus. All are intensive, high-input-output crops requiring a
relatively sophisticated technological input and efficient farm input and
credit services. Adequate farm input and credit coverage is presently assured
through mixed private and government intervention. In contrast, extension
services are very weak and linkages between the farmer and university-based
research lacking.
C. Detailed Features
3.10    The project would assist in the development of six main operational
activities:
(a) Extension (accounting for 58% of total project costs);
1/ Extrapolated from 1981. 4.2 million population at an annual population
growth of 2.12x.
2/ Source: Project for Water Harvesting under dryland farming in HP.



-24-
(b) Training (9Z of total project costs);
(c) Information services (1.32 of total project costs);
(d) Adaptive research (0.2Z of total project costs);
(e) M&E (1.5Z of total project costs); and
(f) Special subproject fund (302 of total project costs).
Extension and training are the main state subproject investment areas, with
information services playing a supportive role to these two key activities.
Adaptive research under the project would support on-farm trials programs
managed in each state by DOA. Zonal research requirements are covered under
ongoing and planned NARPs. M&E units would be established (Uttar Pradesh and
Himachal Pradesh) and strengthened (Assam), and their work coordinated by DOE
of MOA, which would also supply technical assistance support as necessary. The
special subproject fund would be available to support the above or ether exten-
sion related activities in any state. or at regional or centrally-based
institutions. Details for each state subproject and the special subproject
component are given in paras 3.16 to 3.28 and in Annex 5.
3.11    Additional Staff (232 of total project costs) would be required in
Uttar Pradesh and Hizachal Pradesh for all levels at intensities appropriate to
the particular economic and topographic conditions of those states for the
establishment of professional extension and a H&E unit, and for the strengthen-
ing of training and information services. In Assam. additional staff would be
required to meet the needs of increased specialization and broader extension
coverage; to this end. SItS would be required in disciplines other than those
needed for basic agricultural production. Incremental staff would also be
required in Assam for newly created administrative subdivisions and to maintain
VEW to farmer ratios in view of population growth (natural and imuigration).
Some staff are also required to further strengthen training capacities within
the state and to improve the analytical and processing capacity of the N&E
unit. Assurances were obtained from each state that all incremental staff
positions would be filled with staff having qualifications and experience
satisfactoxy to IDA and according to agreed schedules (see Table 3.2. Annex I.
and Project File Cl. Items 5. 6 and 7). Further. all states agreed that all
extension positions assigned to DOA under this project would be used
exclusively for agricultural extension work under the project and would remain
under the administrative control of DOA. Furthermore, assurances were also
obtained that project extension staff would not be adversely affected in
respect of their entitlement to emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects
by reason of assignment.



-25-
Table 3.2: INCREMENTAL STAFF REQUIREMENTS BY PRINCIPAL CATEGORIES
(Number)
Existing          Incremental           Total
Assam  U.P.  H.P.  Assam   U.P.  H.P.   Exist-  Incre-
ing   mental
Extension Services
ADA                            1     -     -      -       1     1         1       2
JDA                            5     -     3       -      4     6         8      10
DAO                           14     6     2      -      15    10        22      25
SMS                           87    58     2     58    270    41       147      369
Field Staff               2.797   628   365    450  4.303   983    3.790   5.536
M&E
HQ & Divisional Staff         4      -     1      4      10     4         5      18
Field Staff                  31      -     0      0      50    26        31      76
a/ Headquarters. Divisional. District, and Subdivisional.
h/ SDAEO, AEO. VEW.
3.12    Civil Works (26% of total project costs).  Additional offices, espe-
cially at subdivisional level, would be provided in Uttar Pradesh and Assam.
In all three participating states, additional training facilities and related
information unit buildings would be constructed or. whenever possible, existing
structures improved to cater for VEW/AEO fortnightly training, special subject
courses and induction and refresher training. etc. Monthly workshop training
facilities for SMS training would be provided under NARP II. As provision of
appropriate housing in areas of operation is necessary for effective field
extension, particularly in areas where accommodation for rent is not available,
the project would provide some 3.000 houses for about 35% of Uttar Pradesh. 55%
of Himachal Pradesh and 10% of Assam's extension workers. However, all states
would continue to encourage the use of rented accommodation wherever possible.
Details are given in Project File Cl, Items 5 to 8.
3.13    Vehicles and Equipment (5% of total project costs).  Vehicles would be
required for incremental supervisory and SMS extension staff, for M&E, training
and information unit personnel. Extension and M&E field staff would require
loans for purchase of bicvcles, mopeds and motorcycles (which would be of their
own choice). Assurances were obtained that each state would make available:
(a) To all eligible staff in need of loans for the purchase of motorcycles.
mopeds. and bicycles, such loans on terms and conditions designed to
provide incentives for the purchase of such motorcycles, mopeds. or
bicycles; and



-26-
(b) Such financial incentive, including appropriate travel allowances, in
order to encourage optimum use of the motorcycles. mopeds. and bicycles
to be purchased under the project.
Vehicle requirements are detailed for each state in Project File Cl, Items 5
to 8. The project would also provide audiovisual equipment to support exten-
sion operations, as well as office furniture and equipment needed for expanded
extension activities for training and for effective M&E. Provisions for each
state are detailed in Project File Cl. Items 5 to 8.
Training
3.14    The project would support a variety of training activities, depending
on the requirements of each state. Programs currently being followed in Assam
would be continued and broadened to include new specializations. New training
programs would be developed in Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. All would
include the key training programs for SMS. AEO, and VEWs of monthly workshops,
fortnightly training sessions, additional seasonal training programs, and
special short courses. For more senior staff. in-state training programs would
be organized by DOA and SAU. In addition to the further development of exist-
ing training activities, specialized training would be progressively introduced
in such subjects as horticulture, watershed management, plant protection, soil
conservation and farm forestry. Moreover, training in M&E and extension
management, especially for staff at middle and upper administrative levels,
would help to improve extension implementation and supervision. Training would
also support staff develop,nent through, where appropriate, promotional training
to obtain undergraduate or post-graduate degrees. Such opportunity for staff
upgrading is deemed to be one of the most effective incentives available to
extension staff. Apart from additional staff, buildings, vehicles and equip-
ment for training, the project would also provide course operating expendi-
tures 1/ (4% of project costs).
3.15    Incremental operating exp-nses (12% of total project costs) would be
provided for office and vehicle operation, building maintenance and staff
travel allowances. It has been observed in other states that inadequate fund-
ing of operating expenses can seriously impede extension and training effec-
tiveness, particularly SMS and senior staff supervision of field activities.
In the states of Uttar Pradesh and Assam no restrictions are placed on exten-
sion staff field visits or travel, as long as the budgetary provisions are
available. Descriptions of each state subproject. limited to features of
importance, are given below. Summary project costs and phasing of expenditures
are in Annex 2 and in detailed cost tables in Project File Cl, Items 5 to 8.
1/ Detailed for each course type in Project File Cl. Item 4.



-27-
Uttar Pradesh Subproject
3.16    The subproject would establish a unified and professional extension
service for Eastern Uttar Pradesh within DOA, having a single line of technical
and administrative command from VEW to the Director of Agriculture (DA) and
with clearly defined job responsibilities established for each staff
category. 1/ Because of the size of Uttar Pradesh, the large number of farmers
involved (about 15 million) and the considerable demands that extension reform
places upon staff recruitment. training and management; such reform would be
introduced in a phased manner. Under the project 21 eastern districts
(para 3.05) would be covered. It is anticipated that the introduction of
similar extension reform would follow in the remaining 36 districts of Western
Uttar Pradesh once established in eastern areas. Ir. the meantime the ongoing
CDD extension services would continue to function in the western areas. The
second Uttar Pradesh Tubewells Project (Cr. 1332-IN). cofinanced by IFAD under
a separate agreement (Ln. 124-IN). provides for agricultural development serv-
ices at public tubewell command areas throughout the state. In order to fully
integrate the extension services in the project area and to avoid duplication
of extension efforts, the subproject would take over the responsibility for
extension at tubevell cluster sites. An ADA (Extension). assisted by four
senior SMS 2/ (Training, Information Services, Crop Production and Adaptive
Research). would be responsible to DA for project execution and for day to day
coordination with other departments, particularly those of horticulture.
forestry, community development, and irrigation. Four JDA's assisted by SMS
teams at divisional level (with disciplines in agronomy, mechanization, train-
ing and special crops) would supervise the work of 21 districts and 85 subdivi-
sions. A State Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Agricultural
Production Commissioner, would assure interdepartmental and interministerial
coordination and steer project management on policy issues. SMS teams would be
established at district and subdivisional levels having expertise in agronomy.
plant protection, training, and horticulture. District Horticultural Officers,
already available within the Horticultural Department, would serve as district
SMS. Allowance is made at both district and subdivisional levels for SMS
(Special Subjects). These posts would be filled only as required, in such
fields as soil and water management, irrigated cropping, etc. The latter would
be of particular relevance to areas having tubevell clusters newly developed
under the Second Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewell Project and where a special
extension emphasis on the transition from dry land to irrigated farming could
be required. To ensure optimal staff utilization, subdivisional level SMS
teams have been provided on the basis th&t one team can effectively train 120
VEW. Fifty five teams of subdivisional level SHS are thus provided to serve
the 85 administrative subdivisions.
1/ Described in "Training & Visit Extension," D. Benor and M. Baxter, World
Bank, 1984.  -
2/ One incremental, three existing within DOA.



-28-
3.17    Existing village level workers of CDD would remain with that Depart-
ment, which would relinquish its responsibility for agricultural extension to
DOA to concentrate upon its other non-extension functions. Eight hundred and
ninety field staff posts under the Command Area Development Authority would
be abolished and the staff transferred after orientation training as VEW of
DOA; 203 existing DOA special crop staff would be available for transfer to the
new extension service as VEW. Under the present organizational arrangements,
block level Agricultural Development Officers (ADO) are dependent upon DOA for
career development and future posting; they execute the technical policies of
DOA, but are administratively responsible to and paid by the Block Development
Officer of CDD. Plant Protection Officers at block level are administratively
responsible to the Block Development Officer but are on the budget of and paid
by DOA. Under the proposed project these staff would be transferred to the
administrative and technical control of DOA. as AEO or SMS. The DOA staff
currently involved in farm input supply would remain in that function to ensure
a continuing service. Prior to negotiations. GOUP had issued administrative
orders for:
(a) The abolishment of 890 field posts now under the Command Area Develop-
ment Authority and the transfer of staff to DOA to be completed by
April 30. 1987; and
(b)  The transfer on a non-reversible basis of 425 ADO from CDD to DOA to be
completed by April 30. 1988.
Of the 890 CADA staff  283 have already been transferred to DOA and a schedule
has been established for the remaining transfer. Given the flat topography.
high population density, large village size, and the relative ease of farm
access, VEW would be deployed at an intensity of one per 1.200 operational farm
families. To complement T&V extension. farm information units would be estab-
lished at Kannur and Faizabad Agricultural Universities and at the four divi-
sional headquarters of DOA. Besides producing audio-visual aides for institu-
tional staff training and extension, these units would also produce publicity
and training materials for dissemination through press and radio.
3.18    The responsibility for staff training would be shared between SAU's
and DOA, with SAU's having particular responsibility for SMS training at
monthly workshops and for special coursework. The DOA would be responsible for
induction, orientation. most refresher and fortnightly VEW training. The
senior SMS (Training) at state level would be responsible for the monitoring
and coordination of the overall project training program. Memoranda of under-
standing, defining the respective roles in training of the SAUs and DOA were
agreed and established prior to negotiations. The SAIU of Faizabad has made its
own arrangements with the Banaras Hindu University for assistance in SMS train-
ing in the Mirzapur and Varanasi districts. Eight monthly workshop sites have



-29-
been identified within the project area, 1/ six in the zone covered by Faizabad
SAU. and two in the zone of Kanpur SAU. Training and hostel facilities at
these sites would be developed under the proposed NARP II. Agricultural
research at central and zonal levels would be the responsibility of the SAUis.
Their zonal research capacities would continue to be developed under the ongo-
ing NARP I and NARP II, under which seven zonal research sites are planned
within the proposed subproject area. DOA is currently operating four regional
adaptive trial centers cum seed farms in eastern Uttar Pradesh; however. DOA
managed zonal research would be phased out as the SAD zonal research capability
develops. DOA would remain responsible. in coordination with the SAU's, for
implementation of an expanded on-farm trial program.
3.19    A project M&E unit would be established within DOA, headed by JDA and
directly rcsponsible to DA. In addition, a special study designed to estimate
and attribute the impact of the reformed extension system on farm level produc-
tivity would be undertaken (executed by the University of Kanpur). The study
will follow closely a methodology developed by Bank staff. 2/ The essence will
be the selection and comparison of two (possibly three) neighboring districts
in Uttar Pradesh, at least one of which will be within the subproject area.
The districts will be as agro-climatically and culturally similar as possible.
Farm level data will be collected through sample surveys at widely spread
intervals before and during project implementation. Subsequently. econometric
techniques will be used in the analysis to quantitatively estimate. having
controlled for other confounding factors, the impact of the new extension
system on farm productivity. The study will be supervised by a three man
committee consisting of the DA, the ADA (Extension). and the JDA (M&E).
Details are in Annex 6.
Assam Subproject
3.20    The extension organization, incorporating a single line of command
established under the Assam Agricultural Development Project, has worked satis-
factorily and would be maintained under the proposed project. At state level.
the subproject would, however. further strengthen the office of ADA (Extension)
through provision of a senior SNS (Training and Information) to be responsible
for the coordination and guidance of all extension related DOA and university
executed training activities financed under the project. The project's civil
works construction program would be supervised by the civil engineering wing of
l/ Dariaphur KVK, Hardoi DOA farm, Kumarganj Research Station. Bahraich KVK,
Gaziaphur Zonal Research Station. Juanpur KVK, Nirzapur Zonal Research
Station, KVK Basti.
2/ G. Feder, L. Lau, and R. Slade, 'The Impact of Agricultural Extension: A
Case Study of the Training and Visit System (T&V) in Haryana. India-. The
World Bank ARU Discussion Paper No. 34 ARU, May 1985.



-30-
DOA. 1/ rather than PWD and to accomplish this task four additional civil
engineers would be required to strengthen headquarter supervisory capacity.
The quality of technical supervision from the zonal level would be improved by
provision of one SMS agronomist attached to each of the five zonal JDA's. One
SMS (farm input supply coordination) would also be provided at each zone to
improve the timeliness and reliability of farm input supply (currently carried
out by multipurpose cooperatives). by ensuring:
(a) Advanced planning of input requirements;
(b) A close liaison between DOA and cooperatives and between DOA and the
private and para-statal input suppliers; and
(c)  Prompt response to supply problems, channelled up from VEW through DOA
administration.
To improve extension management at subdivisional level, some area reorganiza-
tion is required to reduce the geographic size of some subdivisions and to
adjust SMS/AEO/VEW staffing ratios. Fifteen new sub-divisional units would
thus be created, bringing their total to 48. Seven additional SMS (Agronomy
and Plant Protection) and support staff would be required to facilitate this.
The range of subject matter specialists woi'd also be broadened to include
horticulture and soil and water management. initially such staff would only
be posted to those subdivisions having significant irrigated or horticultural
areas. Because of population growth, some additional VEW and AEO would be
required to maintain the VEW to farmer ratio at 1:800 and, subject to mid-term
review, further staff would be made available to provide a more intensive
coverage in the difficult flood prone or newly irrigated areas, should this be
found necessary at that time. The regular training of VEW in all 48 subdivi-
sions would be carried out by 35 subdivisional SMS teams at 62 selected fort-
nightly training sites. Simple training facilities are required at 34 of these
sites that currently lack suitable buildings. SMS training would be carried
out by scientists of AAU at six monthly workshop sites, whose training and
hostel facilities would be provided under the planned NARP II.
3.21    Under the first phase project (Assam Agricultural Development Project).
most zonal research was carried out by DOA at adaptive field trial stations.
although it had been envisioned that these stations would eventually be trans-
ferred to AAU as zonal research stations or sub-stations. Progress of this
transfer has been slow and little has yet been achieved by AAU in the develop-
ment of multicrop, system oriented zonal research. Nevertheless, the concept
remains valid and, during the proposed project, the research role of DOA at
adaptive trial stations would diminish as AAUE's zonal caDacity develops. The
DOA would concentrate upon and expand its program of on farm trials, which
would be supported under the proposed project. Identified additional zonal
1/ llader the Assam Agricultural Development Project, civil works originally
entrusted to FWD suffered long delays and had to be taken over by DOA.



-31-
research facilities would be financed under NARP II. Details are in Project
File Cl, Item 6.
Himachal Pradesh Subproject
3.22    The proje   would establish a reorganize the extension service incor-
porating a single line of technical and administrative command from Directorate
of Agriculture to VEW, and ensuring integration of horticultural and agricul-
tural extension operations. An Additional Director. acting through the DA.
would be responsible for project execution to a State Project Coordinating
Committee chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner. 1/ Because of
the importance of horticulture in Himachal Pradesh, those districts
predominantly iuvolved in horticultural production would be administered by a
Joint Director of Horticulture and those predominantly agricultural by a JDA.
JDAs, of all districts, will be directly responsible to the Additional Director
extension within the DOA. In the mountainous areas it would not be possible to
follow strictly all extension norms of the T&V methodology as applied in the
plain areas of India in particular the number of VEW fortnightly visits to
contact farmers. During pre-project orientation and planning, and in the
course of implementation, the system would be adapted to take the special
circumstances into account, probably making greater use of demonstration farms
or plots and traditional farmer meeting points as advisory centers.
3.23    Existing village level workers of CDD would remain within that depart-
ment, which would relinquish its responsibility for agricultural extension to
DOA to concentrate upon its other non-extension functions. Under the project.
158 existing VEW of DOA currently working on special crop projects would be
transferred to the extension service and a further 852 recruited. Under the
dispersed farm situation and poor road communications within the state, place-
ment of field extension staff in their actual area of work is regarded as of
highest priority. The project would, thus, give priority to provision of
district and field level staff housing anc to field training centers. Seven
hundred and forty one houses for 72% of incremental field staff would be con-
structed; improvements would be made to two existing DOA staff training centers
at Mashobra and Sundernagar and a new one constructed at Dharmsala; 69 simple
block level meeting centers for fortnightly staff training and farmer meetings
would be provided, and Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University (HPAU) training
facilities would be improved at 4 sites to facilitate SMS training. A H&E Unit
would be established under the project. While for administrative purposes
placed in the DOA, it would report directly to the Project Coordinating Commit-
tee and Agricultural Production Commissioner. Dqtails are in Project File Cl.
Item 7.
1/ See Organizational Chart No. 26806.



-32-
Special Subprojects (SSP)
3.24    A fund of about US$42 million would be used to finance special
short-term and discrete subprojects prepared by states. with assistance from
DOE. receiving IDA support for strengthening of agricultural extension or by
the MOA for specific activities designed to f.rther strengthen extension
development in areas not covered under ongoing or planned state or national
extension projects. The special subproject provision of the proposed project
would replenish the SSP fund first established under NAEP I (pars 1.25). but
which it is expected to be fully committed by late 1987.
3.25    Special subprojects will generally fall under two broad categories:
(a) Those which seek to strengthen or augment a particular aspect of the
extension system across states or at the national level; and
(b) Those which are state-specific and whose objectives are to strengthen
the extension system selectively in the state.
3.26    The types of activities to be covered would include:
(a) Strengthening of SAU extension/traiuirg units;
(b) Establishment of management training facilities;
(c) Improvement of the data processing and analytical facilities at state
M&E units;
(d) Strengthening of training institutions to provide nationwide training
facilities in specialized areas, such as M&E, management, SMS training
in specific crops, etc.; and
(e) Improving the utilization of audiovisual aides and the mass media in
support of extension.
It is anticipated that about 30 state 1/ and two centrally sponsored SSPs.
costing about US$13 million, would have been appraised by late 1987;
US$8 million would be funded under NAEP I, and the remainuer under the proposed
project. Additional special subprojects would also be identified both at state
and central levels.
3.27    Four subprojects are already proposed for inclusir' under NAEP III:
(a)  Establishment of 15 national centers of excellence for SMS training, at
existing institutions, in subjects such as extension methodology and
communication, oilseed production technology, plant protection, etc.;
1/ Details are given at Annex 5.



-33-
(b)  Establishment of a M&E Training ;enter as part of the National
Institute of Rural Development;
(c)  Improvement of the existing extension service in the Punjab through
strengthening of DOA and university based training and greater and
improved utilization of audio-visual equipment and the mass media in
extension support (estimated cost US$8 million). The existing exten-
sion service in the Punjab. which has similar characteristics of the
T&V system. as well as a strong research and extension linkage, has
proved effective in reaching large numbers of farmers and in transfer-
ring improved technology. The level of technology adopted by the
majority of the Punjab farmers is high and future yield improvements
would be possible through the adoption of a more advanced technology.
Qualitative, and in some cases numerical. strengthening of the field
level extension and supervisory staff would be needed. A mass com-
munication support to extension would be developed. Because of the
relatively high cost of advanced technology. it would be necessary to
establish a M&E unit for impact analyses and quick feed back from
farmers on the quality of technical messages, feasibility and accept-
ability of the latest research recommendations. Preparation of this
SSP is complete and appraisal will be completed in early 1987; and
(d) Strengthening of the T&V extension services already introduced into
16 districts of the State of Bihar (under Cr. 761-IN) and expansion of
improved extension into a further 11 districts, which would include all
those proposed for inclusion under the IDA-assisted "Bihar Public
Tubewells Project". Because of administrative constraints (including
difficulties of staff recruitment and promotion, civil work site selec-
tion, etc.) execution of the first Bihar Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 761) proceeded at a much slower pace than was
originally anticipated-resulting in considerable savings at credit
closure. These constraints are currently being addressed by the
Government of Bihar (GOB) and would be resolved prior to special sub-
project approval. It is however worthy of note that in those districts
that were adequately staffed and supported under the first phase
project T&V extension was effectively established with encouraging
results. Bihar is one of the poorest of Indian states, crop yields are
comparatively low but the potential for agricultural growth is con-
siderable. Agricultural Research in Bihar is supported by IDA under
the NARP I and II, and given the agro-ecological diversity of the state
the demands for research are of particular importance. Experience has
shown that the presence of effective extension is critical for the
development of research programs responsive to farmer needs. Rcoalizing
the importance of effective extension in improving agricultural produc-
tion of the small farmer GOB has approved the expansion of T&V eyten-
sion into the 11 project districts and has submitted through and with
the approval of GOI a proposed project to IDA for inclusion under NAEP
III. Accordingly a US$15.0 million special subproject is included, to
finance a blend of civil works, vehicles, incremental staff, equipment.



-34-
training and operating costs required to strengthen, expand and improve
extension quality in the state. This special subproject would be
jointly appraised by GOI and IDA by mid-1987.
Given special input supply problems pertaining in the State of Assam. it is
also expected that a request to support improvement of input supply services
would be submitted to GOI for support under the SSP fund.
3.28    Under the project, it is estimated that US$34 million would be used to
fund state executed SSPs (US$5 millioD for SSPs already identified under NAEP I
and US$29 million for those to be identified under the proposed project) and
US$8 million for centrally-sponsored SSPs.
Table 3.3: SPECIAL SUBPROJECTS
Estimated
.    .  .            ~~~~US$ Million
State- executed SSP
Already identified                             5
Punjab                                         8
Bihar                                         15
To be identified                               6
Sub-total                                     34
Centrally sponsored SSPs                          8
Total                                         42
Most SSPs would be of a ahort-term -ture, small in size (usually not exceeding
Rs. 5 million), and capable of bein; completed prior to credit closing. Apart
from the Punjab and Bihar special subprojects (para 3.27 c & d). which because
of their sizes would be jointly appraised by DOE and IDA. DOE would be respon-
sible for subproject appraisal having gained considerable appraisal experience
under NAEP I, with the guidance of Bank staff of the New Delhi Office. SSP
appraisal would follow an agreed format and be subject to the final review and
approval of IDA. After appraisal. subprojects would be submitted for final
sanction to the Project Funding Committee established under NAEP I. Criteria
for participation in a special subproject under NAEP III are:
(a) Identification of a suitable implementing agency;
(b) Preparation of a suitable subproject proposal and its submission to DOE
for appraisal;



-35-
(c) Completion of SSP in time for full disbursement by the closing date of
NAEP III credit, although they may be approved any time during the NAEP
III implementation period; and
(d)  Provivion of adequate resources by the implementation agency to imple-
ment the subproject.
Mid-Term Review
3.29    It was agreed during negotiations that a mid-term review of overall
project performance, including both state and special subprojects, would be
carried out by the GOI and the participating states. and the findings discussed
with IDA by June 30. 1990. Project targets would be reviewed and, if neces-
sary. adjustments recommended. Similarly. the need for fund reallocation and
project extension or cancellation would be examined. The review would also
examine progress made in the transfer of zonal research responsibilities from
DOAs to SAUs and determine the adequacy of facilities and extension staff
(especially SMS of different disciplines) for satisfactory implementation of
the project and would recomend any necessary adjustments in number and/or
discipline of staff.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01    The total project cost, based on late 1986 prices is US$140.2 million.
of which US$5.5 million represent the foreign exchange costs. Detailed cost
estimates, inclusive of taxes and duties and based on incremental costs of
carrying out the project over a six year period. are given in Annex 2 and
Project File Cl, and summarized in the tables below. The first project year
would be mainly taken up with preparatory activities: recruitment, procurement,
training, and the establishment of a M&E units.



-36-
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY SUBPROJECTS a/
(Million)
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign Total       Z Total
Rs.                        USS             Base Costs
State Subprojects
Uttar Pradesh             576.9   19.8       596.7     44.4    1.5    45.9         39
Himachal Pradesh          213.0    9.2       222.2     16.4    0.7    17.0         15
Assam                     142.8    5.3       148.1      11.0    0.4    11.4        10
Special Subprojects b/      522.5   27.5       550.0     40.2    2.1    42.3         36
Total Base Cost         1,455.2   61.8    1,517.0    112.0    4.7   116.7         100
Physical Contingencies    27.9    1.7         29.6      2.2    0.1      2.3         2
Price Contingencies       267.4    8.6       296.0     20.5    0.7    21.2         18
Total Project Costs    1.750.5   72.1    1,822.6    134.7    5.5   140.2          120
a/  Any differences in addition are due to rounding.
b/ Fixed sum includes contingency element.
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENTS a/
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total   % Total
Rs. Million                 US$ Million        Base Costs
Extensio,n Services         777.1    27.9      805.0     59.8    2.1    61.9         53
Training                    119.4     4.3      123.7      9.2    0.3      9.5         8
Information Services         16.5     1.4       17.9      1.3    0.1      1.4         1
Adaptive Research             2.7     0.1        2.8       0.2      -     0.2         -
Monitoring & Evaluation      17.0     0.6       17.6       1.3    0.1     1.4         1
Special Subprojects         522.5    27.5      550.0     40.2    2.1    42.3         37
Base Costs                1.455.2    61.8   1,517.0    112.0    4.7   116.7         100
Contingencies               295.3    10.3      305.6     22.7    0.8    23.5         20
Total Costs             1,750.5    72.1   1,822.6    134.7    5.5   140.2         120
a/  Any differences in addition due to rounding off.



-37-
Table 4.3: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY EXPENDITtRE CATEGORY a/
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Z Total
_______________Rs. Million                  US$ Million         Base Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works                 346.1    18.2       364.3     26.6      1.4    28.0         24
Equipment                    20.2      2.2       22.4       1.5     0.2      1.7         1
Vehicles                     38.4      9.7       48.1       3.0     0.7      3.7         3
Training                     49.6        -       49.6       3.8        -     3.8         3
SSPs                        522.5    27.5      550.0      40.2      2.1    42.3         37
Subtotal                 976.8    57.6   1.034.4       75.1      4.4    79.5         68
Recurrent Costs
Inc. Salaries & Allow.    320.7          -      320.7     24.7        -    24.7         21
Travelling Allowances       103.2        -      103.2       8.0        -     8.0         7
Vehicle Operating Costs    23.7        2.6       26.3       1.8     0.2      2.0         2
Other Operating Costs        30.8      1.6       32.4       2.4     0.1      2.5         2
Subtotal                 478.4     4.2      482.6      36.9      0.3    37.2        32
Total Baseline Costs        1.455.2    61.8   1,517.0    112.0        4.7   116.7        100
Physical Contingencies         27.9      1.7       29.6       2.2     0.1      2.3         2
Price Contingencies           267.4      8.6      276.0      20.5     0.7    21.2         18
Total Project Costs         1.705.5    72.1   1.822.6    134.7        5.5   140.2        120
a/  The above include about US$1.9 million in duties and taxes.  Physical
contingencies of 5% have been applied to civil works, vehicles. equipment.
travel expenditures. vehicles operating costs and other operating costs.
10% applied to training course and special M&E study costs. Price contin-
gencies have been applied for local costs in accordance with Bank estimates
of expected inflation rates in India. 1986-87 at 7.0%. 1987-88 at 7.0%.
1988-89 at 7.5%. 1989-90 at 7.72. 1990-91 at 7.6Z and 1991-93 at 4.5x.
Price contingencies on foreign foreign costs are estimated at 7.0% in
1985-86. at 7.0% for 1986-87. 7.5% for 1987-88 at 7.7% for 1988-89. at 7.6S
for 1989-90 and at 4.5% for 1990-93.
4.02    Analysis of the recurrent cost implications of the proposed project
on state DOA budgets shows that, at constant 1985-86 prices, the proposed
project would by its sixth year add 7% ( US$6 million) to the total
Uttar Pradesh DOA annual budget (US$87 million) and 8% (US$1 million) to the
total Assam DOA annual budget (US$13 million). The concerned state governments
would pre-finance all project costs from the outset and their absorption of the
additional recurrent costs. generated by the proposed project by FY91-92. is
considered manageable.



-38-
B. Financing
4.03    The proposed IDA credit of US$85 million would be on standard terms to
GOI and would finance 60X of project costs for agreed project activities. The
proceeds of the IDA credit would be channeled to participating states in
accordance with arrangements applicable at the time of central assistance to
states for development projects. The balance of project financing would come
from state government sources and GOI.   Assurances were received that par-
ticipating states and MOA had formally approved their participation in the
proposed project and confirmed that adequate funds would be made available to
cover the cost of their respective subprojects during the entire project
period. Assurances were also obtained that no later than July 15. 1987. and
annually thereafter. annual project budgets would be submitted to IDA for
review.
Table 4.4: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Subproject                    Local Support           IDA         Total
Source      Amount
Uttar Pradesh               GOUP/GOI       24.1       36.3         60.4
Himachal Pradesh            GORP/GOI        7.8       14.8         22.6
Assam                       GOA/GOI         5.9        9.0         14.9
Special Subprojects         GOI/States    17.4        24.9         42.3
Total  a/                             55.2        85.0        140.2
Percentage                            40.0        60.0        100.0
a! Figures rounded to the nearest US$100,000.
C. Procurement
4.04    Civil works contracts (US$37.0 million including contingencies) for
houses, offices. and training facilities would be small and dispersed, both
geographically and over time; therefore, they would not be conducive to inter-
national competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with established state procedures satisfac-
tory to IDA. Standard PWD designs and cost estimates are available for most
building categories to be constructed under the project. Local procurement
procedures which do not exclude foreign participation require that bids for
given works are advertised in the local press and that a minimum of three
conforming bids be received prior to bid evaluation and award. Award is car-
ried out by a constituted board of government officials. The civil works
construction program would be managed and supervised either by the FWD or the
civil engineering unit of DOA. In most cases, there are numerous qualified



-39-
local contractors to carry out such work. Where contractors are not forthcom-
ing, civil works estimated to cost US$25,000 or less may be carried out through
force account.
4.05    Vehicles of various types (US$4.6 million including contingencies) and
equipment (US$2.2 million) required under the project would be purchased in
small quantities over several years and would be widely dispersed throughout
rural areas. As adequate maintenance and availability of spares would be of
paramount importance. locally made vehicles of types already used by government
departments would be purchased. Thus. vehicles and equipment would also be
procured locally by the participating state governments according to existing
government procedures satisfactory to IDA. Under these procedures, tenders are
advertised, award is made to the lowest evaluated bidder, and foreign company
participation is not excluded.
4.06    Procurement under the special subproject fund would follow the same
procedures as for the state subproject (paras 4.04 to 4.05).
4.07    All bidding documents and award proposals for contracts for civil
works, vehicles. equipment. and furniture (estimated to cost US$100.000 or
more) would be subject to IDA prior review. Orders for purchase of minor
equipment. furniture. and supplies would be bulked wherever possible and pur-
chased according to established local competitive bidding procedures, except
where valued at less than US$50,000. when they would be purchased by prudent
shopping through normal trade channels. Assurances on procurement procedures
mentioned in paras 4.04 to 4.07 were obtained.
4.08    The balance of project costs (US$54.1 million) for the three state
subprojects would consist of training course and evaluation survey costs
(US$5.4 millio)r). incremental salaries (US$32.1 million). and incremental
operating expenditures for offices, vehicles, and tray' ling allowances
(US$16.6 million). All costs are inclusive of contingencies which amount to
US$23.5 million.



-40-
Table 4.5:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEME.NrS
(USS Million)
ICB      LCB       Otber         N. A.         Total
Cost
Inc. Staff Salaries
Total                   -        -           -          32.1            32.1
IDA                     -        -           -          18.3            18.3
Civil Works
Total                   -       37.0         -            -             37.0
IDA                     -       21.8                      -             21.8
Inc. Operating Costs
Total                   -        -           -          16.6            16.6
IDA                     -        -           -           9.6             9.6
Vehicles & Equipment
Total                   -        6.8         -            -              6.8
IDA                     -        5.0         -            -              5.0
Training
Total                   -        -           -           5.4             5.4
IDA                     -        -           -           5.4             5.4
SSPs a/
Total                   -        -          42.3          -             42.3
IDA                     -        -          24.9          -             24.9
Total
Total                   -       43.8       42.3         54.1           140.2
IDA                    -        26.8       24.9         33.3            85.0
a/ Breakdown of expenditure categories and procurement methods are not
available for this component, but procurement procedures would follow those
described in paras 4.04 to 4.07.
D. Disbursements. Accounts and Audit
4.09    A seven year disbursement period is proposed and an estimated credit
disbursement schedule is given in Annex 3. The proposed disbursement pattern
is compared with the actual average disbursement profile for the eight states
that have already completed extension projects and the regional profile for IDA
agricultural projects in India. The proposed schedule is in line with the
average prof-le for completed extension projects (which includes a mix of good
and poor performing projects) but is marginally shorter than the regional
profile (for details see Annex 3. pages 1 and 2). The proposed profile is
considered realistic given:
(a) Actual past performance;



-41-
(b) The probable lack of start up delays in the second phase Assam sub-
project; and
(c) The fact that Uttar Pradesh has already begun staff training. that
staff sanction orders are completed. and graduate staff are available
for recruitment.
4.10    Disbursements would be made as in Table 4.6.
Table 4.6: DISBURSEMENTS
Category                                   Percentage
of Eligible Expenditures
Civil works                                          60
Vehicles. equipment, furniture and materials         100 (foreign expenditures)
75 (local expenditures)
Training course costs, special M&E study
and farm trials                               100
Incremental salaries  a/                             66
Incremental operating expenditures b/                55
Special Sjbprojects                                  60
a/ Actual disbursements against this category would be made against a
declining proportion of total eligible staff costs; over the life of
the project such disbursements would in total be equivalent to 66% of
incremental staff salaries as follows: 100% up to SDR 2.36 million; 80%
up to SDR 3.63 mlUlion; 70X up to SDR 4.38 million: 40% up to SDR 2.7
million; and at 30X up to SDR 2.11 million. Expressed as a proportion
of total eligible staff costs in the states over the life of the
project such disbursements would be equivalent to (13% for Uttar
Pradesh, 58% for Himachal Pradesh and 10% for Assam). Staff eligible
for disbursement would include incremental extension staff of DOAs,
VEW, AEO, SMS. SDAEO. DAO. DDA, JDA, ADA. professional staff of M&E
Units, and DOA informarion units and adaptive research (excluding
support staff).
b/ Includes office operating costs, vehicle operating costs and staff
travel allowances. Actual disbursement against these categories would
be made on a declining basis equivalent to 55% of project incremental
operating costs as follows: at 1OOZ up to SDR 1.18 million; 75% up to
SDR 1.69 million; 50% up to SDR 1.52 million; 40% up to SDR 1.43
million; 10X up to SDR 0.505 million.
4.11    All applications prepared by the states and DOE for reimbursement would
be channeled through the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) as at present.



-42-
but with copies provided to DOE. Individual expenditures on civil works and
equipment and vehicles (exceeding Rs 25.000) would be listed item by item in
summary sheets. Where expenditures for training or payments for locally
procured vehicles and equipment exceed Rs 150.000 or payments under civil works
contracts exceed Rs 30G.000. supporting documents would be submitted to IDA for
review. Disbursements for expenditures below these amounts in the above cases.
or for staff costs and operating expenses. would be against certified state-
ments of expenditures, the documentation for which would not be submitted to
IDA for review. but would be retained by state governments. These documents
would be available for inspection by IDA or DOE/MOA during the course of
project review missions.
4.12    Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million is recommended for start-up
expenditures in the three participating states incurred after April 1. 1985.
particularly for training. establishment of H&E units and early recruitment of
key staff in Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh.
4.13    Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be kept of expen-
ditures made under the project. All project accounts would be audited annually
for each fiscal year. in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied. Certified copies of project accounts and financial statements.
including a separate opinion as to whether those expenditures withdrawn against
the credit on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they are provided, would be submitted to IDA within nine
months after the end of the fiscal year. and audit reports submitted when
finalized. Such reports and audits would show. inter alia. that the funds
withdrawn had been used for the purpose intended. that goods had been received
or work performed, and that payments had been made. All reports would be
submitteci by the subproject implementing agencies through DOE to rhe DEA. GOI.
for onward transmission to IDA.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
5.01    Two types of project interventions are included:
(a) State extension subprojects, prepared by the states and appraised by
IDA are executed by the respective state governments. As agreed under
NAEP II, DOE (MOA) would monitor and coordinate such sub-projects.
prepare summary six monthly sub-project progress reports, and provide
technical assistance (especially in the fields of training. extension
management and monitoring and evaluation) as required by participating
states; and
(b) Special subprojects (funded through a centrally managed fund within
MOA) which would mostly be identified in the course of project
implementation (NAEP I and the proposed project) and be prepared (riiith



-43-
the assistance of DOE) by state governments or involved central or
regional institutions. Appraisal would be carried out by DOE. except
for the Punjab and Bihar Special Subprojects, which because of their
size would be jointly appraised by IDA/DOE. All appraised special
subprojects would be subject to final review and approval by IDA prior
to fund release.
B. Project Management
State Subprojects
5.02    State governments would have overall responsibility for the implementa-
tion of their respective subprojects. Each state would be responsible for
preparing semi-annual progress reports in the format approved by IDA. The
state would forward its reports to MOA/DOE and DEA. MOA/DOE. with IDA par-
ticipation as required, would undertake comprehensive semi-annual field reviews
of each state subproject. Assurances were obtained that MOA/DOE would submit
to IDA semi-annual state progress reports each June and December. giving a
sumary for each subproject of activities undertaken during the prior six
months (October-March and April-September), details of staffing, physical and
financial targets achieved, and implementation problems encountered, together
with an evaluation of the state reports. States would in addition submit
annual monitoring and evaluation reports to IDA through MOA/DOE (para 5.10).
Each state would also prepare a completion report for its subproject. Both
MOA/DOE and IDA would review subproject progress and completion reports.
5.03    Financial management would follow the general pattern prevailing under
ongoing IDA credits for state extension projects. Each state would have
responsibility for ensuring that the financial requirements of its subproject
was met. MOA/DOE, DEA, and IDA would be responsible for monitoring compliance
with financial reporting requirements undertaken by implementing agencies
(para 4.11), as well as for monitoring procurement. DEA and IDA would make
selective reviews of accounting procedures and withdrawal claims.
Special Subprojects
5.04    State governments and central or regional bodies would have respon-
sibility for the implementation of special subprojects. Overall coordination
of this component would be assured by DOE. which has been strengthened to
fulfill this role with additional staff, office facilities, and vehicles and
equipment financed under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project and
NAEP I. Special subprojects would be prepared by GOI, states. or designated
implementing agencies (e.g.. State Agricultural Universities) with DOE assis-
tance. The responsibility for appraisal would rest with MOA/DOE under the
overall direction of the Joint Secretary (Extension Commissioner) who would
nominate the members of each appraisal team, including a member of the Exten-
sion Division core team. members of the Extension Training and Field Extension
Units of DOE. as well as two or more representatives of other departments of



-44-
MOA (e.g.. Crops Division and Finance Section), the Indian Council of Agricul-
tural Research, DOAs of states other than the one proposing the subproject,
and/or other specialists necessary for appraisal. IDA would continue to
provide assistance in both the preparation and appraisal of special subprojects
but--except in the case of the proposed Punjab and Bihar SSP (para 3.27
(c),(d)). which would be jointly appraised by IDA and DOE--IDA involvement in
SSP appraisal is expected to be minimal given the experience gained by MOA/DOE
under NAEP I. However, prior to special subproject appraisal by MOA/DOE, IDA
would review and comment upon the project submission. Following appraisal DOE
would submit its recommendations to the "Project Funding Committee" (estab-
lished under NAEP I and empowered to sanction special subprojects under NAEPs)
for sanction. After sanction, the proposed SSP would be submitted to IDA for
approval for financing under NAEP III.
5.05    Under NAEP I. it is required that DOE/MOA be adequately staffed to
fulfill the required special subproject preparation. appraisal and coordinating
functions. Assurance was obtained that special subproject appraisal would
follow the format already agreed with IDA under NAEP I and that special sub-
projects would be subject to final review and approval by IDA. Reporting
requirements for special subprojects would be the same as described for state
subprojects at para 5.02. Assurance was also obtained that MOA/DOE would
prepare one summary completion report for the special subproject component.
C. State Extension Organization
5.06    In the states, the Secretary of Agriculture and DA have overall respon-
sibility for implementing statewide extension programs. Within each state, an
ADA (Extension) is responsible to DA for day-to-day technical and administra-
tive management of the extension service, supported by the administrative
machinery of the department. The ADA makes arrangements for recruitment and
training of extension personnel, budgeting, procurement, disbursement of funds.
and preparation of periodic progress reports and is supported, inter alia. by a
small staff of SMSs responsible for improving the technical quality of exten-
sion services in their special fields (for the main crops grown throughout the
state, plant protection, adaptive research, training, water and soil manage-
ment, etc.). Coordination among extension, research and allied agencies (input
supply. finance, credit, irrigation and state agricultural university. etc.)
would be achieved through the working of several committees at state, zonal and
district levels (established under the Assam Agricultural Development Project
in the case of Assam) as well as through informal contacts, exchange of staff,
workshops, training courses and collaboration in field testing programs. Each
state has (Assam) or would establish (Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh) a
state level Project Coordinating Committee to coordinate implementation of its
extension project, chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner or
Secretary for Agriculture and with the ADA (Extension) acting as secretary.
Its members would include the Vice Chancellor of the SAU. Directors of Agricul-
ture and Horticulture, and representatives of other concerned government
departments and agencies. The Committees would meet at least twice a year to
review progress in project implementation, resolve problems. and assure



-45-
inter-departmental cooperation. Assurances were obtained that the states of
Utter Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh would establish such committees no later
than June 30. 1987. In all participating states. SAUs are charged with the
responsibility for central and zonal agricultural research, but DOAs still
conduct zonal research at adaptive trial stations in Assam and Uttar Pradesh;
they would progressively withdraw from this activity. as SAD zonal research
capacity develops under NARP I and II. to concentrate upon state-wide on-farm
trial programs. Memoranda of understanding between GOUP, GOA and SAUs defining
their respective responsibilities and linkages in research have been agreed and
established. The model memorandum used was developed for other states where it
had been tested and found workable. As a new Horticultural University had
recently been established in the state of Himachal Pradesh. it was agreed that
GOHP would conclude a Memorandum of Understanding with Himachal Pradesh Hor-
ticultural University and revise the Memorandum of Understanding with HPAU by
March 31st 1987.
5.07    The establishment of close links between extension. training, and
research is essential to the introduction and development of T&V extension.
Under the recommended system, SMS (employed by DOA) are expected to spend
one-third of their time in liaison with research staff and SAU research staff
at zonal stations are also to allocate part of their time to DOA extension
work. The State Technical or Research Advisory Committee provides a formal
means for review of university research and field trials. for review of
proposed research programs and for review of extension recommendations from
Zonal Research Advisory Committees. The State Technical Committee is chaired
by DA and consists of senior officers of the university, concerned government
departments, and other agencies. It meets twice a year to review research
results and extension recommendations and to formulate an extension work
program for the next year.
5.08    The key link between the SAD and DOA is the monthly extension and
research workshop which ensures regular contact between SAU scientists and
extension SMS. These are used to train SMS, to review technical recommenda-
tions and, on the basis of observations and experience, to adapt them for field
extension and to suggest modificationc to the farm trial programs for the
pre-season zonal workshop's consideration. Pre-season zonal workshops, chaired
by the Zonal/Divisional Joint Director of Agriculture or Associate Director of
Research (SAU), meet before the okharif" and "rabill cropping seasons, at a
research station. The participants include seientists of the zonal research
stations, divisional JDA, DAOs, zonal and headquarter SMS'L, SAU scientists.
and the unit head of the M&E unit. The workshops typically include repre-
sentatives from credit, marketing, irrigation, agro-industries and other con-
cerned agencies. The participants review and evaluate the farm trials and the
M&E unit results, as well as the adoption experience of previous years to
formulate the program for the next season, including the program for applied
research and location of trials. The workshop also screens the research and
farm trial results for modification of the extension recommendations for the
zone. Adoption experience of recommendations from previous seasons and reports



-46-
of the M&E unit would be a major consideration of such discussions. The par-
ticipants discuss the implications of extension recommendations. seek coopera-
tion among various input supply agencies, and give attention to problems of
credit, marketing. and input supply. The outcome from these workshops forms
the basis of recommendations placed before the State Technical or Research
Advisory Committee (para 5.07).
5.09    Zonal recommendations are reviewed at a special state level workshop
arranged by the State Technical or Research Advisory Committee (para 5.08) held
before each cropping season.  It is presided over by the Vice  Chancellor of
the SAU and attended by appropriate direct,rs and heads of disciplines of the
university, associate directors of the regional research stations, DA, ADA.
Zonal Joint Directors of Agriculture. and such other officers of DOA as may be
designated by DA. The workshop reviews the program of research. extension
cooperation and coordination; determines research priorities and applied and
adaptive research programs on the basis of the recommendations of the zonal
workshops; and screens the zonal extension recommendations.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.10    Continuous M&E is an integral part of all ongoing IDA-assisted exten-
sion projects. However. some participating states in the past were slow to
establish M&E units and begin collection of appropriate data. In recognition
of the shortcomings. between 1981 and 1985. GOI sponsored a series of workshops
and IDA developed an operational manual 1/ to strengthen this work. In
Uttar Pradesh. special effort would be made to ensure early M&E unit estab-
lishment to allow surveys to start in the first year and retroactive financing
is recommended f-. this purpose.  In addition. a special study. designed to
estimate and attribute the impact of reformed extension and agricultural
productivity, would be conducted in Uttar Pradesh (para 3.19) and the develop-
ment of a M&E management training facility provided as a special subproject
(para 3.27). Within a state, M&E is usually the responsibility of a Joint
Director of Agriculture or Senior Economist (located at headquarters) reporting
to DA. He is assisted Dy a small group of staff. ideally including a statis-
tician, a sociologist. and an economist. The methodology used should conform
to the basic M&E manual designed for T&V extension. To be effective, evidence
generated bt the cell needs to be brought promptly to the attention of senior
officers in the state extension system. i.e. the Secretary for Agriculture.
the Agricultural Production Commissioner, the DA and the Additional Directors.
who must then initiate actions to modify and improve extension operations on
the basis of the newly available information. The cell should be directly
responsible to an officer senior to the Additional Director responsible for
extension. While this arrangement is well understood in India. in many states.
1/ R. H. Slade and G. Feder. "The Monitoring and Evaluation of Training and
Visit Extension in India: -A Manual of Instruction". World Bank.
October 1981.



-47-
the M&E cell, for all intents and purposes, reports initially to the Additional
Director (Extension) which impairs objectivity. M&E cells may also be diverted
from their primary duty to others such as preparing departmental work plans and
budgets. cr performing other urgent administrative tasks. 1/ In addition. a
special study designed to estimate _nd attribute the impact of reorganized
extension on agricultural productivity would be conducted in Uttar Pradesh
(para.  3.19) and the development of a monitoring and evaluation training
facility provided as a special subproject (para. 3.27). Assurances were
obtained that the states would undertake M&E of their respective projects in a
form satisfactory to IDA and that summary results would be forwarded through
MOA/DOE to IDA at least once a year.
5.11    The Field Extension Unit of DOE would be responsible for technical
guidance to state M&E units and for collecting and coordinating the M&E reports
from all subproject states and forwarding them to IDA at agreed intervals.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits of Improved Extension
6.01    Agricultural extension organized on the basis of regular training and
frequent field visits aims at increasing productivity on farms and the income
of farmers. While it is difficult to isolate yield increases resulting from
extension from increases resulting from other determinants, both officials and
farmers exposed to the new system agree that it is a definite improvement over
earlier systems and is, at least. partially responsible for bringing changes in
the attitude of the farmers toward adopting improved farming methods and
increasing the rate of that adoption. Examples of significant changes to
cropping patterns and cultural methods related to the introduction of reformed
extension are already noted in para 1.16.
6.02    The benefits of improving the extension service are difficult to quan-
tify. For example, neither favorable farmer response to regular contact with
extension staff nor the increased ability and self-esteem of extension workers
now permitted to perform chiefly agricultural functions. are easily measured.
although both are readily apparent. Furthermore. M&E of agricultural extension
activities is relatively new and has, in most states, concentrated on assess-
ment of extension system establishment and, only recently, on the impact of
improved extension upon productivity and technology adoption. In addition,
regular M&E surveys are not designed to isolate the extension effect on produc-
tion from other factors, such as input availability, crop prices, etc. Never-
theless, clear and positive trends are emerging from M&E work. These are
1/ G. Feder and R. B. Slade, "Experiences with the Monitoring and Evaluation
of Training and Visit Extension in India," World Bank Staff Working Paper
No. 595, May 1983.



-48-
discussed in more detail in paras 1.13 to 1.21 and in PCRs, Project Performance
Audit Reports, previous Staff Appraisal Reports and individual state M&E
reports.  1/  Positive relationships are indicated between the frequency of VEJ
farm visit and crop yield and technology adoption and between the VE1 as a
source of technological information and crop yield. In Haryana. crop cutting
results show that, with similar fertilizer doses, contact farmers obtained
better yields in part due to more appropriate combinations, timeliness, and/or
methods of application. Similarly, in the case of non-fertilized plots, con-
tact farmers often obtained higher yields, especially in the case of paddy and
chickpea. reflecting the impact of extension through the use of low-cost inputs
and practices.
6.03    The favorable impact of eztension is also supported by state production
statistics. which show a steady rise in both yield and total production for
wheat. rice. sorghum and millet. and some pulses, and significantly increased
usage of fertilizer and high yielding varieties. 2/ In Madhya Pradesh. for
example, yields increased over four years of project life by 25S for wheat, 31
for rice. 201 for maize, and 12Z for grah. In Rajasthan. crop yields in
1981-82 were between 71 and 302 higher than pre-project yields of 1976-77.
6.04    In late 1981. the need for an objective empirical assessment of the
impact of the T&V system led to a study being undertaken by the Bank in col-
laboration with the Haryana Agricultural University at Hissar. 3/ It was
designed to assess the extent to which T&V extension has accelerated the diffu-
sion of knowledge about improved farming practices and increased farm produc-
tivity. A sample survey of farmers was used to assess the strengths and
weaknesses of the T&V syetem relative to the older community development sys-
tems of agricultural extension. Results from the study indicate that the T&V
extension system is more successful in delivering information to farmers than
the traditional system, that it achieves significantly higher rates of direct
contact with farmers. and that rates of knowledge diffusion for all wheat
practices and for some paddy practices are higher than comparable rates under
the former system. The study showed, in the case of wheat, a yield increase of
almost 2% per annum over the first four years of the phase I project, which is
directly attributable to extension and independent of the increased use of
other farm inputs. Further, there is also no evidence that extension agents'
1/ PCRs for Rajasthan. Orissa, Madhya Pradesh. Assam. Haryana, Karnataka. and
Gujarat, PPARs for Rajasthan (Cr. 737-IN), Orissa (Cr. 682-IN). Madyha
Pradesh (Cr 712-IN), Assam (Cr. 728-IN) and Haryana, Karnataka and Gujarat
(Cr. 862-IN). Staff Appraisal Report No. 5254-IN (NAEP II) and Staff
Appraisal Report No. 4983-IN (NAEP I). and about 110 individual state M&E
publications.
2/  Area and Production of Principal Crops in India, GOI.
3/ "The Impact of Agricultural Extension: A Case Study of the Training and
Visit System in Haryana, India.8" World Bank Research Project RPO 572-29.



-49-
visits are biased in favor of the largest or wealthiest farmers as has often
been assumed. It is proposed that a similar study be conducted in the state of
Uttar Pradesh under the project (paras 3.19 and 5.10 and Annex 6).
6.05    Of major significance is the clear evidence from states and areas where
improved agricultural extension is becoming well established that it is exert-
ing considerable pressure on other support services (particularly research) to
improve performance in parallel with extension. This development underscores
the important but frequently overlooked lead effect of a strong extension
service. Where problems have been identified3 they are in many ways a reflec-
ti-.n e' the strengths of the system as well as of its weaknesses. Some of
these weaknesses. as they impose risks to successful implementation of
NAEP III, are noted below.
B. Risks
6.06    A number of general administrative constraints and policy problems may
continue to impede development of extension and will require continued atten-
tion from GOI and IDA. Late or inadequate budgetary provisions, promoti. n by
seniority, frequent transfer. and inappropriate selection criteria for t.aining
are common problems that adversely affect extension. Limited progress has been
made in these areas, although some success has been achieved in altering other
aspects of administration to the benefit of extension (e.g.. installing of a
technical, single-function extension service, weakening of the "target
approach" to agricultural development among agricultural and other officers.
reduction in paperwork at all levels of the extension system, and greater
delegation of authority). Possible failure by participating states to continue
to finance the additional recurrent costs generated by the proposed project
after project completion does not constitute a major risk as these costs only
represent 7-8% of total DOA budgets and because DOAs would finance total
project costs from the outset (para 4.02).
6.07    Extension will always be vulnerable to outside pressures. VEWs are
still seen by many farmers not just as technical officers but also as general
representatives of government to whom all problems should be taken. To deny
farmers their assistance could jeopardize the credibility of the system. Such
pressures will continue until other support services become stronger and areas
of responsibility are more clearly understood. Finally. District Deputy Comr
missioners (Collectors) can requisition staff and vehicles from any department.
as the need arises. This can be disruptive to extension work since it may tie
up staff over critical periods of the farming calendar. Although there is
increasing recognition that the primary function of extension must be technical
and that it cannot substitute for weaknesses in other support services. pres-
sure for non-technical involvement of extension staff is likely to continue.
This may be offset to some extent. by better planning so that staff involvement
in these activities can be concentrated outside the main growing seasons.
Learning from rast experience, the proposed project would not involve transfer
of VLW from CDL or Panchayat Department to DOA, so that these departments would
retair sufficient village level staff to do their jobs. IDA participation is



-50-
also especially useful in resisting these pressures. No precise period neces-
sary for such IDA involvement can be established, but at least five years
beyond the implementation period of an initial five year project in any par-
ticular state should be expected given the institutional changes required.
After this period of additional involvement, state extension services should
be in a better position to continue independent of IDA support. particularly if
the central supporting agency. DOE. has been sufficiently strengthened. as
initiated under Composite Agricultural Extension and NAEP I Projects.
6.08    In some states, execution of civil works programs was frequently slow
due to a lack of coordination between DOA and the constructing agencies. the
inability of PWDs to deal with small projects. and the problems in identifying
suitable contractors and in awarding contracts. It has, therefore, been
decided that in the cases of Uttar Pradesh and Assam the existing civil
engineering units of DOAs would be responsible for the management and supervi-
sion of their respective construction progrsms.
6.09    A frequent cause of poor field staff supervision is inadequate mobility
of supervisory staff. This risk would be minimized by the provision of ade-
quate vehicles. travel allowances, and vehicle operating costs to be financed
under the proposed IDA credit. The loan terms and conditions would be designed
to create adequate incentives for staff to purchase motorcycles and bicycles
(para 3.13).
6.10    Without an effective two-way communication between research and exten-
sion, it is unlikely that the technology needed by farmers to increase produc-
tivity would be developed and transferred. To promote such linkage each state
participating in the project would obtain before negotiations a written
memorandum of understanding between the SAU and DOA spelling out university
responsibilities for support of the extension services (para. 5.06). Such
formal instruments have been found necessary in the course of implementation
experience. The project would also provide support to SAU for exten-
sion-related expenditures.  In states (Assam and Uttar Pradesh). where respec-
tive DOAs are currently involved in zonal research. precipitous handover of
such responsibilities to the SAUs would be avoided, particularly where recruit-
ment of university scientists is difficult or progress of zonal research sta-
tion development delayed. A gradual handover is envisaged with phasing of SAU
staff recruitment related to likely zonal facility development. To date. the
absence of new technology has not been the major constraint, but as the backlog
of research findings becomes more widely adopted, additional adaptive research.
field testing and development of new technology will be required. particularly
in the second phase Assam state subproject. While early work may be aimed at
zonal and district recommendations, ultimately technology development needs to
be directed more at meeting the location specific needs of farmers in various
sub-agroecological zones and those in more remote and difficult areas. NARP II
would help strengthen research efforts to provide such technology, and the
proposed project would assist in supporting an expanded trial program on
farmers fields designed to tailor agro-ecological zone recommendation to
specific, area, or group needs.



-51-
6.11    An important task for a strengthened DOE and Extension Division in the
central MOA will be the coordination of extension activities with GOI special
schemes. GOI special schemes at the state level may conflict with extension
programs and activities. In most states, many subjects of interest to agricul-
tural extension services (such as animal husbandry, horticulture, water manage-
ment, farm forestry and agricultural credit) are the responsibility of
organizations other than DOA. Reconciliation of extension with continued
support for the multi-purpose village worker/community development approach is
also important to the continued success of extension reform. Coordination
within states is encouraged by committees at various levels and through the
state Agricultural Production Commissioner and is being further strengthened at
the center through the Technical Advisory Committee established under NAEP I.
6.12    Apart from monitoring and coordinating. reporting upon, and providing
technical assistance to state subprojects. MOA/DOE would play the major role in
appraisal of special subprojects. The capacity of DOE to adequately perform
this task has been developed and is being tested under NAEP I. The technical
assistance role presently undertaken by IDA would be progressively handed over
to DOE.
Employment and Poverty Impact
6.13    The project's direct impact on employment would be relatively small:
(a) Some 6,200 incremental persons would be employed as a result of the
project, and limited additional employment would created during the
period of civil works construction.
(b) Far more important will be the project's indirect impact on employment
and income generation throughout rural areas of the participating
states. The dissemination and adoption of improved agricultural
production and farm management techniques will lead to increases in
onn-farm productivity and farm output, thereby generating substantial
additional employment and income for farmers. their household members,
and agricultural laborers on millions of farms.
In the proposed project area, there are about 7.8 million farms with a average
holding size of 1.4 ha, each supporting five to six family members and addi-
tional landless farm laborers. Based on 1981 statistics, 70% of India's labor
force is employed in agriculture, and the average value added per farm family
is US$304. With an average family size of more than five members, this implies
an average income equivalent to about US$60 per person-about half of the
income level judged to be the absolute poverty level in India. Given the land
and income pattern of the proposed project area. the project's indirect employ-
ment and income effects will predominantly accrue to the rural poor.
Impact on the Environment
6.14    The project is not expected to have any deleterious effects on the
rural environment.



-52-
VII. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMCENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations, agreements were reached with GOI and the involved
states on the following:
(a) The states would fill incremental staff positions with staff having
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA and according to a
specified schedule (shown in their respective annexes of the project
file (para 3.11)).
(b) The states agreed that all extension positions assigned to the
administrative control of the DOA under this project would be used
exclusively for agricultural extension work and be retained under the
administrative control of DOA (para 3.11);
(c) The states agreed that extension staff would not be adversely affected
in respect of their entitlement to emoluments, benefits and promotional
prospects by reason of assignment to the project (para 3.11);
(d)  The etates would make available:
(i) Loans for the purchase of motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles,
such loans would be made available to all eligible staff on
terms and conditions designed to provide incentives for the
purchase of such motorcycles, mopeds. or bicycles; and
(ii) Such financial incentive. including appropriate travel allowan-
ces, needed to encourage optimum use of the motorcycles.
mopeds. and bicycles to be purchased under the project (pars
3.13).
(e) The states and GOI. in consultation with IDA. would undertake a
mid-term review of overall project performance by June 30. 1990 which
would. inter alis, review the needs for adjustment of proiect targets,
fund reallocation, extension or cancellation, progress in tite transfer
of zonal research responsibilities from DOAs to SADI, and the adequacy
of the existing staff. Recommendations would be made on any necessary
adjustments (pars 3.29);
(f) Beginning July 15, 1987 and annually thereafter. the states would
submit to IDA for review their annual project budgets (para 4.03);
(g) Each implementing agency would implement procurement procedures satis-
factory to IDA (paras 4.04 to 4.08);
(h) GOI would cause each implementing agency to maintain separate accounts
of each subproject and keep records of expenditures (para 4.13);



-53-
Ci)  Bach implementing agency would prepare and present to MOA/DOE for
t:anuission to IDA administrative and financial data regarding
progress of the project, including procurement of goods and services,
civil works, expenditures. audits. and requests for disbursement in
accordance with the schedules agreed (para 4.10 - 4.13);
(j)  GO0  agreed that it would submit to IDA semi-annual progress report.
each June and December for each state subproject under the credit. in a
form acceptable to IDA. The reports would include a sumuary of
activities undertaken during the prior six months (October-March and
April-September). details of staffing, physical and financial targets
achieved. and implementation problems encountered. Further. each state
would also prepare, for review by DOE/IDA. subproject completion
reports (pars 5.02);
(k)  00I agreed that special subproject appraisal would follow a format
agreed with IDA and that special subprojects would be subject to final
rev4i and approval by IDA. In addition GOI agreed that DOE would
prepare one summazy completion report for the entire special subproject
component (pars 5.05):
(1) The states of Uttar Pradesh and Hiuachal Pradesh would establish
project coordinating committees no later than Juner 30. 1987 to oversee
implementation of their extension project (para 5.06);
(a) The state of Himachal Pradesh would by March 31. 1987 conclude a
Memorandum of Understanding with Himachal Pradesh Horticultural Univer-
sity (Solan) and revise the Memorandum of Understanding with Himachal
Pradesh Agricultural University (Palamphur) (para 5.06); and
(n) The states would undertake M&E of their subprojects in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IDA. and would forward to IDA. through
NOA/DOE. an annual summary of results (pars 5.10).
7.04    To encourage the prompt implementation of the project and in recogni-
tion of the early initiatives taken by GOI and the state governments to imple-
sent the project. it was agreed that retroactive financing up to a total of
US$2 million be made available for expenditures incurred after April 1. 1985
(pars 4.12).
7.05    With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for a
credit of SDRs 71.7 million (US$85 million) to GOI on standard IDA terms.



I/
VI
I
I
N
it
6.
I 1
N
I



I                                                      tU)
I                                                       x
UN                                                      z
I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~z



4
I



-57-                                   ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Summary Data on State Subprojects
Uttar a/ Himachal
Pradesh     Pradesh   Assam
Rural Population (N)                                46            4         19
No. of Agro-ecological Zones                         4            4          4 i
No. of Agricultural Districts                       21           12         14
No. of Extension Subdivisions                       85           69         48
No. of Blocks                                      433            -        252
Net Cultivated Area (M/Ha)                         7.5          0.6        2.7
Gross Cultivated Area (M/Ha)                      10.9          1.0        3.6
No. of Operational Holdings (M)                    5.2          0.6        2.0
Landholdings (Z Faruers/Z Area)
Small (below 1 ha)                             76.2/31.9  54.7/14.2  59.7/19.1
Semi-Medium (1-4 ha)                           21.1/46.1  37.2/45.5  37.8/56.0
Medium (4-10 ha)                                2.3/16.7   6.8/24.5   2.4/12.7
Large (10 ha and above)                         0.3/ 5.3   1.3/15.8   0.1/12.2
Department of Agriculture:  Staffing of Extension Services
Uttar a/ Himachal
Pradesh     Pradesh   Assam
Headquarters a/
Additional Director   Existing                            0           0         1
Incremental under NAEP- IIT        1           1        0
Total                              1           1         1
SMS (DDA/JDA)         Existing                            3           3        2
Incremental under NAEP- III        1           6         5 e/
Total                              4           9         7
Zonal/Divisional
Jt Director            Existing                           0           -         5
Incremental under NAEP- III        4           -        0
Total                              4           -         5
Deputy Director/SMS   Existing                            4           -         0
Incremental under NAEP- III       16           -        10 f/
Total                             20           -        10



-58-                                       AM=  I
Page 2 of 2
Uttar a/ Himachal
Pradesh      Pradesh   Assam
District
DAO                     Existing                             6           2        14
Incremental under NAEP- III         1S          10         0
TotaL                               21          12        14
SNS                     Existing                            42 b/        2        23
Incremental under NAEP- III        42          41          5
Total                               84          43        28
Subdivision
SDAEO                   Existing                             0           -        48
Incremental under NAEP- III        85            -         0
Total                               85           -        48
SMS                     Existing                             9 c/        -        62
Incremental under NAEP- III       211            -        42
Total                              220           -       104
Field
AEO                     Existing                           425         207       305
Incremental under NAEP- III        123         141        50
Total                              548         348       355
VEW                     Existing                           203         158    2,444
Incremental under NAEP- III   4,095           842        400
Total                           4,298        1,000    2,844
M&E Staff
HQ/Divisional Level   Existing                               0           1         4
Incremental under NAEP- III         10          4          4
Total                               10           5         8
Field Level             Existing                             0           0        31
Incremental under NAEP- III         50          26         0
Total                               50          26        31
Training and Information
HQ/Divisional Level   Existing                               0           0         0
Incremental under NAEP- III          3 d/       10         5 h/
Total                                3          10         5
Training Center         Existing                             -           -         -
Incremental under NAEP- III          -           -         -
Total,
a/  IncLudes only Project Area of UP (Four Eastern Divisions).
b/ Includes existing Horticultural and Plant Protection Staff who would serve
as SMS.
c/  For 55 teams of 4 SMS per team.
d/  Only senior staff included.
e/  One senior SMS training, 4 civil engineers.
fl One SMS Agronomy, one Farm Input Coordinator SHS, per zone.
gl 7 SMS Agronomy/Plant Protection to complete the 35 SMS teams and 35
Horticultural/Special Subject SMS (20 phased in after mid-term review).
h/  Farm Information Officers.
j/  Excludes hill zone.



- 59 -
ANNE 2
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURL METENSION PROJECT
(Re. Thousand)
A. Sumary Accounts by Year
soee Cens                                  foreign Exchenp
1. INVESTNT COSTS
A  CIVIL  OILS                            - 54.478,0 107.721.0  l1.470.0  ul.Io.o  29.550.0   364,334.0   St   16 .21 7
*  EOIPNtIT                               -   . 420.2   6 u6.2   5.3 f0.    I 1.236.0      s8. 0    22.3U3.5    10* 0   2.228.4
C. vEmituES                               -   a.. 40.e  iu. in. 0   t. SO. a   1. ToO. a      -    48.070.0    20.0 o       L614.0
L  SPECIAL SIUBPROJECTS                   - 50. 000.0  50. 000   11 0 o. @00.0 I.000.0 15000. 0   5500. to. o   S. 0  27. 500.0
L  T.                                1M5.0   5.705.4   1.65.8  10.397.7  11.521.1       -0.tlr.   43.5S.4      0.0       to 
- - --   - --------   -- - - -     - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - ---  ----.--  ---------- -. 
Total I"ESIENIT COSTS                    U.50 136. 13.6 195.421.1 25.967.7 225.574.1 190.5565.6 1. 04.356.9        S.  57. 567. 1
II. tCIENI COSTS
A. INC. SILMIES A  ttasulCEs  2. 430.0  t3 590.9  57. 224.6  75.003 4  77. 065. 4  71230. 2    20. 704.5        o. o      0.0
L  TRAVELLING ALLOWACS              100. 0  10.uB.13  I1LSW67  22.!27.1  25.317.1  25.317. 1   103.23L         to         0.0
C  VENICLE OPEN. EXPENSES           250.0   2.35L0   5.230.0   S.3510   5.950.0   5. 95.0 2o  266.0    1  0   2. 82. 8
:. OTNER OPEN. EXPENSES             230.0  1. 744.0   3.6O6 62 349.4   9.424.2  I0. S2.2    32.37L4            5. 0   1. S18
,- --- -   - - - - -    - - - - - - - - -- - - ---  ---------   --  ---------- -        - -    ------ - -  - - - -  -- ----
Total RECUImRENT COSTS                3. 5l0. o  45.L 2.2  1. 206 .  19. 824 9U  IT1. 76 7 120.319.    482. 05.2   0.   4. 247. 5
Total BASEtINE COsTS                   4. 195.0 162. 125.6 260. 62Qa0 395. 797. 6 343. 330.6 2 It. 65. I 1. 116 962. 1    4. I 61.614.7
Phyical Contingries                    97.5   4. 30.!   8.210.7   7.963.2    . 123.2   3.404.8    2L 0C.s        5.8   1.715.7
Price Continuacies                     l50.2  I5. 062.3  4  462.4  72.548.8  7.031. 3  61.07. 3   275.382.3      3.1  8.530.4
Total PRodECT COSTS                    4. 442.7 202. 02  6 225. 201.0 476. 309. 6 420.465.9 3U. 93. I t. 822.574.9  4. 0  72. 320.8
*.s.. ........  **g...a...a..... .            -t . W. --a a ............         t    w............  .
Tame                                   262   2 1124.2   4.667.7   7.0l7.9   5.618.9   4.725.7    25.402.7        0.0       0.0
Ferei1n Eachange                       45.1  1. 411.2  16.094.4  19. 096. 7  14.062.1  11.411.4    72.120.6      0. 0      0.0
Aprit A. 1366 19:42
B. Project Cost Summary
IRUPEES '0001                     fUss  I000I                      2 Total
-------I----  F-            -      ---------------------- --  I  foroeign    aev.
Local    Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign  Total      Euchenge    Costs
*~~~~."ms a... s      .=, ss=:: .............. =::==:= :==,w==mz    -  =-=====.  =-==c===: :=,=,=
A. EXTENISION SERVICES                 777.04  5 27.960.8      S. 055. 3   59.776.5 2. 150.8  Ct.927.2        3       53
U. TRAINING                            I1I.347. 7  4.317.4   123.665. 1   9. 180 B   332.1   9.512.7          3        8
C  ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                     2.710.0     90. 0    2.C00. 0      206.5     5  9     215.4          3        0
0. HIfimRIIIG AND EVALUATION            17.022. 1   547.5    17.569.6    1. 309. 4    42. 1   1.351.5         3         1
E  INFONKATION SERVICES                 16.473.2  l.3N8.9    17.C72.1    1.27. 2   ICT7.    1.374.6           C
F. SPECIAL SU8PRWECTS
SPECIAL SUBPROJECTS                522.500.0 27.500.0   550.000. 0   40. 192. 3 2. 1t15.4  42.307.7        5       36
Sub-Total SPECIAL SUBPROJECTS         522.500.0 27.500. 0 550.000. 0   40. 192. 3 2. 115.4  42.307.7          5       36
Total BASELINE COSTS                   1.455. 147.4 61.814.7 1. 516  92. 1 111.934.4 4.755.0 116.689.4          4       too
Physicsl Contingencie                27. 914.B  1.715.7    29.630.5   2. 147. 3   132.0   2.279.3           6        2
Price Contingenciss                  267.391.3  6. 590.4   275.962.3   20.56U.I   560.6  21.223 4            3        16
Total PROJECT COSTS                    1.750.454.1 72.120. 8 1.822.574. 9  134.650.3 5.547.8 140.198 1          4       120
A=p=ril     1966x.wag 1142      =         C-M ===- M..-42..  :,,===
April  &.  1fiM  12 42



-60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH SUBPROJECT
(Re. Thousand)
A. Summary Accounts by Year
6am _ ust.                              Foresig  Eachligs
1      2         3          4         5         5      Total        I     hunt
ti., ..... . -s-      | * -.3 ..m.u.gm, ,.... .,  .s....... ...........
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
________________
A. CIVLt UMS                            - 34 776.0  6. 213.0  66e  016.0  34.us5.@  17.300.0 218.317.0    1.0  10.815.9
IL EOU IPIENT                           - 4.094.5   5.676,0  4. 092.5    9o0. o              14.843.0 o   0. 0   1. 44.3
C. VEHICLES                             - 10210.0   9,100.0   s.050.0   1.7OO.0           * 26,050.0   20.0  5.212.0
D. TIN;                             400.0  1.671.4   3,481.4   S.434.4  s.860. 2  5.414.7  22.256LI    0.0          0.0
Total INVESTNNT COSTS                  400.0 50. 751.9   1.474.4  80. 6s5.3  43. 490. 2 22.714. 7 279.486. 1    6. 3  17.512. 2
IL. HECOIIIUET COSTS
_______________
A. INCRE SALAIES A ALLOWANCES    60.0 19.7n5.9  38 .444.  4.444.I8  4. 886. 8  4n. 86. 8 206 046 3       0e0       0. 0
L  7TVELLING aLLLOANCES            260.0  7.912.8  14.562.3  I 432. 7  12.222. 7  19.222.7  77.613.2     0.0       0. 0
C. VEHICLE OPEL EXPENSES           130.0  1. 580   2.631.0  3. 29. 0   3.29. 0   3. 295. 0  14.233.0 e   0.0  1. 423. 3
6. OTNEE WEt EXIPSES               120.0   680.0   1,926 0   3.s54.5   5.207.0  1.806.0  172B4. 5        s a     3   2
Total IIECRRENT COSTS                1.140.0 29.331.7  57.57.3  72.710  77.611. 5  78.210.1 317. 179.0    0. 7  2.287.5
Total eUAELIHE CUSTS                  1. 140.0 60.683.6 139. 041.7 153,372.9 121. 101. 7 100.925.2 191.6ff.1    3. 3  19.799.7
Physical C.ti gu-log                  52.5  2.734.3   4.476.0   4.646.5  2.892. 6   1 861.5  16,663.1      5.9    990.0
Price Canti1gmisI                     55.7  9,168.4  27,919.2  45 17639  45.005. 1 43.611.1 170.955.2    2.9   5.003.4
Total PRECT COSTS                     1. 646.2 92. 604.3 171 436 9 203. 196.2 168 999. 5 146.398.6 784. 283. 7    3. 3 25. 793. 1
.9....  M....C  M........ .......: =ss2s :ssc=  =w=-==c *-...W  -   2=  ==c =e-==
Tox..                                 14.1  1.237.8  2. 12.4  2. 369.7   1.496. I    959.3   8.239.8    0 0         0. 0
Foreign Exchanga                      20.6  S. 108.4   7,410.2  7,01. 4   3.971. 8  2.220.5 25.793.1    0 0          0. 
April  8, IU tS 9: 46
B. Project Cost Summary
tRUPEES '0001                 (US$ 000                      x Total
--- ___s ___n   Base
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign  Total    Exchanrg    Costs
sss-wssss~~   ........  .......s *-ft-e= :-:  :==z=-r=   ===c:r:-  -::-2=
&  EXTENSION SERVICES           510.815. 8 17. 2. 4 527.845. 0 39. 293.5 1. 310. 0 40. 603. 5     3       88
L. *RINIII                       44.746.1  1.514.2  4S. 260.2  3.442.0   116. s  3.558.5          3        6
C. IIIITOIHI  AND EVALUATION     10.29A6.    356.8  10.655.3    792.2    27.4    Big. 6           3        2
D. ADAPTIVE USEARC1               1.900.0         -   1,900.0     146.2       -    146.2          -        0
E. IHFOtATION SERVICES            9. 105.2      9. d  10.004. 6    700.4    69.2   769. 6         9        2
Total ASEULINE COSTS              576.865.4 19.799.. 596 661. I 44. 374.3 1. 523. 1 45. 897. 3             100
Physical Contingurclm           15.673.1    990.0  6.663.5   1.205.7    76.2  1 281. 8          6        3
Price Contisnpncies             165.951.7  5.003.4 170.955.2  12.765.5   384.9 13. 150. 4        3       29
Total PROJECT COSTS               75L.490. 7 25. 793.1 1784.263. 7 58.345.4 1. 984. 1 60.329.5      3      131
Apri I. 19116  1: 46



- 61 -
ANNEU 2
Page 3 of 4
InDIA
PADQNAL ACRICJLIURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ASSAM SJBPROJECF
(Rs. Thousand)
A.  Sumary Accounts by Year
one Crts                             Foreign Excuos
1      2        3        4        5        s      I@tol       T       wnt
1. IIWESTINET COSTS
a. CIVIL  UMS                             II.- 11.M2. 0 22   i4,1442. 0    40. 0    - 57.967.0     5.0  2. 89L 4
L CIVISEST                             -   IIO.S  S.oM.0  1. 22.S    6i.0           -  4.135.0    10.0    410.5
C. VEHICLES                            - 2.700. 0 2,530.0  1 20.0          -        -     eGo. 0    2Q0   1. 330. 0
B. TEIL                             gL0  t. 178.2  2.740.0  2 340.5  2,P.41   2.581 1 12555.1      Q0         0
Total IUVESTKENT COSTS                1NS. 0 It O7. 7 29  0K O. 345.0 12. 1t1. I 2. 581. 1 81.397. 7    5.7  4*.154.9
11. NECUREET COSTS
a  [MMI  SALIS S aLLN SSE   u,onL0  4.o G.m     G.o too   to. S. a12.124.6 13.449.4  46.595.2    e.o        0.a
*  TRAVELLING ALLOSOW              1Lu0  1,087.5  1.203.0 2.101.0  2.101.0  2,0t1.0  a.ma.1       0.0       0.0
C. VEMICIE DEL 119551              10.0   55.0   on O0    9. 50    095.0  Ns.0  4.48O    10. 0           448.5
D. OTNER OPWEIL. EPX               0.0    15 0   S14.83 333.9  1.59s.2  1.642. 2  4. 84 9    1.0    244.2
Totcl REtZlillEC ll COSTS          O1.260  Lt48.5  0.561.2 14.534.5 1.Al.8 1IL 17.5 6s U.724.6    1.t o       692.7
Total  SECIUE  COSTS                 1. 390.o 23 374. 2 31. 220 2 34.373.5 21 M0. 9 20. 7. 7 148. 122. 3  3.   5.347. 6
Phyical Conti lg JOi                21.0   171.3  1. MLI  1. 220.7  8ana    390.0  5. 161.2    5.2    267. 4
Price Cmn iemiiS                    40.4  2.3Ml.I ?.3SM.  10. 177.0 10.834.6  8,977.5  40. Ul12    3.1  1.253.3
T*tol PROECT COSTS                   1.40.4 27.027.0 41 82.845.77.1 40. 85.3 30. 13. 1 193. 19.7    3.1  S. 7. 3
w.u-a  tamenesss= wosu-m.0 nussss.o..................St ... Z-..... sentenc.   .-xms:: rsx:s .-.......... .
Tane                                  5.3   413.3   783.9  51O4    425.9   159.8  2.380.1    0. 0            0.0
f,orign Eucltnp                       3.3  1.408.0  2.454.4  1. 704.?   042.3   271.6  6.?74.3    o.0         0. 
tprll 4, 1080 1t43
B.  Project Cost Summary
10PEEs 1$  00t              fUSS e000i                    1 Total
----- ______,_____-------                           - I Foreign   Bse
Lcmal  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign Total   Exchange    Costs
ag-caus  z-stsm 8sav.,ws             ..ss 9 -9                    ..Zcmc:=7=   5=X:=    zt=s
A. EXTENSIfh SERVICES           WOL8M5.2 398.4 110.670.5 s    221.9  305.6  AS.28.5           4       75
B. r1MhmlS                       25.797.8   714.5  2t512.3  1.984.4   11.0  2.0394            3        13
C. ADAPTIVE ESEnCo                 10.t    0.0    SM. 0        62.3 c   6.9    69.2          *o       I
0  IlO1RfB me0 EVWALTEON         L913.8   53.3  1.9720.    142.2    4. 5        51. 7        3        1
E. IUFOEITIO  SEVICES            7. 3  0   430.5  7,07.5    56. 3    38.4   605.2             6        5
Total UBSELINE COSTS              142. 774.7 S. 347.U IU.122.3  10.982.7  411.4 11.394.o        4       100
Physca l Cctiwmcies             4.3  .3  257.4   5,11.2       310.8   20.6   397.4           5        3
Pric  Contl,mites              34. 42.0 1.259.3  40,631.2  3.032.5   96.9  3. 128 3          3       2?
Total PROJECT COSTS              197. 005.4 5.874.3 113.9S.?7  14.392.0  528.8 14.920.7         4       131
3s53e33ss s333333 221:,::022     3:3:1-:2  e:s::s:=  ft:=::es:3:2  =tt:::s:=
i   1  t M   1is43



- 62 -
ANNU 2
Page 4 of 4
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULlTURAL ETENSION PROJECT
HININAL    L PRADS    PJ
(Re. Thousad)
A. STuary Accounts by Year
som  Costs                               -f
1      2        3        4       5        I      Tota I      I      _urt
.*-3-U* ....s.m* *fl***SU 38355355 33333335         *i333   333........ .  ..N ...  ..*!
1. IUVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL 1S                            - & 200. e 22 tS0. 0 30. 750. 01t. 700. 012.250.0   . 05. 0    S. 0   4.502.5
* EOUIIIPNET                           -  I.,1Il2  1.02L3    5S! 9   IoL0    66.0  3.325.5   Ie.O    333.6
C VEHICLES                             -IL 40. 0  7.,30.0  1,200.0        -        - 15.320.0   20.0   3,064.0
Q Trh                              100.0 2.325.8  3.470.4  2.922.5  3.02L8  L2.21.  14.167.6    0.0         0.0
Total INVESTNT COSTS                  100.0 O. 434. 0 34. 2178  35.487.8 11.022.8 15. 213.1 123.473.1   L84   T.300. 1
L. RECURREINT COSTS
A. IICRE. SALMIES 8 ALLONAUCES   E00.0  S22L.0 11.182.0 15.054.0 151054.0 15.054.0 ii.@u@.0    to         to.
I. TRAVELLIING ILLONUCES           e5.0  1.,79.0  3.120.1  3.9M3.4  3. "14  3.3993.4  I 864.1    0.0       0.0
C. VEHICLE OPEN. EXPENSES         110.0   520.  . t.il.O  1.. t0    1..0 1. Q 60. 0   1.570.0   30.0    757.0
0. OTHER OPEL EXPENSES            170.0   SL0  1. 420  t.870.0  2.IIL0  3.214.0  10.207.0    5.0    510.4
Total RECURSE111 CTS                1.155. 0  9.534.0 11078.5 22.577.4 23.32 4 23.321.0  3I.701.e    1.3  1 21.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1.215.0 2E.OU.0 52.357.15o045.2 43.24 2 3.1931.2 222.174.7    4.1 il167.4
Physical Contingcies                 24.0  1.124.4  2.041.6 2.03O6.0 3131.4  1.15.3  7.800.9    5.3    455L4
Price Continpncies                   45.1 3.214.8 10.582.5 17.134.0 1.t191l 17.117.3  3.345.3    3.6  2.327.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                  1.334. I 32. 407. 3  4. 9B1. 3 77.335.3 60.801. 1 57.462.4 234.321.5    4. 1  11.253.5
*.nuuum uumu:.u      a us..:... ffan ....u smss.  ..m-ca. *33333.3  .3333 ..... 3.s.
Taxes                                 & 4   472.1   9414  1. 05L8    636.5   606.7  3,762.3    0.0           0.0
Foreign Exchange                     21.2  2,304.6  3.729.7 2.830.7  1.47.   1.419.2  11.93.5    0.0         0.0
Ap il 8. 198  19:44
B. Project Cost Summary
tEPEES '0003       W~(SS '0003                        oa
-MES'I------------ -I Foreign  6555
Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign  Total   Exc.Ct-r    Cots-
A  EXTENSiON SERVICES  15.3,33.7  9.41  g,33812.251.I  534.2 12.71M.                  4       7
8. ETRENIONGSRIE                48.303.9  2n.068  5@.332.5  3,154.1  3S.   .:.                        23
- NONITORNIG AN  EVALUATION      4.3093    132.5 i              -      -194- 3--0-  1-0.2   380 2   3  2
Total BASELINE COSTS             213,007.3  9. 167.4 222. 174.7  16.352   7035.2 1760               4 
Physical Contingen'OS'          7.342.5    4641,0.3           53.9   .75.   35.3   600.1     1        4
price Contingenies             62.0OIL 2 2.327.7?  54------4,770.5-179.-I-4,-49.7---29
Totel PROWECT COSTS              2s2.3680 1.1i53.5 2e4,321.5  21,720.6  919.5 22.640.1          4      132
........  . s......  --6 an.  .. . 3.33   ..   a .4
April S. 1988 19.44



- 63-                          ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements a/
(US* Million)
IDA's Fiscal
Year by                      Semester          Cumulative         Percentage
Semester
FY87
First Semester
Second Semester               0.8                0.8                 1
FY88
First Semester                2.2                3.0                4
Second Semester               3.4                6.4                8
FY89
First Semester                3.4                9.8               12
Second Semester               5.2               15.0               18
FY90
First Semester                8.0               23.0               27
Second Semester              10.0               33.0               39
FY91
First Semester               10.0               43.0               51
Second Semester              10.0               53.0               62
FY92
First Semester               10.0               63.0               74
Second Semester               9.0               72.0               85
FY93
First Semester                8.0               80.0               94
Second Semester               5.0               85.0              100
a/  Expected completion date:  June 30, 1993.
Expected closing date: March 31, 1994.



INDIA-NAT. AGRIC. EXTENSION III
OlSBURSEllENT PROfILE
f?RRISL REPORT
N                                                       -       - - - -  flSP ]OR IOYR RVE
|                                    *                        * -  FICTULIF /a
o                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0
* _
c
|       Z 10                                      /'  /                                                     C0
t-~~~~~~ / /o                                                                         Cos
'0~~O zt,        . , /                     
C-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
C3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2   4   2    4   2   4   2   e   ~2    i    '2    d i           4    2     4    2
19B6    1 9B7     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993     1994    1995



-65-                                                        AMx 4
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EENSION PROJECT III
Iee                  Schedule br Slate Subp4o
V'EA                 I t           1             2                           3 3
-ITEM                    -UAR-ER- |                S      2-                   3      4     .       2  |          4
Q Slc Selection
1 Plan Plpoatilon
* Tendr Peaotration
d Conuluctlon 
2 VEHICtES* FQJIPMENT
a Tender rparoi_ti_n
b PUchase Vehde Essential tao Start-uL           _
c PRcuenent dg Bulk Of Vehickm l tiqulpment
3. MNA
PreparatIon of Sanction Order_
*Afungerents fal the Tnser of SlOl frorn
CADA & Caovi,unity Delopmunt Deparmen
c Appointment of Key Start-wp Staff Including
--ADA (Exlentlon)
-SPS (raining at t badquarter. Reogona
& DstSiCt Levels)
-     UME Unit Personner
-Training Coornatars at Unterstes
Initiate Staff Recruient_
Staff Smplc,wment-                                                        --                   --                    -
llWUMNS                                                                                            > 
a Orientation Snior Staft (Heoaquarte Dvisiona
& D4strlct
b Studv ToLars to Ofew States (Heodquarter.
DMibnal Staff)                                              -      -      -      -
c Pr7ese  & Iaijct on Trarninkg of !eld Stlt_
d SMS Training                                                       -      - =  =  =                                  - =
e Estoishment of Monthlv & F-ortnighttv Training
OTHER
a Liaison with CAR on Snbng & Estoblish rnent of Zonal
Research Sites
b Estatbishrient of M&E Units & Surve Design
c Start or Special Evaluation StuoV in Uttar PtadeFs _
t Execution of MIE SurveVs & Special Studies
Wrl,0d Bar1t-2Th15



I          'ij
*i
\3      -



- 67 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SPECIAL SUBPROJECTS
RECEIVED UNDER NAEP I
These 4 proposals are to be jointly appraised by New Delhi Office (World Bank)
and DOE by May-end 1985.
State             Item                                           Cost
(Rs lakhs)
1.  Kerala         Establishment of central training institute         86.0
2.  Kerala         Monthly workshop  strengthening                     18.0
3.  Maharashtra    Training facilities at taluka seed farms            49.0
4.  Maharashtra    Installction of computer at headquarters             4.0
Sub-total        157.0
The below 10 subprojects are due to be appraised by DOE by September 1985.
State             Item                                           Cost
(Rs lakhs)
1.  West Bengal    Mini-computer for M&E                               45.0
2. Haryana         Strengthening of facilities at Institutes           28.0
of Agricultural Technical Training and
Education for SMS Training
3. Orissa           Strengthening of training capacity to              26.0
Orissa SAU
4.  Orissa         Strengthening of extension training                 25.0
capacity at Orissa SAD
5.  Orissa         Communication support                               14.0
6.  Orissa         Establishment of exhibition unit                     6.0
7.  Orissa         Training and demonstration support in                3.0
Tribal Areas
8.  Maharashtra    Establishment of agricultural management
training institute                                 118.0
9.  Maharashtra    Strengthening of monthly workshop and                45.0
research field staff
10. Himachal       Training in home scale fruit and vegetable
Pradesh        preservation                                        34.0
Sub-total Rs          343.0



-68- 6                                  5
Page 2 of 2
The 17 subproject proposals below have returned to states for revisioi
following review by DOE and Bank (NDO).
State              Item                                           Cost
'Rs lakhS)
1.  Maharashtra    Establishment of technical testing centers           229.0
2.  Maharashtra    Creation of additional SMS posts                      39.0
3.  Maharashtra    Upgrading of SDAO/DSMS posts                          13.0
4.  Maharashtra    New houses for VEW/AOs                               150.0
5.  Maharashtra    Training cell, MAU                                    47.0
6.  West Bengal    Strengthening of input planning & monitoring         251.0
7.  West Bengal    Strengthening of training cell at state
headquarters                                         11.0
8.  West Bengal    Strengthening of agricultural information unit    99.0
9.  West Bengal    Strengthening of 5 agricultural training             256.0
centers (ATC)
10  West Bengal    Strengthening of 45 sub-divisional                    77.0
Agricultural Research Farms (SARES)
11. West Bengal    Establishment of ATCs at Kalyani                      66.0
12. West Bengal    Establishment of ATCs at Kalimpong and                84.0
Kalaiberia
13. West Bengal    Establishment of 5 New SARFs                          26.0
14. West Bengal    Construction of meeting rooms for monthly            110.0
workshops
15. Tamil Nadu      Provision for training facilities in sub-
centers of TNAU                                    277.0
16. Tamil Nadu      Trainees Hostel at TNAUJ main campus                 10.0
17. Tamil Nadu      Training Unit at TNAU Main  Campus                   18.0
Sub-total Rs         1.763.0
(Estimated after appraisal cost 1.000.0)
1.  Central         Development of a national institute of
Projects        extension management                               200.0
2.  Central        Strengthening of extension education
Project s     institutes
Overall TOTAL Rs   1,700.0 a/   (US$13.1 million)
a/ Of this total, special subprojects to the value of about US$5.4 would be
proposed for financing under NAEP III.



- 69 -                                    AM= 6
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULIIRAL ZT=NSION PROJECT
Uttar Pradesh:  8 ecial valuation Study
1.      The GOUP recognize that the introduction of a reformed extension
system in the eastern part of the state provides an opportunity for a
rigorous evaluation of the effects of T&V eztension that vould separate
the effects of eztension fro other variables. They have taken an inter-
est in a recently completed Vorld Bank sponsored research study of exten-
sion impact conducted in Hazyana. 1/ Drawing on the methodology developed
under that research the UP SpecialEvaluation Study vill undertake a
comparative analysis of the effects of eatension by studying selected
areas within the sub-project and comparing then to areas outside of the
sub-project where the eztenion system will, for the next few years.
remain unreformed.
2.      The evaluation will be based upon the following framework:
Before Project                  After Project
without         The situation before the            The situation after the
Project         project in an area (control)       project implementation
identicad to that where the        in the control area.
project is plamed.
With            The situation in the proposed       The situation in the project
Project         project area before the project   area during and
is undertaken.                     after it has been
implemented.
3.      The principal investigative technique will be farm level sample
surveys. These will be conducted in the areas selected for study starting
in the year before the ziting system is reformed and. thereafter, in
project years three and siz. Apart from simple statistical analysis to
1/ The Impact of Agricultural htension: A Case Study of the Training and
Visit Method in Hazyana, India.  RPO 672-29.



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
establish the operational efficiency of the two systems under study sub-
sequent work will involve econometric analysis to estimate the effects of
extension on productivity when other confounding variables are controlled.
4.      The University of Kanpur has provisionally agreed to undertake the
study and discussions by the mission with the University's Department of
Agricultural Economics have established that they have suitable. and
sufficient staff. to undertake and manage the study. The Department lacks
adequate computer facilities and this weakness will be overcome by the
provision, through the project, of a suitable micro-computer.
5.      Whilst the University will have overall responsibility for the day
to day management of the study, supervision and budgetary control will be
provided by a committee consisting of the D.A., ADA and JDA (Monitoring
and Evaluation) from the Department of Agriculture. GOUP. The overall
cost of the study, including the provision of the micro-computer. is
estimated to be US$ 93,000 (total M&E component cost is US$900.000.
excluding contingencies). Additional technical guidance will be provided
to the University by IDA during the course of project supervision. All
results, as they come available. will be provided to GOUP and IDA.
6.      GOUP would enter into a formal agreement with the University of
Kanpur which will, inter alia. appoint the latter to undertake the study.
It has been agreed with GOUP and the University that this agreement shall
be reviewed by IDA prior to signature. It has also been agreed with GOUP
and the Univeristy that the latter shall prepare and submit to GWUP a
detailed, fully costed and timebound proposal for the execution of this
study. This proposal should be submitted by October 31st. 1985 and will
include sufficient data to justify the selection of the areas to be
studied. 1; Of paramount importance in determining these areas (probably
but not necessarily administrative districts is the need for them to be
geographically contiguous).
7.      The comparability of the subject areas and the control areas is
crucial. The evaluation framework noted above requires that the two areas
be identical. In practice this is obviously unlikely. but it is. analyti-
cally. possible to control for small differences between them. These
1/ This will require a comparison. using existing statistical data of at
least the following elements for all possible control and subject areas
for the past five years. net cropped area by crop. proportion irrigated
by crop. soil types, rainfall, population densFty, ratio of existing
extension staff to farmers, number of tubewells, number of tractors.
fertilizer consumption by season. miles of metalled road. proportion
of population in certain areas and any differences in the operation
and efficiency of the canal irrigation system.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
differences must. however, be minimized. By selecting geographically
neighboring areas physical, climatic and cultural differences between the
control and subject areas can be largely eliminated. If, however, as is
the case with extension, the objective is to evaluate the effects on
productivity of institutionally provided knowledge, which once released
observes few natural or administrative boundaries, then the contamination
of the control area by the subject area is possible. Minimizing this
possibility -rquires the two areas to be separated by some feature (e.g..
a large river) which strongly inhibits such contamination.
8.      Once the study areas have been selected random samples of farmers
will be chosen from each area. The sample size in each area will be about
300 observations. Once selected the farmers comprising these samples will
be interviewed once a season (immediately after the harvest) during each
of the three survey rounds. Details of sample design and all subsequent
analysis will be based on the Bank study in Haryana and worked out by the
University in discussion with GOUP and IDA. 1/
1/ Technical details of the methodology can be found in Feder G., Lau L.
J.. and Slade. R. H. "The Impact of Agricultural Extension: A Case
Study of the Training and Visit System (T&V) in Haryana, India." ARU
Discussion Paper No. 34. May 1985. Forthcoming World Bank Staff
WorkiLg Paper.



.rt
(I1,          \
)\



INDIA
Crop Calendar
(Illustration of the Conditions in Uttar Pradesh)
SEASON                                                                        Ktarrf
CROP             ,---                   1          I-         --                         --                        -
CROP   JI|   F   |  M     A        M                         A        S        0       N         0
,,-~~~                   ~~ l -             a.._._.I
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mmmn Of e@         I                     a--@         I          Autum. HalvSes
I  .    .        I        e * @ * * * * "~~~~...  _6    I*UU*-*-24s-,@  <K
@9@|we  @ @ @ @ @ @d                                                 .          :>urorv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iner Ha:rves'
''f' 1-------~~~~~~~I-                                                           ma ....... 1*@@| XX --" 
r9t1iX,\)^-                                   a......                                             *@9|suI, ea@@
iotlr ::la *.aa6@                                                                                    SS B * ,,am,"eeS= ||@1
Pape & Mustoarc             ...  ...... ....                                          a.... ..  _
Sugarcane                                                                               -P
PI = Plonting
h   Havest
World Bc-27509



0
4,       '1
I
'k



- 75 -
ANNEX 8
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Bl. Uttar Pradesh Subproject Preparation Report.
Government of Uttar Pradesh December 1985.
B2.  Assam Subproject Preperation Report. Department of Agriculture and
University of Assam, February 20. 1985.
B3. Himachal Pradesb Subproject Preparation Report. Department of
Agriculture 1984.
B4. Special Subprojects Status Report and Proposals for NAEP III. Ministry
of Agriculture. Delhi, May 4. 1985.
B5.  Memoranda of Understandings between GOUP and SAU Kanpur and SAU Faizabad.
GOA and AAU, and GOHP and HPAU and HAU.
Cl.  Printed Project File
Item 1  -  T&V Based Agricultural Extension.
Item 2  -  Status of IDA Financed Agricultural Extension Projects.
Item 3  -  Crop Production Trends for the Participating States.
Item 4  -  Training Guidelines.
Item 5  -  Uttar Pradesh Detailed Cost Tables.
Item 6  -  Assam Detailed Cost Tables.
Item 7  -  Himachal Pradesh Detailed Cost Tables.
Item 8 - Summary Cost Tables
Item 9  -  Consol:dated Civil Works and Vehicle Procurement Schedule.
Item 10 - Available Technology in Uttar Pradesh.



I 
4
#1-
4,



-77-
INDIA
NATONAL AGRICULIURAL EXTENSION PROJECT III
Auam Subprolect
Pfoposed Orgonholwl Plon of the Department of Agrculure (Extendon Semce)
PRO| E  COOOINDTING COMMITTEE
< H~~~~~~~~~~MMRN  & EVALAAION UN
ASS eAd DIREC=AS                   IREASSrANDIRECTORASSBIAN1 DSECIOR
cmt SpZlddIt                                                        OF AGRICUILTURE               STATE
-Sol SunIy                                                            (EXTENSION)
. _ 9V                                                           Subjec Matter Specialist Traitnrg & Information
_trv                                                           ' Subfect Matter Specallst Agronom
S_*                                .-Subec Moiter Spocialist EntomaologV
ZONAL. JOINT DIRECTOR           ZONES(5)
OF AGRICTE
[u,9tect Matter Specalit Agrxnamy
S(Mter Speclalist Form Input S&ppty
Coordinwatbon
DIRICT AGRPICLTLPU  I           DEISRICIS (14)
-  OFRICERS (DAO) 
-SUWct Mottor Speci[alist Agtronorr
_SuIjec1 Matter SpeCcialist Plant Protection
SJBDMASKOf%J AGPiCAtIupAi
EXTENSKIN OFFICERS (SDAEO)         SUBDMSIONS (48)
S.-9ect Matter Speciist AganamWy
Subject Mtoter SPecialist Pant Protection
Subtect Motter S.,aciolist Horhcruite/
Special Sublects
ASSISTANI~
EXTENSI  OFFICEP               CIRCLES (356)
EXTENSION OFF~                 ELEKA (2.644)
FA1RM    T:ERU1                                WOWl on*-27512



-78-
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXENSION PROJECT III
Assam Subprojed
Unkages Between Extnwlon and Research
SrAlE LEL                       SrAUTORV
1ECHNrA      - _   _  _  _     RE;EMCH COUNI
e _   M M E E                     (AAU)
.01~~~~~~~I
.00~~~~~~~~~~~4
AGRKXLTME                                      AG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RICULTURAL
UNIVERSAYV
S                I          '7EHN_A  ZOA          RESAC
\\ ~~~~~~~~//
I ,
VVodld Bank-26609



-79-
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULlURAL EXiENSO PROJECT III
Ullar Pnodeh SubprolW
Proposed OgonkaHlonal Pondof the Depament of AguIulure (Extension Sewlce)
DUECIU? OF MOROQ1cAIM            PROJECT COOUOfWW. CObMMIEi
DIIECTO OF ArM U*              A       MON111OIING VnALUR    UNIX
DSCIOA Q       AlAN! D11*001?           A=11AM CIR5COR            AS    DI,  A   COI
Of AGRICUIIUIE            OF AGRIQJIJIP            OF AGtZl
51  1cS              zINSI(ADM tIONRa         (501 COSERVAhOFNI             (GEAP&)
Dpuly Dobctor of AgIIL4umI                                                                   ASWAMW DU!EC1OQ
Coos    a eeams                                                                               OF ARaIwR                   SUIE LEEWI
1Subct Mat_ St2UCIabI CuaP Rock.isrn
_.,    5|4-cl  Mon lOfA nCd
I(Jcrd deca'a Agcw)
&ibije Mafle. SpecKaiW rdbnis*an
(j wknc,I, atAgculitve)
&ijged MtWW UeCIt AdaptW, Infla
(JdW IOIQCn)
- Subjet Mr*e. sredaiW Is 1g
(.at ld     0    da  QcAue)
DOE C         IO DU IORNS (4)
SubectFdWWIh Speote AIXh~ blab
(DOaectuofAgdguiWke)
Subjectafle Specdata Tuanng & k0ommatun
(Deutv DueCtar af Ae*Xe)
_abect MoWe SpedaW Agwnn
(Dept D*ctro d      _AC-ult)
- Suect Mate. SpeCkW Sl 5   Cra
(DeputV Oket drACsiume)
_       MAAtar SpUd      b
(Depnty       of ae Q ute)
(COMMUNW D MELOt'b4141'              DSO  AGEI UL UAL)      I        WITS(
DEPARNF&NI)                       O E10
f S9e Mo0er Soeoist ARanafw
Sect Molbr  ow  RFtCU O
Su_ ec Mte SpeClo na HOdtmc~to
VILL^GE WEL         _  C~IIa 101em10 TEIIWY
m1OCK DEWaowMENf OFRC0R                                                        (55)rtA
(COW*UNIIV DE'AtLOPL.fE   --D4                                                I85
DEPARTINfIN)                EXESONO    RS(AD
-F                 :~~~~~~I Subjet matte Spec bta  ba'wrg
MU-LAGE LEVEL                 SL 9jjc Mate Spec=TaiWQra'wV
WOQItER                    _ Se MaItr Specld  AuCtgtnr
-Sloectmat Subects  "m nm
~~~~~~~~ 9,xm                                                               tb~LgSWid98rl
NI
EXTESO  WRE
I
0.                                                           M6A& LW                                    W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aMflof-27510



-80-
2^2X;s;R;I;2;V
* | s * | s s . .~~~~~~~~~
i1k111i
|tie~~U
TS~~~~~
if        X



-81-
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULILRA EXTENSION PROJECT III
Uftar Prdcesh 
Unkages Bkween,Research and' Exlon
SAELEM                       STAWIUTR
EONL   ________ --             ARESEARCH
cOahmTEECCL
l       '\           ~~~~/
.0 dOd a            I
lAEO4LU                                                     UN- JSRESEAC
9weD~~~~~~~SON    _-~~~MOML
SEO~~~~~EHrARSAC
|~~~~~~WOC"SAOS
Shffi)~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   t*Rt2S 



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT III
Himachal Pradesh SubProject
Extension Organization
STATE AJfEX  CO IMSITTEE  I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
|      1   0^ ~~DH, CM.A:, VC 14PAUI
|    anECTo 7 OF  t                      D4f EC3
r --___-__--                                                ADA (ExTENSK)NI    EVALLAUON UW
HPI                                 |EIE JOAGRASHOTIE                                                                        |    RA
I0                                                 I                                                                             -Xy1S 
A, 
u"s I                                                                                                                              I L I
I                                                                                                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1--''~~~~~4 1(~1EMA40A 1I 
FARMER UT                                  FAR UNr        l
_                                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol o*



-83-
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL E)rENSION PROJECT III
Hk ,adPodPmd S h4%*
Unkages Between Extesbn and Research
STATE LEVEL                     AO\
TECHNr-                        COMMMTEE
co#*/ImEE                           S
REGIONAL                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SKAUJ
ID\PAR\\ENIS OF
AGRICLILTURE/                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICIULIURE
UNNMRSflY
t1 | ~HEADQUARTEPS|
MONTH&Y              RESEARCH
AGR8/11R             VVORKSFIP       oo      STAFTION
| DlSTRIlC                                       RIA
SUS  |                       ~~~~~~~PROGRAM
I    ^EO/I
I  EO     I
World Bank -26805
VBN



NOTES



MAP SECTION



_XHtWAC _IBRD 19057R
CHINA
r~~~ 4 "s'ZYRD NAIOA
r  r     O  /PAKtSTAN             / C                      f
UT?1 ;//j'AR   '(/     N EPAL        .I  r%
UTTAR                   eBSTATEa                    HUTAN
,~///   .*Pctn        e~.mEGHALAYA
BIHR      BNGLADESH
atr
Ray4. Of Beongal
ANHRAi            /--"THIRD NATIONAL
_E_STEANDION PROJECT
tec           ;NAE.P.  CU AREAS
NA.E.P. I AREAS
OMociroo    EXISTINS PROJE-CTS
T4r.an     t7Iiadrcs
* STATE CAPITALS
TAMot NADU                 0   NATIONAL CAPITAL
Kll-   STATEAND UNION
'1   ~~~~~~~ ~TERtITORtY BOUNDARIES
KERAA                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0   !0      4?0 
P   r      -                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~SRI
mIomast                          ~~~~~~LANKA
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D .                                                       _1
-.Wewnay mU&,*.Sp.bP'S  b -t8
a-wCp    cinnnw. ee..a,mnwa..    d~
May 1986



IBRD 190f
t                         ~~~~~~~~           ~~~I N D I A           AKTNh DON    (   ;4 HUA
HIAIACiVAZ PRAVESH                               TH/uIRD NATONAL AGRICULTURALa+8s.3
\                   N~DMSION PRWECT,-                                                           aDE
U-;    JTAII KAS"Il                                                                        21  
h#rA~~XS - . ,, . , TEHRI C^t"W^I \  -E                 C      H   I  N   A
t < t\, gS 6t,, ... t | F~~~~ITHKXAGARH M                                                                             SRI LANKA
*/    %,,    -             j  ~~~~~~~~AL&OIA  A                   PROJCX BOUNDAR
t   \   _                    @      . t.r. ._         :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ STAE ARCULTRA LaNIVERSMES
M UZAFAfrRNiAGAII                    Wl        1                           DEPARIMRFN OF AGRKXCTIURE FIELD TRA^I CENTE1l
} ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 DPA IUNR          ENM OF AGRlcunilF aEGKON HEADRARTES
(  Rf.ERUI                                                           El\w|NINII I J    ZONE RESEARCH SIATONs
)   @@._.  \   V  J              . - j                  ~~~~~~INLEMENTATION PtHASING:
4         1/_   Cili_  R~~~NAMUR %                                   4          E
5 zowD^D , ,,Tt_- 1 ,* L~~~~~~~~S ECOND YER aslRlCTs
vJ\  aS .                              5 EIL         PIIB^ll Hll\1 S^IAF CAPTL
A^M  \          \            t s   )\       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~NnOkINA 141GHWAYS
$* .) zF j \ } \ f a  \ < ---- - - -- ~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUJNrDAI7S 
%      \        \>    .                                            .                                             DISIRICI 110UNtAPIS
II^ATHLIIA                                  .SHAHIAAJR_    >
S \ I ~~A       I     CR  ErAH              >:A > RAICH                                                            SIATE BO)UNDARIES
M Aw,HlIPu\                                                 611 tI
AGRA                                                                                                      GORMAN <  \i
] SAO/ftA I>RACFSE |~~~UNNA
AfDr       PA-D'S                                                                    FAI#A    DSH_w
0-IAlITPUR &                                                           t    _t   IIIIRKANPUR
we~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"MRU                                                                        J              1_
t  _   r  ss r r *s w1zP . _ NS
f_wore_Sal f -~~~Xsr w { . 40 ~ v 120 DAND _                         A L
AUGUSI 19J85



INDIA                                                      
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ASSAM  SUB - PROJECT
LAKHIM             DIBRUGAR        _ 
/ASUKULIBORA0>S
8    H    U    T    A    N RAJUL                                                                                  P
M E G~~~~~~ H A          R D U A  R5,Ao   .                                       AR :   ;.,
/4.                                                 0    P  R - I   / ~                           e AG.DP
GOSS4,1GENRPEA JHARN~
OA                        KI I
\  r rus -sr ** s/# _ r v   j \ t /    /\                                               V *'*   A   r. -~~':~ 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\  .~   .                                                                J  *.,.> -.:, ..:.  * t  cr  .@,-c;
V- A                        T                                               _N___
KAGADEH\AAA
IJANA ..  \                        KA.
aM._E_GHALA_YIA_ __C;''AR(. 
N   D  I A'r~.                          ~I                                                                        
C           '-V ~~~~~   -. 'AA       ~               HA
r  - ~~~~~~~~~~~RIUA    IZORAM 
- LV9   .SVJv                                             ,, 



lill(U 'IYUDY
76'                                77'                                 78
___   _                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~J A M  l\fi U
- - l m   ,-_ -7,_sA N D
K A S H M  I R
_.___         _                                                   I                                N A
-32C                                           0K.  lKq               I '                    /                 32'-
/e . Dhor6msaa                                                                  H,  N
\ X ~~~~HomiroLir* .:!
t <3  *Sderrlogor~~~~~~~~~~~~~Klo
P/~~~~~i
&        k         >  vo~~~~~Mshabrar/ 
O                            /Simlo                  .f
-.  * g            , v            F R ~~~~~~~A-.E  
31- t w-e,fi                                                                  31*-
1.       .                   I'
\  }  '          :PR                     DES
0      20      AO      60     80
>  1 6 6 /                   ~~~~~~~~~Kilometers
Miles
I N D IA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Himachal Pradesh Subproject
_.~ _ - -  Intemationrd boundaries
Project                                             State boundaries
*      State agricultural university camDuses
District boundaries
*      Departmnent of agriculture schoolt                   c   oudre
Block boundaries
Main roads                                    (      State capital
PRivers                                        0     District headquarters
76'                                 77                                78
MAY 1986






