Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16156
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1754-IN)
December 9, 1996
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs)
SAR (December 1986) Rsl3.00 = US$1.00
Completion Year (March 1995) Rs31 .37 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEO         Agricultural Extension Officer
ATC         Advanced Training Centre
DOA         Department of Agriculture
DOE         Division of Extension (of Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India)
EEI         Extension Education Institute
FMC         Field Management Committee
FTS         Field Trial Station
GOA         Government of Assam
GOI         Government of India
GOHP        Government of Himachal Pradesh
GOUP        Government of Uttar Pradesh
HP          State of Himachal Pradesh
ICAR        Indian Council of Agricultural Research
IDA         International Development Association
MANAGE   National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
NAEP        National Agricultural Extension Project
NARP        National Agricultural Research Project
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SAU         State Agricultural University
SDR         Special Drawing Right
SMS         Subject Matter Specialist
SSP         Special Sub-Projects
T&V         Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
UP          State of Uttar Pradesh
VEW/VEO   Village Extension Worker/Officer
WB          World Bank
ZRS         Zonal Research Station
Vice-President        :       D. Joseph Wood
Director              :       R. Drysdale
Division Chief/Manager        S. Barghouti
Staff Member:                 A. Seth, Principal Agriculturalist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1754-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P R E F A   C E   ..............................................................i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY   .............................................................    ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                            1..................................... 
A.         Project Objectives ..............................................                                                 I
B.          Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................................                                2
C.         Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  .......  7
D.         Project Sustainability                          ..............................................    12
E.    Bank Performance   .                                 ..............................................  12
F.    Borrower Performance .                                 ..............................................  12
G.         Assessment of Outcome ..............................................                                             13
H.         Future Operation  ..............................................                                                  13
I.         Key Lessons Learned  ..............................................                                               14
PART  II.  STATISTICAL  TABLES  .............                                       ...................................                  16
Table  1.   Summary  of Assessments ...........................................  16
Table 2.  Related  Bank Loans/Credits ...........................................                                           18
Table 3.   Project Timetables ...........................................                                                   19
Table 4.   Loan/ Credit Disbursements ...........................................                                           19
Table 5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ......................................... 20
Table 6.   Key Indicators for Project Operation                              ........................................... 24
Table 7.   Studies Included  in Project .............                              ...................... .         ..... 24
Table 8.   Project Costs and Financing  .......................................... 25
Table 9.   Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                                           25
Table  10.  Status of Legal Covenants                                .......................................... 26
Table  11.  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ....................                                    .......... 28
Table  12.  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs                               .......................................... 28
Table  13.  Bank Resources:  Missions ...............                                   ............................ 29
Appendix A.    Analysis of Crop  Production  Trends ................................................                                    30
Appendix  B.    Mission's Aide Memoire ................................................   39
Appendix  C.   Internal Consultancy  Studies ................................................  55
Appendix D.   Borrower's Assessment                               ......................            ..........................    58
Tis document has a restricted distribuiion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oificial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



I



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1754-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third National Agricultural
Extension Project (NAEP III) in India for which Credit 1754-IN in the amount of SDR71.7 million
(US$85.0 million) was approved on January 20, 1987 and made effective on January 5, 1988.
SDR12.5 million and SDR3.0 million were cancelled on December 5, 1991 and May 1, 1993,
respectively, as part of the funds redeployment exercise. The IDA Credit was closed on March 31,
1995, after a one-year extension. Final disbursement from the Credit was made on August 24, 1995 at
which time the revised credit amount was fully disbursed.
This ICR draft was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program which visited India in July 1995. It was finalized by Mr. Ashok Seth and Ms. Teresita
Estoque, Agriculture and Water Operations, Country Department 2, South Asia Regional Office, and
and reviewed by Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Division Chief, and Ms. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser,
SA2DR. Preparation of the ICR was based on material in the project files, field investigations and
discussions with staff of the World Bank and Departments of Agriculture (DOAs) of the Governments
of Assam (GOA), Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) and Himachal Pradesh (GOHP) and the Division of
Extension (DOE) in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) of the Government of India (GOI), who were
associated with the project. Representatives of the Directorates of Extension of the GOA, GOUP,
GOHP and GOI contributed to the preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and meetings with
field staff and farmers concerned with the project, providing separate draft completion reports on the
project and commenting on the mission's Aide-Memoire. The Borrower's Assessment of the Project is
in Appendix D.



i



11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1754-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The project (NAEP III) was the fifteenth in a series of IDA-assisted projects since
1974 to introduce and strengthen the Training and Visit (T&V) system of agricultural
extension throughout the states of India. While early assistance was given to many
individual states, at the national level, later support was given through three NAEPS
(Credits 1523-IN, 1569-IN and 1754-IN).
Project Objectives
2.    The project aimed to (a) introduce the T&V system of agricultural extension in
Himachal Pradesh (HP) and eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP); (b) further strengthen the
reorganized agricultural extension system and the linkages between research and extension
that were introduced in Assam under the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Credit
728-IN); and (c) assist in the implementation of Special Sub-Projects (SSPs) on extension
related activities at the central and state levels through the replenishment of the SSP fund
established in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) under NAEP I (Credit 1523-IN). The
realization of these objectives was to be achieved through the provision of funds for
construction of offices, residential and training facilities, incremental staff, purchase of
vehicles and equipment, and operating expenses. These would support and improve:
extension services and adaptive research; staff training; monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
and information unit activities; further development of the capacity of the Division of
Extension (DOE) of the Government of India (GOI) as a national coordinating and
technical assistance agency; extension development in western UP and a limited number of
districts in the States of Punjab and Bihar; and training facilities and training programs in a
number of small states and educational and research institutions throughout India.
3.    The project was based on the Bank's and GOI's long experience in agricultural
extension development and aimed at completing the introduction of the T&V system of
agricultural extension throughout the majority of states in India. It appeared to respond
well to the Borrower's circumstances and the development priority for the agricultural
sector oriented towards increasing agricultural production, achieving self-sufficiency in
foodgrains and increasing farm household incomes.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Achievement of Project Objectives. The T&V system of agricultural extension
was subsequently institutionalized in the States of UP and HP and strengthened in Assam
as planned (refer target indicators in Part II, Table 5). SSPs supporting the expansion of
the T&V system in other states were successfiul in Punjab but not in Bihar. Other SSPs
improved the capability of selected institutions to provide training to extension staff in
improved technologies of priority commodities and in extension management. In addition,
a number of other SSPs improved communication capabilities and production of media
materials for extension purposes in many states, provided overseas training for extension
trainers, and strengthened the capacity of the central government to undertake in-depth
reviews of various aspects of the extension system in India. The states now have a more
professional agricultural extension service than previously, as a result of better
organizational structure, better technical and administrative control, improved facilities
and equipment, better staff mobility, and better trained and more knowledgeable staff, and
improved links with research. However, there still exists significant scope to improve the
institutional, managerial and operational effectiveness and efficiency of agricultural
extension services to ensure greater impact on farm production and household incomes
(see para 8 and paras 12-14).
5.    Project Sustainability.   Following completion of the project, both the
Governments of UP and Assam appear committed to maintain the basic institutional
arrangement and operational model of the T&V agricultural extension system
introduced/strengthened under the project. However, in HP there has been a move to
break up the system by separating agricultural and horticultural extension activities and
terminating regular staff training programs.  Reduced regular budget allocations for
1995/96 for all DOAs and continuing serious problems with staff vacancies in UP and HP,
however, indicate some uncertainty in all states in the maintenance of the agricultural
extension system as planned.
6.    Project Costs and Financing. From the IDA Credit of SDR71.7 million (US$85
million), total disbursements as of August 24, 1995 (following a five-month grace period
for reimbursements after project closure) were SDR56.2 million (US$77.71 million), with
SDR15.5 million (US$18.375) canceled. Thus in SDR terms, 78 percent of the original
Credit was utilized. Additional IDA disbursements of SDR12.083 million (US$16.65
million) were provided for financing the SSP in western UP from savings from the unspent
IDA Credit for NAEP I (Credit 1523-IN). Total project cost was Rs.2,824 million
(estimated US$125.38 million at historic annual exchange rates), which was 55 percent
above the original estimated project cost in Rupee terms, due to a 138 percent devaluation
of the Rupee against the US Dollar, but was only 89 percent of estimated project costs in
US Dollar terms.
7.    Implementation Timetable. While many of the physical targets set in the SAR
were met, they were generally delayed in relation to the original implementation schedule



lv
in the SAR, were adjusted in all states following project mid-term reviews, and required a
one-year extension of the project to be substantially completed.
8.    Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Project Objectives.  The strong
commitment of state DOAs was an important factor in establishing/strengthening
improved agricultural extension services. The regular training programs of field extension
staff and farm visits, and closer research-extension relationships, enhanced staff and farmer
knowledge and the adoption of improved agricultural technologies and practices by
farmers. However, a number of factors' concerning problems with staff quality and
recruitment, staff mobility, civil works program and project financing (paras 19-27, Part
I), contributed to both delays in project implementation and in successfully completing the
institutional system proposed. More generally, the project design emphasized institutional
establishment and operational modality. Lesser emphasis was given to project impact on
farm production and household incomes. Weaknesses were apparent in the M&E system
introduced (para 30, Part I) and its effectiveness in feeding back appropriate information
to management and insufficient use was made of the outcomes of special studies on the
extension system undertaken by the DOE. There was also a growing awareness that the
T&V system introduced was too rigidly structured, both in terms of institutional structure
and operational modality. When these factors were combined with emergent state funding
constraints, this lead to some positive modifications of the system by the state DOAs
aimed at improving operational efficiency and effectiveness and financial sustainability.
9.    Bank's Performance. The Bank undertook more than 75 missions to assist the
Governments of Assam, UP, HP, Punjab and Bihar in early project preparation and
supervision missions during implementation of the project. A more critical analysis of
previous Bank-supported projects in extension in India at project appraisal may have
foreshadowed the emergent deficiencies in the standard 'T&V system blueprint" as
proposed.  Supervision mission reports indicated that the missions provided detailed
reviews of implementation progress of the project, and while indicating deficiencies in
implementation, gave helpful and constructive advice to overcome such problems.
Supervision missions were generally staffed from the World Bank Resident Mission in
India, and by local consultants. Because these were frequent, short-duration missions, this
provided a continuous contact and assistance in implementation.
10.   Borrower's Performance. The DOAs of the Governments of Assam, UP and BP
endeavored to implement the project as proposed. Much has been achieved in terms of
institutional development, improvement of extension services to farmers, and agricultural
production. All State DOAs have modified the originally proposed T&V system in
various ways to improve extension performance and impact on farm production. Several
outside factors, such as slow budget release, staff recruitment bans, problems with
redeployment of staff and cancellation of some investments (civil works and vehicles)
caused serious delays or failure to implement several proposed activities. These chronic
IMostly subject to Governuent/Implementing Agencies' control.



v
problems were repeatedly brought to the notice of the respected state governments by
World Bank supervision missions, but were never speedily or satisfactorily resolved.
11.   Assessment of Project Outcome. The overall project outcome is assessed as
partially satisfactory, as significant deficiencies occurred both in implementation
achievements and operational effectiveness as a result of flawed project design (refer para
12). A professional agricultural extension services was substantially established, together
with functional and effective linkages between research and extension, resulting in an
appreciable increase in extension credibility among farmers and associated gains in crop
productivity and increased intensity and diversity of farm production. While achievements
in establishing improved extension services in three additional districts in the State of
Punjab under the SSP for Punjab was also satisfactory, the result for the SSP in the State
of Bihar was unsatisfactory. The implementation of other SSPs resulted in an improved
national perspective on extension development in India and contributed significantly to the
establishment of a chain of training centers throughout the country.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Important Findings. The main finding that has emerged is that the design of the
T&V system as promulgated by the Bank in India is seriously flawed, particularly in
relation to operational modality. While the project has contributed to improvements in
food production and farm household incomes, the T&V system has not provided
sufficiently widespread coverage of the farming community, is based on a top-down
system of packaged messages to farmers, does not have the anticipated dissemination of
information from contact farmers to fellow farmers, and, being both staff and cost
intensive, appears to be financially unsustainable. Governments have had to consider
alternative means of reducing staffing levels and modalities of operation of extension
services and other opportunities for cost savings, to ensure a more cost-effective,
responsive and quality service to farmers.
13.   Plans for Future Operations. The three project states have acknowledged the
need for further improvements in extension services. Future objectives for development of
extension services include policies to further promote the farmer-centered approach to
extension, to curtail non-extension activities by extension staff, to improve staff mobility,
to improve broad-based advice and coordination between relevant line agencies, to
improve the marketing situation, to provide specific training programs for rural women, to
better utilize public sector media for promoting extension information, to improve
research-extension linkages, and to promote greater involvement of NGOs in DOA
extension programs.
14.   Lessons Learned.  The main lessons learned relate to the need for further
improvement to the extension services, as follows:
a) All state DOEs variously modified the T&V agricultural extension system
introduced to improve efficiency.  Important institutional and operational



vi
modifications that have implications to further development of extension
services in India include: the possibility of modifying the hierarchical structure
of the T&V system by a reduction in operational/supervisory layers of staffing
which reduce costs and place SMSs in closer contact with farmers (Phase II in
UP); adoption of farmer-centered group approach (in Assam) which can create
greater farmer coverage and participation in extension activities; the possibility
to reduce the frequency of regular training for SMSs and AEOs/VEWs (both in
Assam and HP) as knowledge and skills of these staff improve; and the need to
broad-base extension advice and technical support to farmers on all aspects of
farm production.
b) Lack of staff mobility is still constraining operations of field extension staff.
Inadequate advantage was taken by the state governments of finance and
provide policy support for the proposed personal loans scheme for staff to
purchase private vehicles for public use.
c) More emphasis should have been given in project design to improve
management capacity, promoting operational decentralization and planning,
improving staff supervision and performance, funding special studies to
evaluate project impact, ensuring that M&E activities would provide
appropriate feedback to management decision-making, ensuring participatory
involvement of farmers in diagnosis of problems and opportunities to improve
farm production and in research and extension and planning, and providing
appropriate incentives for staff to improve their individual performance.
d) There is a need to more fully exploit the use of cost effective media materials
(radio, television and video and printed materials) and modern communication
systems to enhance dissemination of technical information).
e) There is a need to review the methodologies used for monitoring and
evaluation of the extension system and provide appropriate training in data
collection and analysis so that M&E Units can provide a much better
evaluation of the operational effectiveness and efficiency of the extension
system, the impact of extension on farming practices, productivity and farm
household incomes and the needs for further research. The M&E system
should also operate in a more decentralized, more locally specific manner.
f) The inclusion of a component to finance SSPs for the GOI to undertake
regular reviews and special studies, provided flexibility in project design to
allow the GOI to obtain a national perspective on extension development in
India. However, insufficient use was made of this information by state DOAs
to rectify specific constraints and identified weaknesses in extension
development.



vii
g) The T&V system, as instituted, is both staff and cost intensive, and thus places
considerable financial strain on State Governments to maintain the system and
thereby affects staffing levels and availability of funds for operations,
maintenance and further essential capital investment. Governments have to
consider means of reducing staffing levels of extension services and other
opportunities (e.g. reducing government involvement in input supplies) for cost
savings, as well as policies which prmote extension services (advice) from
NGOs, input suppliers, private sector and mass media.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1754-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
1.    The objective of the Third Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP III) was to:
(a) introduce the training and visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension in Himachal
Pradesh (HP) and eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP); (b) further strengthen the reorganized
agricultural extension system and the linkages between research and extension that were
introduced in Assam under the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Credit 728-IN),
and (c) assist in the implementation of Special Sub-Projects (SSPs) on extension-related
activities at the central and state levels through the replenishment of the SSP fund
established in the Ministry of Agriculture of the Government of India (GOI) under NAEP
I (Credit 1523-IN). The realization of these objectives in Assam, UP and HP was to be
achieved through the provision of incremental staff, vehicles, equipment and operating
expenses to support extension; comprehensive staff training programs; support for
adaptive research; the activities of the monitoring and evaluation information (M&E) unit;
and construction of offices, residential and training facilities. SSPs included assistance in
extension development in western UP, and a limited number of districts in the states of
Punjab and Bihar, as well as limited but wide-ranging assistance to improve training
facilities and training programs in a number of small states and selected educational and
research institutions throughout India.
2.    NAEP III was the fifteenth in a series of IDA-assisted projects since 1974 to
reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in India through the introduction of the
T&V system of agricultural extension. This project would complete IDA assistance in
agricultural extension development to all seventeen major states in India. Earlier support
at the national level was given through the National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP
I-Credit 1523-IN) and the National Agricultural Extension Project II (NAEP II-Credit
1569-IN). Originally it was proposed that five states would participate in NAEP III
(Assam, UP, HP, West Bengal and Bihar), but as components were not adequately
prepared for appraisal for West Bengal it was not included and Bihar was only included
under a SSP. NAEP III became effective in January 1988, although project start-up
activities commenced as early as 1985/86, and was originally scheduled to be completed
by March 31, 1994, but was extended by one year (to March 31, 1995).
3.    The project concept supported the Bank's country strategy to ensure a uniform
approach to agricultural extension by completing the introduction of the T&V system



2
throughout the majority of states in India. It also responded well to the Borrower's
circumstances and the development priority for the agricultural sector oriented towards
increasing agricultural production, achieving self-sufficiency in foodgrains and increasing
farm household incomes. It, however, implicitly assumed the existence and promotion of
appropriate technologies for extension to farmers in all areas, but technologies promoted
were mainly confined to the more favored environments. Overall, the timing of the
project, its scope and the relative size of project components were appropriate. However,
the large number and relatively small monetary size of the SSPs, except in UP',
determined that their supervision by the World Bank would not be cost effective, thus
supervision responsibility was given to GOI. While many risks were identified in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) which could adversely affect project implementation, these were
considered as minimal. Many of these individual risks materialized to a variable extent,
but collectively had only a moderately adverse effect on project outcome.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
4.    The T&V system was substantially institutionalized in the States of UP and HP and
strengthened in Assam as planned (refer target indicators in Table 5, Part II). The design
of the project placed more emphasis on physical achievements in institutionalizing the
T&V system of agricultural extension than on initiatives concerned with improving quality
and impact of extension. While physical targets set for judging project achievements in
terms of institutional development and operational modality were found to be generally
satisfactory, the methodology used for evaluation of extension quality and impact by
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) units was inadequate. It was therefore difficult for
extension managers and project supervisors/evaluators to properly assess the effectiveness
of the extension system introduced and its impact on agricultural production.
Sector Policies
5.    The Bank's agricultural program in India during the past 24 years has aimed at
assisting India to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains and increase farm incomes in an
equitable manner. This project responded to a request from GOI to IDA to provide
further assistance to establish professional agricultural extension services throughout all
the major states of India in an attempt to achieve these national goals. The project has
contributed partially to the achievement of these sector objectives in Assam, UP and HP,
although the precise extent of its contribution cannot be estimated (refer para 18).
Physical Objectives
6.    Except for inadequate staff recruitment in UP and HP and insufficient provision of
housing for field staff in all states, many of the physical targets set in the SAR were
substantially met by the scheduled completion of the project (March 31, 1994), but were
generally delayed in relation to the original implementation schedule. Mid-term reviews
For convenience the review of the SSP for western UP is included with the original eastern UP component.



3
scheduled for 1990 were separately undertaken by the Governments of Assam (GOA), UP
(GOUP), and HP (GOHP) in 1991. Many of the original physical targets were revised
according to these reviews (refer Table 5, Part II): increased staff numbers, decreases in
civil works program (particularly staff housing), increases in vehicle numbers and
increased training programs. The most significant outcome of the review was to utilize
unspent funds from NAEP I to extend the project coverage to include an extra 31 districts
in western UP under a separate SSP, with appropriate funding for incremental staff, civil
works, vehicles and equipment and training programs.
7.    Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment. Some 288 offices, 4,500 houses, 171
training halls, and some DOA and State Agricultural Universities (SAU) training facilities
were scheduled for construction under the project in the States of Assam, UP and HP
(refer Table 5, Part II). In addition, funds were provided for the purchase of some 57
cars, 416 jeeps/vans and 8,300 motorcycles/mopeds/bicycles.  The most significant
changes to the attainment of project targets were in relation to: (a) additional construction
of offices and residences at headquarters and zonal centers in Assam; (b) a large reduction
in the number of residences constructed for field extension staff in all states; (c) an
increase in vehicle purchases in UP and large reduction in HP; and (d) considerable
variation between states in implementation and success with uptake of motorcycle/moped
and bicycle purchases by field staff under the government personal loans scheme. The
project also provided audio-visual equipment to support extension operations, as well as
office furniture and equipment needed for expanded extension activities for training and
effective monitoring and evaluation.
8.    Incremental Staff. Some 11,060 incremental staff positions were to be created
for the newly established extension directorates in UP and HP, as well as some 640
additional staff in Assam. Most incremental staff positions were sanctioned and filled as
scheduled in Assam, but although sanctioned were only partially filled in HP (around 25-
30 percent vacancies during project) and greatly underfilled in UP, due to long-continuing
litigation by some 1,500 government staff under the Community Development Department
refusing re-deployment to field extension positions in the Directorate of Extension.
9.    Staff Training. A considerable amount of training was undertaken by all states
during the project. Training for staff included:
a) Regular fortnightly and monthly training for field extension staff, Training halls
were established under the project and regular fortnightly training for Village
Extension Workers (VEWs) by Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) were
undertaken.   SMSs in turn received monthly training from  Extension
Departments of the local State Agricultural Universities (SAUs).
b) A range of short in-service training for all staff was undertaken. While many
in-service training activities were completed as scheduled (some greatly
exceeded the original targets), there were some areas of training in which the



4
number of courses or individual number of staff participating was greatly
reduced, most notably study tours and promotional and refresher training.
Institutional Development
10.   T&V System of Extension. The T&V system of extension was substantially
institutionalized in the States of Assam, UP and HP as planned. In Assam, the extension
system established under the previous World Bank project (Credit 728-IN) was continued
and strengthened under this project. In UP it was newly established in a phased manner,
firstly in eight districts in 1985/86, a further eight districts in 1986/87, and nine districts in
1991/92 in the eastern part of the state, and in the second phase, under the SSP for UP, in
31 districts in the western area in 1991/92, leaving eight hill districts remaining outside the
T&V system. In HP, the T&V system was established and institutionalized as planned in
all seven agricultural districts and five horticultural districts throughout the state. The
SSPs in the States of Bihar and Punjab aimed to expand the T&V system to a further 11
districts in Bihar and three districts in Punjab. A single line of technical and administrative
command was established for extension activities with staff stationed at zone/division,
district, sub-division/block, clust¢r/circle and village (eleka) level. Under the T&V
system, the VEWs were responsible for advising selected contact farmers (8-10 per
village) in up to 15 villages per dircle, representing a total farm household population of
between 600-1,200 with lowest ratio in HP and highest in UP. Technical support was
provided by Agricultural Extension Officers (AEOs) at cluster level and SMSs at sub-
division and district level.
11.   Strengthening of DOA Training Centers/Institutes. Relatively little emphasis
and assistance was given to establishing/strengthening DOA Training Centers/Institutes
(TCs) under the project for pre-induction and other in-service training. In Assam, a new
TC was constructed at Naltoli. In UP there were no special plans to upgrade TCs. In HP,
the proposal to upgrade two staff training centers at Mashobra and Sundernagar and
establish another new TC at Dharmsala was not implemented.
12.   Support for State Agricultural Universities (SAUs). The responsibility for staff
training was shared between the SAUs and DOAs, with SAUs having particular
responsibility for SMS training at monthly workshops and for special course-work.
Extension Directorates in local SAUs (two in Assam, three in UP and two in HP) were
strengthened through provision of incremental staff, additional training facilities, hostels
for trainees, equipment for teaching and producing and printing extension materials, and
vehicles to improve mobility of training staff and trainees.
13.   Support for Research Stations. The project did not directly support research.
Zonal Research Stations (ZRSs) were established and operationalized in association with
SAUs under the National Agricultural Research Projects (NARP and II). In addition,
DOAs in each state have a larger number of regional adaptive trial centers cum seed farms
which were expected to be phased out during the course of the project as the ZRSs
became functional. This did not occur in any of the project states.



5
14.   Special Sub-Projects. The main purpose of the SSPs was to develop the training
capabilities of the States, particularly in management and communication methodology for
supervisory staff, guide them in extension methodologies and establish close linkages with
research. Special efforts were made to qualitatively improve extension and training
management through the provision of more responsive and advanced training in
management and communication methodology for supervisory staff. Three main types of
SSPs were supported, viz. State Sector SSPs, Central Sector SSPs and Centrally-
Sponsored SSPs.
15.   State Sector SSPs included project assistance to the States of UP (previously
mentioned), Bihar and Punjab. Support was given to expand the T&V system in Punjab
(3 new districts) through improvement in extension services, construction of civil works
and provision of training in association with Punjab Agricultural University. The SSP in
Bihar aimed at expanding the T&V system into 11 new districts, but was terminated in
March 1992 due to unsatisfactory progress.
16.   Central Sector SSPs included: (a) establishment of Inter-Disciplinary Teams for
reviewing and implementing ongoing Central and State Sector agricultural extension
programs; (b) establishment of an Internal Consultancy Program where experts were
deputed to study specific aspects of agricultural extension; (b) organization of annual
National Seminars/Workshops to discuss policies and programs related to extension
management, training and farm information; (d) establishment of training programs for
extension personnel to undertake higher degrees and selected short-course training, both
in India and overseas; and (e) establishment of computer network facilities in DOE and
States to assist M&E activities.
17.   Centrally-Sponsored SSPs included project assistance to:
a) Fund institutional strengthening, including: development of training facilities at
15 Advanced Training Centers (ATCs) to serve as centers of excellence at
SAUs, Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) and Central
Institutions; establishment of the National Institute of Agricultural Extension
Management (MANAGE) to cater for the training requirements of senior
extension staff in extension management; and the establishment/strengthening
of four Extension Education Institutes (EEls) to provide training for mniddle
level extension staff in extension teaching methods and communication
techniques;
b) Provide assistance to States/SAUs for strengthening extension and training,
including: provision of communication and training support for personnel in
seven States of the North-Eastern Region (Arunachal Pradesh, Assam,
Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura), including overseas
training and preparation of video films and procurement of video vans; and
strengthening of training and information units in two States and five Union



6
Territories for training, strengthening of information units and supply of
vehicles;
c) Provide very specific assistance in: communication support to DOA in
Karnataka; training in Himachal Pradesh; input supply and management in
Assam; establishment of multi-purpose units in J&K; and training and
infrastructure development in Maharashtra;
d) Undertake in-depth reviews and supervision of the SSPs and some 53 reviews
of specific topics associated with improvement of extension functioning in the
States (refer Appendix C). In addition, national seminars/workshops were
organized every year during the project to discuss policies and programs
related to extension management, training and farm information. Computer
hardware and software were provided to 15 States to assist them in analysis
and preparation of M&E reports. In addition, a Computer Center was
established in the DOE for computerization of information data relating to
extension activities; and
e) Provide overseas training for about 125 senior and middle level extension
officers who on return would act as master trainers of extension staff in the
States. In addition, about 170 SMSs, AEOs and VEWs from State DOAs
were provided with scholarships for graduate and post-graduate studies. Over
100 other staff were trained at SAUs/ICAR Institutes to upgrade their
technical competence.
Project Benefits
18.   The project has benefited both the State Departments of Agriculture and farmers.
All three project States now have a more professional agricultural extension service as a
result of better organizational structure, better technical and administrative control,
improved facilities and equipment, better staff mobility, and better trained and more
knowledgeable staff, and improved links with research. Extension projects do not lend
themselves to conventional economic analysis of benefits because of the effect of
undefined externalities, such as concurrent improvements in irrigated area and direct
influences from other agencies involved in promoting agricultural production.
Unfortunately, the special study proposed for UP (refer para 31) to determine the effect of
the T&V system of agricultural extension on farm production was not undertaken and
M&E studies do not analyze this issue. However, the mission found that many farmers
who were in direct contact with extension works had much higher crop yields than district
averages and that villages without extension works had lower yields and had adopted
fewer newer technologies than in adjacent villages with extension workers. Statistical data
show significant increases in crop production in all states during the project years, mainly
as a result of increased productivity rather than cultivated area (refer to Appendix A).
There has also been an increase in cropping intensity and diversity. In HP there has been a



7
major shift in farm production systems to include a much greater proportion of higher
value horticultural crop (fruits, vegetables and cut flowers).
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
19.   Although some civil unrest occurred during the project, especially in Assam, it did
not seriously affect the project. The consumption of fertilizers, pesticides and farm
machinery has increased greatly during the project. This caused a severe strain on the
availability (timeliness and quantities) of production inputs, fertilizers and pesticides, as
well as credit available to farmers, all of which have, to some extent, adversely affected
the full realization of production gains from adoption of improved technologies promoted
by extension activities. The majority of credit cooperatives in the project states have
collapsed financially. IN HP, because of distribution difficulties, the responsibility for
supply of pesticides has returned to DOA control. The degree of monopoly of fertilizer
supplies by government supply agencies (e.g. Assam Agro-Industries Development
Corporation) combined with policies which disadvantage the growth of the private sector
(subsidies) has also made the emergence of a private sector fertilizer industry problematic.
Factors Generally Subject to Government and Implementing Agency Control
20.   A number of factors contributed to substantial delays in achieving physical targets
during implementation, resulting in the need for a one year (two 3-month and one 6-
month) extension to the project. Frequent implementation problems recorded by Bank
supervision missions included: slow progress in civil works in all states, continuing large
number of field staff vacancies in UP and HP, delays in procurement of vehicles in iP and
slow implementation of SSPs.
21.   Project Costs. From the IDA Credit of SDR71.7 million (US$85 million), total
disbursement as of August 24, 1995 (following a five-month grace period for
reimbursement after project closure) was SDR56.2 million (US$75.405 million), with
SDR15.5 million (US$18.375) canceled. Thus in SDR terms, 78 percent of the original
Credit amount was utilized. Additional IDA disbursements of SDR12.083 million
(US$16.65 million) were provided for financing the SSP in western UP from savings from
the unspent IDA Credit for NAEP I (Credit 1523-IN). Total project cost was Rs.2,284
million (estimated US$125.38 million at historic annual exchange rates), which was 55
percent above the original estimated project cost in Rupee terms, due to a 138 percent
devaluation of the Rupee against the US Dollar, but was only 89 percent of estimated
project costs in US Dollar terms.
22.   Civil Works. While an impressive number of buildings were constructed under
the project, there were a number of aspects which were unsatisfactory and adversely
affected project implementation and success: viz. considerable delays in construction
timetable due to slow budget release and bureaucratic procedures of the Public Works



8
Departments of the State Governments who share construction with Agricultural
Engineering sections of state DOAs; unsuitable building design features associated with
poor rainwater disposal; poor quality construction in some cases; as well as lack of funds
for maintenance after completion of construction.
23.   Extension System.  A number of factors associated with management and
difficulties in the establishment of the T&V agricultural extension system affected project
performance and impact. While all states introduced/strengthened the T&V system
according to the general Bank blueprint introduced in previous extension projects in India,
each state has advantageously modified the extension system to a varying extent to
improve efficiency of operations.
24.   In Assam, the significant changes to operational activities have been: (a) the
development of a farmer-centered group approach to mediate extension information
exchange at field level to replace the contact farmer approach; and (b) the changing
emphasis from providing advice only on agricultural matters to a more broad-based
extension service to cover a range of production activities of farmers. The rationale and
justification for these changes was based on the observation that: (a) the expected transfer
of information from the few selected contact farmers to other village farmers did not occur
satisfactorily; and that (b) farmers required a more integrated advisory service to cope
with the various aspects of total farm production activities. The formation of Field
Management Committees (FMCs) by farmers in all villages since 1989/90 has been
enthusiastically adopted.  Farmers interviewed indicated that the regular fortnightly
meetings of the FMCs with VEWs and AEOs fulfill a needs-based forum for technical
information and advice which is available to all farmers in the village rather than to a few
selected farmers, as occurred under the contact farmer approach. The formation of FMCs
has also allowed farmers a collective opportunity to exercise more influence on purchasing
input supplies. The potentiality of the farmer group approach pioneered under this project
will be more fully exploited under the recently initiated Bank-funded Assam Integrated
Agricultural Support Services Project.
25.   Uttar Pradesh.  Modifications to the implementation of the original T&V
institutional blueprint in western UP under the SSP, included: (a) abolishment of AEO
positions; (b) employment of university graduates as VEWs; (c) alignment of VEW
command areas with the Nyaya Panchayat thus expanding the physical area of command
and number of farmers served; (d) placement of increased numbers of SMSs at district
level only rather than at subdivisional level; and (e) the merging of the extension and the
input supply (fertilizers and pesticides) functions of the DOA into one. The Government
of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) considered that this provided a more efficient system as it
removed an additional level of managerial control, necessarily placed the SMS in closer
contact with VEWS and farmers, and provided a more cost effective extension system.
From farmer interviews it was apparent that both contract and other farmers in villages
which were serviced by VEWs had benefited from extension advice. However, there has
been an unacceptably high level of unfilled VEW positions throughout the course of the



9
project (refer para 8) and thus a very large number of villages did not receive any
extension advice, although some trickle-down technology occurred from input suppliers.
26.   Himachal Pradesh. A project design feature which was central to the success of
the project in HP was to combine the field command for both agricultural and horticulture
services under an Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension) under whom there were
Joint Directors for Agriculture and Horticulture who supervised extension activities in
seven and five districts, respectively. At field level, this arrangement seemed to have
worked satisfactorily as a means of providing a coordinated broad-based service. From
farmer interviews it was apparent that both contact and other farmers in villages which
were serviced by VEWs had benefited from extension advice. However, there were many
VEW vacancies (refer para 8) and thus a large number of villages received reduced
extension advice, as VEWs and AEOs only provided a part-time service to vacant circles.
27.   Overall, discussion with farmers in both UP and HP indicated that a farmer group
approach, rather than contact farmer approach would be welcomed.  The present
technology transfer system is still oriented to packages of technology that can only be
adopted by the larger farmers who have sufficient cash resources, particularly for those
farmers changing to cash cropping. All states have moved, to a varying degree, towards a
more broad-based extension service to include advice on livestock, horticulture, agro-
forestry and sericulture. This increased emphasis on promoting cash crops and other
commodities have resulted in significant improvements in farm household incomes which
has allowed farmers to diversify their farm production and generate further investments in
input supplies for more intensive foodcrop production. This focus, however, seems to
have been, to some extent, at the expense of assisting smaller farmers with limited land
and cash resources who remain mainly or totally involved in traditional (subsistence)
agricultural crop production. Furthermore, lack of effective coordination between line
agencies in many States constrained the effective development of broad-based extension
programs.
28.   Staff Training. The regular training sessions introduced under the T&V system
has improved the knowledge of both SMSs and VEWs and advice given to farmers, but
the states have come to different experiential conclusions with respect to the required
frequency of regular training. In UP, the system has been maintained as proposed and
introduced, while in Assam and HP, training for VEWs was adjusted to monthly training,
and in HP training for SMSs changed from two days per month to bi-monthly for only one
day in 1994 and to quarterly training in 1995. DOA staff training facilities presently used
for pre-service and induction training seem inadequately utilized. From a visit to a newly
established training institute in UP, it was apparent that their training potentiality could be
further extended to incorporate in-service management training, extension training in
women's development, and selected farmer training. There also appears to be some scope
for improvement in course curriculum to train extension staff in aspects of farm
management, farm development planning and simple financial analysis of both component
and whole farm production systems. While much in-service training was undertaken by all
states, it was apparent that insufficient emphasis was given to the value of both local and



10
interstate study tours. In addition, the poor response by staff to promotional training
opportunities reflected the relative unimportance of qualifications for staff promotion.
29.   Research-Extension Linkages.  Linkages were strengthened through joint
meetings of SAU (research) and DOA (extension) staff at zonal (bi-monthly) and seasonal
(bi-annual) workshops. In addition, there have been joint field visits of research and
extension staff to meet with farmers, define problems and provide solutions. Regular
training of SMSs by university staff also provided a further point of interaction. The
SAUs in HP also provided a large amount of written information to extension staff on
recommended technologies and practices. Joint diagnostic team visits to farms in areas
where a particularly severe problem in production had occurred were also undertaken
from time to time. The SAUs have established agro-ecological based zonal research
stations in each state with support of the Bank-funded National Agricultural Research
Projects (NARP I and II). Hundreds of on-farm trials are undertaken annually by these
research stations in collaboration with extension staff in local areas. The DOA in all states
have Field Trial Stations (FTS) undertaking adaptive research and seed/sapling
production. In UP it was proposed that these FTSs should be phased out and replaced
with on-farm trials coordinating with SAUs, but this did not occur. Visits to these FTSs
indicated that: (a) a large proportion of staff time and station budget is associated with
seed production; (b) some research is applied in nature but is not sufficiently oriented to
fine-tuning technologies developed by SAU Zonal Research Stations (ZRSs) on farmers
fields in selected target areas; (c) insufficient research is undertaken on-farm; and (d) there
appears to be little coordination of this research with research undertaken at the ZRSs.
For these reasons, the fora established to strengthen research-extension linkages did not
function satisfactorily.
30.   Monitoring and Evaluation. Regular M&E surveys and publication of seasonal
(kharif and rabi) reports have been undertaken by M&E Units in all states. Some studies
on topics of special interest were also undertaken. M&E surveys and analysis of data have
been according to the guidelines in the manual produced by the Bank. However, it is felt
that these need revising to allow better evaluation of the extension system, the impact of
extension on agricultural production and to identify areas requiring further research and
technology improvement. The task of data analysis and presentation by the M&E Units in
Assam and UP was constrained, as the DOE of the GOI had failed to operationalize a
computer network they established in each state in 1993 to undertake analysis of M&E
data. Although some computer training was provided, it was completely inadequate for
operating the computers or software programs installed.
31.   Special Studies. A special evaluation study was planned to be undertaken by
Kanpur SAU in which there would be a rigorous evaluation of the efficacy of the T&V
system of agricultural extension in UP, by comparing agricultural development in districts
with and without the T&V system. However, despite a detailed summary of methodology
and timetable for the study in the SAR, it was never undertaken and no satisfactory
explanation for its cancellation given. A much smaller independent study (Resource
Constraints to Adoption of Recommendations under the T&V System of Extension') of



11
the T&V system in one district was undertaken by Allahabad University in 1994, at the
request of GOI, but the outcome of the study was inconsequential in relation to the state
system. There still remains a unique opportunity to fully evaluate the effectiveness of the
T&V system of agricultural extension in UP by comparing farmer knowledge and
practices and farm productivity and incomes in adjacent circles which have had or not had
extension agents during the project.
32.   Media Development. While additional audio-visual equipment was provided to
impiove communication of teaching materials in training programs and some assistance
was given to improve the capacity for production of printed materials, this was considered
inadequate. Much more emphasis should have been given to production of audio-visual
and printed materials to supplement extension activities and to improve communication
systems.
33.   Women in Development. Direct extension assistance was provided to women's
groups in Assam under the farmer group approach. However, in UP and HP there were
very few contact farmers or extension agents who were women. Thus in these states,
there was minimal direct contact of extension with women farmers. Given that women
participate in both farming and managerial decision-making on farms, it is important that
there be greater effort given to providing advice to women on farming practices, in
general, and production of specific cash commodities in which women can take complete
responsibility, in particular.
34.   Special Sub-Projects. The inclusion of the SSPs component in the project was an
innovative design feature that provided the necessary flexibility to provide a national
perspective on extension development in India, in which the regular reviews and special
studies identified assisted in rectifying constraints and weaknesses in extension
development in particular States. The component has also contributed significantly to the
establishment of a chain of training centers throughout the country which have provided
training in special technical subjects, communication methodologies, management
practices and techniques, and for women resource development. The anticipated impact
from these activities was not fully realized because the Extension Education Institutes
(EEIs) and Advanced Training Centers (ATCs) did not deviate from routine training
modules, while MANAGE was found to have done reasonably well but deviated widely
from its original charter and did not focus sufficiently on training in management of
extension services for middle and senior extension functionaries in the State DOEs. In
addition, while computer hardware and software were provided to the State M&E Units
to enhance their capacity to analyze data and prepare M&E reports, to date the State
M&E Units are not using these facilities because of lack of appropriate training. Overall,
the DOE found that the SSPs were too large in number and spread over too many
institutions/States which led to difficulties in monitoring and supervision and preparing
financial accounts and audits, which consequently affected Credit reimbursements.



12
D. Project Sustainability
35.   Both the Governments of Assam and UP appear committed to maintain the basic
institutional arrangement and operational model of the T&V system strengthened under
the project. However, in HP there has been a move to breakup the system by separating
agricultural and horticultural extension activities. This has serious implications to the
financial sustainability of the system; lack of regular training for VEWs and SMS in the
future; as well as jeopardizing the continuation of a system that has worked well and in
which the extension staff are confident. The continued effectiveness of the system in UP
and HP depends on them solving the serious staffing problems associated with staff
vacancies. Serious financial constraints were apparent during project implementation in all
states and since project closure are now more extreme. All DOAs have a reduced budget
allocation for 1995/96 compared to the last fiscal year under the project. During the
project, there was little allocation and use of funds for maintenance of buildings. Although
such funds come from the Non-Plan budget, the lack of such funds adversely affects the
efficacy of prior investments in infrastructural development. In addition, funds are now
extremely scarce for operational activities and for further capital investment in new and
replacement vehicles. Thus, there is considerable uncertainty in all states in maintaining
the agricultural extension system as introduced. All states realize the T&V system is
expensive to operate and the need to consider possible structural and organizational
modifications to the T&V system model (refer para 40) to make the extension system
more cost effective, and to determine possibilities for cost savings or cost recovery
mechanisms to reduce total DOA expenditures (refer para 40).
E. Bank Performance
36.   The Bank undertook many missions to assist Assam, UP and HP in the early
preparation of this project. The Bank also undertook more than 50 supervision missions
during implementation of the project, mostly to Assam, UP and HP, and earlier in the
project to the SSPs in Bihar and Punjab States where there was a staged withdrawal from
supervision of these SSPs in line with an increasing competence of DOE to provide the
necessary supervision. A more critical analysis of previous Bank supported projects in
extension in India at project appraisal may have foreshadowed the emergent deficiencies in
the standard 'T&V blueprint" as proposed. Supervision mission reports indicated that the
missions undertook regular detailed reviews of implementation progress of the project
and, while indicating deficiencies in implementation, gave helpful and constructive advice
to overcome such problems. With very few exceptions, supervision missions were staffed
from the Bank's resident mission in India and by local consultants, and because of the
policy of having many short-duration missions provided a more continuous contact and
assistance in implementation than normally occurs in extension projects.
F. Borrower Performance
37.   The DOAs of the concerned State Governments tried hard to implement the
project as proposed. Much has been achieved in terms of institutional development,



13
improvement of extension services and agricultural production. All state DOAs have
advantageously initiated changes in the T&V system in various ways to improve extension
performance and impact on farm production. Nonetheless, several outside factors, such as
problems with budget release to the state DOAs, which adversely affected the civil works
program and vehicle purchases particularly, staff recruitment bans, and cancellation of
some investments (civil works and vehicles), have caused serious delays or failure to
implement several proposed activities and therefore have resulted in a failure to derive the
maximum benefit from the project. These chronic problems were repeatedly brought to
the notice of the respective governments by Bank supervision missions, but were never
speedily or satisfactorily resolved. Early progress of the SSP program supervised by the
DOE of the GOI was poor but subsequently improved. The DOE undertook many
supervision missions and sponsored reviews to improve project impact and agricultural
extension development. The DOE had great difficulty in obtaining audited accounts from
a number of agencies implementing SSPs, resulting in lack of reimbursement from the
Bank during the last two years of the project.
G. Assessment of Outcome
38.   Overall, the project mostly achieved its objectives and its outcome is assessed as
partially satisfactory. The objective of establishing a professional agricultural extension
service through the introduction of the T&V system to UP and HP and strengthening of
the system in Assam was substantially achieved, although significant deficiencies occurred
both in implementation achievements and operational effectiveness as a result of flawed
project design. Despite this, and together with the establishment of functional and
effective linkages between research and extension, this has resulted in an appreciable
increase in extension credibility among farmers2 and to significant gains in crop
productivity, and intensity and diversity of farm production. While assistance given to the
State of Punjab under a SSP has also been reasonably successful, the result of the SSP in
the State of Bihar was problematic, with project support canceled in March 1992. The
outcome of support given by the project for other centrally operated and sponsored SSPs
was considered satisfactory, although it appeared that many of the activities were spread
too thinly and therefore lacked sufficient impact.
H. Future Operation
39.   All three project states have acknowledged the need for further improvements in
extension services and have prepared future plans of action as part of their individual final
Project Implementation Reports. However, these plans seem to be an expression of intent
rather than of concrete proposals with no time-bound action plans indicated for
implementation of further development of their extension services. Each State was
subsequently requested to provide more definite action plans but these have not been
2   M&E reports indicate that the large majority of contact and fellow farmers rated advice given by extension
workers as useful or very useful and that there was reasonably high (but variable) adoption of recommended
practices.



14
received. Future objectives indicated were for: (a) Assam to further promote the FMC
approach, to ensure extension agents were confined to extension activities, to improve
staff mobility to improve broad-based advice, and to improve the marketing situation; (b)
UP to provide specific training program for rural women, to better utilize public sector
media for promoting extension information, to increase broad-based extension advice to
farmers and to make the Zonal Research Extension Advisory Committees more effective;
and (c) HP to improve coordination between line agencies and research in SAUs, to form
local farmer extension societies, involve women more in training programs and to promote
greater involvement of NGOs in DOA extension programs.
L Key Lessons Learned
40.       There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the implementation and
outcome of this project, including:
a) While initially each state established/strengthened a comprehensive institutional
structure for agricultural extension according to the T&V concept,
subsequently they variously modified the extension system to improve
efficiency. Important institutional and operational modifications that have
implications to further development of extension services in India include:
O  the possibility of modifying the hierarchical structure of the T&V system by
a reduction in operational/supervisory layers of staffing which reduce costs
and place SMSs in closer contact with farmers (Phase II in UP);
0  adoption of farmer-centered group approach (in Assam) which can create
greater farmer coverage and participation in extension activities, as well as
organization of community action where required;
0  the possibility to reduce the frequency and duration of regular training for
SMSs and AEOs/VEWs as knowledge and skills of these staff improve;
and
0  the need to broad-base extension advice and technical support to farmers
on all aspects of farm production, emphasizing increasing intensity and
diversity of production and generation of greater cash returns (all states),
better natural resources use and fostering market oriented agricultural
development.
b) The T&V system, as instituted, is both staff and cost intensive, and thus places
considerable financial strain on State Governments to maintain the system and
thereby affects staffing levels and availability of funds for operations,
maintenance and further essential capital investment. Governments have to
consider means of reducing staffing levels of extension services and other
opportunities (e.g. reducing government involvement in input supplies) for cost



15
savings, as well as policies which promote extension services (advice) from
NGOs, input suppliers, private sector and mass media.
c) More emphasis should have been given in project design to improve
management capacity, promoting operational decentralization and planning,
improving staff supervision and performance, funding special studies to
evaluate project impact, ensuring that M&E activities would provide
appropriate feedback to management decision-making, ensuring participatory
involvement of farmers in diagnosis of problems and opportunities to improve
farm production and in research and extension and planning, and providing
appropriate incentives for staff to improve their individual performance.
d) Lack of staff mobility is still constraining operations of field extension staff.
Inadequate advantage was taken by the state governments to finance the
proposed personal loans scheme for staff to purchase private vehicles for
public use. This is a viable means of improving staff mobility, when combined
with adequate travel and operational expenses, that should be further
considered by governments.
e) There is a need to more fully exploit the use of cost effective media materials
(radio, television and video and printed materials) to enhance dissemination of
technical information.
f) There is a need to review the methodologies used for monitoring and
evaluation of the extension system and provide appropriate training in data
collection and analysis so that M&E Units can provide a much better
evaluation of the operational effectiveness and efficiency of the extension
system, the impact of extension on farming practices, productivity and farm
household incomes, and the needs for further research.
g) The inclusion of a component to finance SSPs provided flexibility in project
design that allowed the GOI to provide a national perspective on extension
development in India in which the regular reviews and special studies identified
assisted in rectifying specific constraints and weaknesses.



16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                       '            F9            '              [
Sector policies                     El            E7            El           El
Financial objectives                E             El            El
Institutional development           El            El            El           El
Physical objectives                 El            E            El           El
Poverty reduction                   El            El            E 
Gender issues                       ElE                                      El 
Other social objectives             El            E             E            E
Environmental objectives            El            E             El[
Public sector management            EE                          E             El
Private sector development          E             E             E            El
Other (Human Resources
Development)                         ]   DD
B. Project sustainability             Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance                 satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                    l            Fg            1
Preparation assistance            E            El            E
Appraisal                         E            El            E
Supervision                      El            E             E



17
Highly
D. Borrower performance             satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                   3 
Implementation                    Z           E T
Covenant compliance            LE                          E
Operation (if applicable)       F            
Highly                                     ighly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfacton  unsatisfactory
H3           M a/   [9
a/ Assessment of outcome is considered partially satisfactory.



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                      Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Assam Agricultural    To consolidate and strengthen the agricultural  1977      Closed 31
Development Project      extension services in 8 of Assama 9 districts,            March, 1985
(Cr. 728-IN)             covering 97 % of the Statess population and a total
cropped area of 2.7 million ha, develop and upgrade
adaptive research, and lay the base for longer term
improvements in groundwater development.
2. Bihar Agricultural    To reorganise and strengthen Bihars agricultural  1978    Closed 31
Extension and Research   extension services and help upgrade and develop           March, 1985
Project (Cr. 761-IN)     adaptive research with the objective of achieving
early and sustained improvements in agricultural
production, particularly of food grains.
3. Second Uttar Pradesh    To raise agricultural production and farm income in  1983  Closed 31
Public Tubewells Project   UP through the construction and upgrading of public     March, 1991
(Cr. 1332-IN)            tubewell irrigation systems.
4. Upper Ganga Irrigation   Part of a six-year time slice program to rehabilitate   1984  Closed 30
Modernization Project    and modernize the Upper Ganga Canal system.               Sept., 1994
(Cr. 1483-IN)
5. National Agricultural    To (i) strengthen the reorganised agricultural  1985   Closed 31
Extension Project        extension system introduced in Rajasthan, Madya           March, 1993
(Cr. 1523-IN)            Pradesh and Orissa; (ii) reorganise and strengthen the    (PCR issued
GOIs Extension Division and Directorate of               1994)
Extension in order to increase the States abilities to
support more effectively State agricultural extension
programs and to perform more effectively their
coordinating and policy guidance role throughout
India; and (iii) provide funds to assist in the
financing of other projects for extension reform,
special studies and special sub-projects, and the
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of said
activities.
Comment: In addition to related Credits listed above, the following IDA-assisted projects are related to the
introduction of the T&V system of agricultural extension in India: Rajasthan CAD Project (Cr. 502-IN); Chambal
CAD Project (Cr. 562-IN); West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN); Kerala
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1028-IN); Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1135-IN); Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1137-IN); Andhra Pradesh Agricutlural Extension Project (Cr. 1219-IN); and the
Second National Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1569-IN).



19
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actuall /
Steps in project cycle                   Date planned             latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                 N.A.
Preparation                                                                UP   : September 1984
Assam: February 1985
Appraisal                                           December 1984; then   UP    5-16 March, 1985
March 1985             Assam: 18-23 March, 1985
HP   : May 1985
Bihar SSP: 19 May, 1986
Negotiations                                        September 1985         November 1986
Board presentation                                  February 1986          20 January, 1987
Signing                                                                    29 June, 1987"
Effectiveness                                                              5 January, 1988
Midterm review (if applicable)                                             SSPs : 4 March, 1991
Assam: May, 1991
UP   :19 August, 1991
HP   : 5 December, 1991
Project completion                                  30 June, 1993          31 March, 1994
Credit closing                                      31 March, 1994         31 March, 1995 b/
C' Credit Agreement amended on March 1, 1991.
C Credit disbursement completed on 24 August, 1995.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ M)
FY87    FY88    FY89        FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94   FY95   FY96
Appraisal       0.8       6.4      15.0     33.0     53.0    72.0      85.0       -
estimate
Actual           -       1.83      5.49     19.49    30.52    40.48    49.19    61.41   75.41   77.71
Actual as % of   0        29       37        59       58       56       60       72      89      91
estimate a'
Date of final 31 July
disbursement:  1995
v In SDRs, or based on SDRIUS$ exchange rate at the time of approval of the Credit, total actual disbursements were 78%
(SDRS6.2 million against SDR71.7 million).



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.   Key unplementation indicators in                                                Incremental Project Targets
SAR/ President's Report           Pre-Project         Original (SAR)     Revised     Actual         % Original      % Revised
1. Staffing
(a) Assat
Extension Services
ADA                                      1                                  .               .             .               -
JDA                                      5                  .               3               2                            67
DAO/SDAO                                62                  -              10               7             -              70
SMS                                     BB                 5              90              76            131             84
AEONEW                                2.749               560             560             315             56             37
M&E Unit
HQ & Divisional                          1                  4               4               9            225            225
Field staff                             31                  4              4                3             75             75
University (training)                                        8               8               8             100            100
Informnation Service                      16                 5               14              13            260             93
Engineering Service                       2                  5               5               4             S0              80
(b) Uttar Pradesh
Extension Services
ADA                                                         I               -               I             100             -
JDA                                                         4                               4             100
DDA/SDAO                                                   142                             125            115
SMS                                                        226              .              139            64
AEONEW                                                   5,213                           2,627            54              .
M&E Unit
HQ & Divisional                                            10              .                6             60
Field staff                                                50               .              16             32
University (training)                                        6                               5             S3
Infornation Service                                          5                                              . -
(c) Himachal Pradesh
Extension Services
ADA                                                         1               1               1            100             100
JDA                                                         2               2               1             50             50
DAO                                                        10              12              ll            110             92
SMS                                                        45              74              52             116            70
AEONEW                                                    993            1,167            834             84             71
M&E Unit
HQ & Divisional                                             4              4                1             25             25
Field staff                                                26              26              20             77             75
DOA (training)                                               6               7               4             67             57
University (training)                                        8               8               8             100            100
2. CIvil Works
(a) Assam
Offices
Headquartcrs                                                -               I               I             -              100
Zonal                                                       5               8               7(1)         140             88
District                                                    -              6                3(4)          -              50
Subdivisional                                              Is              21              19(3)         127             90
Residences
Headquarters                                                               3                9             -             300
District                                                    -              -                7(3)          -               -
Subdivisional                                              495            180              167(1)        133             95
Training Halls                                             34              29              37(2)         35              93
lnfornation Service                                          5               5               5            109             128
Training Institute                                           -              14               14           100             100
(b) Uttar Pradesh
Offices
Headquarters                                                -              -                2             -
Zonal                                                       4                               3            75               -
District                                                   21                              21            100
Subdivisional                                              88                              92            100
Residences
Subdivisional- SMS                                         140                             102           73                          |
Subdivisional- AEO                                        200                               0             0
Subdivisional - VEW                                      1,500                            824            55
Training Halls                                               68                    _         2             3



21
1.   Key implemenudon indicators in                                                  Incremental Project TargetS
SARI President's Report           Pre-Project         Original (SAR)     Revised     Actual '       % Original      % Revised
2. CMIv Works (cont.)
(c) Himachal Pradesh
Residences
Subdivisional- SMS                                          25              25              24 (8)         96               96
Subdivisional- AEO                                          138             138             97 (38)        70               70
Subdivisional- VEW                                         578              578            343(132)        59               59
Training Halls                                               69              69              36 (22)        52              52
Training Centre                                               2               3              3             100              150
University (training) - hall                                 3                3              3             100              100
- hostd                                       I                I              I             100             100
3. VehIcke
(a) Assam
DOA
Cars                                                       6               10              7             117              70
Jeeps/Van                                                  30              66             35             117              53
Motorcycles                                               100             100             226            226             226
Bicycles                                                  800             800             719            90               90
SAU
cam                                                         I               I              I             100              100
Jeeps                                                      7                6              6              86              86
Vans                                                        1               I              I             100              100
(b) Uttar Pradesh
DOA
Cars                                                       8                8              3             38               38
Jeeps                                                     139              139            186            134              134
Motorcycles                                               400             400             899            225             225
Bicycles                                                 2.500           2,500             0              0                0
SAU (training)
Cars                                                        2               2              0              0                0
Jeeps                                                      6                6              4              67              67
Vans                                                       2                2              0              0                0
Mini-Buses                                                  1               I              I             100              100
(c) Himachal Pradesh
DOA
Camn                                                       4                4              4             100              100
Jeeps                                                      55              55             55             100              100
Vans                                                       12              12              0              0                0
Buses                                                      2                2              0              0                0
Motorcycles                                               300             300              0              0                0
Bicycles                                                  200             200              0              0                0
SAU (training)
Jeeps                                                      2                2              2             100              100
Vans                                                       6                6              6             100             100
Buses                                                      2                2              2             100              100
4. Training
(a) Assam
VEW                                                        400              760            891            223              117
Prm-service (nos.)                                        219             308             420            192             136
Orientadon (nos.)                                        3,864          20.944          16,056           416              77
Fonnightly (coures)                                      4.000           1,198            307             8               26
Refreser (nos.)                                           350              60              5              1                8
Special (courses)                                         150              42             30             20               71
Pronotional Study (nos.)                                 1.000            600             136             14              23
Study Tours (nos.)                                         70              84              0              0                0
Workshops (courses)
AEO                                                         75              114             73             97              64
Orientation (courses)                                     575             507             161            28               32
Refresher (nos.)                                           50              60             31             62               26
SpeciL (nos.)                                             100             120             88             88               73
Promodonal Study (nos.)                                   250              80              0              0                0
Study Tours (nos.)                                         25              30              2              8                7
Workshops (courses)



22
1.   Key implementation indicators in                                             Incremental Project Targets
SARI President's Report          Pre-Project        Original (SAR)    Revised     Acuali        % Original     % Revised
4. Tfraning (cont.)
(a) Assamn
SMS (sub-div)
Induction (nos.)                                          0              0              28            .
Orientation (nos.)                                       25             42              47           IS$            112
Monthly Workshops (courses)                             480            624             506           105            81
Job training (nos.)                                       0              0              11            -              -
Special (nos.)                                           17             21              65           382            310
Promotional Study (nos.)                                 90             110             32           36              29
Study Tours (nos.)                                      125             100             58           46              58
Workshops (courses)                                      25              6              2             8              33
Senior Ofricers
Orientation (nos.)                                       25             42              26           104             62
Special (nos.)                                            5              6              17           340            283
Study Tours (nos.)                                       50             60              14           28              23
Workshops (courses)                                       5              6              17           340            283
M&E Unit
Orientation (courses)                                     3              3              7            233            233
External (nos.)                                           I              1              2            200            200
Domestic Special (nos.)                                   4              0              0             0              0
Special (courses)                                         9              6              7            78             117
Information Unit
Orientation (courses)                                     3              4               1           33              25
Special (nos.)                                            9              9              9            100            100
Workshops/Seminars (courses)                              4              4              0             0              0
(b) Uttar Pradesh
VEW
Induction/Orientation(nos.)                            3.000          3.000           3,869                         129
Fortnnightly (courses)                                 6,432          6,432          17,236                         268
Refresher (nos.)                                        800            800            1,220                         153
Special (courses)                                        100            100           1,176                        1176
Promotional Study (nos.)                                500            500              3
Study Tours (nos.)                                      400            400              80                           20
AEO
Orientation (nos.)                                     1,200          1,200           1,248                         104
Refresher (nos.)                                        500            500             520                          104
Special (nos.)                                          250            250             639                          256
Promotional Study (nos.)                                 10             tO              0                            0
Study Tours (nos.)                                      100             100             25                           25
SMS (sub-div)
Orientation (nos.)                                      300            300             289                           96
Monthly Workshops (courses)                             468            468             788                          168
Special (nos.)                                          300            300             517                          172
Promotional Study (nos.)                                 10             10              -                            0
Study Tours (nos.)                                      200            200              41                           21
Senior Officers
Orientation (nos.)                                      400            400             571                          143
Management (nos.)                                        50             50              85                          170
Special (nos.)                                          200            200             153                           77
Study Tours (nos.)                                      250            250              79                           32
(c) Himachal Pradesh
VEW
Pre-service (nos.)                                       0               0              0             0              -
Induction (nos.)                                        261            852            581            223             68
Orientation (courses)                                   105                           447            426
Fortnighdy (courses)                                  8,086                           119             0
Refresher (nos.)                                        636                             0             0
Special (courses)                                       48                            638           1,329
Promotional Study (nos.)                                60                             36            60
Study tours (nos.)                                      250                            135           54                         l



23
1.   Key implementation indicators in                                                Incremental Project Targets
SAR/ Presidents Report             Pre-Project        Original (SAR)     Revised     ActualL        % Original      % Revised
4. Training (cont.)
(c) Himachal Pradesh
AEO
Orientation (courses)                                                                      38
Special (courses)                                          30                              39            130
Promotional Study (nos.)                                   14                              20            143
Study Tours (nos.)                                         50                              37             74
Refresher (nos.)                                                                           128
SMS (sub-div)
Orientadon (courses)                                       6               399             21            350
Monthly Workshops (courses)                               720                              382           53              96
Special (courses)                                          20                              51            255
Promotional Study (nos.)                                   18                              10             56
Study Tours (nos.)                                         20                              27            135
Senior Officers
Orientation (courses)                                      5                                12           240
Management (courses)                                       5                               12            240
Special (nos.)                                             5                               11            220
Study Tours (nos.)                                         20                               12            60
11.   Other indicators (if applicable)
Uttar Pradesh Special Sub-project
1. StaffIng
Extension Services
ADA/JDA                                                                     10              10                          100
DAO/SDAO                                                                   306             259                           85
SMS                                                                        306             211                           69
VEW                                                                       3,554           2,707                          76
M&E Unit                                                                    77               17                          22
University                                                                   I               0                            0
State Agricultural Planning                                                  5               4                           80
2. Civil Works
Offices                                                      139            139             139          100             100
Residences                                                  1.351         1.053            1,053          78             100
3. Vebides
Cars                                                         39             11               1 1          28             100
Jeeps                                                        185            224             224          121             100
Information Vans                                              7             10               10          143             100
MotorcyclcesMopeds                                         4,061            516             516           13             100
4. Training
VEW
Induction/OrienEation(courses)                              120                             106          88
Fortnightly (courses)                                     16,200                          13.606         84
Refresher (nos.)                                           3.244                           1,165         36
Special (courses)                                           330                             121          37
Promotional (nos.)                                           13                              1 1          85
SMS
Orientation (courses)                                        13                              15          115
Monthly workshops (nos.)                                    900                             488          54
Special (courses)                                            20                             52           260
Promotional Study (nos.)                                     17                               I           6
Study Tours (nos.)                                          140                              20           14
Senior Officers
Orientation (courses)                                        11                              18          164
Management (course)                                          5                               16          320
Special (courses)                                            30                             49           163
Study Tour (nos.)                                           120                             36           30
Overseas training (nos.)                                     20                              3            15
M&E Unit
Orientation (courses)                                        2                               2           100
Special (nos.)                                               75                              12           16
" Data in brackets for Civil Works for Assam and Himachal Pradesh indicate number of addidonal buildings still under construction at July 1995.



24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(This table is not applicable to this project)
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project"
Purpose as defined
Study               at appraisal/redefined           Status           Impact of study
1. UP Special       To undertake a comparative        Never undertaken
Evaluation Study     analysis of the effects of extension
by studying selected areas within
the sub-project and comparing
them to areas outside the sub-
project where the extension system
will, for the next years remain
unformed.
2. Resource          To examine the level of adoption    Study undertaken   The study was limited to
Constraints to       of recommendations, to assess the    by Agro-       six villages (60 farms) in
Adoption of          causes (constraints) to non-adoption  Economic      one district and the report
Recommendations      and to suggest measures to improve  Research Centre,  is mostly descriptive and
under the T&V        the functioning of the T&V system.  University of   lacked in-depth analysis
System of Extension.                                  Allahabad in      of reasons of non-
1994.             adoption and measures to
improve
recommendations/
adoption. Thus it
provides little additional
information above that
provided by regular M&E
studies.
"in addition to the above studies, some 53 individual studies were undertaken between 1984 and 1993 by internal
consultancies of the Division of Extension of the Government of India, financed by NAEP I and NAEP III. These
studies are listed in Appendix C.



25
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item                   Local      Foreign                   Local     Foreign
costs       costs       Total       costs      costs      Total
1. Civil Works                           26.6         1.4        28.0       30.66          -      30.66
2. Equipment & Vehicles                   4.5         0.9          5.4       3.02          -        3.02
3. Training (Incl. Universities)          3.8           -          3.8       4.79          -        4.79
4. Incremental Staff                     24.7           -         24.7      50.59          -       50.59
5. Incremental Operating Costs           12.2         0.3         12.5      10.72          -       10.72
6. Special Subprojects                   40.2         2.1         42.3     25.602i         hi      25.60
Base Costs                             112.0         4.7        116.7
Contingencies                            22.7         0.8         23.5                -                -
TOTAL                                  134.7         5.5       140.2      125.38                125.38
a Excludes project costs of US$28.232 million for SSP for Uttar Pradesh expended during 1990-93, in association with NAEP
t, but includes US$15.111 million associated with NAEP m.
I Some foreign costs were incurred for overseas training in association with SSPs but DOE of GOI did not provide data despite
several requests.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual/latest estimate (USSM)
Component                            Local      IDA                       Local      IDA
costs      Credit      Total         costs      Credit      Total
Uttar Pradesh (GOUP/GOI)             24.1          36.3       60.4        25.42        33.21     58.63
Himachal Pradesh (GOHP/GOI)           7.8          14.8       22.6         9.77        12.59     22.36
Assam (GOA/GOI)                       5.9          9.0        14.9         9.59         9.20     18.79
Special Subprojects (GOI/States)      17.4         24.9       42.3         2.48        23.12"'    25.60
TOTAL                               55.2         85.0       140.2        47.26        78.12     125.38
v Excludes estimated US$16.65 million reimbursed from Cr. 1523-IN (NAEP 1), but includes estimated US$19.25 million
reimbursed from Cr. 1754-IN (NAEP III) for the SSP for Uttar Pradesh. The estimated IDA Credit reimbursements to components
(States and SSPs) is based on reimbursements in Rupees converted to Dollars at historical exchange rates, as per official IMF
annual exchange rates, and therefore the total Credit disbursement does not precisely agree with WB estimated Credit disbursement
given in Table 4.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
There was no net present value (or economic rate of return) estimated at appraisal, as such NPV/ERR,
being not applicable to this type of project, have not been re-estimated by the ICR mission.



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
INDIA
Third National Agricultural Extension Project
Origtis
Covenant     Present      fOlnient        Revised                Description of
Agtreemt               Section          tYpe         statu  '       dale      hulfilrmrt date              covenant                          Commmens
PA                    AS 3.01(a)                I           C                                      (i) Project States to taintain records
& Accouns of Part B of Project
PA                    AS 3.01(a)                I            C                                     (ii) Project States to furnish the
Association with accounts a
sttemntes certified by an auditor not
later than 9 months after the end of
each financial yer.
PA                    AS 3.01(b)                I           C                                      Project St=ue to have their ttmx
and statemenu saudited and funish the
Association with the report of tuch
audit.
PA                    AS 3.01(c)                1            C                                     For withdrawals on SOBs, the Project
States shall rnaintain separate records
and etrure thes are included in the
annual audit referred to in 3.01 (a)
and (b).
DCA                   AS 3.04                   5           C                                      GOI (DOE) will nmonitor, co-ordinue
and provide dte project states with
technical assisance.
DCA                   AS 3.05                   9            C                                     GO] (DOE) will furnish the
Asociation with s-ani-aal progress
report and annual evaluation
sustnaries.
DCA                   AS 3.06                   9            C                                     GOI will furnish the Association with
a review of project exestion by Junc
30,1990.
DCA                   GOI 4.01(a)               1            C                                     (i) GOI to maintain records and
accounts of Pnrt A of the projct
DCA                   GOI 4.01(a)               I           CP                                     (tt) 001 to furnish the Assoriation  Reports of 192/93 and 1993/94
with  countr  and statements, related   and comolidated acunthiaudit
to pon A of the project. certified by   for all SSPs ne provided by GOI
an Auditor me later than 9 months
after the end of each fial yes.
DCA                   0Ot 4.01(b)               I           CP                                     GOI to haVe their cconu    ad       Cordtoidated sccnunts/audit for
statements asudied & furnish the    199293 and 1993/94 for all SSPs
Association with the report of such    nmt provided by GOI.
audit.
DCA                    iOI 4.01(c)              I           C                                      For wittdxwals on SOEs, the GOI
shall maimnain separe record5 vad
ensure thes are included in the annual
audit referred to in 4.01 (a) nd (b)
PA                    HP 3.01(a)                I           C                                      (i) Project State to rnaintain recds &
aounts of Pat B of the pmject.
PA                    HP 3,01(a)                1           C                                      (ii) Project Staten to furnish the
Associatio.. with ccouts and
statntentu certified by an audior nit
lat than 9 moh after the end of
each finaial yer.
PA                    HP 3.01(b)                I           C                                      Project States to have their accounts
At  statenmens audited and furnish the
Association with the report of such
audit.
PA                    HP 3.01(c)                I           C                                      For withdrawal on SOBs, th proect
Sates shall nmintain separate reords
and enaure hese ore included in the
snnute audit referred to in 3.01 (a)
nd (b).
PA                    HP SCH.2,pl               9           C                                      Projt Stan shall carry out effective
Monitoring and Evaluation of the
project nd furnish the reslts.
PA                    HP SCH.2.p2               5           C                                      Project states shall ensure the use of
Extmrtion staff exclusively for
extension purpots and staff shiall nme
he adverly affected due to such
asignent.



27
Origint
Covenmsx     Present      fulfilment      Revised                Dacription of
Agreement              Section          type"        stDttnV        date      fulfilment date              coven nt                          Cone
PA                    AS 3.01(a)                I            C                                     (i) Project States to maintiin records
& Accounts of Part B of Project
PA                    HP SCH.p3                 5           NC                                     Project states shtll enure mobility to   Himeesaht Pradesh Govermnen
exefsion staff by advacing leor for  did ntxapprov   Wm.
purchae of moorcycles. mopb and
bicycles snd by providing appropriate
travel ailowance.
PA                    HP SCH.p4                 5            C                                     Project States shall fill all incremetual
staff positton as per schedule agreed.
PA                    HP SCH.pS                 9           C       3041650                        Project States shall furnish a Mid-term
Review of the project execution not
later thas 30th Junee 1990.
PA                    HP SCH.p7                 5            C                                     Project States shell establish
Coordintbin Cxmmittees.
PA                    UP 3.01(a)                1            C                                     (i) Project stoes to maintain records
and acctses of Parn B of the project.
PA                    UP 3.01(a)                1            C                                     (ii) Project states to furnish the
Association with accounts nd
staement certified by an auditor not
later thin 9 months after the end of
each financial year
PA                    UP 3.01(b)                I            C                                     Project States to have their accoumes
and statentese sudited and furnish the
Association with the report of such
audit.
PA                    UP 3.01(c)                I            C                                     For withdrawals on SOEst the project
States shall maintain separate recordt
and enmure these are included in the
unnusal audit referred to in 3.01 (a)
nd (b).
DCA                   UP 3.04                   9            C                                     GOI (DOE) will monitor coordinate
sod provide the Project State with
technicasl tsistance.
DCA                   UP3.05                    9           C                                      GOI(DOE)willlfriitinhthe
Association with semi-annual progress
reportt and anmtal evaluation
summaris.
DCA                   UP 3.06                   9           C       30/090                         GOI will furnish the Association with
a review of project execution by lune
30. 1990.
Covenant Tne: I - Accountst/audit; 2 - Financial performance; 3 - Flow snd utiliation of project funds: 4 - Counterpan funding: 5 - Management aspecrt of the projct: 6 -
Environmental covenants: 7 - Involuntary reeleniete: 8 - Indigenous people: 9 - Monitoring, review and reporting  10 - Implementation: 11 - Resource aIloation: 12 -
Regulatory/institutional action: and 13 - Other
C       Status: C - Complied with: CD - Compliance after delay: CP - Complied with partially; and NC - Not complied with.



28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1i                To be completed in WB.
2.
3.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                Actual "
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks        US$         Weeks         US$       Weeks      US$000
Preparationto               -          n.a. 2-                   n.a.        57.0       114.5
appraisal
Appraisal                   -           n.a.          -          n.a.        16.9        39.9
Negotiations through        -           n.a.          -          n.a.        34.6        81.8
Board approval
Supervision                 -           n.a.          -          n.a.        88.5      237.1
Completion                  -           na.           -          n.a.       19.0         79.1
TOTAL                                                                      216.0      552.4
Data from WB MIS; Staff weeks given are discounted for inputs by local and international consultants (at 4:1 ratio)
and include all associated staff inputs (in Bank as well as field).
2   Dollar budgeting only introduced FY94 and therefore costs cannot be computed.



29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
I           JPal~~~~6)ietrixiice ratingJ
Stage of                    Month/              Number                     Specialized     Impl         Devdopmet
project cyde                   ycer                  of        Days in       sta(f skils       tion        objtiveas   Types of
persons       field      represented    I     ansa ptsbas
Through apprisal           March 1985 (UP)                               2           AU,EX 
March 1985 (Assam)               2            6           AGEX
Feb. 1986 (Bihar SSP)            2            2            EX(2)
April 1986 (Bihar SSP)           1            4             EX
April 1986 (Bihar SSP)                        3             EX
April 1986 (Bihar SSP)           2            3            EX(2)
April 1986 (PunjabSSP)           3            3           EX(2).H
May 1986 (Bihar SSP)             3            5            EX(3)
Dec. 1986 (PunjabSSP)            6            4          EX(5).AG
Apprasal through Board    June 1985 (UP)                    2            9            EX(Z)
approval                  Sept. 1985 (UP)                   2            6            EX(2)
Jan. 1986 (Assam)                2            5            EX(2)
March 1986 (UP)                  2            3            EX(2)
April 1986 (Assam)               2            3             EX,
Apr.-May 1986 (Assam)            3           11
Oct. 1986 (UP)                   2            4            EX(2)
Nov. 1986 (UP)                   2            5            EX(2)             '             '
Dec. 1986(BiharSSP)              I            I             eX 
Jan. 1987 (HP)                 -1            II             H
Jan. 1987 (Assam)                2            5            EX(2)
Jan. 1987 (UP)                   2            2            EX(2) 
eSupervision               March 1987 (UP)                  3            10          eUX(3)
March 1987 (HP)                  1            2             EX
Marcl 1987 (UP)                  1            2             EX                                           M
April 1987 (UP)                  4            4           EX(3).R                                        T
May 1981 (Assam)                 1            7             EX                                          M,T
Aug.-Sept. 1987 (UP)             2            5            EX(2)             -              -           M,F
Sept. 1987 (HP)                  2            5            EX.H                                         T,M
Oct. 1987 (Punjab SSP)           3            5          EX,AG,H                                         M
Nov. 1987 (Assam)                2            5            EX(2)                                        T.M
Feb. 1988 (UP)                   2            7            EX(2)                                        T.M
April 1988 (Assam)               2            5            EX(2)                                        T,M
April 1988 (HP)                  2            4            EX(2)                                        T,M
August 1988 (Bihar SSP)          2            4            EX(2)                            -           T.M
August 1988 (UP)                 2            6            EX,R                     -                   T.M
Sept. 1988 (HP)                   1           6             EX                .TM.F
October 1988 (Assamn)            1            4             EX          ,            -                   M
Jan. 1989 (UP)                   2            5            EX R              -              -          T,M,F
Jan. 1989 (Punjab SSP)           4            5          EX.AG,R,S                          -           M,y
June 1989 (HP)                   2            5           AG,EN                             -          T.MF
luly 1989 (Punjab SS?)           2            5           AG,EN              *              -           M,Y
August 1989 (Bihar SSP)          5            2            fX,R              -                         T.M,F
August 1989 (Asuan)              4            1             EX               -              -T,F
Septemnber 1989 (UP)             3            5           EX(2),R            -              -            M
Jan. 1990 (Punjab SSP)           3            4           EX,REN              -             -           MF
Jan. 1990 (Bihar SSP)            3            5           EX(2),R            -              -          T,M.F
Jan.-Feb. 1990 (Assam)           2            5            EX,R              2              2             T
April 1990 (UP)                  2            5          EX,R,AG             2              I           MYF
April-May 1990 (HP)              3            5             EX,              2             2            T,F
Sept. 1990 (UP)                  2            4            EX,R
Sept. 1990 (UP)                  3            4           EX(2)R
Sept. 1990 (Assun)               2            6            AGAR              3              3          F.T.M
Nov. 1990 (Punjab SSP)           3            5             EX,              2             2             T
Nov. 1990 (HP)                   2            4              R               3              I           FPM
Feb. 1991 (Bisar SSP)            1            5           EX (2).            2              1
March 1991 (Assarn)              3            5          AG,EX,R,            3             2            M,T
April 1991 (UP)                  5            5        EX(2),AG(2)R          2              1
Jan. 1992 (Assan)                2            5             EX.              3             2           F,M.T
March 1992 (UP)                  2            4           EX.AG              2              I            T
April 1992 (HP)                  2            5           EX,AG,             I              I             -
June 1992 (Assan)                3            4             EX               2              I             T
June 1992 (UP)                    1           3             EX                -             -
Sept. 1992 (Punjab SSP)          1            4             AG               2             2            M.T
Sept.- Oct. 1992 (HP)            I            5           AG,EX              2              I          M.T,F
March 1993 (Asun)                2            4             EX               2             2
April 1993 (UP)                  I            5           AG,EX,             2             2            M,T
July 1993 (HP)                   1            3             EX.              I              I           M,F
Oct. 1993 (Assam)                2            5             EX.              I              I
Dec. 1993 (UP)                   2            5             EX,              I              I           M.T
May 1994 (HP)                    1            4             EX               I              I
Jan. 1995 (Assam)                1            5             EX                I             I          M.T,F
May 1995 (UP)                    I            3             EX               I              I            M
June 1995 (HP)                   I            3             EX               I              I           M.T
|.Completion
Leend: EX- Extenion Specialist: AG - Agriculturist; R   Research Specialist. S - Sociologist; EN - Engineer; H. Horticulturist
Types of problems T - Technical: M - Managerial; snd F - Financial



30
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1754-IN)
Appendix A
Analysis of Crop Production Trends in Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh
1.         Regression analyses of crop production parameters (area, production and yield) for the
major crops grown in Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh are provided in the following three
tables and trends in these sarne parameters are provided in three figures. The analyses indicate that
different trends in crop production parameters have occurred in the three States.
2.         Assam. Analyses show that during the last decade in Assam there has been a small
decrease in wheat production due to declining wheat area, no change in production of pulses as an
increase in yield has been offset by declining area, oilseeds production has increased slightly due to
increasing yield with no change in sown area, while paddy production has increased significantly due to
significant increases in both area and yield.
3.         Uttar Pradesh. Analyses show that during the last decade in Uttar Pradesh there has
been a highly significant increase in wheat and rice production due to significant increases in wheat and
paddy yields and in the case of wheat only, also due to increase in sown area. On the other hand there
has been no significant increase in maize production with the small increases in yield being offset by
decrease in planted area.
4.         Himachal Pradesh. Analyses show that during the last 7 years in Himachal Pradesh
there has been significant increases in rice and maize production due to very significant increases in
yield in both crops, which has been accompanied by a small increase in sown area of maize but a
decline in sown area for rice. Neither wheat nor barley production has changed over this period.
5.         The degree to which these increases in crop production can be ascribed to improved
extension services under the project cannot be determined, but clearly from farmer interviews, the
yields and productivity of contact farmers are higher than district averages and they have indicated they
have personally benefitted from extension advice.



Table 1. Regression Analysis of Trends in Crop Production Parameters in Assam
Vhmt                                              Paddy                                             Pules 
prea  Production    Yield                       'Aea  Production    Yleld                          Area  Prodiction    Yielcl                        Aea  Pradcctlon    Yield
wha    p00Mt) =      g/tu)                       =0Ofa)   (mOMt)    ftnha)                         P00ha)   foMt)    oqyJa)                          /1ha)   PWMt)          gha)
1983-84        99.0    127.6      1289           1983-84      2322.0    4284.1      1845            1983-84       131.0      54.6      417           1983-84       309.0      153.3      496
1984-85       150.0     157.4     1049           1984-85      2325.0    4122.2      1773            1984-85       138.0      59.3      430            1984-85      348.0      137.1      394
1985-86        93.0     100.8     1082           19S5-86      2464.0    4617.1      1955            1985-86       146.0      68.8      471            1985-86      328.0      172.2      525
1985-87       120.0    125.8      1048            1986-87     2287.0    4036.6      1765            1986-87       150.0      63.0      420           1986-87       347.0      185.0      533
1997-88        98.0     105.4     1076           1987-88      2336.0    4559.9      1952            1987-88       138.0     63.8       462           *987-88       375.0     202.1       539
1988-89       106.0     121.9     1150           1988-89      2326.0    4124.0      1773            1988-89       126.0      53.0      421            1988-89      380.0     204.1       537
1989-90        93.0      87.4      940           1989-90      2472.0    4728.9      1913            1989-90       120.0      54.0      450            1989-90      357.0      188.1      527
1990-91        84.0    104.8      1248           19g9-91      2526.7    5528.4      2188            1990-91       121.4      52.8      435           1990-91       340.7      190.5      559
1991-92        76.4     110.5     1445           1991-92      2572.0    5406.3      2102            1991-92       125.3      59.5      475           1991-92       346.1     205.9       595
1992-93       104.8     111.7     1066            1992-93     2559.3    5579.2      2180            1992-93       119.1      56.6      475           1992-93       337.6      170.8      506
1993-94        78.9    100.8      1277           1993-94      2562.7    5602.0      2186            1993-94       118.6     62.6       528           1993-94
Regression: Production                           Regresslon: ProducUon                              Regression: Production                            Regression Output: Production
Constant             132.9185                    Constant              3853.281                     Constant            60.49505                     Constant              156.1547
StaErr ofY Est       16.34858                    StdErr ofYEst        371.8117                      StErr ofYEst         5.41155                     Stcl Er ofYEst        19.23848
R Squared            0.312772                    R Squared             0.687142                     R Sqinred           0.028161                      R Sqrared            0.360723
No. of Obserultions       11                     No. of Obserwtions         11                      No, of Obserwations       11                     No. of Obserwations        10
Degrees of Freedom         9                     Degrees of Freedom          9                      Degrees of Freeaom         9                      DegSrees of Freedom        8
X Coefficient(s)    -3.15478                     X CoeMcdent(s)        157.6151                     X CoeMcient(s)       -0.2635                      X CoeMcient(s)       4.500196
StdErrotCoeE.        1.558776                    StdErrof Coot.        35.45085                     StdEffof Coat.       0.515971                     StdErrof Coet        2.118087
Regession: Yield                                 Rbession: Yield                                    Regession, Y-eld                                  Rees.ion Output Yield
Constant             1077.582                     Constant             2264.071                     Constant             411.3636                     Constant                466.2
Std Err of Y Est     147.9731                     Std Err of Y Est     69.32684                     Std Err of Y Est     25.70923                     Std Er ot Y Est      45.35261
R Sqanred            0.078724                     R Sqpwred            0.665924                     R SqLared            0.472116                     R Squared            0.333133
No. of Obserntions         11                     No of Obserwtions          11                     NQ of Obsermtlons          11                     N. of Obsenetions          10
Degrees of Freedom         9                      Degrees of Freedom         9                      Degrees of Freedorn        9                      Degrees of Freedom         8
X CoeMcient(s)       12.37273                     X Coemclent(s)       27.99727                     X CoeeMcient(s)      6.954545                     X CoeemcIent(s)      9.981818
Stt Err of Coef.     14.10868                     Std Err of Coet.     6.610054                     SO Er of Coet.       2.451279                     Sd Err of Coet.      4.993158
Regression: Arm                                   Ression: Arfe                                     Regression: Are                                   Reession Outpe Are
Constant             122.5322                     Constant             2264.071                     Constant             145.3036                     Constant               335.42
Sta Err of Y Est     17.65274                     Std Err of Y Est     69.32684                     Std Err ot Y Est     7.872378                     Std Err of Y Est     21.07108
R Sqigared           0.35029                      R Squared            0. 65924                     R Squored             0.55191                     R Sqttweal           a091023
No. of Obserwations       11                      No. of Obserwotions        11                     No. of Obserwtions         11                     No. of Obserwtions         10
Degrees of Freedom         9                      Degrees of Freedom         9                      Degrees of Freedom         9                      Degrees of Freedom         8
X Coefficient(s)    -3.70764                      X Coefcient(s)       27.99727                     X CoeeicIent(s)     -2.49909                      X Coefficlent(s)     2.076364
Std Err of Coet.     1.683123                     Std Err of Cost.     6.610054                     Sta Err ot Cot.      0.750602                     Std Err of Coet.     2.319849



32
Crop Productivity in Assam
2500
2000 
?- 1500-
~1000 
500 -
0 
0             2             4              6             8             10             12
Years from 1983-84 to 1993-94
YWheat  +     Paddy          A, Pulses      3 Oiseeds



Table 2. Regression Analysis of Trends in Crop Production Parameters in Uttar Pradesh
Whoat                                                                    Paddy                                                                    Maize
Eatern Utbar Prndeesh         Westem Utbr Pmdesh                         Eastern Utter Pradesh         Westem Utbkr Pradesh                       Eastern Utbtr Prmdesh         Westem Utktr Predesh
Arre  Producion      Yield     Area  Production    Yield                 Are   Producion    Yield       Arem   Production    Yield                Ara   Production    Yield      Area   Producton    Yield
(DrDs)   (00Mt)       (gk )   (O0Osh)   (O0Mt)    (hgha)                 (000h)   (00QMt)    (kg/ha)   (0Ore)   (00041)    (kg/)                  (ODWha)   (0M41)      (kgme)  (WWCha)   (OW t       (kg1h)
1983-84      3716.9    6333.6       1704                                1933-94       34°6.9    6479.6       1853                                 1933-84       469.3      340.2       725
1084-85      3727.1     6147,3      1703                                 94-895       3843.2    70Q3.3       1947                                 1984-85       453.2      472.9      1032
1985-88      3712.9    8549.8       1784                                1985-88       3671.2    8362.0       2275                                 1985-88       498.2      432.1       923
1988-87      3741.8    836.9        1707    4287.3    92d9.1       2182 198-87        3E01.4    7047.9       1957     198601    458.9       2763 198-87         471.4      455.8       967      698.9     9778        1397
1987-88      3812.7    8851.4       1797    43D9.5    9330.1       2185 1987-68       3358.8    8988.3       2050    1159.2    3080.0       2857 1987-88        4093       423.7       89E      813.8     542.8       884
198-89       3913.8    8328.8       2128     4428.2   10858.3      2408 1988-89       3508.1    9551.7       2875     1504.2    5177.5      3442 1988-89        498.5      498.0       939      807.9     877.2       1114
198-90       3924.4    7258.0       1852    4321.3    9843.9       2278 989-90        3657.1   10338.7       2745     148.2    48B7.3       3275 1989-90        52D.3      614.0      1180      594.9     928.3       1557
1980-91      3943.4    7550.3       15D2    4365.2   102d8.3       2407 1990-91       3756.7   10704.8       2848    1588.8    5489.3       3455 1990-91          457      393.9       8E2      598.8     947.6      1583
1991-92      3950.9    8533.9       2180     4328.8   11037.2      2651 191-92        3531.5   1M41.1        2785     1526.8    4814.0      3153 1991-92        479.7      429.3       895      552.6     688.3       1242
1982-93      3985.3    7938.7       1987    4554.8   11288.8       2478 1982-93       3803.5    9558.5       2E52     1612.4    598.3       3472 1982-93        493.2       03.2      1223      550.2    1M1.9        1521
1983-94      4057.4    87112        2147    4eD9.9   11474.0       2489  933-94       3588.3   10578.5       3017    1598.8    5563.8       3480 1983-94        494.8      480.9       972      584.4     807.7       1431
Regression: Production                   Reogression: Produrtion         egression: Producion                     Regresion: Production           Regression: Production                   Regression: Production
Constant              5878.292           Constent              8em4.92  onstbnt                 W828.42           Constent               3204.115 Constent               395.051           Constant               717.8273
Std Err of Y Est      458.0842           Std Err of Y Est      398.2885 td Err of Y Est        879.4312           Std Err ofY Est        682.219 Std Err of Y Est        75.783            Std Err ot Y Est       179.3375
R Squared             0.77e305           RSquared              0.826599  Squared               0.732422           RSqured                0.448542 R Squared             0225391            R Squared              0.039494
No. of Observations         11           No. of Observations          8  o.of Observations           11           No. of Observations           8 No. of Observaions          11           No. of Observations           8
Degree of Freedom            9           Degrees of Freedom           8  agrees of Freedom            9           Degrees of Freedom           8 Degrees of Freedom            9           Degrees of Freedom            8 
X Coeficient(s)       244.0948           X CoefficIent(s)      318.7731  Coe icient(s)          416.181           X Coefficient(s)       225.7345 X Coefficient(s)      11.8e13e           X Coeficient(s)        1374474 
StdEndfCoet.          43.678E1           StdErrnoCoet.          5&90529 tdErrnoCoet.           8385048            StdEadof Coet.         102.1828 StdErrof Coet.        7.20310D           StdEndofCoeL.          27.67238
Regiresion: Yield                        Regression: Yield                egresson: Yield                         Regression: Yield               Regresslon: Yield                        Regresslon: Yieid
Constent              1S23.691           Constent               1973.321  onstnt               1752.709           Constent                 2481.5 Constnt              80.0545             Constant               903.4843
Std Err of Y Est      109.5497           Std Err of Y Est      80.5375 td Err ot Y Est         195.0624           Std Er of Y Est        240.7449 Std En o Y Est        135.8203           Std Er o dY Est         2E98.97
RSquared              0.078452           RSquared              0.747091  Squared                0.80717           ASquared               0.547487 ASquared              0.152917           RSquared               0279482
No. of Observaions          11           No. of Observations          8  o. of Obsevations           11           No. of Observations          8 No. of Observetions          11           No. of Obsevations            a
Degrees of Freedom           9           Degrees of Freedom           8  egrees of Freedom            9           Degrees of Freedom               Degrees of Freedom          9           Degrees of Freedom            6
X Coeticient(s)       4530909            X Coeflicient(s)       5252381  Coelticient(s)        114.1545           X Coetlclent(s)        10.0833 X Coefficient(s)       1835455            X Coefficient(s)        634881
StdErrof Coef.        10.44515           StdEndofCoef.            1Z478  tdErrofCoef.          1e59e47            StdEndofCoef.          37.14774 StdEndofCoef.         1293089            StdEn odCoet.          41.61515
Regression: Arm                          Regression: Are                 egression: Arem                          Regression: Arem                Regression: Arm                          Regnrssion: Are
Constent              3E44.87e           Constent               4108.154  onstent              3573.409           Constent               1337.839 Constnt               4e5.3073           ConstAnt                 725.35
StdErrofY Est         32757e4            StdEffofY Est         89.84472 tdErrofY  Est          111.7287           StdErrofY Est          158.3485 StdErrofY Est         1&05907            StdErrofY Est          2803179
R Squgmred            0 .37872           R Squared             0.46U24  Squared                 0.01187           RSquared               0.140539 RSquared              02 574             RSquared               0.74922
No. of Observaions          11           No. of Observations          6  o. of Observaions           11           No. of Observations          8 No. of Observations          11           No. of Obsevations            8
Degrees of Freedom           9           Degrees of Freedom              *egrees of Freedom           9           Degrees of Freedom            8 Degrees of Freedom           9           Degrees of Freedom            8
X Coeficient(s)       3Q40i45            X Coelicient(s)        37.25952  Coefficient(s)       3.472727           X CoefficIent(s)       2189843 X Coefficient(s)       2.7s5455           X Coeticient(s)        -17.0083
Std Err of Coef.      3.123318           Std E of Coef.         1540838  td Ef o Coei.         105291             Std E of Coot.         24.12525 Std Err of Coaf.      1.7M84             Std Err of Coef.       4.018793



34
Crop Productivity in Uttar Pradesh
4000
3500  -
3000-
~2500-
~2000-
1500 L
1000 
500     111                         -                          
0             2             4             6              8             10            12
Years from 1983-84 to 1993-94
'.Wheat: Eastern UP    + Wheat: Western UP        Paddy: Eastern UP
B  Paddy: Western UP        Maize: Eastern UP         Maize: Western UP



Table 3. RegressionAnalysis of Trends in Crop Production Parameters in Himachal Pradesh
Wheat                                              Paddy                                             hbibE.                                            Brby
Area  Pro=cion      Yield                          ra  Production    Yield                         Ara  Poducton    Yeld                             Ase   Poctlon    Yield
ooha)                MrsMt)   =gha)              pha)   pMt)    Mrs)                               poha)   pMt)    Ohe)                              pOOa)   pMt) =r/he)
1987-88       374.9    351.2       937           1987-88         90.2     126.9     1407            1987-88      293.4    405.7       1383           1987-88        30.7       28.7      938
1988-89       373.0    512.5      1374            1988-89        86.6     149.7     1729            1988-89       320.8    483.1      1506            1988-89        28.3      34.4     1217
1989-90       370.7    453.7      1224            1989-90        88.7     157.6     1777            1989-90       313.6    669.2      2134            19E9-90        28.7      37.1     1294
1990-91       376.3    601.7      1599            1990-91        84.9     177.5     2090            1990-91       319.1    655.0      2052            1990-91        29.3      43.1     1470
1991-92       375.9    593.5      1579            1991- 92       83.3    171.7      2060            1991-92       315.3    589.2      1869            1991-92        28.2      35.6     1263
1992-93       366.7     503.1     1372            1992-93        81.9    183.9      2245            1992-93       310.3    641.6      2067            1992-93        27.1      32.1     1183
1993-94       373.9    412.6      1103            1993-94        82.3    169.8      2062            1993-94       314.6    669.8      2129            1993-94        28.8      34.6     1202
Regreslon: Production                             Regresslon: Production                            Regesslon: Production                             Regresslon: ProducUon
Consbant             446.1736                     Constnt              132.2554                     Consbrnt             440.6224                     Constsnt             33.45829
Std Err of Y Est     97.09202                     Std Err o Y Est      11.70561                     Std Err o Y Est      73.53921                     Std Err o Y Est      4.756111
R SqLared            0.065882                     R Squared            0.699208                     R Sq4ared            0.583164                     R Squared            0.039088
No. of Observations        7                      No, of Observations        7                      No. of Observations        7                      No. ofObsevatlone          7
Degees of Freedom          5                      Degees of Freedom          s                      Degees of Freedom          5                      Degees of Freedom          S
XCoefficent(s)       10.89611                     XCoetlicient(s)      7.541714                     XCoefficlent(s)      36.75679                     XCoelcaent(s)        0.405357
Std Err of Cost      18.34807                     Std Er ro Coot       2.212153                     Std Er of Coot        13.8976                     Std Erro  Coet        0.8es82
Regresslon: Yield                                 Regression: Yield                                 Regresslon: Yield                                 Regresslon: Yield
Constant             1191.082                     Constant              1U1.07                      Constant             1434.799                     Constant             1124.501
StdErrofYEst         255.9016                     StdEndoYEst          147.7945                     StdErrofYEst         217.3109                     StdErrndYEst         163.4825
Squared             0.0731U                      R Squared            0.778936                     R Squared            0.592001                     R Squnred             0.11453
No of Obseretbons          7                      No of Obosetloos           7                      No of Observtions          7                      No of Obeor.tions          7
Degees of Freedom          5                      Degems of Freedom          5                      Degees of Freedom          5                      Degees of Freedom          5
XCoefficient(s)      30.37831                     XCoelcient(s)        117.2349                     XCoeffiient(s)       110.6163                     XCoefficient(s)       24.8457
Std Errnd Cost       48.30086                     Std Errno Coot       27.93054                     Std Errno Cost        41.0679                     Std Errno Coot       30.89534
RegresSloRegesslon Output:                        Regresslon: Are                                   Regresslon: Area                                  Regesslon: Arem
Constant             374.5349  132.2554           Constant             90.8043                      Constant              306.113                     Constant             29.91914
StdErrofYEst         3.822591  11.70561           StdErrofYEst         1.315576                     StdErrofYEst         9.241184                     StdEfofrYEst         0.959537
R SqLared            0.055265  0.699208           R Squared            0.85828                      R Squared            0.140753                     R Squared            0.358806
No of Obeoreilons          7         7            Na of Obervations          7                      No of Obsenations          7                      No of Obsentlons           7
Degees of Freedom          5         5            Degees of Freedom          5                      Degees of Freedom          5                      Degees of Freedom          5
XCoeMclent(s)        7.541714                     X Coefclent(s)      -1.36814                      X Coeficient(s)      1.58036                      XCoefmlerlnt(s)     -0.30332
SidErrof Coot        2.212153                     StdErrof Coot        0.248621                     StdErrnoCoet          1.74e42                     StdErrof Coot        0.181335



36
Crop Productivity in Himachal Pradesh
2500
2000  -
,-,1500  -
1000 
0         1         2         3          4         5          6         7         8
Years from 1987-88 to 1993-94
, Wheat   +  Paddy   .  Maize  13 Barley



37
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1754-IN)
Appendix B
Mission's Aide-Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
1.         At the request of the World Bank, an FAO/CP Mission visited India from 3 July to 21
July 1995 to meet with officials of the State Governments of Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal
Pradesh and Government of India (GOI) concerned with the implementation of the above project and
to obtain relevant information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
this project. Field visits were made to five subproject districts in the central area of Assam, six
subproject districts in central Uttar Pradesh and five subproject districts in Himachal Pradesh. New
facilities constructed under the project were inspected and meetings were held with government
officials and farmers in these districts.
2.         The mission wishes to thank all staff of the State Governments of Assam (GOA), Uttar
Pradesh (GOUP) and Himachal Pradesh (GOHP) and the Government of India (GOI) involved in
meetings and field visits for giving generously of their time, information and assistance with the
preparation of the ICR for this project. The preliminary findings and views presented in this aide-
memoire reflect those of the mission, based on discussions with staff of the State Governments and the
GOI, farmers in project districts visited and from prior consultation of project documents at World
Bank and will be amended, as necessary, to take into account points raised in wrap-up meetings with
each State Government and final wrap-up meeting with GOI, scheduled for July 21, 1995.
B. THE PROJECT
3.         The general goal for the six-year project was to increase agricultural production
throughout the project states by providing first-time assistance to the States of Uttar Pradesh and
Himachal Pradesh, as well as continuing assistance to the State of Assam, initiated under the Assam
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IND) from 1977 to 1985, in the improvement and
organisation of more professional agricultural extension services. In addition, the project was aimed at
assisting with the financing of special subprojects, prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture of the GOI,
State Governments, or other implementing agencies, specifically designed to strengthen support of
extension activities at central, regional or state levels.



38
4.         The project aimed to assist in the development of six main operational activities:
(a)        Extension (accounting for 58% of total project costs);
(b)        Training (9% of total project costs);
(c)        Infornation services (1.3% of total project costs);
(d)        Adaptive research (0.2% of total project costs);
(e)        Monitoring and evaluation (1.5% of total project costs);
(f)        Special subproject fund (30% of total project costs).
C. MISSION FINDINGS
Project Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
5.         The project became effective in January 1988, although project start-up activities
commenced as early as 1985/86 and were retroactively financed from the Credit, and was originally
scheduled to be completed by March 31, 1994, but was extended by one-year (to March 31, 1995) to
allow full utilisation of the Credit and to complete project objectives. Because of significant differences
in subproject objectives and implementation experience in the different States, the mission findings are
presented separately for each participating state.
Assam
6.         Specific subproject objectives for the State of Assam included:
(a)    To further strengthen the office of the Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA)
Extension through the provision of a senior SMS for Training and Information
to be responsible for the coordination and guidance of all extension related DOA
and university executed training activities financed under the project;
(b)    To strengthen the civil engineering wing of the DOA in order to effectively
undertake and supervise the civil works programmre;
(c)    To improve the quality of technical supervision and timeliness and reliability of
farm input supplies at the zonal level by the provision of incremental positions
for one SMS agronomist and one SMS (farm input supply coordination)
attached to each of the five zonal offices of the Joint Directors of Agriculture
(JDAs);



39
(d)    To improve extension management and technical support at subdivisional level
through reorganisation of the geographic size of some subdivisions, to adjust
SMS/Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO)/Village Level Extension Worker
(VLEW) staffing ratios, to recruit additional staff and to broaden the range of
SMS expertise to include staff with horticulture and soil water management
specialization; and
(e)    To upgrade technical knowledge and skills of extension personnel through
regular training of field staff at cluster training halls and provision of special in-
service training for selected staff at all organisational levels.
Physical Targets
7.         Many of the physical targets set in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were met by the
scheduled completion of the project (March 31, 1994), but were generally delayed in relation to the
original schedule contained in the SAR. Based on a project mid-term review some of the original
targets were revised. The most significant changes were in relation to additional construction of offices
and residences at headquarters and zonal centres, a large reduction in the number of residences for
VLEWs and the construction of a hostel/kitchen/dining block and residences at the newly established
Training Institute at Naltoli and adjustments to various training courses. Most of the revised targets
were met by the end of the one-year extension to the project (March 31, 1995).
8.         Incremental staff. Most incremental staff positions were sanctioned and filled as
scheduled, based on an increased need for staff as a result of the formation of an increased number of
districts and subdivisions, increased number of SMSs required to provide a more broad-based
extension service and the need to strengthen the engineering, M&E and Training sections.
9.         Civil works. Some 15 offices were scheduled to be constructed at subdivisional level in
order to provide office facilities at all field centres. However, this target was revised and amended
following the project mid-term review to increase the construction target to 32 offices, including a
main three-level headquarters building, eight zonal offices, three district offices and 20 subdivisional
offices. By the time of the extended closure of Credit, 30 offices were completed with another eight
offices partially completed. Some 680 houses were scheduled to be constructed under the project, the
majority at local levels for field extension staff. This target was subsequently revised sharply
downwards (31% of the original target) and arnended to include three residences at headquarters level
and a 75% reduction in houses for VLEWs. By close of Credit some 203 residences were constructed
with an additional five partially completed, but with an additional 16 houses constructed at HQ and
district level and a firther 32% reduction in VLEW housing. At the Naltoli Training Institute, while
construction of the residences has been completed, the hostel and associated kitchen/dining block is not
yet completed. Overall, while the quality and finish of most buildings constructed has been satisfactory,
construction throughout the project has been considerably delayed, due to inadequate or slow release
of funds and in some cases contractual problems and some design features have been inadequate to
cope with the heavy rainfall experienced in Assam. The need for expenditure on maintenance of



40
buildings constructed during the project is apparent in some cases. Initial supervision of construction by
the PWD was unsatisfactory and was subsequently completely undertaken by the DOA
10.        Vehicles. The original target for jeep/van purchases was revised upwards by 110% while
car purchases were reduced by 71%, following the project mid-tenn review. But at project closure,
jeep purchases were only 53% of the revised target (117% of the original target). By the close of the
project, the purchase of motorcycles under the government personal loan agreement to staff was 226%
of the original target while 90% of bicycles were procured. Staff mobility still remains a problem at
field level and will require further government investment in vehicles and the continuation of the loans
scheme for staff purchase of vehicles to ensure a satisfactory level of staff mobility.
Sub-Project Costs
11.       Of the total IDA Credit for Assam of SDR7.592 million (US$9.000 million), it is
estimated (based on historical exchange rates) that SDR6.767 million (US$9.204 million) has been
reimbursed through GOI at Credit closure on 31 March, 1995, with a fiirther SDRO.403 million
(US$0.607 million) of outstanding claims. The Bank has allowed disbursements on expenditure
incurred prior to closure of Credit to continue to be withdrawn until 31 July, 1995. Total project cost
at 31 March 1995 was Rs381.208 million (US$18.791 million), which was 92% above the original
estimated project cost of Rs193.970 nillion (US$14.921 million), due to a devaluation of the Rupee
against the Dollar and SDR, a one-year extension of the project and an expanded civil works
programme, and was 26% above the original estimated project cost in Dollar terms. These estimates
would indicate that the GOA financed about 61% of the total project cost.
Staff Training
12.       A considerable amount of training was undertaken during the project. While many
training activities were completed as scheduled (some greatly exceeded the original targets), there were
some areas of training in which the number of courses or individual number of staff participating were
greatly reduced, most notably study tours and refresher training. The regular fortnightly training given
by SMSs to VEWs has been adjusted to monthly training. SMSs still undertake monthly training at
SAU training centres.
T&V System of Extension
13.       The T&V system institutionalised under the previous WB project in Assam was
continued and strengthened under this project. The significant changes to operational activities have
been (i) the development of a farmer-centred group approach, to mediate extension information
exchange at field level, to replace the contact farmer approach, and (ii) the changing emphasis to a
more broad-based extension service to cover a range of production activities of farmers. The rationale
and justification for these changes were based on the observations that the expected transfer of
information from the few selected contact farmers to other village farmers did not occur satisfactorily
and that farmers required a more integrated advisory service to cope with the various aspects of total



41
farm production activities. The formation of Field Management Committees (FMCs) by farmers in all
villages since 1989/90 has been enthusiastically adopted. Farmers interviewed indicated that the regular
fortnightly meetings of the FMCs with VLEWs and AEOs fulfil a needs-based forum for technical
information and advice which is available to all farmers in the village rather than for a few selected
farmers, as occurred under the contact farmer approach. The formation of FMCs has also allowed
farmers the collective opportunity to exercise more influence on purchasing input supplies. The
potential of the group approach to define problems and advantage new production opportunities has
not yet been fully exploited.
Training Centres (Institutes)
14.        There are three staff training centres. From the visit to the Naltoli Training Centre (TC) it
was apparent that TCs serve an important role in induction and refresher training for field staff Their
potentiality could be further extended to incorporate in-service management training, extension training
in womens development and selected farmer training. There also appears to be some scope for
improvement in course curriculum to train extension staff in aspects of whole farm management and
development planning and simple financial analysis of component and whole farm production systems.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Regular M&E surveys and publication of seasonal (kharif and rabi) reports have been
undertaken by the M&E Unit. These have been according to the guidelines in the manual for M&E
produced by the Bank. However, it is felt that these need revising to allow better evaluation of the
extension system, the impact of extension on agricultural production and to identify areas requiring
further research and technology improvement. The task of the M&E Unit is considerably restricted as
data is analysed manually as the DOE of GOI has failed to operationalize a computer network with
software programmes to undertake analysis of M&E data. Research - Extension Linkages
15.        Research-extension linkages were strengthened through joint meetings of State
Agricultural University (SAU) (research) and DOA (extension) staff at zonal (bimonthly) and seasonal
(biannually) workshops. In addition, there have been joint field visits of research and extension staff to
meet with farmers define problems and provide solutions. Regular training of SMSs by university staff
also provides a further point of interaction. The SAUs have established agro-ecological based zonal
research stations (6) with support of NARP I and NARP II. Hundreds of on-farm trials are undertaken
annually by these research stations in collaboration with extension staff in local areas. The DOA also
has 10 Field Trial Stations undertaking adaptive research. It was apparent, however, that (i) a large
proportion of staff time and station budget is associated with seed production, and (ii) research should
be more specifically oriented to fine-tuning technologies on farmers fields in selected target areas.



42
Project Benefits
16.        It is not possible to determine the real impact of the project activities on beneficiaries
because of concurrent improvements in other factors of production, such as irrigated area, and direct
influences from other agencies involved in promoting agricultural production. It is clear that many
farmers who were in direct contact with extension workers increased their crop production and
incomes. These farmers have very much higher yields than district averages. Crop statistics show that
yields of all crops have increased throughout the project period.
Project Sustainability
17.        The GOA appears committed to maintain the basic institutional arrangement and
operational model of the T&V system strengthened under the project. However, serious financial
constraints were apparent during project implementation and are now currently more extreme. Thele
has been little allocation and use of funds for building maintenance and funds are extremely short for
operational activities and for further capital investment in new and replacement vehicles. The financial
problem is exacerbated by the fact that the actual budget release is considerably less than budget
approval and the flow of budget is extremely skewed to release late in the financial year.
UJttar Pradesh
18.        The subproject aimed to provide first-time assistance to the Government of Uttar Pradesh
(GOUP) in the introduction of the T&V system of agricultural extension, initially in four eastem
administrative divisions (21 districts) and following project restructuring, subsequently including the
remaining divisions and districts under Special Subproject (SSP) financing, except for two divisions
(eight hill districts) in the north-west area of the state.
19.        Specific subproject objectives for the State of Uttar Pradesh (UP) included:
(a)        To establish a unified and professional extension services having a single line
of command from VEW to the Director of Agriculture and with clearly defined
job responsibilities established for each staff category; because of the size of the
state and large number of farmers this would be undertaken in a phased manner;
(b)        To take over extension service responsibilities in areas commanded by the
second Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project (Cr. 1332-IN and cofinanced by
IFAD under Ln. 124-IN);
(c)        To recruit and redeploy (following abolishment of field posts under the
Command Area Development Authority and non-reversible transfer of staff from
the Community Development Department) staff to the extension service to
establish a chain of command and extension implementation team consisting of
divisional, district and subdivision offices, including SMSs with AEOs and



43
VEWs at cluster and circle levels, respectively, with each VEW responsible for
8-10 villages in each circle;
(d)        To establish farm information units at Kanpur and Faizabad Agricultural
Universities (SAUs) and at four divisional headquarters;
(e)        To upgrade technical knowledge and skills of extension personnel through
the establishment of facilities and curriculum for regular fortnightly training of
field staff at cluster training halls and monthly training for SMSs at eight sites of
the SAUs;
(f)        To phase out the DOA managed zonal research programme operating from
regional adaptive trial centres cum seed farms of the DOA; and
To establish a project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit in DOA to undertake
regular M&E activities and special studies to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of the T&V
system and its impact on agricultural production.
Physical Targets
20.        Most of the physical targets set in the SAR for the UP component and for those targets
set under the additional SSP for UP were met by the scheduled completion of the project (March 31,
1994), but were generally delayed in relation to the original schedule contained in the SAR. The most
significant changes were in relation to a reduction in the number of residences constructed for VEWs,
an increase in the number of vehicles purchased, except for a large reduction in the number of
motorcycles/ mopeds purchased from staff loans, and a general increase in training courses, except for
a reduction in promotional studies and study tours.
21.        Incremental staff. Most new staff positions were sanctioned and filled as scheduled to
establish an effective T&V system of agricultural extension, both in the Phase I (original UP
component) and Phase II (SSP) areas. Continuing difficulty was experienced in filling the VEW
positions due to continuing litigation in the courts by about 1,500 government staff in the Community
Development Department who disagreed with their scheduled transfer to the extension service of
DOA, although recruitment of an additional 600 agricultural graduates is currently underway.
22.        Civil works. Some 253 offices were scheduled to be constructed in Phase I and Phase II
areas in order to provide office facilities for the operation of the T&V extension system in 55 districts,
with a total of 256 constructed. A total of 3,191 houses were scheduled to be constructed at
subdivisional levels for field level staff, but only 1,979 were constructed due in part to difficulties
encountered in obtaining land. Overall, the quality and finish of most buildings constructed is fair, with
some design faults apparent that have led to water mediated deterioration in buildings. Many buildings
need expenditure on maintenance as deterioration in buildings has occurred since construction.



44
Buildings constructed by the Public Works Department (PWD) appear superior to those constructed
under supervision of the DOA.
23.        Vehicles. Purchases of new and replacement cars/jeeps/vans were 108% of the original
target. By the close of the project, the purchase of motorcycles/ mopeds under the government
personal loan agreement to staff was only 20% of the original target due to lack of interest by staff
Sub-Project and SSP Costs
24.        The original IDA Credit for the Uttar Pradesh component (Phase I) was SDR30.620
million (US$36.3 million), with additional Credit provided from unused funds under NAEP I for the
UP SSP (Phase II). Of the original total IDA Credit, it is estimated that SDR25.405 million
(US$34.863 million) was utilised by Credit closure on 31 March, 1995, with a further SDR22.722
million (US$31.948 million) utilised for the SSP, giving a total Credit utilisation of SDR48.127 million
(US$66.811 million). A total claim of SDR3. 110 million (US$4.372 million) for reimbursement is still
outstanding. The Bank has allowed disbursements on expenditure incurred prior to closure of Credit to
continue to be withdrawn until 31 July, 1995. Total project cost for the original UP component at 31
March, 1995 has been given at Rsl,160.97 million (US$58.632 million), but does not include
expenditure for 1994-95. The actual project cost was 48% above the original estimated project cost of
Rs784.284 million in Rupee terms but only 3% above in Dollar terms (US$60.33 million), due mainly
to the 58% devaluation of the Rupee against the Dollar. Total project cost for the SSP for the period
1990/91 to 1994/95 was Rsl,150.85 million (US$43.343 million). Reimbursements for the period
1990/91 to 1992/93 for the SSP came from the NAEP I, with later reimbursements coming from
NAEP III. The total project cost for both phases in UP would be at least Rs2,311.82 million
(US$101.975 million), with total reimbursement of Rsl,540.9, with a further Rs115.1 million
outstanding in claims, indicating that the GOUP would have financed about 35% of the total project
cost.
Staff Training
25.        A considerable amount of training was undertaken during the project. While many
training activities were completed as scheduled (some greatly exceeded the original targets), there were
some areas of training in which the number of courses or individual number of staff participating were
greatly reduced, most notably promotional studies (due to lack of staff interest) and study tours, as it
was perceived that local visits to research farms and field demonstrations was sufficient.
T&V System of Extension
26.        The T&V system has been established and institutionalised in a phased manner (8 districts
in 1985/86, 8 districts in 1986/87 and 9 districts in 1991/92) in 25 districts (originally designated as 21
districts) under the UP component (Phase I) and then a further 30 districts under the UP SSP. Thus all
districts of UP (Phase I1), except for the hill districts in the north-west of the State, are now covered by
the T&V system of extension. The only modification to the implementation of the original T&V



45
institutional blueprint has been to not include AEO positions under Phase II and to include more SMSs
to supervise the VEWs directly. The GOUP considers that this is a more efficient system as it removes
an additional level of control and necessarily places the SMS in closer contact with VEWs and farmers.
From farmer interviews it was apparent that both contact and other farmers in villages which were
serviced by VEWs had benefited from extension advice. However, there are many VEW vacancies and
thus a very large number of villages do not receive any extension advice, although some trickle-down
technology occurs from input suppliers. Discussion with farmers indicated that a farmer group, rather
than contact farmer, approach would be welcomed. The present technology transfer system is still
oriented to packages of technology that can only be adopted by the larger farners who have sufficient
cash resources. The introduction of a more broadbased extension service to include advice on
horticulture, agroforestry and sericulture is welcomed by farmers and helps generate a greater cashflow
for further investments in production input supplies in traditional foodgrains production. The success of
the introduction of technologies for other farm activities depends on close technical support and
training for VEWs from the concemed technical sections in the DOA.
Training Centres
27.        Training halls were established under the project and regular fortnightly training for
VEWs by SMSs have been undertaken. Regular monthly training for SMSs at eight training centres of
the SAUs throughout the State has also been established. Staff indicate these trainings are beneficial
and no indication was given that these trainings should be less frequent, in contrast to the experience in
other states, but the duration of monthly workshops was reduced from two to one day.
Monitoring and Evaluation
28.        Regular M&E surveys and production of seasonal reports have occurred. These have
been according to the guidelines in the manual for M&E produced by the Bank. However, it is felt that
these need revising to allow better evaluation of the extension system, the impact of extension on
agricultural production and to identify areas for further research. A number of special studies have also
been undertaken. The task of the M&E Unit is considerably restricted by the fact that data is analysed
manually, even though a computer network with software programmes was supplied by the DOE of
the GOI in 1993. Although some training was also provided it was completely inadequate for operating
the computers or software programmes installed.
Research - Extension Linkages
29.        Research-extension linkages have been established through a number of committees at
zonal and district level. It is apparent, however, that insufficient interaction occurred between research
and extension staff and farmers in the Zonal Research and Extension Workshops. In addition, the
SAUs have established agro-ecological based zonal research stations (10) with support of NARP I and
NARP II from which they conduct on-farm research in cooperation with the local extension staff. The
DOA also has 10 field research and seed stations under an Additional Director of Research. It was
proposed in the SAR that these latter stations would be phased out under the project, but this did not



46
occur. Research at DOA stations is neither sufficiently adaptive nor sufficiently on-farm and therefore
lacks the necessary degree of focus on fine-tuning recommended technologies for local situations.
Project Benefits
30.        It is not possible to determine the real impact of the project activities on beneficiaries
because of concurrent improvements in other factors of production, such as irrigated area, and direct
influences from research and other agencies involved in input supply and promotion of agricultural
production. Undoubtedly many farmers who were in direct contact with extension workers increased
their crop production and incomes. Statistical data show significant increases in crop production,
mainly as a result of increased productivity rather than cultivated area. There has also been an increase
in cropping intensity and diversity.
Project Sustainability
31.        The GOUP is committed to maintain the T&V system. However, the effectiveness of the
system depends on the GOUP solving the serious staffing problem associated with litigation by VEWs
under transfer and to maintain an adequate budget allocation to allow the extension service to be fuRlly
functional, thereby maintaining the previous investments in institutional and infrastructural
development. The budget allocation for 1995/96 for the Extension Directorate of the DOA has been
reduced to Rs350 million from Rs420 million in 1994/95. This will impose limitations on maintenance
and capital expenditure. The GOUP indicated that the T&V system is expensive to operate and they
should consider possible structural and organisational modifications to the T&V system make the
extension system more cost effective. There is also a need to determine possibilities for cost savings or
cost recovery mechanisms to reduce total DOA expenditure. Because of budgetary limitations, there is
no current plan to expand the T&V system to the 8 hill districts that are presently not included.
EHimachal Pradesh
32.        The general objective for the subproject in the State of Himachal Pradesh (HP) was to -
increase agricultural production throughout the state by providing first time assistance to the GOHP in
the introduction of the T&V system of agricultural extension, locally called the T&E (Training and
Extension) system, in all districts.
33.        Specific objectives for the HP subproject included:
(a)        To establish a unified and professional extension services having a single line
of command from Village Extension Officer (VEO) to the Director of
Agriculture (DA) and ensuring integration of horticultural and agricultural
extension activities;
(b)        To appoint an Additional Director (AD), acting through the DA, to be
responsible for project execution to a State Project Coordinating Committee,



47
chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner; and beneath the AD, Joint
Directors for Agriculture and Horticulture for administration of seven and five
districts which are predominantly involved in agriculture and horticulture,
respectively;
(c)        To redeploy 158 existing VEOs working on special crop projects and recruit
a further 852 VEOs, 348 AEOs, 43 SMSs in districts and 19 higher level staff to
the extension service to establish a chain of command and extension
implementation team consisting of district and block offices, with SMSs, AEOs
and VEOs located at district, block and circle levels, respectively, with each
VEO responsible for 3-4 villages in each circle;
(d)        To upgrade two existing DOA staff Training Centres (TCs) at Mashroba
and Sundemagar and construct a new TC at Dharnsala;
(e)        To upgrade technical knowledge and skills of extension personnel through
the establishment of facilities and curriculum for regular fortnightly training of
field staff at block training halls and monthly training for SMSs at four sites of
Y. S. Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry and two sites of Himachal
Pradesh K.V. University (SAUs);
(f)        To establish a project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit in DOA to
undertake regular M&E activities and special studies to evaluate the efficiency
and effectiveness of the T&V system and its impact on agricultural production.
Physical Targets
34.        Some of the physical targets set in the SAR for the HP component were met by the
scheduled completion of the project (March 31, 1994), and the majority met by the end of the one-year
extension to the project. Most targets were delayed in relation to the original schedule contained in the
SAR. The most significant changes were in relation to a reduction in the number of residences
constructed, a large reduction in vehicles purchased, a large number of unfilled incremental staff
positions, particularly at field level.
35.        Incremental staff. Most new staff positions were sanctioned, except for a lesser number
of AEOs and greater number of SMSs. Higher level positions were filled as scheduled but only 32%
and 72% of AEO and VEO positions were filled. Other incremental positions in the Training and M&E
Units and the Universities were mostly filled as scheduled, except for three officer positions in the
M&E Unit. The Governnent of Himachal Pradesh (GOHP) placed a ban on new staff recruitment to
the government service since the inception of the project and therefore positions were filled by new
recruitment prior to the commencement of the project (1987) or from staff redeployment.



48
36.        Civil works. The scheduled civil works programme was considerably delayed. A total of
741 houses were scheduled to be constructed at district, block and circle levels for SMSs, AEOs and
VEOs, respectively but only 642 were constructed, of which 178 have been completed but not taken
over. In addition, 69 training halls were scheduled for construction while 58 were constructed with 22
completed but not taken over. Seven other training facilities associated with the SAUs were
constructed. Late in the project construction was taken over from the Public Works Department
(PWD) by the DOA because of the very slow pace of construction. Overall, the quality and finish of
most buildings constructed is good, but some water mediated deterioration of buildings is apparent.
37.        Vehicles. Purchases of new and replacement cars/jeeps/vans (69) were only 46% of the
original target. The most severe reductions in vehicle purchases were associated with the ban on
purchase of information vans and associated with training, particularly vehicle purchases for the two
SAUs. In addition, the GOHP did not undertake the sponsorship of a personal loan agreement plan for
staff to purchase motorcycles/mopeds/bicycles. Together with the fact that vehicle purchases only
occurred in 1987-89 and in 1993/94, this meant that staff were severely constrained in carrying out
their extension and training activities.
Total Sub-Project Costs
38.        Of the total IDA Credit for the BP subproject of SDR12.484 million (US$14.8 million),
SDR9.033 million (US$12.592 million) was utilised by Credit closure on 31 March, 1995, with
outstanding claims of a further SDR0.440 million (US$0.663 million). The Bank has allowed
disbursements on expenditure incurred prior to closure of Credit to continue to be withdrawn until 31
July, 1995. Total project cost for the HP subproject at 31 March, 1995 was Rs536.426 million
(US$22.383 million), which was 182% above the original estimated project cost of Rs294.31 million in
Rupee terms, due mainly to a 58% devaluation of the Rupee against the Dollar, but was 99% of the
original project cost estimate (US$22.64 million). This would indicate that the GOHP financed about
40% of the total project cost.
Staff Training
A considerable amount of training was undertaken during the project. While many
training activities were completed as scheduled (some greatly exceeded the original targets), there were
some areas of training in which the number of courses or individual number of staff participating were
reduced, most notably promotional studies for VEWs and study tours generally.
T&V System of Extension
39.        The T&V system was established and institutionalised in all seven agricultural districts
and 5 horticultural districts as planned. However, at the end of the project there has been a move to
breakup the system by separating agricultural and horticultural extension activities. This has serious
implications to financial sustainability of the system, the further lack of regular training for VEWs and



49
SMSs, as well as breaking up a system that has worked well and in which the extension staff are
confident.
40.        From farmer interviews it was apparent that both contact and other farmers in villages
which were serviced by VEOs had benefited from extension advice. However, there are many VEO
vacancies and thus a very large number of villages receive reduced extension advice as VEOs and
AEOs have to cover vacant circles. Discussion with farmers indicated that a farmer group, rather than
contact farmer, approach would be welcomed. This would potentially fulfil a more needs-based forum
for technical information and advice which would be available to all farmers in the village, rather than
for a few selected farmers, as occurs under the contact farmer approach. The present technology
transfer system is still oriented to packages of technology that can only be adopted by the larger
farmers who have sufficient cash resources, particularly in changing to cash cropping. The emphasis on
promoting cash crops and commodities has resulted in significant improvements in farm household
incomes. This focus, however, seems to have been to some extent at the expense of assisting small
farmers with limited land and cash resources who remain mainly or totally involved in traditional
(subsistence) agricultural crop production. The development of a more broadbased extension service to
include advice on livestock, agroforestry and sericulture would be welcomed by farmers and would
help to generate an even greater cashflow for further investments in production input supplies. The
success of these activities depend on close technical support and training for VEOs from the concerned
technical sections in the DOA.
Training Centres
41.        Training halls were established under the project and regular fortnightly training for VEOs
by SMSs was undertaken. Regular fortnightly training for SMSs at six training centres of the SAUs
throughout the State has also been established. Later in the project, the frequency of VEW training was
changed to monthly and the SMS to bimonthly and then quarterly. At project end both types of training
were discontinued. Staff indicated these trainings were beneficial and extension advice will suffer as a
consequence of this decision. The proposal to upgrade two staff training centres and establish another
new TC at Dharmsala was not implemented.
Monitoring and Evaluation
42.        Regular M&E surveys and production of seasonal reports have occurred. These have
been according to the guideLines in the manual for M&E produced by the Bank. However, it is felt that
these need revising to allow better evaluation of the extension system, the impact of extension on
agricultural production and to identify areas for further research. Five special studies were also
undertaken by the M&E Unit.
Research - Extension Linkages
43.        Good research-extension linkages were established through a number of committees at
state and district level. The SAUs have established agro-ecological based zonal research stations with



50
support of NARP I and NARP II. The extension directorates of the SAUs had close contact with
extension through the SMS training programme where there was a regular two-way transfer of
technical information and farmers problems. The SAUs also provided a large amount of written
information to extension staff on recommended technologies and practices. Joint diagnostic team visits
to farms in areas where a particularly severe problem in production had occurred were also undertaken
from time to time.
Project Benefits
44.        It is impossible to deternine the real impact of the project activities on beneficiaries in HP
because of concurrent improvements in other factors of production, such as some expansion of
irrigated area, the direct influences from research as well as other agencies involved in input supply and
promotion of agricultural production. It is clear that there has been a major shift in farm production
systems to include a much greater proportion of higher value horticultural crops (fruits, vegetables and
cut flowers) as well as increased production of some agricultural crops, such as maize. Undoubtedly,
many farmers who were in direct contact with extension workers increased their crop production and
incomes.
Project Sustainability
It would appear that the GOHP is not committed to maintain the T&V system as
established. In addition, it is apparent that there are severe budget constraints to the continuation of the
system. The GOHP has to seriously reconsider its decision. The introduction of a dual extension
system for agriculture and horticulture would inflict an even greater budget constraint. The GOHP
should be considering the complete merging of agriculture and horticulture and considering alternative
institutional and structural modifications to make the system more cost effective. There is also a need
to consider the total DOA expenditure and determnine possibilities for other cost savings or cost
recovery mechanisms so that sufficient funds are available for operations and maintenance and for
additional capital expenditure on vehicles, particularly.
Special SubDroiects
45.        The special subprojects programme involved State sector assistance, as well as involving
Central Sector and Centrally Sponsored Special Subprojects (SSPs). Apart from the State Sector SSP
in UP and the early phases of the SSPs in Bihar and Punjab, the SSPs have been managed and
supervised by the Directorate of Extension (DOE) of the GOI. The main purpose of the SSP
subcomponents was to develop the training capabilities of the States, guide them in extension
methodology and establish close linkages with research. Special efforts were made to qualitatively
improve extension and training management through the provision of more responsive and advanced
training in management and communication methodology for supervisory staff.
46.        State Sector SSPs included project assistance to UP (previously reviewed) and to Bihar
and Punjab. The SSPs aimed to strengthen and expand T&V extension services in eleven districts in



51
Bihar and three districts in Punjab. The Bihar SSP was terminated in March 1992 due to unsatisfactory
progress while the Punjab SSP continued up to the end of the project extension (March 1995).
47.        The Central Sector SSPs included:
(i)    establishment of Inter-Disciplinary Teams for reviewing and implementing
ongoing Central and State Sector agricultural extension programmes;
(ii)    establishment of an Internal Consultancy Programme where experts were
deputed to study specific aspects of agricultural extension;
(iii)   organisation of annual National Seminars/Workshops to discuss policies and
programmes related to extension management, training and farm information;
(iv)    establishment of trainiing programmes for extension personnel to undertake
higher degrees and to undertake selected short-course training, both in India and
overseas; and
(v)    establishment of computer network facilities in DOE and States to assist M&E
activities.
48.        Centrally Sponsored Special Subprojects included project assistance to:
(i)    fund institutional strengthening, including: development of training facilities at 15
Advanced Centres of excellence at SAUs, Indian Council for agricultural
research and Central Institutions; establishment of the National Institute of
Agricultural   Extension    Management   (MANAGE);   and   the
establishment/strengthening of four Extension Education Institutes (EEls) to
provide training in extension teaching and communication;
(ii)    provide assistance to States/SAUs for strengthening extension and training,
including: provision of communication and training support for personnel in
seven States of the North-Eastem Region (Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur,
Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura); and strengthening of training and
information units in two States and five Union Territories; and
(iii)   provide assistance to five States (Kamakata, Iimachal Pradesh, Assam, Jammu
and Kashmir and Maharashtra) for bridging gaps in operation of State extension
projects.



52
Special Subprojects Costs
49.        The total estimated project cost for the SSPs, according to the SAR, was US$42.3
million (Rs549.9 million) of which US$24.9 million (Rs323.7 million) was to be provided by the IDA
Credit. The revised estimate, according to a recent report by DOE on NAEP III assistance, was
Rs365.833 million, of which Rs1O0.059 million has been reimbursed from the IDA Credit, which in
Dollar terms would be considerably less than the original estimates of total component cost and Credit
utilisation.
Special Subproject Performance
50.         The absence of a comprehensive final evaluation of the SSP component of the project by
the DOE does not allow an assessment of this component of the project. This will have to be
undertaken before the project ICR can be completed.
Total Project Costs
51.        Of the total project IDA Credit of SDR71.7 million (US$85 million), total IDA
disbursements as of June 21, 1995 was SDR54.745 million (US$75.405 million), with SDRl5.5 million
(US$18.375 million) cancelled, leaving an undisbursed balance of SDR16.955 million (US$25.562
million).
Bank and Borrower Performance
52.        Bank performance. The Bank undertook a number of missions to assist Assam, Uttar
Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh in the preparation of project proposals. The Bank also undertook more
than 50 supervisory missions during implementation of the project, mostly to Assam, UP and HP, but
also earlier in the project to the SSPs in Bihar and Punjab States. Supervisory mission reports indicated
that the missions undertook regular detailed reviews of implementation progress of the project and
while indicating deficiencies in implementation gave helpful and constructive advice to overcome such
problems. With very few exceptions, supervision missions were staffed from the WB resident mission
in India and local consultants, which provided more continuous contact and assistance in
implementation.
53.        Borrower performance. The DOAs of the concemed State Governments tnred hard to
implement the project as proposed. Much has been achieved in terms of institutional development,
improvement of extension services and agricultural production. All state DOAs have modified the
T&V system in various ways to improve extension performance and impact on farm production.
Several outside factors, such as problems with budget release to the state DOAs which adversely
affected the civil works programme and vehicle purchases particularly, staff recruitment bans and
cancellation of some investments (civil works and vehicles), have caused serious delays or failure to
implement several proposed activities and therefore have resulted in a failure to derive the maximum



53
benefit from the project. These chronic problems were repeatedly brought to the notice of the
respective governments by WB supervision missions, but were never speedily or satisfactorily resolved
and therefore adversely affected project performance.
Future Operational Plans
54.        All three subproject states have prepared future plans of action as part of their individual
final Project Implementation Reports. These plans are an expression of intent rather than concrete
proposals with time-bound action plans indicated for implementation of further development of the
their extension services. The mission indicated that these future operational plans would have to be
modified accordingly.
Lessons Learned
55.        There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the implementation and outcome of this
project, including:
(a)    While each state has established/strengthened a comprehensive institutional
structure for agricultural extension according to the T&V concept and this has
resulted in improved extension services to -farmers and increased agricultural
productivity, each  state is modifying the institutional and  operational
arrangements of their agricultural extension system to improve efficiency
through:
reduction in operational/supervisory layers of staffing;
adoption of farmer-centred group approach instead of contact
farmer approach to extension-farmer interaction;
reduction in frequency of regular training for SMSs and
AEOs/VEOs as knowledge and skills of these staff improve;
and
move to broadbasing of advice and technical support to
farmers on all aspects of farm production, emphasizing
increasing intensity and diversity of production and generation
of greater cash returns.
(b)    The T&V system, as instituted, is both staff and cost intensive, and as such
places considerable financial strain on State Governments to maintain the system
and thereby affects staffing levels and availability of funds for operations,



54
maintenance and further essential capital investment. Governments have to
consider means of reducing staffing levels and other opportunities for cost
savings.
(c)    Lack of staff mobility is still constraining operations of field extension staff The
government personal loans scheme for staff to purchase private vehicles for
public use is still a viable means of improving staff mobility when combined with
adequate travel and operational expenses.
(d)    There is a need to more fully exploit the use of modem media materials (audio-
visual and printed materials) to enhance dissemination of technical information.
(e)   There is a need to review the methodologies
used for monitoring and evaluation of the extension system and provide appropriate training in data
collection and analysis so that M&E Units can provide a much better evaluation of the operational
effectiveness and efficiency of the extension systern, the impact of extension on farning practices,
productivity and farm household incomes and the needs for further research.
D. FOLLOW-UP
56..       There has been no comprehensive final review and evaluation, in the form of a final
completion report, of the Special Sub-Projects component of the project by DOE. This is required
before the mission can prepare the ICR for the whole project. It is requested that this task be
undertaken immediately and completed before the end of August 1995.
The World Bank Resident Mission is requested to provide written guidance to the States
in amending their final completion reports and future operational plans to comply with WB guidelines.
57.        The mission will complete the preparation of the ICR for this project for submission to
World Bank by September, 1995, following receipt of the final completion report for the SSP
component. The mission Aide-Memoire, with any amendments required, and a copy of the individual
States and GOI Project Completion Reports will be attached to this document.



55
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1754-IN)
Appendix C
Internal Consultancy Studies of the Division of Extension of the Government of India
1.          A  list of the Internal Consultancy Studies undertaken by the Division of
Extension of the Government of India is given in the following table.
Year                Season              Topic
1984-85             Kharif              Field Extension
Adaptive Research
Monitoring and Evaluation
Training
1984-85             Rabi                Field Extension
Training
Monitoring and Evaluation
Adaptive Research
1985-86             Kharif              Field Extension
Training
Monitoring and Evaluation
Adaptive Research
1985-86             Rabi                Role of Middle Management
Adaptive research under T&V
Monitoring and Evaluation
1986-97             Kharif              Cadre Management
Role of Extension in CADA
Fortnightly/Monthly Trainings
Credit Input Support
Adaptive Research



56
Year                Season              Topic
Information Support
1986-87             Rabi                Impact of T&V System in Raising the Incomes of
Farmers
Research Extension Linkages
Professional Background of SMS in T&V System
1987-88             Kharif              Extension Support to Oilseed Technology
Role of T&V on Farm Women/ Extension Work
1987-88             Rabi                Information Support
Fortnightly/Monthly Workshops
Input/Credit Support
Implementation Status of SSPs
1988-89             Kharif              Use of M&E Findings by Extension Managers
Impact of the T&V System of Extension on Farm
Women and Extension Workers
Role of Extension in Drought Management
1988-89             Rabi                Efficacy of Supervision in T&V in different Levels
Status of ICAR Sponsored Programme and Special
Crop Schemes vis-a-vis T&V and their Inter-
coordination
Extent of Effects of Extension Support to Oilseeds
Development Programme in Gujarat, Maharashtra,
A.P., U.P. and Rajasthan
1989-90                                 Adoption Pattern of Recommended Agricultural
Practices through the Extension Service
Planning and Implementation of Training Activities of
Extension Staff
Role of State Level Technical Committee, ZRAEC and
Joint-Diagnostic Teams
1990-91                                 Scope and Constraints on Introduction of Farning
Systems research and Extension
Linkage between NARP and NAEP in T&V System
An Evaluation of Adaptive Research Trials/Farm trials
laid out by Extension Staff



57
Year                Season              Topic
1991-92                                 Review of "Current Status of Advanced Training
Centres (ATCs)"
Efforts made by the State Governments to bring
Women into the Mainstream of Agricultural
Development
Evaluation of Institutional Training Courses Organised
for Extension Personnel
Role of Farmers' Training Centres in Imparting
Training to Farmers
Structure and Functioning of State Farm Information
Units in Selected States
Organisation of Special Orientation Training Course
for M&E Unit Staff
1992-93                                 Involvement of Non-Govermnent Organisations
(NGOs) - Modalities of their Involvement
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP)
Support to Extension
Project Completion Reports for Special Sub-projects
Offset Press and Video Production Facilities of Farm
Information Units
Efforts made by the State Government to bring Women
into Mainstream of Agricultural Developments in 10
States



58
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit 1754-IN)
Appendix D
Borrower's Assessment of NAEP Im
L. Assessment of Project Objectives
The general objective for the six years Project was to increase agricultural
production throughout the Project States by providing first time assistance to the States of
Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh as well as continuing assistance to the State of
Assam initiated under Assam Agricultural Development Project (Credit 728-IND), in the
improvement and organization of more professional agricultural extension services. In
addition, the Project was aimed at assisting with the financing of Special Sub-Projects
prepared by Ministry of Agriculture, State Governments and other implementing agencies
specially designed to strengthen support of extension activities at central, regional or State
levels.
Implementation of Operation Experiences
1.    The NAEP III was effective on January 5, 1988 and closed on March 31, 1995
after a one year extension to the original schedule. It covered the States of Assam, Uttar
Pradesh, H{imachal Pradesh, Punjab and Bihar.
2.    The Project aimed (i) to introduce the T&V system of agricultural extension in
Himachal Pradesh and eastern Uttar Pradesh; (ii) further strengthen the reorganized
agricultural extension system and the linkages between research and extension that were
introduced in Assam under earlier IDA credit; and (iii) assist in the implementation of
Special Sub Projects on extension related activities at the Centre and State levels (Bihar
and Punjab).
3.    Against the IDA credit of US $85 million, the total disbursement upto August
1995 were US $77.71 million with cancellation of $18.375 million. Additional IDA
disbursement of US $16.65 million were provided for financing the SSP in western U.P.
out of the savings from unspent IDA credit for NAEP-I. The total Project cost was thus
Rs.2824 million (US $125.38 million).



59
4.    Many of the physical targets were met by the end of the Project. Infield impact
was observed by regular training programmes of field extension staff, regular farm visits
and closer research extension relationships, enhanced staff and farmers knowledge and
adoption of improved agricultural technologies and practices by farmers. However, a
number of factors including State Government ban on staff recruitment in U.P. and H.P.
and inability to fill sanctioned positions or redeployment; a ban on provision of
Government loan funds for vehicles purchase in H.P. and reduction in budget for vehicles
purchases in Assam affected staff mobility and adversely affected the success of Project
implementation.
H. Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance
The third National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP-III) was made effective
on January 5, 1988. The IDA credit was closed on March 31, 1995 after a one year
extension to the original schedule. It covered the States of Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh,
Himachal Pradesh and Punjab as State Sector Projects.  In order to strengthen the
extension activities in identified areas the Special Sub Projects in Central Sector and
Centrally sponsored form were also implemented in various States, Agricultural
Universities, North-eastern States and U.Ts.
The main purpose of Special Sub Projects was to develop the training capabilities
of the State, guide them in extension methodology and establish close linkages with
research. Special efforts were made to qualitatively improve extension and training
management through the provision of more responsive and advanced training in
management and communication methodology in supervisory staff.
PROGRAMMES AND ACTIVITIES OPERATED UNDER NAEP-M
- DOE COMPONENT
-Central Sector
(a)   Operational Cost
Under the Operational Cost the schemes like Inter-Disciplinary Team,
Internal Consultancy Programme, National Seminars/Workshops, Special studies, etc.
were taken up to review the infield performance of the project.
(b)   Training Infrastructure
Regular training of extension functionaries has been an integral and
essential part of agricultural extension system. Under NAEP-III, the training infrastructure
was further strengthened to meet the requirements of training personnel working at
different levels.



60
At national level the MANAGE was established/strengthened to cater the
training requirements of senior extension personnel in the areas of extension management.
At regional level four Extension Education Institutes are providing training to the middle
level extension personnel in extension teaching methods and communication techniques.
In addition, 15 Advanced Training Centres were established to serve as the
Centres of Excellence in the specialized subject matter areas.
(c)   Training support
The DOE also brought out training manuals, hand books on selected thrust
areas of crop production and allied subjects for the use of SMSs and other extension
functionaries working under State Departments. Under Overseas Training Programme,
the senior and middle level extension functionaries and SMSs were deputed for Overseas
Training in various countries. So far about 125 officers have been trained under the
Overseas Training Scheme.
Opportunities were provided to SMSs, AEOs and VEWs to update
technical competence. About 170 officers working in State Department of Agriculture
were given training opportunities leading to B.Sc.(Agr.)/B.Sc.(Home Science and
M. Sc.(Agric.)/M. Sc.(Home Science).
Over 100 training programmes in agriculture and allied sectors organized
annually in collaboration with SAUs/ICAR Institutes to up-date technical competence of
extension personnel.
(d)   Special Sub-Projects
The Special Sub-Projects were taken-up under NAEP-III for bridging the
gaps in operation of State extension projects. Under NAEP-III, the following Special
Sub-projects implemented in 5 States as detailed below, GOI share being 50% of total
cost:
S. No.    Name of the State/SSP             Total cost (Rs in lakh)
1.        Karnataka
Communication support do DDA     31.00
2.        Himachal Pradesh
Training in Home Scale           71.02
Preservation of Fruits & vegetables
3.        Assam
Input Supply and Management      252.05



61
4.        Jammu & Kashmir
Establishment of Multi-purpose
Units/VLW Circles                54.00
5.        Maharashtra
Creation or Training Infrastructure    112.00
in SDAs and SAUs
Besides, a central sector special sub-project was sanctioned to strengthen
FTCs in Andhra Pradesh.
(e)   SSPs for North-Eastern States and UTs
(i)   Strengthening of agricultural extension in Goa, Sikkim and UTs.
The project is being implemented in Goa, Sikkim and UTs; i.e., Dadar and
Nagar Havali, Daman & Diu, Pondicherry, Lakshdweep and Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
The project aimed to improve the professional competence of extension personnel by
providing training, mobility support and information support.
(ii)   Agricultural Extension in North-Eastern Region
For strengthening agricultural extension system in North-Eastern region, a
Central Sector SSP was introduced from August 1992 with an objective to provide
communication and training support including overseas training, study tours, production
of video films and procurement of training vans and equipments.
PERFORMANCE
(a)   Inter-Disciplinary Teams
The Inter-Disciplinary Teams constituted by DOE conducted an in-depth
review of functioning of T&V System and implementation of on-going Central and State
Sector Agricultural Extension Programmes. The field reports of IDT were found to be
useful for correcting the weak areas in the system.
(b)   Internal Consultancy Scheme
Under Internal Consultancy Programme, the experts were deputed to study
the specific areas identified on various aspects related to agricultural extension. The
recommendations made by the Consultancy were followed-up to improve functioning of
the system. Under IDT, about 20 teams visited different States annually. Under ICS
about 30 consultants deputed to study various identified topics annually.



62
(c)   Advanced Training Centres
Under 15 ATCs located at SAUs, ICAR and Central Institutes, 5
specialized courses for extension functionaries were organized at each ATC. Besides, 2-3
subject-matter workshops for Subject Matter Specialists working in the State Departments
were conducted at each ATC.
(d)   National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE)
MANAGE had come-up as an appex institute for management training in
agriculture sector. The MANAGE had proposed to organize 17 on-campus and 23 off-
campus training programmes during 1994-95. Out of which, 15 training programmes have
already been conducted covering 450 participants.
(e)   North-Eastern States
The Special Sub-Project was approved at a total cost of Rs. 662.40 lakhs.
Against which a sum of Rs. 405 lakhs was released up in March 1995. Under the Project,
1 I officers were deputed for overseas, training, besides, video films were prepared and
training vans were procured to facilitate the training of farmers.
(f)    Union Territories
The project has been implemented in two States and 5 UTs with a total
cost of Rs. 206.20. The project has helped to improve the professional competence of
extension personnel by providing funds for training and inability support. So far 94
officers and SMSs, 100 farmers and 23 village level workers have been trained. Besides
Information Units in States/UTs were suitably strengthened.
LESSONS LEARNT
Strong Points
DOE's project monitoring and supervision capacity has been augmented.
Training infrastructure has been strengthened in North-Eastern States and
UTs agricultural extension services were strengthened.
Awareness about training as a tool for HRD has been created/promoted.
Weak Points
Information support/media support remained neglected and weak.
Lack of institutional training for farmers.



63
Research-extension linkage fora did not perform to a desired level.
Lack of effective co-ordination between State line Departments.
No systematic application has been made by the States to introduce
broadbased agricultural extension.
FURTHER STRATEGY
It is proposed to strengthen the existing agricultural extension and training
activities further so that the extension and transfer of technology is made more effective.
Adequate funding support will be required on various activities which have been so far did
not find much attention.  It would include the programme like involvement of in
agriculture, farmers-scientists interaction, information-media support, institutional training
for the farmers, farmers study tours, broadbasing of agricultural extension, organization of
farmers fairs at block level, sustain capabilities of technology generation and dissemination
developed under NARPs and NAEPs.
NATP proposed to be launched with the financial assistance of the World
Bank, may cover all these components in addition to ones in operation.
Funding support would need to continue so as to strengthen critical areas
in agricultural extension and research.
llF. An Evaluation of the Performance of the World Bank
(a)    Performance of the Bank
The performance of the bank in the Project preparation and supervision
during the implementation of the Project was satisfactory. The Bank undertook several
joint missions with the Government of India's officials to assist the implementing states to
study the problems of implementation and rendered advice to initiate necessary corrective
measures. Supervisory Missions' reports revealed that the Mission provided detailed
reviews of implementation progress of the Project and while indicating the deficiencies in
implementation, gave helpful and constructive advice to overcome such problems. The
periodical visits of the World Bank along with local Consultants provided more
continuous contact and assistance in implementation than occurred in previous NAEPs.
Besides, the Bank was also involved in high level meetings with the senior Ministry's
officers, extension, training workshops and seminars which helped in further strengthening
of extension activities in the implementing States.
The World Bank gave excellent support in the disbursement of credit.
During the mid term appraisal the World Bank has shown liberal views in the



64
reappropriation of funds and allowed the States to carry forward the unspent balance for
pending civil works and vehicles/equipment.
(b)   Relationship between Borrower and the World Bank
The relationship between the local World Bank office, Government of India
and the implementing States was very cordial and helpful.  This helped in smooth
implementation of the Project at various stages.  Besides, the senior World Bank
Consultants from Washington also visited from time to time to the Project areas for
necessary advice to overcome the problems which was quite constructive and positive.
The World Bank helped in sorting out the problems like audit certificates, utilisation
certificates, etc. for continuous disbursement of credit amount which helped in effective
implementation of the Project. To sum up the World Bank was totally involved right from
the initiation of the Project development of the Project, its appraisal and implementation.
(c)    Lessons Learnt
The basic infrastructure in agricultural extension system has been already
developed in the Project States and the State Governments at present, are continuing the
Project under the State sector with minor modification/adjustments. The World Bank may
give priority for further strengthening the extension in the critical areas like media support,
farmers' training, extension support in tribal, hilly disadvantaged areas, promoting
farmers-lead initiatives, etc.



I






I



IMAGING
Report No:       16156
Tvpe: ICR



