IDOCU MENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1754 IN
Project Agreement
(Third National Agricultural Extension Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ASSAM
and
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated           ()tV               1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1754 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        ,                    , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT XSSOCIATION (the Association) and
STATE OF ASSAM and STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH and STATE OF UTTAR
PRADESH, acting by their respective Governors (the Project
States).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy one million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 71,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Project States agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements
for development assistance to the States of India, part of the
proceeds of tie Credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to the Project States; and
WHEREAS  the   Project  States,  in   consideration  of  the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commit-
ment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2


﻿-2 -
to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Project States shall carry out Part B of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Association and the
Project States.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. the Project States shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) the Project States shall, at the request
of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of their
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b)  The Project States shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit, or the performance by the Project States of
their obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the States shall cause its
departments and other agencies and authorities responsible for


﻿-3-
the carrying out of its part of Part B of the Project or any part
thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and accounts adequate
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices and
procedures consistently applied, their resources, expenditures
and operations related to Part B of the Project; and (ii) furnish
to the Association copies of their accounts and financial
statements related to Part B of the Project for each fiscal year,
certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Association, as soon as available but
in any case not later than nine months after the end of each such
year.
(b) Each of the States shall cause its departments and
agencies and other authorities responsible for the carrying out
of Part B of the Project or any part thereof to: (i) have their
accounts and financial statements related to Part B of the
Project  for   each  fiscal  year  audited, in   accordance  with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association immediately following its finalization, the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish   to   the  Association  such   othsr  information
concerning said accounts and records, financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditures, each of the States shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records, (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraphs (a) and


﻿(b) of this Section and that the report thereof
contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by the said auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures have been used for
the purpose for which they are provided.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Project States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or


﻿- 5 -
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For State of Assam:
Agriculture Production Commissioner
Government of Assam
P.O. Assam Sachivalaya
Guwahati-781006
Assam, India
Cable address:
AGRIASSAM
GUWAHATI, ASSAM
For State of Himachal Pradesh:
Secretary, Department of Agriculture
Government of Himachal Pradesh
Simla, India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Simla
For State of Uttar Pradesh:
Secretary, Department of Agriculture
Government of Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow, India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Lucknow


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of each of the Project States, may be taken
or executed by a Secretary to the Government in each Project
State or such other person or persons as each Project State shall
designate in writing, and each Project State shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   4    A15/r?Cut            L
Regional Vice President
Asia
STATE OF ASSAM
By
/               Authorized Representative
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
By               Authorized Representative
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By                Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   General Procedures
Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for
civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture shall be let on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment and furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less may be procured by prudent shopping
through normal trade channels.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August
1984 (the Guidelines) shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditures. Such contracts shall be re-
tained until one year after the Closing Date.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 each
or less, may be carried out through force account.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.   The Project States shall: (a) establish procedures, satis-
factory to the Association, for carrying out effective monitoring
and evaluation of their respective parts of the Project and carry
out such monitoring and evaluation in accordance with said
procedures; and (b) prepare and furnish to the Association,
through DOE, annual summaries of the results of such monitoring
and evaluation.
2.   The Project States shall ensure that: (a) all extension
positions assigned to the administrative control of DOA for the
purposes of the Project shall be used exclusively for agricul-
tural extension and retained under such administrative control
and; (b) staff assigned to carry out extension work under the
Project shall not be adversely affected, in respect of their
entitlements to emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects,
by reason alone of such assignment.
3.   In order to ensure the mobility of staff engaged in exten-
sion work under the Project, the Project States shall undertake
to make available: (a) to all eligible staff in need of credit
for the purchase of motorcycles, mopeds or bicycles, such credit
on terms and conditions designed to provide incentives for the
purchase of such motorcycles, mopeds or bicycles; and (b) such
financial incentive, including appropriate travel allowances, in
order to encourage optimum use of the motorcycles, mopeds and
bicycles to be purchased under paragraph (a) above.
4.   The Project States undertake to fill incremental staff posi-
tions with staff having qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to the Association and in accordance with a schedule agreed
with the Association.
5.   Each of the Project States shall: (a) no later than June 30,
1990, prepare and furnish to the Association for its comments, a
mid-term  review   of  the  Project  execution,  such  review  to
determine inter alia the needs for adjustment of Project targets,
fund reallocation, or cancellation, prQgress in the transfer of
zonal research responsibilities from DOA to SAUs, and the
adequacy of existing staff; and (b) make necessary adjustment
taking into account the Association's comments.


﻿-9-
6.   Beginning July   15, 1987 and each year thereafter, the
Project States shall furnish their annual Project budget to
the Association for its review.
7.    In order to coordinate the implementation of their respec-
tive parts of the Project, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh
shall by June 30, 1987, establish coordination committees with
functions and memberships satisfactory to the Association.
8.   In a manner satisfactory to the State and the Association,
Himachal Pradesh shall by March 31, 1987: (a) conclude a
Memorandum of Understanding with Himachel Pradesh Horticultural
University   (Solan);   and   (b)   revise   the  Memorandum   of
Understanding with Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University
(Palampur).


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


