Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFCLAL USE ONLY
Rbpt Ne 7698-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
April 20, 1989
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



cun11CY IEWIYVALTS
Curremcy Umil   *   CFA
USJ1   *   CFAF a
CFAF 1 a UN.S
CFAF  lImlloo   a   USSS,838
US11   *   SR .774
FISCAL YEAR
January *l -- December 31
3SSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 met r (a)   .    3.20 feet (ft)
1 square metr (m2)   *   10.76 square feet (sq ft)
I cubic meter (m3)   a   385.   cubic feot (cu ft)
1 kilomter (k)   s    6.62 milo (mi)
*quaroe ki lometer (ki2)   =    6.89 square mile (sq ml)
1 metric ton (t)   =   2,206 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Item       ----------------------------------- Englioh/Frnrh ---------------------------------
GDP         Gross Dometic Product/Pr3duit lnt6rieur brut
P'P         Public Investment Program/Programme d'investi;saments publicu
UNDP        United Nations Devolopment Progromme/Progrme  de-  Nations Uni-n pour lo
d&veloppment (PNUD)



FOR OMFiCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CREDIT A1D PROJECT SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.   INTRODUCTION   .1...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
A.   Background   .1...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
B.   Recent Trends in Public Investment   . . . . . . . . . .1
II.   PUBLIC INVESTMENT ISSUES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       2
III.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        3
A.   Introduction   .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 3
B.   Project Oojectives and Framework   . . . . . . . . . . .                     3
C.   Project Components   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     .                   4
D.   Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
E.   Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     6
F. Procurement .... . . . . . ..                                                  7
G. Disbursements .... . . . . . ..                                                 7
H.   Benefits and Risks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     8
I.  Environmental lmplications   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      8
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . .                          8
ANNEXES
1.   Inv.stment Preparation Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     10
2.   Sectoral Priorities Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      11
3.  Quarterly Reporting Requirements   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      13
4.  Project Cost Estimates and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . .                      14
5.  Amounts and Hethods of Procurement, Disbursement Estimates.                       15
This report was prepared by Mr. Snorri Haligrimsson (Principal Engineer), on the basis of a mission
in December 1988, in which also participated Mr. F.-A. d'Almeida (Resident Mission, Togo).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CP SU C or TOOO
PRE-DMEVETUB  PROECT
bees s to i the Project File
Projeei File Code.
Document Titlo                                      Banf Doc_mnt  No.
PROGRA4IE D'APPUI AUX ACTIONS REGIONALISEES, Ulnlt&re du Plan
et dee Minee                                                                         D 23555
DECLARATION DE POLITIqUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT W ¢OUVERNENENT TOGOLAIS
DAMS LE CADRE DU SEME P.A.S., Miniet4re Du Plan et dn Minee, Lom6,
f6vrier 1986                                                                         D 25366
ASSISTANCE AU DEVELOPPEMENT DES CAPACITES DE PLANIFICATION ET DE ¢ESTION
DE l.'ECONOMIE TOO4LAISE P4R UN PROGRAMME COHERENT DE FORMATION; Note de
synthiso, Minlstire du Plan et doe  Minee                                            D 2F367
REUNION SECTORIELLE DES BAILLEURS DE FONDS SUR LES FINANCE4ENTS
HORS-PROJETS, CONSTITUTION D'UN FONDS NATIONAL D'ETUDES, Volur_ I,
Secteur du D6velopp e   nt Rural, Minl tore du Plan et doe Mines,
Genbva, Mal 1966                                                                     D 26858
RE'JNION DES BAILLEURS DE FONDS SUR LE FINANCEMENT DU PROGRAMME
D'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL ET L'AIDE HORS PROJET (Cenive, Mai 1966).
Reesourceog Hua inse Nationolon at AssIstance Tch1niquo N6cosa lros
1  o MNle en Oeuvre du Programme d'AJuotomont Structural du Togo,
AvrUl 19#6                                                                           D 25359
AFIIN
April 26, 1969



4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 ii -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-!NVESThENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIBURY
Government of the Rckublic of Togo
Credit Amount:                  SOR 3.9 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Teres:                          Staniard, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Description:            The Project will assist the Government in rapidly creating and then
sustaining  a  pipeline  of  investmert  proposals,   identified,
formulated, justified and fully prepared for project evaluation by
potential investment agencies. T' this end, the Project will provide
specific pre-investment studies of items included in the Government's
Public Investment Program (PIP). To sustain, in coming years, the
identification of further investment proposals and the updating of
the PIP, the Project will also, through training and separate
studies, improve the knowledge of public investment needs in all
economic sectors.
Estimated Project Costs
------- USS Million -------             of
Item                      Local      Foreign      Total     Base Cost
Investment Preparation                  0.95        2.86        3.81          77
Sectoral Priorities
(a) Studies                          0.23        0.67       0.90           IR
(b) Training                         0.07        0.20       0.27           5
Total                            0.30       0.87        1.17          23
Total Base Cost                         1.25        3.73        4.98         100
Physical Contingencies                  0.12        0.38        0.50          10
Price    Contingencies                  0.03        0.09        0.12           2
Total    Contingencies                  0.15        0.47        0.62          12
Total Project Cost                      1.40        4.20        5.60         112



- 11ii -
Financing Plan
----- USS Million -
Cof inanciqxj              jflj       Forin        'total
Governmer,t                 0.60        0.00        0.60
IDA                         0.80        4.20        5.00
Total                       1.40        4_2         5.6
Estimated  Disbursements  from IDA Credit
------ IDA  Fiscal Years ------
Categorv              1990      1991     1992      1993
--------- USS Million ---------
Annual                 0.7       2.2       1.1       1.0
Cumulative             0.7      2.9        4.0       5.0
Project Benefits and Risks:    The benefits of the Project consist in immediately providing the
Government with a readily available and flexible tool with which to
pursue investment proposals that emerge from the public investment
review process. It will substantially shorten the time required for
investment decisions to be made by financing agencies, and therefore
reduce the uncertainties in project preparation and cost, and
increase the benefits derived from investments by bringing their
yield forward in time. It will also, in the longer run, improve the
quality of the investment program and make this improvement
sustainable.  The main project risk is that present trends in the
Government's management of the economy on the basis of transparent
economic criteria be reversed; such a reversal is unlikely.
Economic Rate of Return:         n.a.
AFlIN
April 20, 1989



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Backaround
1.01      Between 1966 and 1980, the Togolese Government prepared and implemented
three economic and social development plans. The first two plans were modest
in scope, but the third (1975-80) adopted a very ambitious public investment
program, which brought these investments to 30X of GDP and initially boosted
economic growth. However, many of the large investments then undertaken (notably
in parastatal enterprises) failed to yield the expected returns, and a
substantial part of Togo's present economic and financial difficulties stem from
the unsatisfactory performance of this investment program.
1.02      By the early 1980s, the combined effects of the second oil shock and
the unsatisfactory performance of investments undertaken in the late 1970s had
depressed the investment climate substantially.   By 1981, public investments
had dropped to about '; of GDP.   Realizing that improved quality of its
investment programs was one of the prerequisites to turn around the economic
decline of the country, the Government in 1983 adopted a system of three-year
rolling investment progruaning. The first of these programs covered the period
1984-86, and was prepared with support from IDA-financed technical assistance
under the first phase of the Government's structural adjustment program.   In
parallel, the Government started a major program to restructure the parapublic
sector through privatization, liquidation or restructuring of more than 30
parapublic enterprises.
B. Recent Trends in Public Investment
1.03      During the first half of the 19°00, the structure of public investment
changed. Domestic financing declined from close to 401 in the 1970s to 25% in
1980-85; the practice of issuing Government guarantees for external commercial
borrowing was halted; and the share in the investment program of grants and
concessional borrowing increased to reach nearly 701 in 1986. At the same time,
there was a shift from financing the investment program through predominantly
commercial channels toward a financing froni concessionaL sources.
1.04      The introduction of the rolling investment program and the restruc-
turing of the parapublic sector were vehicles for significant changes in Togo's
public investment policy. Its development and investment strategy now aimed at
rehabilitating and maintaining existing assets, and improving the efficiency
and profitability of productive investments already made. However, expenditure
and investment selection still did not become systematically subjected to
technical, economic and financial analysis, and the entire decision process in
this respect still leaves much to be desired.
1.05      In the present administrative structure of the Togolese Government,
public investment proposals should grow out of sectoral analyses carried out by
the relevant mi;.istries. Arbitration between the priorities of different sectors
is done by the Ministry of Plan and Mines. The sectoral knowledge available to
different ministries varies greatly in depth and quality, and this at present
renders difficult any rational arbitration between different sectors on
investment priorities. There is thus a need to bring the sectoral knowledge in



-2-
all a aas up to a roughily equal level so as to make claims on investment priority
between sectors subject to rational evaluation, and also a need to insure a
uniformly acceptable level of arLalysis and preparation of individual projects.
II. PUBLIC INVESTMENT ISSUES
2.01      In a 1987 review of the publi. i.vestment program, six issues came to
the fore, namely the needs to (a) insure consistency of the program with the
Government's  development  strategy,  macroeconomic  forecasts  and  resource
availability; (b) strengthen project preparation; (c) improve project implemen-
tation and monitoring; (d) improve contracting procedures; (e) consolidate the
three-year rolling investment programming; and (f) train senior and middle-level
Togolese staff.
2.02      In 1988,  the Government began to address  these  issues,  both by
screening in the Ministry of Plan and Hines the consistency of investment
proposals with the overall development strategy, and by intensifying the
investment programming reviews with the Bank. There is also progress in the field
of contracting, under SAL II as well as with an EDF-sponsored review of contract-
ing practices (although final recommendations are not yet available, some
preliminary recommendations of this review have been accepted and implemented,
substantially shortening contract award procedures).
2.03      The areas which still remain to be addressed are those pertaining to
project preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, mnd staff
trai.ning. There is no clear set of procedures for project preparatior, and also
no clear set of criteria that individual investments should meet in order to be
acceptable for financing. The establishment, in the technical ministries, of
directorates and other units to be responsible for sectoral analysis and the
preparation of investments in their respective sectors, provides the administra-
tive framework for select4.ng future investments in accordance with criteria of
efficiency and effectiveness which, when demonstrated, would prove the
investments attractive to external financing agencies. Some of the directorates
and units are, however, in need of professional staff to manage this process of
sector analysis and project preparation. The UNDP has agreed to provide technical
assistance to several sectoral ministries to provide short-term assistance and
on-the-job training in this area.  The Bank will be Executing Agency for this
technical assistance, and the proposed Project will provide supplementr.ry outside
training to consolidate this.
2.04      In summary, whereas the Government's basic development strategy, and
the implications thereof for a future public investment program, are clear and
supported by the Association, the translation of this strategy into practical,
justified and realistic public investments is not at this moment assured. The
steps which the Government has taken towards permitting a thorough analysis of
investment ideas to be made, by establishing planning units in every technical
ministry, are important  However, these units need tc (a) have competent and
dedicated staff, small in number but of high professional qualifications; (b) be
the depositories of comprehensive sectoral knowledge in their respective fields,
so as to be able to rank investment proposals according to their merits of
priority within the sector; and (c) be able to provide the inception, management,
monitoring and evaluation of studies of individual investment proposals in their



sectors, all according to criteria that permit comparative judgments between
investment proposals within each sector and between different sectors.
2.05      The present Public Investment Program (PIP) 1989-91 stands at about
CPA? 170 billion (US$510 million equivalent). The total need for pre-investment
work for this program is very tentatively estimated at US$20 million equivalent.
Of this, various external sources, on-going projects, etc., assure financing of
about US$7.5 million. Additionally, the Government's ini'ostment budget currently
covers about US$1.0 million equivalent; and the Federaa Republic of Germany,
through the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, and France, through the Caisse
Centrale pour la Cooperation Economique, both provide funds to Togo for pre-
investment work. These funds are restricted to projects expected to be financed
by the respective agencies, aid together amount to about US$2.5 million
equivalent. The immediate need for pre-investment work that should be started
up without delay, and for which finiancing is not assured, is about US$5 million
equivalent. Further into the PIP period, about US$4 million will be required
in supplementary fina.icing to cover all pre-investment work needed.
2.06      The most receat investment reviews carried out between the Government
and the Bank have concluded that there is ample room for additional public
investments in Togo consistent with IMF framework programs, provided that these
be of acceptable quality in terms of their financial conditions and economic
impact, and realistic in terms of the absorptive capacity of the relevant
sectors. The immediate bottleneck on the volume of public investments is the
dearth of properly justified and prepared investment project plans. High-quality
project selection and preparation is essential to assure the external financing
required for investments needed to sustain the country's economic growth.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      The development, over the last few years, of public investment programs
established within a macroeconomic framew'rk of which the principal elements were
agreed between the Government and the international financing community has
marked a departure from the practices of the 1970s in which investments were
decided upon without much recourse to analysis of macroeconomic or sectoral
priorities,  or individual project justification.  The proposed Project will
provida a vehicle for selecting and preparirg future investments in accordance
with criteria that are transparent and acceptable to the external financing
community, so that the process of investment decision can be accelerated and the
steps of documenting project feasibility and establishing final project execution
plans can be undertaken without the present delays inherent in obtaining
financing therefor.  The ultimate aim of the Project would be to establish a
sustained situation in which potential projects are identified and prepared
rapidly so that project preparation no longer will constitute a constraint on
investments.
B. Project Objectives and Framework
3.02      The Project will have both immediate and long-term objectives. Firstly,
to relieve the immediate constraints on investments caused by the present lack
of properly prepared projects; and, secondly, over the project period, create



the institutional capacity for identifying investment r'roposals and processing
these through feasibility studies, obtaining financing and establishing final
project execution plans. These objectives will require the project to (a) rapidly
create and then sustain a p'peline of investment proposals identified,
formulated, justified and fully prepared for project evaluation by potential
financing agencies and ultimately for final project execution; and (b) gradually
buJld up the capacity of the Goverznent to continuously identify and manage the
preparation of priority investment projects in all sectors of the country's
economy.
1.03      To meet these objectives the Project will cover:
(a) selected investment proposals contained in the Government's three-year
PIP as agreed between the Government and the Bank, and updated
annually; and
(b) endeavors to bring the knowledge of investment priorities in all
economic sectors to a level from which investment proposals for
inclusion in the investment plan may be identified.
3.04      In the areas covered, the Project wil.l provide:
(a)  the preparation of project feasibility studies and preliminary project
execution plans, in such detail as may be required by potential
financing agencies for th? purpose of their investment decision;
(b) the preparation of final project execution plans emanating from (a)
above;
(c)  studies of the investment needs of individual sectors of the Togol.ese
economy with a view to identifying, in all sectors, investment
possibilities leading to project formulation through (a) and (b) above;
and
(d) training of Togolese staff of the relevant ministries to manage and
supervise the studies under (a) through (c) above during and after. the
Project period.
Through the provisions under (a) through (d) above, the Project will provide
strengthening of the local capacity of consulting firms and individuals to
prepare and execute pre-investment and sector analysis work.
G. Project Components
3.05      The above will be provided through the following Project components:
(a) an investment preparation component, in the form of feasibility studies
and detailed execution plans of projects included in the Government's
triennial Public Investment Program; and
(b) a sectoral priorities component, in the form of studies and training
to supplement present knowledge of sectoral investment priorities,
such studies to be carried out under, or such training to be provided
to, the planning units (Directorates, Divisions, Cells or otherwise)
of the relevant technical ministries.



-5-
Investment Preparation
3.06      The investment preparation component will bring investment ideas from
the stage of preliminary identification up to the stage of fully prepared, costed
and justified execution plans.  To span this part of the project cycle, the
project will provide consultants' 3ervices to tarry out feasibility studies and,
if warranted, detailed project execution plans. The component will, as a rule,
only deal with investments larger than US$1.0 million equivalent, and so will,
in principle, be limited tc pre-investment work estimated to cost more than
US$50,000 per item.  Studies for which the cost is estimated to be lees  than
US$50,000 equivalent may, however, exceptionally be included by specific
sgreement between the Government and the Association. During negotiations, the
cost limit on pre-investment work and the treatment of small studies were agreed
with the Government.
3.07      The selection of project ideas to be sub,ected to feasibility studies
under the proposed Project will be limited to items includ'ed in the Public
Investment Program,  as updated annually.   The principal objectives of the
feasibility studies would be to (a) confirm the priority of the proposed
investment within agreed sectoral development plans; (b) establish preliminary
estimates of required inputs into execution of the proposed projects over their
lifetimes, in physical, financial and managerial terms; (c) provide an assessment
of the capacity of the relevant public and private institutions in Togo to
effectively participate in the execution of the proposed project; and (d) estim-
ate the priority of the proposed Investment in relation to the overall needs of
the Togolese economy.   During negotiations,  agreement was reached with the
Goverr.ment on the framework Terms of Reference for feasibility work as indicated
above.  The list of selected items for immediate study under the investment
preparation component was agreed with the Government during negotiations and is
given in Annex 1.
3.08      The preparation  of final project  execution plans would only be
undertaken when the feasibility of the proposed investment, including the
absorptive capacity of the relevant sector or sectors, has been confirmed, and
when the financing plan for the investment is substantially assured on terms
and conditions conforming to those applicable to the Public Investment Program.
Sectoral Priorities
3.09      The sectoral priorities component is aimed at bringing the knowledge
of different economic sectors to roughly the same level, so that investment
proposals may be identified on bases comparable between sectors, permitting
(a) the investment spread between sectors to be determined with an improved
perspective of the overall economic consequences of different investment
strategies; and (b) investment decisions within each sector to be taken in full
knowledge of the absolute and relative economic costs and benefits thereof.
The component would, in parallel to the UNDP-financed technical assistance (for
which the Bank would be Executing Agency) assist the planning and studies units
in the sectoral ministries by (i) staff training, and (ii) specific sector
studies.  The list of items selected for immediate study was agreed with the
Government during negotiations and is given in Annex 2.  The staff training
program will cover both technical and project management aspects of these
studies.  During negotiations, the outline of the staff training program was



confirmed with the Government, which agreed to submit to the Association by
August 31, 1989, a detailed training program ani candidates proposed therefor.
D. ImDlementatioon
3.10      The Project will be implemented through the Ministry of Plan and Mines,
which will have overall responsibility for the Project, and the relevant sectoral
ministries as follows:
(a) The investment preparation component will consist solely of pre-
investmeat work subcontracted to consulting firms, academic institu-
tions or other organizations capable of undertaking such york. The
selection of the subjects of pre-investment work will be made among
the projects identified in the Public Investment Program, by the
sectoral ministries invo'ved with the agreement of the Ministry of Plan
and Mines. The relevdnt sectoral ministry will also be responsible for
the establishment of detailed terms of refererce and contractual
documents,  evaluation  of  bids  and  proposals,  contract  award,
administration and suprcrvision, and subsequent evaluation of the
quality of work performed.
(b) The sectoral priorities component will consist both of training of
the staff of the sectoral ministries concerned, and of separate studies
carried out by contract.  As will be the case for the investment
preparation component, the sectoral ministry involved will be
responsible for identifying the area, scope and cost of training and
supplementary studies, and for obtaining the agreement of the Ministry
of Plan ard Mines for including the identified elements into the
Project.
3.11      Project implementation will be closely related to the annual and
quarterly reviews of public inve^tment, undertaken jointly by the Government
and the Bank.  Thus, decisions on modificatiens to the agreed list of pre-
investment work will routinely be taken f llowing the anrual major review of the
investment program. If particular circumstances warrant, such modifications may
be done as results of the quarterly PIP reviews.  The Project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1992.
3.12      Project implementation will be regularly reviewed by the Government
and the Bank, both to monitor the Project and to permit the progress of
individual project components to be taken into account in the regular revisions
of the PIP. Reporting of Project progress will be done by the Ministry of Plan
and Mines, with the assistance of the sectoral ministries co-cerned and their
subcontractors. These reports will be prepared quarterly, will cover project
implementation and expenditures, and will contain key indicators for monitoring
the progress of the project. The reporting requirements are given in greater
detail in Annex 3 and were agreed with the Government during Credit negotiations.
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
3.13      The  total  cost  of  the  Project  is  estimated  at  US$5.6 million
equivalent, net of such taxes and duties from which it is customary in Togo to
exempt services financed by international financing agencies.  An indicative
distribution of the costs of the project over individual items is given in



Annex 4. The costs are based on January 1989 prices, and on the observed cost
of obtaining similar services of satisfactory quality in Togo and neighboring
countries. Physical contingencies of 1OZ, and price escalation contingencies
of lZ p.a. for foreign exchange, and 52 in 1989 and 42 thereafter for local
exchange, have been applied.
3.14      The project will be financed by the Government of Togo and IDA.  The
Government will provide (a) in kind, office space and logistics support for the
training part of the sectoral priorities component; and (b) an llZ share of the
cost of contracts for pre-investment and sectoral studies, this share to be
provided either in kind or ir cash according to the exigencies of each individual
contract. The Government's share of the cost of contracts will be part of its
regular budget allocation to the sectoral ministries concerned. The Government's
total contributi2n to the project is estimated at US$0.6 million equivalent, and
the  IDA  contribution  at  US$5.0 million  equivalent.    During  negotiations,
aRreement was reached with the Government on the cost estimates and financing
plan for the project.
F. Procurement
3.15      All procurement under the project, with the exception of a limited
part of the Government's contribution, will be of consulting services or training
assistance,  and will be in accordance with Bank guidelines.   All terms of
reference, work specifications and draft contracts and contract packages will
be subject to prior IDA review. During negotiations, the amounts and methods
of procurement were reviewed and agreed with the Government. Amounts and methods
of procurement are given in Annex 5.
G. Disbursements
3.16      The IDA credit of US$5.0 million will be disbursed against approved
contracts for pre-investment and sectoral priorities studies, and fellowships.
IDA disbursements up to an accumulated US$1.5 million equivalent will be against
statements of expenditures through a special account opened by the borrower in
a commercial bank and into which an initial deposit of US$200,000 will be made
from the credit account.   Copies of invoices for SOEs will be kept and made
available to IDA supervision missions for inspection. All records and accounts
pertaining to the project will, for each of the Government's fiscal years, be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and the audit
reports submitted to the Association not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year. The Credit will be disbursed as follows:
IDA Credit Disbursement    % of Expenditures
Item                   Amount of Credit Allocated   to be Financed
(USS million equivalent)
(1) Consultants' Services                           4.2                      89
(2) Training                                        0.3                     100
(3) Unallocated                                     0.5
Total                                           5.0



During negotiations, the disbursement arrangements were confirmed with the
Government.   Estimated disbursements are given in Annex 5.   The Credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1992.
H. Benefits and Risks
3.17        The benefits of the project consist in immediately providing the
Government with a readily available and flexible tool with which to identify,
prepare and appraise investment proposals that emerge from the public investment
review process. Moreover, through the sectoral priorities component, the project
will improve the base of knowledge on which the public investment review process
is founded, and thus over time will lead to increased quality of public
investment programs and, ultimately, of Government expenditures. To the extent
that better investment projects are generated as a result of better preparation,
screening and implementation, a positive impact on the country's long-term
economic development will occur.   Additionally,  the sector studies and the
institutional strengthening of sector ministries will result in easier and better
macroeconomic management.
3.18      The risks of the project are those of the public investment program
at large:   if public investment programs continue to spring from ideas and
proposals which ignore the rational processes that the project aims to reinforce,
the risk of project failure would increase. However, given the umbrella system
of periodic investment reviews with IDA and the Government's seriousness in
establishing a rational process of project preparation and selection, this risk
is deemed to be mininal.
I. Envirorunental Implications
3.19       There are no environmental issues directly Attached to the project,
but indirectly, through the nature and .'etailed specifications of the pre-invest-
ment work which it will finance, the project may have significantly positive
environmental importance. All pre-investment work to be done under the project
will contain a mandatory environmental assessment both during the feasibility
phase and the phase of preparing detailed execution plans. During negotiations,
agreement was obtained from the Government that the environmental assessments
thus prepared will be fully discussed with the Association prior to final
investment decisions being taken.
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on
the following points:
(a)  the cost limit on pre-investment work (para. 3.06);
(b)  framework Terms of Reference for feasibility work for investment
preparation and the specific items to be financed under the Project
(para 3.07);
(c)  items identified for studies under the sectoral priorities component,
and the staff training program (para 3.09);



- 9 -
(d)  reporting requirements (par& 3.12);
(e)  the project cost estimates and financing plan (para 3.14);
(f)  amounts and methods of procurement (para. 3.15);
(8)  disbursement arrangements asid audit requirements (par& 3.16); and
(h) discussion between the Government and IDA of environmental aspects of
investments &a assessed through the pre-investment studies (para 3.19).
4.02      The abovs agreements having been reached, the proposed Pre-investment
Project is technically and economically sound and is suitable for an IDA Credit
to the Government of Togo of US$5.0 million equivalent on standard IDA terms with
40 years' maturity.
AFAlN
April 20, 1989



- 10 -
ANNEX 1
PfPUBLIC OF TOGO
PR2-INVESTMENT PROJECT
Investment Preparation Component
Project Number
Item                                       in the P.I.P.
Rural Development Sector (325 millions)
Integrated development of the MO Plain                            (*)
Development program for continental fisheries                  14.00.08
Aid to disadvantaged farmers
in the coastal area                                            10.00.30
Industrial and Commercial Sector (70 millions)
Feasibility study for establishment of the
Lome free trading zone                                            (*)
Tourism and Environmental Sector (120 millions)
Development of the inland tourist areas                        31.00.18
Reinforcement of the game reserves                             32.00.17
Infrastructures Sector (195 millions)
Reinforcement of the KARA water supply system                  45.10.26
Water supply in three sub-prefectures
and two semi-urban centers                                     45.20.26
Socio-cultural Sector (160 millions)
Expanded vaccination program                                   52.50.18
Anti-malaria program                                           52.50.26
Social Affairs and Women's Conditions (40 millions)
Preparation of a program to integrate
women in the development process                                  (*)
(*) No number. Project will be included in the P.I.P. after study.
APlIN
April 20, 1989



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PPE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
Sectoral Priorities ComDonents
Sectoral Studies
In the Rural Development
*    A study of the livestock and Fishing sub-sectors vith a view to
obtaining an assessment of the production and of the public private
means of these sub-sectors and to identify the required poten-
tialities and precise means.
*    An assessment and a study of the prcjects for the transformation
and preservation of agricultural products with a view to identify
the means required to develop these sub-sectors.
*    A study for the development of agro-pastoral resources in Togo.
In the Tourism and Environmental Sector
*    A study aimed at identifying the means and actions required to
improve further the use of the existing infrastructure and tourism
potential.
*    A  study aimed at identifying the means  and priority  actions
required for the protection and improvement of the environment.
In the Industrial and Artisanal Sector
Study of the small and medium enterprises/small and medium industries,
regarding:
*    an actualization of the industrial projects porto-folio
*    the industrial subcontracting
*    the management of Artisanal Studies
*    the Artisanal Studies
*    studies and analysis of the informal sector with a view to identify
the volume and value of production of the sector, its added value
and its perspectives, and to identify possible assistance actions
required.
*    identification of the internal potentiel and of the foreign market
opportunities for the development of Togolese exportations by small
and medium enterprises/small and medium industries or industrial
units, particularly those that could be located in the Lome free
trade zone.



- 12 -
ArNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
- _ In the Infrastructures Sector
*    A complete assoesment of the village water supply, of the existing
installations and of the water needs for the national territory,
in order to implement a coherent and realistic investment program
to satisfy water needs of the population.
- - In the Socio-cultural Sector
*    A study of the present results, of the organization and of the
medium and long term objectives for the health, education and
technical education with a view to identifying for each of these
sectors a coherent and realistic program of medium and long term
investments.
*    A study of the epidemiological profile of the country.
*    Assessment of the employment evolution during the five last years
and national survey on the structure, evolution and prospects of
employment in all sectors of the economy.
*    A study to improve the definition of school and university training
programs to arrive at a better employment-training adequacy
(inquiry already in progress for technical and professional
training).
AFlIN
April 17, 1989



- 13 -
ANNEX 3
RUPUBLIC OF TOGM
PRU-INVESTMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Reuortins Reauirements
1.        The reporting on progress of the Project is the task of each sector
ministry involved and of the Ministry of Plan and Mines. The audience of the
reporting consists of all sectoral ministrie., all public entities involved in
project components being dealt with in the report, and the community of financing
agencies, multilateral and bilateral aid agencies as well as Non Governmental
Organizations with an interest in any project component.
2.        The reporting will:
(a)  record the progress of the project itself, identifying any coyrective
actions that may be required in respect of individual compon?nts;
(b)  monitor the coherence between the Government's  Public Investment
Program (PIP) and the content of the Project and present proposals
for such modifications in Froject content as niay be warranted through
changes introduced in the PIP; and
(c)  identify any changes in the scope, content or timing of any items in
the PIP, caused by findings, analyses or progress in time of individual
Project items.
3.        Each report will contain an updated presentation of the Project's
finances, with a forecast of financing required to complete each active
component, and of any foreseeable overall shortfall in Project financing.
4.        The reports will be prepared quarterly and transmitted to the audience
at least two weeks before the quarterly review of the PIP.
A,P1N
April 20, 1989



- 14 -
ANNEX 4
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESThENT PROJECT
ProJect Cost Estimates and Financina Plan
Project Cost Estihates
----- CFAF  Nillion -----       ------ US$ million ------          %  of
Item                Local    Foreihn    Total        Local    Foreian    Total       Base Cost
Investment Preparation         286         857      1,143     0.95       2.86       3.81            77
Sectoral Priorities
!                 (a) Studies                   68        202        270      0.23       0.67       0.90           18
(b) Training                 20          61         81     0 07       0.20       0.27            5
Total                    88        263        351      0.30       0.87       1.17           23
Total Base Cost                374       1,120      1,494      1.25       3.73      4.98           100
Physical Contingencies          38         113        151      0.12      0.38       0.50            10
Price    Contingencies          A           27         35      0.03      0.09       0.12             2
Total    Contingencies          46         140        186      0.15       0.47      0.62            12
rotal Project Cost             420       1 2        1 6.420.                        560           112
Financing Plan
----- CFAF  Million -----       ------ USS Million ------
Cofinanciers                Local    Foreian    Total       Local    Foreian    Total
Government                   180          --        180     0.60       0.00       0.60
IDA                          240       1 260      1 500     0.80       4 20       5 00
Total                        420       1260       1         LS         4.20          6
AFIIN
April 20, 1989



- 15 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
Amounts gnd Methods of Procurement
(USS million equivalent)
Item                        ICe        LCD       Other      Total
Investment Preparation                    --         --        4.2        4.2
(3.7)      (3.7)
Sectoral Priorities
(a) Studies                            --         --        1.1        1.1
(1.0)      (1.0)
(b) Training                                                0.3        0.3
(0.3)      (0.3)
Total                                                O         5.6         5.6
(0.0)    (5.0)       (5.0)
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit
------ IDA  Fiscal Years ------
CateaorY              1990     1991      1992      1993
------- - USS Million ---------
Annual                 0.7      2.2        1.1       1.0
Cumulative             0.7      2.9       4.0       5.0
AFlIN
April 20, 1989



