Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18490
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 2018-TO
October 30, 1998
Togo Resident Mission
AFMTG/AFC13
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT - (CREDIT 2018-TO)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
(Period average)
1989: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 319            1994: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 555
1990: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 272            1995: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 499
1991: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 282            1996: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 512
1992: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 265            1997: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 584
1993: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 283
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
ERAC           Economic Recovery and Adjustment Credit
GDP            Gross Domestic Product/Produit Interieur Brut
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
MISE           Ministere de l'Industrie et des Socidtes d'Etat (Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises)
MP *           Ministry of Planning
MPAT *         Ministere du Plan et de I'Amenagement du Territoire (Ministry of Plan and Land
Development)
MPM *          Ministere du Plan et des Mines (Ministry of Plan and Mining)
NGO            Non-governmental organization
ONG            Organisation non-gouvernementale
PAS            Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (Structural A diustment Program)
PERP           Public Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization Program
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PIP            Public Investment Program/Programme d'Investissements Publics
PR             President's Report
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Right
UNDP           United Nations Development Program/Programme des Nations Unies pour le
Developpement (PNUD)
* At the time the credit was made, the responsible ministry was the MPM (Ministere du Plan et des Mines),
but later its name was changed to MPAT (Ministere du Plan et de l'Am6nagement du Territoire). The ICR
refers to those as the MP or Ministry of Planning.
Vice-President               Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                     Mr. Theodore Ahlers
Task Manager                 Mrs Monique Garrity



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT - (CREDIT 2018-TO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                            ;
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                    1
Project Objectives                                                                          I
Achievement of Project Objectives                                                          3
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The project                              4
Project Sustainability                                                                     5
Bank Performance                                                                           5
Borrower Performance                                                                       6
Assessment of Outcome                                                                      7
Future Operation                                                                          10
Key Lessons Learned                                                                       10
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                                           12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits                                               14
Table 3: Project Timetable                                                                15
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                              15
Table 5: Key indicators for Project Implementation                                        16
Table 6: Key indicators for Project Operation                                             16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project                                                      16
Table 8A: Project Costs                                                                   17
Table 8B: Project Financing                                                               17
Table 9 : Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Loan Agreement                                 18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                                   19
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                                    19
Table 13 : Bank Resources: Missions.                                                      20
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower Contribiuion to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETIONi REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT - (CREIDIT 2018-TO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Pre-Investment Project in
Togo, for which Credit 2018-TO in the amount of US$5.0 million was approved on May 18,
1989 and signed on June 29, 1989, and made effective on September 19, 1989. The project
was one of several pre-investment projects in the Africa Region aimed at rapidly creating and
then sustaining a pipeline of investment proposals for project evaluation by potential
investment agencies.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1998, or five and a. half years behind schedule, after
four formal closing date extensions, a rather unusual occurrence. The last disbursement took
place on October 28, 1998, at which time the credit was ifully disbursed. The government
counterpart contribution to the financing of the project was originally estimated at about 10
percent of the total project cost.
The ICR was prepared by Paul Geli (Consultant) with the assistance of Kossi Eguida
(Economist - AFMTG). It was reviewed by Monique Garrity (Task Manager for the project -
AFMTG) and Jer6me Chevallier (AFTS3). Preparation of this ICR was completed during the
Bank's final supervision/completion mission in August 1998. It is based on material in the
project file, but also on material in the files of other projects and sectors which benefited from
the studies financed by Credit 2018-TO. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (appendix A), by preparing
its own evaluation of the project's execution (appendix B), and by commenting on the draft
ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT - (CREDIT 2018-TO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    Believing that increasing the size and improving quality of its investment program
were prerequisites to turn around the economic decline of the country, the Government
adopted in 1983 a system of three-year rolling investment programming, with support from
IDA-financed technical assistance under the first phase of the Government's structural
adjustment program.  However, expenditure and investment selection still were not
systematically subjected to technical, economic and financiail analysis, and the Bank felt that
for Togo to sustain economic growth, investments had to be optimized in terms of priorities,
size and timing. Investment reviews carried out between the Government and the Bank had
concluded that there was ample room for additional public investments in Togo consistent
with the IMF framework programs, provided that these were of acceptable quality in terms of
their financial conditions and economic impact, and realistic in terms of the absorptive
capacity of the relevant sectors. The Pre-Investment Project was identified, based on the
assumptions that: (i) the dearth of properly justified and prepared investment projects was the
immediate bottleneck on securing the external financing required for public investments
needed to sustain the country's economic growth; and (ii) the immediate need for pre-
investment work that should be started up without delay, and for which financing was not
assured, was about US$5 million equivalent. In response to proposals for a series of actions
made by Government at a donor conference in June 1988, the Pre-Investment Project and a
UNDP-financed technical assistance project (for which the B3ank would be executing agency)
were designed to strengthen the Government pre-investment analysis capacity.
Project Objectives.
2.    According to the President's Report and Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for that
operation, the Pre-Investment Project had both immediate and long-term objectives. Firstly,
to relieve the immediate constraints on investments caused by the present lack of properly
prepared projects; and, secondly, over the project period, to create the institutional capacity
for identifying investment proposals and processing these through feasibility studies, obtaining
financing and establishing final project execution plans.  In the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), the objective of the project was more: succinctly, and probably better
defined as "to assist the Borrower in upgrading and sustaining the quality of public
investments by building up a pipeline of investment proposals properly identified and
adequately prepared for submission to financing agencies, and in strengthening local capacity
to formulate and execute pre-investment studies". The project consisted of three components:
(i) pre-investment studies; (ii) sectoral studies; and (iii) training. It was to be implemented
through the Ministry of Planning (MP), which had overall responsibility for the project, and
the relevant sectoral ministries; the studies and training were to be subcontracted to consulting



ii
firms and academic institutions. Project implementation was to be closely related to the
annual and quarterly reviews of public investment, undertaken jointly by the Government and
the Bank. The estimate of the cost of the project was US$5.6 million equivalent, and the
project was expected to be completed by June 30, 1992. In addition to the standard clauses
for the employment of consultants in accordance with the Bank guidelines, a covenant in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) specifying a cost limit on pre-investment work and
dealing with the implementation of the training program was expected to promote the
achievement of project objectives; also, a list of specific studies to be started immediately was
annexed to the minutes of negotiations of the IDA credit.
3.    The project's objectives were clear and precise. But they were based on questionable
assumptions and, therefore, were not realistic from the beginning. Moreover, the Government
at the time preferred to finance studies with grants rather than loans. The objectives were not
important for Togo and for the Bank's country assistance strategy. They did not reflect the
Government's new  strategies of rehabilitating and maintaining existing assets and of
improving the efficiency and profitability of investments already made, and of restructuring the
parapublic sector (including privatization and liquidation). In the first quarter of 1994, the
project objectives were informally modified to include preparation of major parastatal reforms,
including restructuring, privatization and liquidation of public enterprises. This broadening of
objectives was very responsive to changes in borrower circumstances and development
priorities. The project itself was not particularly complex; nevertheless, it required
appropriate coordinating arrangements to facilitate implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results.
4.    Implementation experience has been generally unsatisfactory for most of the extended
project period. Nevertheless, an overall rating of "partial" appears justified for achieving the
broadened objectives. Moreover, the achievements can even be assessed as "substantial" in a
number of areas, such as the pre-investment studies for the transport sector project and the
proposed Water Resources Management Project, and the studies and related activities for
privatization, particularly that of Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP). The notion of
sustainability does not really apply to a study fund type of project. However, the positive
results and impact of most of the studies and activities, as well as the capacity that has been
developed through the project to formulate and execute studies, are likely to be maintained.
5.    The latest estimate of the cost of the project is US$6.06 million, compared to the SAR
estimate of US$5.6 million, or a 8.2 percent increase. Because of the increase in the dollar
value of the SDR, IDA disbursements in dollars were more than originally forecast (+±11.2
percent), but Government contributed less than the original estimates (-16.7 percent). 76.8
percent of the money was spent for pre-investment studies, 16.6 percent for sectoral studies
and other types of studies (such as parastatal reforms) and other activities and 10.3 percent for
training. The project took almost six years longer to complete than estimated at appraisal and,
therefore, the closing date of the credithad to be extended four times for a total of five and a
half years. The reasons for such unusual delays go beyond the political and economic turnoil
of 1991-1993: at least at the beginning, there was no Government ownership of the project,
and the original project objectives and the implementation schedule were unrealistic.



111
6.    A number of factors, mostly negative, affected project implementation. Among the
factors not generally subject to Government control, the factor that affected project
implementation the most was the poor performance of the Bank for most of the project
period. The political and economic crisis, which started towards the end of 1990 and lasted
until 1994, peaking in 1992 and 1993, contributed to maintaining the project at a standstill,
but may have also triggered a broadening of project objectives and a change of attitude on the
part of Government on the use of the credit for studies. The factors generally subject to
Government control that affected the project were the lack of Government commitment and
generally the poor performance of the Ministry of Planning (MP), at least at the beginning,
and problems with the provision by Government of its share of project costs.
7.    The Bank performance on this project has been deficient at the identification stage, for
preparation assistance and appraisal, as well as for supervision during most of the project
period. The Borrower performance can also be rated as deficient for preparation,
implementation and covenant compliance, although the situation improved in later years.
8.    Although the SAR did not identify them, the key indicators of development
outcome/impact are clearly the extent to which the studies financed by the project have led to
priority investments and appropriate economic policies. On that score, studies financed have
been key to the preparation of a transport investment program and a transport sector project
financed by the Bank and many other donors, as well as the preparation of a water supply
project. But the most significant impact is through the studies which are underpinning
parastatal reforms. The project financed studies for the initial program of 25 enterprises
agreed upon under the Economic Recovery and Adjustment Credit (ERAC) approved on
April 25, 1996, including the privatization of OTP, flagshiip of the program. As of March
1998, 8 enterprises were liquidated (OPAT, SITO, SONAPH, SOTONAM, SOTED, SITO,
TOGOGRAIN, and UPROMA); 4 enterprises were sold l(Brasserie du Benin, CDMTOGO,
SGMT, SIT); 4 enterprises were being negotiated (Hotel Sarakawa, TOGOGAZ,
TOGOPHARMA and OTP); studies and valuation for the remaining enterprises were
underway.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
9.    Despite the many shortcomings of project design and implementation, including poor
management of the project by both the Bank and Government and considerable delays in the
disbursement of funds, it seems that the proceeds of IDA Credit 2018-TO have been well
spent and served very useful purposes. In the end, the broadened objectives of the project
have been essentially met, and the outcome of the project is satisfactory overall. As William
Shakespeare would say: "All's well that ends well".
10.   With the closing of the IDA credit, the project will no longer be operational; in any
event, the question of "future operation" does not really apply to a pre-investment project.
Moreover, other instruments, such as the PHRD Grants (which are more attractive for
member countries) are now available to finance the kind of studies and activities that have
been carried out under the project. Generally, IDA credits :for pre-investment projects are no
longer necessary and used to facilitate project preparation.



iv
11.   Should the situation change and should there be a need again for this type of pre-
investment projects, they should be designed as flexible instruments that could be prepared
and approved quickly by management, maybe without the involvement of the Board of
Directors of the Bank. They could be processed under simplified procedures similar to those
for LILs and APLs, and managed and implemented flexibly in order to respond to unforeseen
needs as well as to pre-identified demands, while incorporating the necessary safeguards to
ensure financial discipline. Their design would also have to take into account the following
lessons that can be learned from the implementation of this Pre-Investment Project and other
similar projects:
*  No project is likely to be implemented in accordance with plans unless there is some
government's ownership of the project.
*  In order to be implemented successfully a pre-investment project requires a minimum of
organization and staffing on the Borrower side, and preferably the availability of an
administrative and accounting manual to facilitate procurement, contract administration
and disbursement.
*  The supervision (or task management) by the Bank of a pre-investment project represents
a significant amount of work, with attention to details, for procurement, contract
administration and disbursement.  If the project involves several sectors, good
coordination arrangements are needed within the Bank to ensure smooth processing of
studies and activities and the timely availability of substantial inputs by people with the
right expertise. The supervision of a multi-sector pre-investment project should not be
entrusted to a sectoral division but, depending on the organizational framework existing at
the time, should be the responsibility of a country operations division or the Bank resident
mission in the country.
* Government counterpart contribution should be in cash, rather than in kind, and based on
a realistic assessment of the Government willingness and ability to pay for studies and
similar activities.
*  While there may be some merit in having a type of slush fund that could be used, under
some well defined criteria, to respond to unforeseen needs and circumstances, nevertheless
the design of the project should include a realistic assessment of demand for financing for
studies, preferably with the identification of studies (and the preparation of terms of
reference for those studies) and training to be financed, say, during the first year of project
implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT - (CREDIT 2018-TO)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSEsSMENT
Project Objectives
1.    According to the President's Report and Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for that
operation, the Pre-Investment Project had both immediate and long-term objectives. Firstly,
to relieve the immediate constraints on investments caused by the present lack of properly
prepared projects; and, secondly, over the project period, to create the institutional capacity
for identifying investment proposals and processing these through feasibility studies, obtaining
financing and establishing final project execution plans.  In the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), the objective of the project was more succinctly, and probably better
defined as "to assist the Borrower in upgrading and sustaining the quality of public
investments by building up a pipeline of investment proposals properly identified and
adequately prepared for submission to financing agencies, and in strengthening local capacity
to formulate and execute pre-investment studies".
2.    To achieve the above objectives, the project consisted of three components: (i) pre-
investment studies; (ii) sectoral studies; and (iii) training. The Pre-Investment Project was to
be implemented through the Ministry of Planning (MP), which had overall responsibility for
the project, and the relevant sectoral ministries. The sectoral ministries involved were to be
responsible for the selection of the pre-investment and sectoral studies (to be made among the
projects identified in the Public Investment Program - PIP) and for the identification of the
area, scope and cost of training of their staff, as well as for obtaining the agreement of the
Ministry of Planning (MP) for including the identified elements into the project. The studies
and training were to be subcontracted to consulting firms, academic institutions and other
organizations ccable of undertaking such work. The relevant sectoral ministries were to be
responsible also for the establishment of detailed terms of reference and contractual
documents, evaluation of proposals, contract award, administration and supervision, and
subsequent evaluation of the work performed. Project inmplementation was to be closely
related to the annual and quarterly reviews of public investment, undertaken jointly by the
Government and the Bank. The estimate of the cost of the project was US$5.6 million
equivalent, and the project was expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.



2
3.    The project's objectives were clear and precise. They were based on two assumptions
which, with the wisdom of insight, were wrong: first, that the immediate bottleneck on the
volume of public investments was the dearth of properly justified and prepared investment
projects; and second, that the immediate need for pre-investment work that should be started
up without delay, and for which financing was not assured, was about US$5 million
equivalent. It appears, therefore, that the project's objectives were not realistic, from the
beginning, all the more so that the Government at the time was reluctant to finance with loans
studies, for which grant financing was to a great extent available. It does not appear, either,
that at the time the project's objectives were important for Togo or for the Bank's country
assistance strategy. The project was one of several pre-investment projects in the Africa
Region aimed at rapidly creating and then sustaining a pipeline of investment proposals for
project evaluation by potential investment agencies; those may have been appropriate for
other countries, but the Pre-Investment Project in Togo was not tailored to the specific
requirements and constraints of the country. Both the President's Report and the SAR, in the
discussion of the background for the project and of the Government strategy, made reference
to the Government program of basic reform, supported by three Structural Adjustment
Credits and IMF-supported programs, which was ongoing at the time the credit was made.
The reform program sought to liberalize the economy, rationalize public investments,
reinforce agricultural production and bring public enterprises on a sound footing. Apparently,
the Government had already started a major program to restructure the parapublic sector
through privatization, liquidation or restructuring of more than 30 parapublic enterprises. The
new development and investment strategies aimed at rehabilitating and maintaining existing
assets, and improving the efficiency and profitability of investments already made. It is not
clear why the project objectives did not reflect the new Government strategy, particularly with
respect to the restructuring of the parapublic sector (including privatization and liquidation).
It is worth noting that, in his comments on the Final Executive project Summary (EPS), the
Senior Operations Adviser of the Africa Region had questions on the reason why the absence
of investments had suddenly emerged after ten years of stabilization/adjustment, the
"ownership" of the project by the Government, the alternative sources of funding, and the
Government's interest in ensuring Bank participation in the investment preparation process.
4.    The project was not particularly complex. Apart from a very small allocation for
training (for which substantial UNDP financing was expected to be available) and a modest
allocation for sectoral studies, it involved the carrying out of feasibility studies and, if
warranted, detailed project execution plans for investments larger than US$1 million
equivalent each. It would not have been too demanding on Government, provided that a
minimum organization had been put in place to ensure the coordination between the Ministry
of Planning (MP) and the sectoral ministries on the one hand, and to administer the credit and
liaise between the MN and the Bank on the other hand. The project's risks were assessed in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) as those of the public investment program at large. The
assessment was that "the risk of project failure would increase if public investment programs
continue to spring from ideas and proposals which ignore the rational processes that the
project aims to reinforce". That risk was deemed to be minimal because of the umbrella
system of periodic investment reviews with IDA and of the Government's seriousness in
establishing a rational process of project preparation and selection. In practice, the main risk



3
turned out to be, right from the beginning, a lack of demiand for financing pre-investment
studies. An indication of this absence of urgency is the list of studies, annexed to the SAR and
to the minutes of negotiations, which were supposed to be undertaken "immediately". The
list, put together in a hurry after consultation of the sectoral divisions in the Bank, is not
particularly appealing, and none of the studies was ever carried out. The lack of demand was
of course aggravated by the political and economic turmoil of 1991-1993. It is only after a
return to a more normal situation, but also after a change in project's objectives that a
meaningful pipeline of studies could materialize. In the first quarter of 1994, the project
objectives, originally focused on increasing the number of properly prepared investment
projects, were broadened to include preparation of major parastatal reforms, including
restructuring, privatization and liquidation of public enterprises.  Such reforms were
considered essential to the success of the economic reform progfam in Togo. These changes
were significant modifications made to the project objectives, which should have been
formally agreed between the Borrower and IDA and approved by or reported to the executive
directors. Nevertheless, the Bank staff took the highly questionable position that there was no
need to amend the Development Credit agreement (DCA). Maybe the normal procedures of
approval by, or report to the Board are too strict but they were in force at the time and should
have been complied with. On the substance itself, there is no question that the changes made
a lot of sense and were fully justified; indeed, they were very responsive to changes in
Borrower circumstances and development priorities, which was not the case of the original
objectives of the project.
Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    The design of the project, which is discussed below under the Bank and Borrower
performance, had some major weaknesses and was probably not the best design for achieving
the project's original objectives. In any event, the criteria for judging the achievements of
objectives were not identified at all in the SAR. In view of the political and economic crisis
experienced by Togo in the early years of the project and the particular circumstances of
project implementation, the assessment of the project's success in achieving its major
objectives must be based on the broadened objectives, and not on the original ones only.
6.    Achievements can be assessed as "partial" for macroeconomic policies, sector policies,
institutional development, public sector management and private sector development; other
objectives listed in Table I do not apply. Given the relatively small size of the project and its
history, its impact cannot be expected to be that significant, but nevertheless an overall rating
of "partial" appears justified. Moreover, in a number of areas, the achievements can even be
assessed as "substantial". This is the case in particular for the studies for the transport sector
project and the proposed Water Resources Management Project - WRMIP (which fell within
the original project objectives) and the studies for privatization, particularly that of Office
Togolais des Phosphates (OTP). For both the WRMP and privatization, results are very
promising, although the process is not complete (the appraisal of the fully prepared WRMP
cannot take place as long as the issue of free water at standpoints is not resolved; and the sale
of 40 percent of the shares of the mining activities of OTP has yet to be finalized.



4
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The project
7.    The Borrower's report in Appendix B provides an interesting picture of the
implementation record for the project, including a description of the problems that have been
encountered. However, it is somewhat generous in its assessment of the performance of the
various actors involved, particularly the Bank. Although the project was processed by the
Bank with a great sense of urgency, nothing much happened and only 10 percent of the credit
was disbursed during the first five years (that is, well beyond the original closing date of
December 31, 1992), for a number of reasons discussed below. The project really started only
after the decision was made to broaden the project's objectives and after some much needed
improvements in the way the project was managed by the Bank, culminating in the decision to
entrust the task management of the project to the Bank resident mission in Lome.
8.    The latest estimate of the cost of the project is US$6.06 million, compared to the SAR
estimate of US$5.6 million, or a 8.2 percent increase. Because of the increase in the dollar
value of the SDR, IDA disbursements in dollars were more than originally forecast (+ 11.2
percent), but Government contributed less than the original estimates (-16.7 percent). 76.8
percent of the money was spent for pre-investment studies, 16.6 percent for sectoral studies
and other types of studies (such as parastatal reforms) and other activities, and 10.3 percent
for training. The project took almost six years longer to complete than estimated at appraisal
and, therefore, the closing date of the credit had to be extended four times for a total of five
and a half years. The reasons for such unusual delays go beyond the political and economic
turmoil of 1991-1993: at least at the beginning, there was no Government ownership of the
project, and the original project objectives and implementation schedule were unrealistic.
9.    A number of factors, mostly negative, affected project implementation. Among the
factors not generally subject to Government control, the factor that affected project
implementation the most was the poor performance of the Bank. As discussed below, the
performance of the Bank, and to a lesser extent of the Borrower, has been deficient for most
of the project cycle and period. In the case of the Borrower the situation began to improve
with the appointment of a project coordinator and a minimal staff, whereas in the case of the
Bank the main turning point was the transfer of the task management of the project to the
Bank Resident Mission in Lome. The political and economic crisis, which started towards the
end of 1990 and lasted until 1994, peaking in 1992 and 1993, also played a role. During that
period, the total breakdown of administration maintained the project (which anyway had not
really started) at a standstill, and contributed to delays. At the same time, that situation also
provided an opportunity for finally finding a meaningful use for the money; some of the
donors that left because of the crisis never came back and the credit became an important
source of funds for studies and other essential activities. This may have contributed to a
change of attitude on the part of Government on the use of the credit for studies. The factors
generally subject to Govemment control that affected the project were the lack of
Govemment commitment and the poor performance of the MP, at least at the beginning, and
problems with the provision by Government of its share of project costs.



5
Project Sustainability
10.   The notion of sustainability does not really apply to a study fund type of project like
this pre-investment project. However, the results and impact of the project, at least for the
few preparation studies for investment projects and sector programs and for the privatization
activities, are likely to be maintained.
Bank Performance
11.   The preceding sections already refer to the poor performance of the Bank. The Bank
performance on this project has been deficient at the identification stage, for preparation
assistance and appraisal, and, for most of the project period, also for supervision.  As
mentioned earlier, the original project objectives were not important for Togo and for the
Bank's country assistance strategy, since they did not reflect the new Government strategy
regarding existing investments and the restructuring of the parapublic sector. It is- only after
the project objectives were informally modified to include the preparation of major parastatal
reforms that the project became responsive to changes in circumstances and development
priorities in Togo. Therefore, the Bank role in project identification can only be assessed as
deficient.
12.   The Bank performance for preparation assistance (and also for appraisal, to the extent
that appraisal covered more or less the same aspects as preparation but did not involve an
independent review of work done during preparation) wais also deficient. As mentioned
earlier, the hastily prepared list of urgent studies which supposedly had to be undertaken
"immediately" was not very realistic. There were some inconsistencies between the SAR/PR
and the DCA regarding agreements reached during negotiations. For example,- the SAR and
PR refer to an agreement reached with Government during negotiations on mandatory
environmental assessments and their discussion with the Bank prior to final investment
decisions being taken, but such an agreement is not reflected in the DCA nor in the minutes of
negotiations! The same applies to an agreement reached with Government, according to the
SAR, on the framework Terms of Reference for feasibility work. Generally, the project was
not fully prepared, and its design was unsatisfactory on two aspects. First, the arrangements
made for the Government counterpart contribution (an 11 percent share of the cost of
contracts for pre-investment and sectoral studies), to be provided either in cash or in kind,
were not realistic. Second, the SAR included a section on implementation explaining the
respective roles of MP and sectoral ministries; however, no provision was made for the
minimum resources and staffing required for implementation, although pre-investment projects
do involve some work for procurement, contract administration and disbursement. It seems
that one of the reasons the project did not really start after credit effectiveness is that the
details and nitty-gritty of project implementation, from procurement to disbursement,
including the use of a special account and project accounting, had not been thoroughly
discussed with Government and incorporated into an implementation plan or manual.
13.   Regarding project supervision, the project has been managed by several Task
Managers, but it looks as if, in the early stages of the project, nobody was in charge, or felt
responsible for ensuring that something happens; then, the political and economic crisis



6
provided a good excuse for an attitude of benign neglect; and again, at least until 1994,
supervision activities did not display much professionalism, nor knowledge or respect of Bank
procedures. To give just a few examples. First, the disbursement letter, which should have
been sent shortly after credit signing in June 1989, was sent only in November 1990 after
Government inquired whether they could open a special account - of course, not only they
could but also they should have; however, nobody had bothered to tell them before!
Incidentally, the Loan Department of the Bank closed the special account a few month after it
had been opened, because the account was inactive. Second, in May 1992, Senior Staff of the
Country Department agreed to 100 percent financing for a consultant contract for the
complementary studies of the Lome Urban Development Project, to be compensated by the
lower financing of other actions under the project so that, overall, the cost sharing formula (a
government contribution of 10 percent of project cost) be respected. But, nobody followed
this up with the necessary amendment of the DCA, until Loan Department staff, refusing to
disburse 100 percent for that particular contract, insisted that such amendment was required!
Consequently, the disbursement percentage was increased to 100 percent for consultants'
services for the execution of studies to identify and prepare priority projects addressing key
environmental and poverty alleviation issues, whereas the disbursement percentage was
decreased to 85 percent for consultant' services for all other studies. Incidentally, the latter
percentage of 85 percent for all other studies tumed out to be too low and untenable, and was
also increased to 100 percent in March 1995. Third, in June 1994, the closing date of the
credit was retroactively extended from December 31, 1992 to December 31, 1994 to allow
the Government to implement its action plan for studies and training in support of its
economic recovery program. At the time, the project was the only vehicle available to finance
a number of financial, managerial and operational audits, and studies related to the
restructuring and privatization of public enterprises; so that the broadening of objectives to
include preparation of major parastatal reforms was in itself a good decision.  This
modification of project objectives was significant; it should have been approved by or reported
to the executive directors and the DCA should have been amended. None of these was done.
Later on, the Legal Department did raise the question of whether assistance to privatization
fitted within the project' s objectives, but did not pursue the matter despite the fact that
apparently it did not receive a satisfactory answer. These are only a few examples of poor
management by Bank staff, but there were other instances of confusion and lack of
communication within the Bank on the status of the project. Task management of the project
improved somewhat when in August 1993 responsibility for the project was transferred from
the Infrastructure Division to the Country Operations Division; the real tuming point,
however, was the Bank decision in February 1996 to assign the task management for this
project to its Resident Mission in Lome. Such delegation to the field allowed a closer follow-
up by the Bank.



7
Borrower Performance
14.   Overall, the Borrower performance also deserves a rating of deficient for preparation,
implementation and covenant compliance, although the situation improved in later years. As
mentioned earlier, the preparation was not as thorough and professional as it could have been,
but in this area Government was most likely following the Bank lead.  Regarding
implementation, it looked as though the project would never start, most likely because this
project was not a priority for Government. Generally, project implementation was extremely
slow (hence, the need for a five and a half year postponement of the closing date). Reasons
for the slow project implementation include, in addition to the political and economic crisis, a
lack of interest by Government, a lack of staff to administer the project, a lack of counterpart
funds for the study component (an account for counterpart funds was open only in November
1991), and problems of coordination of MP with the sectoral ministries. Generally, it took an
inordinate amount of time to finalize terms of reference and to recruit consultants for studies;
for a period of time, the application of a law removing tax exemptions from donor-financed
contracts introduced a major rigidity in establishing contracts. In addition, there was a lack of
aggressive monitoring of progress by project management and a lack of a sound accounting
system for the project. Generally, the performance of the Borrower has been deficient for
procurement, contract administration and disbursement. The situation improved somewhat
with the appointment in 1992 of the Directeir de la Coordination du Plan as project
coordinator and an embryo of a Project Implementation Unit - PIU (Cellule d'Execution du
Projet Pre-In7vestissement), with an accountant and two staff members; however, none of
those staff have been paid by the project. Also, the amendrnent to the DCA in March 1995 to
increase IDA financing to 100 percent helped. Nevertheless, project management continued
to suffer from a reticence to delegate on the part of the Directeur de la Coordination du Plan
(Direction de la Coordination7 dii Plan - Directiotn GMn&rale dii Plai et dii Developpement) in
MP. Compliance with covenants of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) has been
deficient. To begin with, the Borrower certainly did not "carry out the project with due
diligence and efficiency" and did not provide its counterpart contribution; the list of candidates
for training was not submitted to IDA by August 31, 1989 (actually, the first training program
was developed in early 1994); project accounts were nolt always properly kept; and audit
reports were often overdue for quite a number of months. The Bank resident mission in Lome
helped the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) resolve problems that had arisen with
disbursements and the replenishment of the Special Account, and worked closely with the PIU
to improve project accounting.
Assessment of Outcome
15.   A detailed assessment of the impact of the project is in the Borrower Contribution to
the ICR (Appendix B). Originally focused on increasing the number of properly prepared
investment projects, the main objectives of this project were broadened in 1994 to support the
preparation and the implementation of an economic recovery and adjustment program. The
project also aimed at enhancing the capacity of the MP and sectoral ministries to manage
studies. For most of the project period the implementation record has not been good at all. It
is only in later years that, with the assistance of the Bank Resident Mission (particularly to



8
resolve problems with project accounts and disbursements), Government substantially
improved the implementation record.  Government finally demonstrated that it could
satisfactorily manage a program of about US$ 2 million a year in studies and training,
considered as an essential support to Togo's economic recovery and to the restoration of
productivity in the administration.
16.   The activities covered under the project include about 51 studies and technical
assistance activities (infrastructure feasibility studies, audits, evaluations of various enterprises
slated for privatization, and technical assistance for privatization), and training of public
officials in economic analysis and management, as well as project management.
0  Infrastructure studies financed by the credit included: (i) a transport sector strategy and
the preparation of a transport investment program, also a priority in Togo's economic
recovery program; (ii) a study of the rehabilitation of the road Atakpame-Blitta; (iii)
complementary studies of the Lome Urban Development Project; and (iii) feasibility
studies needed for the preparation of a water resources management project.
0  Studies for the privatization and restructuring of key parastatals in line with the PFP and in
preparation of the ERAC approved in April 1996, consisted of company evaluations;
financial, management and operational audits; and technical assistance for the
privatization, performance contracts or the setting up of management information systems
(MIS). Those studies and technical assistance dealt with quite a number of companies,
including Societ Togolaise de Navigation Maritime (SOTONAM), Societe Generale des
Granids Moulins dii Togo (SGMT), Caisse d 'Epargne dii Togo (CET), Editions dui Togo
(EDITOGO), Union Togolaise de Ban qtue (UTB), Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
(CNSS), Societe des Ciments dii Togo (CIMTOGO), Hotel-Ecole Le Benin, the main
hotels of Lome and Tropicana, CEET, RNET, Socite Immobiliere Togolaise (SITO),
Brasserie dui Benin (BB), Societ  Iniduistrielle dii Togo (SIT), TOGOGAZ, and
TOGOPHARMA). Particularly important are the various studies and advisors (total cost
of about US$2 million) required for the privatization of the Office Togolais des
Phosphates (OTP).
17.   Other studies and activities included: (i) a study on the impact of the 1994 devaluation
of the CFA franc; (ii) computerization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (supply and
installation of equipment and training of trainers), and preparation of a Master Plan for the
computerization of MP and of planning cells of technical ministries, with better computer and
communication systems and procedures in support of economic management and, in
particular, the PIP and budget process; (iii) beneficiary assessments and studies towards the
design of a social fund, also a priority in Togo's economic recovery program and a
recommendation of the poverty assessment report; (iv) assistance to the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in developing a sound accounting system; and (v) technical
assistance to the Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises (MISE) for setting up a MIS
system for public enterprises.
18.   Also, Government finally prepared a training program to strengthen macro-economic
and sector analysis as well as project management (procurement, contract administration and



9
disbursement) and to prepare the decentralization. The project financed the participation of
civil servants in twelve seminars, six in Togo and six overseas. It seems that the program
actually implemented was somewhat different from what had been originally planned, with too
much weight given to participation in overseas seminars, instead of focusing more on in-
country training for the business needs of the Togolese administration. This may be the only
area where the availability of a slush fund had some perverse effects due to a lack of financial
discipline.
19.   Although the SAR did not identify them, the key indicators of development
outcome/impact are clearly the extent to which the studies financed by the project have lead to
priority investments and appropriate economic policies. On that score, studies financed have
been key to the preparation of a transport investment progiram and a transport sector project
financed by the Bank and many other donors, as well as the preparation of a water supply
project, which technically is now ready for appraisal. But the most significant impact is
through the studies which are underpinning parastatals reforms. The credit was the only
source of funds available for the economic recovery program and privatization, and the
project turned out to be providential. The project financedl studies for the initial program of
25 enterprises agreed upon under the Economic Recovery and Adjustment Credit (ERAC)
approved on April 25, 1996, including the privatization of OTP, flagship of the program. As
of March 1998, 8 enterprises were liquidated (OPAT, SITO, SONAPH, SOTONAM,
SOTED, SITO, TOGOGRAIN, and UPROMA); 4 enterprises were sold (Brasserie du Benin,
CIMTOGO, SGMT, SIT); 4 enterprises were being negotiated (Hotel Sarakawa, TOGOGAZ,
TOGOPHARMA and OTP); studies and valuation for the remaining enterprises were
underway. The privatization program in Togo is one of the best privatization programs in
Africa. Although not yet complete, the process of privatization of Office Togolais des
Phosphates (OTP) has many characteristics of a success story.
20.   Phosphate is important for Togo, since it accounts for 10 percent of GDP and 40
percent of exports. The unusual number and length of extensions of the closing date for credit
2018-TO have been made primarily to enable the Bank to respond positively to a Togolese
Government's request to assist in financing the various studies and financial and legal advisors
required for the privatization of OTP. Opening OTP to private participation has been a major
bottleneck in the Bank dialogue with Government. For bothi social and political reasons, some
of the highest authorities in Togo were opposed to any participation of the private sector in
the capital of the company. Following consultation with the President of Togo and broad
discussions involving various constituencies within the Government, an agreement to open up
40 percent of OTP's shares to private investors was reached during negotiations of the
Economic Recovery and Adjustment Credit (ERAC) which went on for three months and
were concluded in September 1995. At the time, no alternative sources of financing were
available for the studies and advisers required to put the OTP privatization process in motion,
estimated to cost up to US$2 million, as follows: financiall advisors (US$ 1,000,000); legal
advisor (US$ 300,000); and environmental studies, media and public relations campaigns
(US$ 700,000). The various steps of the process included technical and financial analysis of
the company, preparation of detailed privatization options, discussion and agreement with
IDA on a preferred scenario, preparation of an information memorandum to potential
investors, discussions with potential investors, and negotiations and conclusion of the



10
South African subsidiary for US$56 million, and the Government decided to put that money
aside to reduce domestic debt. Regarding the sale of 40 percent of the shares of OTP, two
potential investors have been identified.
21.   Despite the many shortcomings of project design and implementation, including poor
management of the project by both the Bank and Government and considerable delays in the
disbursement of funds, it seems that the proceeds of IDA Credit 2018-TO have been well
spent and served very useful purposes. In the end, the broadened objectives of the project
have been essentially met, and the outcome of the project is satisfactory overall. As William
Shakespeare would say: "All's well that ends well".
Future Operation
22.   With the closing of the IDA credit, the project will no longer be operational; in any
event, the question of "future operation" does not really apply to a pre-investment project.
Moreover, other instruments are now available to finance the kind of studies and activities that
have been carried out under the project.
23.   In view of the shortcomings of the project design and implementation, and despite the
fact that the project outcome is satisfactory overall, a future evaluation by OED is not likely to
throw new light on the impact of the project or identify additional lessons learned and is,
therefore, a low priority.
Key Lessons Learned
24.   With the availability of other financing instruments, such as the PHRD Grants, which
are more attractive for member countries, IDA credits for pre-investment projects are no
longer used to facilitate project preparation. Should the situation change and should there be
a need again for this type of pre-investment projects, they should be designed as flexible
instruments that could be prepared and approved quickly by management. They could be
processed under simplified procedures similar to those for LILs and APLs, and managed and
implemented flexibly in order to respond to unforeseen needs as well as to pre-identified
demands, while incorporating the necessary safeguards to ensure financial discipline. Their
design would also have to take into account the following lessons that can be learned from the
implementation of this Pre-Investment Project and other similar projects:
*  No project is likely to be implemented in accordance with plans unless there is some
government's ownership of the project.
*  In order to be implemented successfully a pre-investment project requires a minimum of
organization and staffing on the Borrower side, and preferably the availability of an
administrative and accounting manual to facilitate procurement, contract administration
and disbursement.
* The supervision (or task management) by the Bank of a pre-investment project represents
a significant amount of work, with attention to details, for procurement, contract



11
administration  and disbursement.  If the project involves several sectors, good
coordination arrangements are needed within the Bank to ensure smooth processing of
studies and activities and the timely availability of substantial inputs by people with the
right expertise. The supervision of a multi-sector pre-investment project should not be
entrusted to a sectoral division but, depending on the organizational framework existing at
the time, should be the responsibility of a country operations division or the Bank resident
mission in the country.
* Government counterpart contribution should be in cash, rather than in kind, and based on
a realistic assessment of the Government willingness and ability to pay for studies and
similar activities.
* While there may be some merit in having a type of slush fund that could be used, under
some well defined criteria, to respond to unforeseen needs and circumstances, nevertheless
the design of the project should include a realistic assessment of demand for financing for
studies, preferably with the identification of studies (and the preparation of terms of
reference for those studies) and training to be financed, say, during the first year of project
implementation.



12
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table i: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of        Substantial    Partial     Negligible      Not
Objectives                                                        Applicable
Macro Policies                              X
Sector Policies                             X
Financial Objectives                                                  X
Institutional Development                   X
Physical Objectives                                                   X
Poverty Reduction                                                     X
Gender Issues                                                         x
Other Social Objectives                                               X
Environmental Objectives                                              X
Public Sector Management                    X
Private Sector                 X
Development
Other (specify)                                                       X
B. Project Sustainability      Likely          Unlikely         Uncertain
The notion of sustainability
does not really apply to a
pre-investment project;          X
however, results and
impact are likely to be
maintained



13
Table 1 : Summary of Assessments (continued)
C.. Bank Performance         Highly    Satisfactory   Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                            X
Preparation Assistance                                    X
Appraisal                                                 X
Supervision                                  X            X
(in later    (in the early
years)       years)
D. Borrower                  Highly    Satisfactory    Deficient
Performance                Satisfactory
Preparation                                               X
Implementation                               X            X
(in later    (in the early
years)       years)
Covenant Compliance                                       x
Operation (if applicable)     N/A.         N/A.          N/A.
E. Assessment        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
of Outcome         Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
x



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit or                       Purpose                         Year of         Status
Loan Title _______                                              Approval
Precedina   perations
CR. 1302       Development Rural                                    1983        Closed 1991
CR. 1568       Education                                            1985        Closed 1992
CR. 1808       Agriculture                                          1987        Closed 1994
CR. 1861       Transportation Rehabilitationi                       1988        Closed 1997
CR. 1929       Cotton Sector Development                            1988        Closed 1997
CR. 1993       Grassroots Development Initiatives                   1989        Closed 1997
Followina Operations .,                                      _
CR. 2211       Population/Health                                    1991        Closed 1996
CR. 2620       Urban Development                                    1994         Ongoing
CR. 2174       Vocational Education Training                        1991        Closed 1998
CR. 2752       Education rehabilitationr                            1995         Ongoing
CR. 2849       ERAC (Economic Reform Adjustment Credit)             1996        Closed 1998
CR. 2990       National Agriculture Services support                1998         Ongoing
CR. 2989       Road Transport Project                               1998         Ongoing
--       Pilot Social Fund                                     --           Under
______________ _________________________ LPreparation



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            Date planned      Date actual / latest
estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                         July 1988
Preparation                             !                       December 1988
Appraisal                                                         March 1989
Negotiations                                                    April 13-14,1989
Board Presentation                                              IMay 18, 1989
Signing                                 I                        June 29, 1989
Effectiveness                                 May 1989         September 19,1989
Midterm Review
Project Completion                          June 30, 1992     December 31, 1992
Credit Closing                            December 31, 1992      June 30,1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year        1990  1991  1992  1993 |1994  1995  1996  1997   1998
AppraisalEstimate  0.70  2.90  4.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00   5.00   5.00
Actual                   0.17 _J0.20  0.52  0.53  0.53.  2.47   4.63   5.56
Actual as % of      O    58 04        10A   10.5  10.5  49.5  92.6  111.2
Estimate                  5                 . i
Date of Final Disbursement: October 28, l 998



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report  Estimated    Actual
Note: The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the President's Report and the Credit
Agreement did not contain any key indicators for project implementation. A detailed
description of the activities carried out under the project is included in the Borrower's
completion report (Appendix B), and summarized in Part I
Table 6 : Key indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators in SAR/President's Report              I Estimated      Actual
Although the SAR did not identify them, the key indicators of development outcome/impact are clearly
the extent to which the studies financed by the project have led to priority investments and appropriate
economic policies. On that score, studies financed have been key to the preparation of a transport
investment program and a transport sector project financed by the Bank and many other donors, as well
as the preparation of a water supply project. But the most significant impact is through the studies which
are underpinning parastatals reforms.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study       Purpose as defined at appraisal      Status           Impact of Stud
The project financed studies for the initial privatization program of 25 enterprises agreed upon under the
ERAC (including the privatization of OTP, flagship of the program). As of March 1998, 8 enterprises were
liquidated (OPAT, SITO, SONAPH, SOTONAM, SOTED, SITO, TOGOGRAIN, and UPROMA); 4
enterprises were sold (Brasserie du Benin, CIMTOGO, SGMT, SIT); 4 enterprises were being negotiated
(Hotel Sarakawa, TOGOGAZ, TOGOPHARMA and OTP); studies and valuation for the remaining
enterprises were underway.
A list of studies carried out under the project is included in the Borrower's completion report (Appendix B),
and summarized in Part I



17
Table 8A : Project Costs
(US $ million)
Project Components                       Appraisal       ActuaULatest
Estimate          Estimate
Pre-investment studies                                     3.80              4.61
Sectoral studies                                           0.90              0.83
Training                                                   0.20              0.62
Sub-total base costs                                       4.98              6.06
Contingencies                                              0.62        _
Total Project Costs                                        5.60              6.06
N.B.: US$ I  CFAF 305 in 1989
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                           Appraisal        ActualALatest
Estimate          Estimate
Government                                                 0.60              0.50
IDA                                                        5.00              5.56
Total                                                      5.60              6.06
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The President's Report did not include any economic analysis nor any estimates of economic rates of return of
the studies to be financed by the Project. A list of studies carried out under the project and impact /benefits are
included in the Borrower's completion report (Appendix B), and summarized in Part I.



18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement
Section       Covenant        Present    Fulfillment date                         Description of Covenant                                  Comments
Type          Status
Open and maintain in CFA Francs one Special Account in a
2.02(b)           1              C        Continuous           commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Borrower's commitment to project objectives; Borrower to carry
out project through its ministry of planning and Mining with
3.01           4, 5            C         Continuous          due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and to provide, promptly
as needed, funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for project.
The Borrower should employ consultants whose qualifications,
3.02            10             C        Continuous           experiences and terms and conditions of employment shall be
_______________   ___________  _________________    satisfactory   to   I)A
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out pre-investment studies only
3.03           5, 9            C        Continuous           for investment proposals estimated to cost more than $lmillion
; (b) submit to IDA for its approval the TOR of studies and
budget; (c) implement the study program agreed upon with
IDA.
4.01             1              C        By June 30           Borrower to maintain adequate project records and accounts, to        Date             Year
of each year, for    have the accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable    Submirsion
the preceding       to IDA, and to furnish to IDA, not later than six months after                      12/31/1992
year.               the end of each fiscal year, the report of such audit by said    06/30/1994          12/31/1993
auditors.                                                          12/28/1995    to 12/31/1995
-          12/31/1996
25/07/1997       12/31/1997
05/20/1997      06/30/1998
______________    __________    ________________    ______________   _____________   _____________   __________0 8/3 0 /1 9 9 8
5.01            5              C        Condition of         None
I _________  _______________  ___________   effectiveness
Covenant tvpes:
I= Accounts/audits.                                      8= Indigenous people.                                      Present status:
2 = Financial performance/revenue     generation from    9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
beneficiaries.                                           10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9.  C  = Covenant complied with.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.               11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource  CD = Complied with after delay.
4 = Counterpart funding.                                 allocation..                                               CP = Complied with partially.
5 = Management aspects of the project or   executing agency.    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/ institutional  NC = Not complied with.
6= Environmental covenants.                              action.
7 = Involuntary resettlemnent.                           13= Other.



19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OD 10.60
Accounting, financial Reporting and  A new accounting system was put in place early
Auditing.                            CY97 by a private firm (EFFOGERC) .
2. OD 12.20
Special Accounts.                    Not Applicable
3. OP 12.30
Statement of Expenditure.
Any other statements?
Table 12 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned                     Actual
Weeks             US$          Weeks      US$
Preparation to Appraisal
Not Available    Not Available     10.7
Appraisal                 Not Available    Not Available      9.2
Negotiations through
Board Approval            Not Available    Not Available      3.3
Supervision                  40.00       _      _31.22
Completion                    8.0               16            8.5
TOTAL                        58.63            115.42         62.92     120.27
Source: FACT



20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/    Number    Days in    Speciatized staff          Perfonnance Rating            Types of
Prolect Cycle    Year    of Persons    Field    skils represented         _                            Problems
Implemen-      Develop-
tation Status     ment
Objectives
Through
Appraisal
through Board
Approval
Supervision 1     06/89         i          10      TA                       i 1            1
Supevision 2      11190         1          8       TA                       I
Supervision 3     01191         1          10      TA                       3              1         PMP. FP
Supervision4      07/91         I          10      TA                       2              1         PMP, PP
Supervision5      10191         1          8       TA                       2              1         PMP, PP
Supevision 6      01/92         1          10      EC                       2              1         PMP, PP
Supervision 7     07/92         2          10     CO. EC                    2              1         PMP, PP
Supervision 8     07/93         2          8      CO, EC                    2              1         PMP, PP
Supervision 9     04/94         2          12      RR, EC                   2              1         PMP, FP
Supevision 10     06/94         2          10     RR, EC                    1              1         PMP, SP,PP
Supevision 11     09/94         2          10     RR. EC                    1              I         PMP, FP
Supervision 12    06/95         2          10     RR, EC,                   I              I         PMP, FP
Supervision 13    06/96         3          15     RR, EC, EC                S              S         PMP, FP
Supervision 14    04/97         2          20     RR, EC                    S              S         PMP, FP,PP
Supervision 15    01/98         2          20     RR, EC                    S              S         PMP, SP
Supervision 16    05/98         2          20     RR. EC                    S              S         PMP, SP
Completion        03/98         2          25     RR, EC                    S              S         PMP, SP
Kev to specialized staff skills
CO = Country Officer                                          EC = Economist
TA = Technical Assistance Specialist                          RR = Resident Representative
Key to performance ratine
1 = Problem Free          2 = Moderate Problems    43  Major Problems                       - Corrective action to be
_    |                        X                      | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taken.
Key to vroblems
AF = Availability of funds                      FP    Financial performance             PP = Procurement progress
CLC  Compliance with legal covenants            PDO   Project Development Objectives    SP = Studies progress
PMP = Project management performance



APPENDICES



APPENDIX A
REPUBLIQUE TOGOLAISE
MISSION POUR LA PREPARATION DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU PROJET DE PRE-INVESTISSEMENT
(CR 2018--TO)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale, comprenant MM. Ayite-Fily d'ALMEIDA,
Representant Resident p.i et Kossi EGUIDA, Economiste (AFMTG) a eu des seances de travail
du 10 au 20 Aouit 1998 avec les Autorites togolaises au sujet de la preparation du Rapport
d'Achevement (RA) du Projet de pre-investissement (Cr 2018-TO). Les objectifs de la mission
etaient de finaliser avec 1'emprunteur le Rapport d'Achevement du pre-investissement et tirer les
le,ons de ce projet qui a et6 cl6ture le 30 Juin 1998. 11 faut rappeler que cette mission fait suite a
une serie de seances de travail techniques qui avaient eu lieu en Mai 1998 et en Juillet 1998 pour
expliquer a l'emprunteur les objectifs et le contenu du Rapport d'Achevement.
2.    Le 12 Aout 1998, la mission a tenu une reunion avec des representants du Ministre de la
Planification et du Developpement (MPD). Au cours de cette reunion, l'ensemble du projet du
Rapport d'Achevement (Part I & II et le draft du rapport du Gouvernement ) a ete discute dans
les details. La reunion a et presidee par le Directeur de la Coordination du Plan.
3.    La mission tient a remercier tous ceux qu'elle a rencontres dans le cadre de ses travaux, en
l'occurrence la coordination du projet et pour la bonne qualite du "Rapport d'Achevement" de
l'Emprunteur. Elle tient a remercier egalement les representants des Ministeres techniques, du
PNUD, de l'Union Europeenne avec qui, elle a eu des echanges de vue tres fructueux.
4.    Situation Financiere du Credit --  Le credit 2018-TFO a ete entierement debourse. Au
30 septembre 1998, 5,56 millions de dollars ont ete decaisses, compare a 5,00 millions de dollars
estime dans le "Rapport du President", soit une augmentation de 11%. La derniere estimation du
cofit du projet s'elevait a 6.06 millions de dollars US, ce qui represente une augmentation de 8.2%
par rapport au montant figurant dans le Rapport du President (5.60 millions de dollars US). Les
decaissements en dollars effectues par l'IDA ont ete superieurs aux previsions et ceci compte tenu
de la devaluation du FCFA intervenue en 1994; mais le Gouvemement a moins contribue que
prevu. L'execution du projet a pris six ans de plus que ce qui avait ete prevu lors de son
evaluation.



11
5.    Preparation et Evaluation du Projet-   La performance de la Banque pendant la
preparation n'a pas et6 entierement satisfaisante. Mais durant 1'execution du Projet, la Banque et
le Gouvernement se sont efforces au haut niveau, de travailler A la reussite du projet. Ils se sont
notamment concertes sur: i) les grandes lignes des objectifs et des politiques de developpement
du Togo; ii) la problematique de la mise en ceuvre de la strategie d'appui ; iii)
le recentrage du Projet sur l'amelioration de la gestion macro-economique; et iv) 1'entretien des
infrastructures ainsi que la formation et le recyclage des cadres intervenant dans ces domaines. Par
ailleurs, les revues de programmes initiees par le Gouvernement et/ou la Banque Mondiale ont
contribue a renforcer la qualite des relations de cooperation pour un heureux aboutissement du
Projet malgre les difficultes qui ont jalonn6 son parcours.
6.     Orientations de la mission de l'auditeur -
La mission a aussi eu un entretien avec I'auditeur des comptes du projet pour (i) discuter des
principales conclusions de sa mission d'audit des comptes de l'exercice 1998 (1er Janvier au 30
Juin 1998) et (ii) exprimer les attentes de la Banque dans le cadre d'un audit final de cl6ture.
Dans ce sens, la mission a eu A donner certaines orientations a I'auditeur. En effet, le rapport
d'audit est 1'expression de l'opinion d'un auditeur independant sur les comptes annuels du projet.
Toutefois, dans le cadre d'un audit de cl6ture du projet, on attend de l'auditeur qu'il aille au-delA
de l'audit classique annuel des comptes mais surtout de faire le point sur l'ensemble de la situation
du projet depuis sa mise en vigueur. Les principaux points souleves sont relatifs A:
(i) L 'inventaire exhaustifdes biens du projet : il n'est pas rare de constater qu'a l'approche de la
fin d'un projet, les principales immobilisations acquises sont dispersees ou parfois detournees. II
s'agit en realite de faire cette fois-ci l'inventaire exhaustif des biens du projet (identification de
1'emplacement, etat du bien) pour son transfert eventuel A une autre structure ou pour sa prise en
compte dans le cadre de la preparation d'un nouveau projet dans le secteur.
(ii) Point sur les depetises evenituellemenl eni coturs: les engagements pris avant la date de cl6ture
doivent etre honores et les paiements effectues au plus tard quatre mois apres la date de cl6ture.
L'auditeur doit s'assurer de la realite des depenses eventuellement en cours.
7.    Execution du projet --La contribution de la Banque sur le plan technique s'est manifest6e
a travers les missions de supervision et de suivi. A partir de 1994, la gestion du projet du c6t6 de
la Banque a ete confiee a la Mission Residente, ce qui a permis un suivi regulier du projet. Les
principales decisions ayant favorise 1'execution du Projet ont trait A I'acceptation de porter A 100%
le financement des couts de la categorie I (Etudes) (au lieu des 89% prevus initialement dans le
rapport du President), les diverses prorogations, le recentrage du Projet en periode de crise socio-
economique et politique. En ce qui concerne le Gouvernement, la principale difficulte du Projet
trouve son origine dans la mesentente sur la prise en compte ou le traitement a donner aux 11%
de la contrepartie Togolaise dans le financement des etudes. En effet, au lancement du Projet, le
Gouvemement etait confronte A d'enormes difficultes de tresorerie et, se fondant sur les conseils
de la Banque Mondiale elle-meme, it a donne la priorite a l'utilisation des ressources
gracieusement mises A disposition par les bailleurs de fonds afin de reduire ou stabiliser le niveau
de l'endettement. Le fait qu'un coordinateur ne soit nomme au depart (1989-1992), n'a pas
permis de finaliser dans un delai raisonnable la programmation des activites A financer sur la base
des grands themes retenus dans le rapport d'evaluation.



8.    LeCons tirees du projet -- Les le,cons tirees de l'execution du projet de Pre-investissement
partagees par la mission et 1'emprunteur ont ete rappelees. Ce sont:
* l'importance de I'autonomie operationnelle;
*  L'evaluation economique et financi&e du Projet de Pre-investissement confirme son caractere
d'appui budgetaire pour acceder a des foumitures et services exterieurs: il n'a pas engendre
de couts recurrents, ni de structure permanente;
* r6le du Gouvemement: fournir les grandes lignes de sa politique generale et ratifier les regles
de jeu (manuel de procedures);
* la preselection des Bureaux d'Etudes et Consultants: s'assurer qu'elles ont la competence et
l'experience necessaire pour faire le travail;
*  l'organisation d'audits techniques reguliers;
* Des competences techniques ont ete disponibles au cours de l'execution du projet;
* La formation continue des cadres de l'Administration d'une part, la valorisation de
l'expertise nationale dans la gestion macro-economique et la pr6paration des projets
d'investissements publics d'autre part, restent d'actualitt afin que le Togo ne perde pas la
maitrise de son developpement
9.    Evaluation des risultats -- Conclusion
Le Gouvernement a eu A indiquer qu'en depit de certaines lacunes relevees dans la phase de
preparation, les objectifs du Projet de Pre-investissement ont ete largement atteints grace a la
participation de tous les partenaires du projet et a remercie la Banque Mondiale et les autres
bailleurs de fonds pour leur disponibifite A aider le Gouvernement togolais dans le financement et
la mise en oeuvre des projets devant contribuer a la relance de l'activite economique en particulier
dans le cadre de sa politique de privatisation.
MaIgr6 ses debuts timides, le Credit 2018-TO s'est avere vital au Gouvemement pour se
positionner dans la gestion macro-economique et la preparation des investissements. II serait donc
dommage de s'arreter en si bon chemin ! Les Representants du Gouvernement ont exprime le
souhait qu'en attendant que I'Etat degage des moyens propres pour prendre la releve, il est
souhaitable de negocier rapidement le relais du Projet de Pr-lnvestissement.
- Pour sa part, la mission s'est rejoui de la bonne collaboration qui a prevalu entre le
Gouvemement et la Banque au cours de l'execution du projet. Les etudes sur la privatisation
particulierement celles relatives a l'Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP) demeurent des elements
positifs de l'execution du projet de Pre-investissement au Togo. Les etudes realisees dans le cadre
du projet de Pre-investissement ont permis au gouvernement de prendre conscience de certaines
situations propres a certains secteurs donnes (c'est le cas de l'etude environnementale de l'OTP).
La mission a enfin emis le voeu que les riches enseignements, les differentes etudes, les
documents et les formations des cadres issus de l'execution du Projet de Pre-investissement
servent aux etudes et recherches futures.
Fait a Lome, le 25 Aout 1998



iv
APPENDIX B
CONTRIBUTION DE L'EMPRUNTEUR AU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU CREDIT 2018-TO
INTRODUCTION
Lors de la premiere Table Ronde des Bailleurs de Fonds pour lc ddveloppemcnt dconomique et social du Togo
tenue en juin 1985, I'une des recommandations a porte sur la mise en place d'un Fonds National d'Etudes. Ce
Fonds devait aider I'Administration A identifier et A preparer de facon permanente des projets prioritaires dans
les secteurs de l'economie en vue d'ameliorer la qualite des programmes d'investissements publics et para-
publics. Au cours de la rdunion des Bailleurs de Fonds sur les financements hors-projets tenue A Geneve en
1988, la Banque Mondiale et le PNUD ont manifeste leur interet pour ce Fonds d'Etudes et ont marque leur
disponibilite A y contribuer. A cc titre. Ie PNUD a mis a la disposition du Togo en 1990, deux millions
(2.000.000) de dollars qui ont servi A la preparation des documents sur les politiques et les stratdgies
sectorielles qui. a leur tour ont permis de tenir en octobre et en novembre 1990 des reunions sectorielles
respectivement A Washington et A Rome dans Ic cadre de la preparation de la Deuxieme Conference des
Bailleurs de Fonds pour le developpement du Togo. Cette initiative a ete appuyde par la Banque Mondiale par
la mise en place du Projet de Pre-investissement objet du Credit 2018-TO et dun montant de trois millions neuf
cent mille (3.900.000) DTS. soit cinq millions (5.000.000) de dollars. La contrepartie Togolaise dtait arretee A
0,6 million de dollars.
A la date de cl6ture initiale du Projet (le 31 ddcembre 1992), aucune action significative n'a dtd entreprise.
Confronte d'abord A un probleme de procedurcs et A des difficultes de conception. d'autres contraintes qui n'ont
pas permis de ddmarrer et d'executer efficacement le Projet sont venues s'ajouter.
Ces problemes sont essentiellement de deux ordres, A savoir:
- ia non disponibilite des ressources pour la contrepartie Togolaise qui etait fixee A 11% du couit des etudes
conformement a l'Accord de Credit: et
- Ia situation socio-politique que le Togo a connue A partir d'octobre 1990.
En ce qui concerne la non-disponibilite des ressources financieres compte tenu des difficult6s economiques et
financieres qu'A connues le Togo, la Banque a accepte de prendre en charge la totalite du financement du
Projet.
La situation socio-politique a perturbe tous les secteurs economiques et paralysd le fonctionnement de
I'ensemble de l'Administration jusqu'au debut du mois d'aout 1993, date de la reprise progressive des activitds
dans le pays.
C'est dans ces conditions qu'il a ete convenu. avec les autorites de la Banque Mondiale, d'un recentrage du
Credit de Pre-investissement en vue de corriger Ics dvsfonctionnements du Projet et de l'adapter aux exigences
et realites de l'heure.
Ce recentrage est intenvenu en mars 1994 et a permis A la Banque de proroger la date de cl6ture du Projet. A cet
effet. une liste d'etudcs prioritaires et un programme de formation ont ete approuves. Pour renforcer la capacitd
de gestion du Projet. une Cellule d'Execution du Projet de Pre-Investissement (CEPPI) a ete mise en place.
LES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
L'objectif fondamental du Projet de Pre-investissement est de financer:
- la preparation d'etudes de faisabilitd des projets et des plans d'execution prdliminaires A la ddcision des
Bailleurs de Fonds:
- la preparation de plans d'execution definitifs des projets d'investissements dans les differents secteurs de
l'economie ainsi que:



v
- la formation des cadres des ddpartements economiques en vue de les prdparer A assurer la gestion et la
supervision des dtudes et projets.
LES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET
Le projet de Pre-investissement a deux composantes essentielles:
- les dtudes et;
- les formations.
0 La composante etudes a deux volets:
- les dtudes de prd-investissement visant A prdparer des projets d'investissement prioritaires et:
- les etudes sectorielles concernant I'evaluation des investissements dejA realisds et A l'identification de
nouveaux projets d'investissement.
0   La composante formation vise A renforcer les capacitcs des cadres des ministeres techniques et
dconomiques dans les domaines lies A l'identification, la prdparation. I'evaluation et le suivi des projets grAce A
des forrnations en technique et en management A court terme.
LE CADRE INSTITUTIONNEL
L'organisme d'execution du Projet de Pr6-investissement pour le Gouvememcnt Togolais est le Ministcre de la
Planification et du Ddveloppement Economique.
Pour renforcer sa capacite de gestion. Ia CEPPI a ctd mise cn place. Elle est composde, en dehors du
Coordonnateur (Directeur de la Coordination du Plan), dc quatre (4) personnes dont:
- deux (2) cadres, charges des etudes, A savoir:
I'dlaboration des Termes de Rdference avec lcs Ministcres Techniques;
Ia prdparation des dossiers d'appel d'offres;
* le suivi des dtudes pour leur intdgration dans la gestion macro-economique
* le suivi des contrats;
lI'dvaluation des offres techniqucs et financicres des dossiers d'appels d'offrcs.
- un (1) comptable, chargd de la gestion financicre ; et
-une (1) secrdtaire.
Le Projet de Prd-investissement dtant un projet interministdriel, un sysleme de gestion tres souple et s'appuyant
sur une dquipe interministerielle, a ete mise en place en vue d'une meilleure exdcution du projet.
A cet effet, le Comitd mis en place pour preparer la revue des projets du portefeuille de la Banque Mondiale au
Togo constitue un cadre de rdfdrence pour coordonner toutes les actions du Projet de Prd-investissement.
EVALUATION DE LA CONCEPTION DU PROJET
L'dvaluation de la conception du projet fait apparaitre que si l'objectif fondamental du projet est de financer le
processus de prise de ddcision dans la gestion macro-economique, la prdparation et le choix des investissements
publics, des indicateurs de rdsultats n'ont malheurcusement pas dtd proposds, les rdsultats attendus n'ayant pas
dtd clarifids. En effet, le projet de Prd-investissemcnt prenait le relais cl'un financement du PNUD dans le cadre
de I'approche adoptde par le Togo dans la prdparation de la Deuxieme Confdrence des Bailleurs de Fonds. Dans
cette approche, des politiques, stratdgies et programmes cohdrents devaient etre definis et apprdcies par les
diffdrents partenaires avant de passer A l'identification et A la preparation des projets d'investissements
prioritaires. En fait, il stagissait d'un appui budgdtaire pour permettre au Gouvernement de surmonter des
difficultds financieres qui risquaient de compromettre une saine gestion macro-economique ainsi que la qualite
des investissements publics.
Le principal point fort du projet est certainement sa souplesse que le Gouvernement n'a pas su exploiter, etant
peut-etre en position de faiblesse, du fait de la raretd de ses ressources propres.
Parmi les points faibles, on relevera:



vi
- l'inexistence de document de Projet faisant 6tat de l'environnement du projet et des experiences anterieures;
- I'inexistence de dispositions au niveau de l'Accord en ce qui concerne la preference a accorder aux
competences nationales en vue d'un impact positif important;
- la non programmation d'une evaluation avec des indicateurs precis de resultats;
- l'absence de rdference a la politique du Gouvemement en matiere de valorisation des ressources humaines;
- l'absence de dispositions pour la perennisation des acquis eventuels du projet.
PRINCIPAUX RESULTATS OBTENUS DANS CHACUNE DES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET
0  Au niveau de la composante itudes, cinquante et un (51) contrats d'etudes ont ete realises pour un
montant total de 2.751,2 millions de francs CFA, soit un taux de 96,4% du montant alloue et de 85,5% du
Projet; la valcur unitaire des contrats variant de 2 millions a 863.6 millions de francs CFA.
La repartition entre la Gestion macro-economique, le Programme d'lnvestisscments Publics et les divers se
prdsente comme suit:
- Gestion macro-economique: nombre de contrats: 32 soit 62,7%
* montant: 1.775 millions de francs CFA soit 64,5%
- Programme d'Investissements Publics: noinbre de contrats: 4 soit 7,8%
* montant : 812,7 millions de francs CFA soit 29,5%
- Divers: nombre de contrats : 4 soit 15 soit 29.4%.
montants: 163,4 millions de francs CFA soit 6%
L'examen de la participation des nationaux revele qu'au total ce sont 25 contrats (49%) et 447,9 millions de
francs CFA soit 16,28% des ressources qui leur est echu
- en Gestion macro-economique:
14 contrats (27,5%) pour un montant de 346.7 millions de francs CFA. soit 12.6%
- en Programme d'Investissements Publics:
une sous-traitance pour 13,9 millions de francs CFA, soit 0.1% des montants.
- en Divers: 11 contrats (21,6%) pour un montant de 87,3 millions de francs CFA soit 3,17%.
9  Au niveau de la composante "Formation".
Avec le recentrage, deux (02) categories de formations ont ete arretees: la formation au Togo et la formation a
l'dtranger.
En cc qui concerne la formation au Togo, il s'agit de seminaires sur des themes bien pr6cis avec le nombre de
participants ci-apres:
- la privatisation : (50 participants):
- la prdparation des budgets scion la nouvelle nomenclature: (40 participants);
- la revue du portefeuille de la Banque Mondiale: (50 participants);
- le nouveau code du travail : (100 participants);
- la revue des ddpenses publiques dans le secteur agricole : (30 participants);
- la dette publique : (50 participants);
- l'utilisation des micro-ordinateurs : (20 participants);
- l'information et la sensibilisation de la societe civile pour une gouvernance efficace : (1000 participants);
Les ddpenses affercntes a ces seminaires nationaux se chiffrent a 170,4 millions de francs CFA soit 48% de la
Categorie 2.
En ce qui concerne la formation a l'dtranger. elle a intdresse une dizaine de cadres dont deux femmes.
Les themes ont trait a:
- la promotion des marches de capitaux dans les economies en croissance (une participante);
- le management de la communication (un participant);
- les techniques de gestion (une participante);
- la biologie des mauvaises herbes (un participant);
- I'audit international et le controle (2 participants);
- la fiscalitd (2 participants);
- I'inspection des Impots (un participant).



vi
Les ddpenses encourues pour les formations A l'etranger se chiffrent A 82,2 millions de francs CFA soit 23% de
la Catdgorie 2 du Credit 2018-TO.
COORDINATION ET GESTION DU PROJET
Le coordonnateur du Projet est le Directeur de la Coordination du Plan a la Direction Gendrale du Plan et du
Developpement du Ministere de la Planification et du Developpement Economique.
Le Coordonnateur du Projet est co-signataire des contrats, responsable de la Cellule d'Execution du Projet et
l'interlocuteur principal des missions de supervision et de revue du portefeuille de la Banque Mondiale. 11
dtablit des rapports sur l'etat d'avancement du Projet et produit les dtats financiers avec I'appui d'un cabinet
d'audit comptable et financier.
Les relations avec les Ministeres et Directions Techniques se basent sur les besoins exprimes et arretes dun
commun accord dans le cadre des programmes d'ajustement structurel ou de relance economique. A cet effet, il
y a lieu de noter que ce sont les Directions Techniques qui sont chargees de l'dlaboration des cahiers de charges
et des termes de rdfdrence, de la prdparation des appels d'offres, de la selection des consultants et du suivi des
contrats.
Bien que le Credit 2018-TO soit prioritairement destind au financement des activitds relatives A la prdparation
et A l'analyse des decisions de gestion macro-economique, A la prepairation et au choix des investissements
publics ainsi qu'a la formation continue des cadres oeuvrant dans ces domaines, il y a lieu de prdciser que la
coordination et la gestion du Projet ne controlent pas l'essentiel des ressources allouees A ce domaine
stratdgique de l'information et de la formation economique.
11 en est ainsi des PPF y compris ceux de la Banque Mondiale qui sont geres par les Directions Techniques.
IMPACT DU PROJET DANS LA MISE EN CEUVRE DE LA RELANCE ECONOMIQUE DU TOGO
Dans le cadre de la stratdgie de relance economique, la priorite est clonnde au retablissement de la stabilitd
macro-economique grace a:
- I'accroissement des revenus de l'Etat en procedant A une reforme du systeme des taxations et en supprimant les
dispositions qui decouragent l'initiative privde;
- la modification de la structure et de la composition des ddpenses publiques pour accroitre les ddpenses non-
salariales et l'entretien des infrastructures;
- ia liquidation des arrieres de paiement interieurs;
- I'accdldration du programme de privatisation et de restructuration des entreprises publiques.
L'examen des rdsultats globaux du Projet montre que c'est le domaine de la privatisation et de la restructuration
des entreprises publiques qui s'est tailld la part du lion avec 41% des dlepenses. Ces depenses ont portd sur les
audits, les strategies de ddsengagement de l'Etat et l'ouverture du capital de l'OTP d'un couit de 863 millions de
francs CFA dont un montant d'environ 500 millions CFA a dtd pris en charge par le Pre-nvestissement.
ANALYSE DE L'ACTION DE LA BANQUE, DU GOUVERNEMENT ET DE L'ASSISTANCE
TECHNIQUE
0 RELATIONS ENTRE LA BANQUE ET LE GOUVERNEMENT
Durant l'exdcution du Projet, la Banque et le Gouvernement se sont efforcds au haut niveau, de travailler A la
rdussite du projet. Ils se sont notamment concertes sur:
- les grandes lignes des objectifs et des politiques de developpement du Togo pour la periode 1994-1997;
- la stratdgie d'appui au Togo par le groupe de la Banque Mondiale pour les annees fiscales 1995-1997;
- la problematique de la mise en acuvre de la strategie d'appui;
- le recentrage du Projet sur l'amdlioration de la gestion macro-dconomique, 1'entretien des infrastructures ainsi
que la formation et le recyclage des cadres intervenant dans ces domaines.



viii
Par ailleurs, les revues de programmes initiees par le Gouvernement ou la Banque Mondiale ont contribue A
renforcer la qualite des relations de cooperation pour un heureux aboutissement du Projet malgre les difficultds
qui ont jalonne son parcours.
La contribution de la Banque sur le plan technique s'est manifestee a travers les missions de supervision et de
suivi. P. partir de 1994, la gestion du projet a ete confide A la Mission Residente, cc qui a permis un suivi
regulier du projet.
Les principales decisions ayant favorise l'execution du Projet ont trait A l'acceptation de porter A 100% le
financement des couts de la categorie I (Etudes), les diverses prorogations, Ic recentrage du Projet en periode
de crise socio-economique et politique.
En ce qui conceme le Gouvernement, la principale difficulte du Projet trouve son origine dans la mesentente
sur la prise en compte ou Ic traitement A donner aux 11% de la contrepartic Togolaise dans le financement des
etudes. En effet, au lancement du Projet, le Gouvernement etait confronte a d'enormes difficultes de tresorerie
et, se fondant sur les conseils de la Banque Mondiale elle-meme, il a donne la prioritd A l'utilisation des
ressources gracieusement mises a disposition par les bailleurs de fonds afin de reduire ou stabiliser le niveau de
1'endettement. Pendant ce temps, Ics PPF de la Banque Mondiale et d'autres bailleurs de fonds permettaient
aux directions techniques de gerer de facon dcentralisee, des fonds d'etudes, mobilises plus facilement et dont
le remboursement n'interviendra qu'au moment ou un projet d'investissement viable aura dtd dtabli et executd.
0 L'INTERVENTION DES BUREAUX D'ETUDES ET CONSULTANTS
Les nationaux ont execute 49%/o des contrats d'etude pour environ 16% du montant total des marches. La valeur
unitaire des contrats varie entre 2,4 millions de francs CFA et 29,935 millions de francs CFA. Seul un contrat
incluant la fourniture d'equipement, informatique et la formation a atteint 110 millions de francs CFA.
uIs sont pratiquement absents dans Ia preparation des projets d'investissements publics.
Dans le domaine de la formation, 170,4 millions de francs CFA soit 67% ont did realises sur place.
De ce qui precede. on peut conclure que la performance nationale est faible et qu'il faut trouver des mesures
appropriees pour redresser la situation si l'on veut que l'expertise nationale soit mise a contribution de maniere
plus efficace au service du ddveloppement.
Les cabinets exterieurs se sont tailles la part du lion dans l'elaboration des decisions e la preparation des
projets d'investissements publics. Cette performance pose probleme dans la mesure ou la gestion du
ddvcloppement semble echapper aux nationaux qui n'ont pas la maitrise des informations assez couiteuses
gdnerdes par le Projet qui, ne l'oublions pas, est un credit remboursable et non un don lie.
0 PROBLEMES ET RECOMMANDATIONS
Les problemes lids a l'exdcution ont trait:
- aux dnormes rigiditds constatdes dans la passation des marchds et qui causent d'importants retards dans les
diffdrentes dtapes de la misc en cruvre de la contractualisation;
- aux difficultis de collaboration avec les services de ddcaissement de la Banque dans le reapprovisionnement
du compte spdcial et la production des dtats rdcapitulatifs de decaissement.
- le non-dtablissement de procddures claires A la disposition des diffdrents intervenants dans un projet multi-
sectoriel;
- la non-budgdtisation des frais de fonctionnement de la Cellule d'Exdcution du Projet;
- le retard dans la conception et la mise en place de la comptabilitd du Projet;
- la gestion multi-sectorielle.
Les recommandations ont trait A:
- la ndcessitd d'accorder une plus grande importance A la gestion des investissements de plus en plus couteux
dans la prdparation et l'analyse des ddcisions;
- la necessitd d'assurer la formation ou le recyclage des ressources humaines nationales concernees;



ix
- le dialogue permanent entre le Gouvernement et la Banque Mondiale en tant que partenaires, ce qui est de
nature A favoriser l'execution des projets et pour apprendre les uns des autres;
- Ic contenu des aide-memoires ou proces-verbaux des rencontres devrait faire l'objet d'un suivi plus
systdmatique pour aider les fonctionnaires chargds des dossiers A en assurer la continuite;
- les besoins dans la coordination des efforts en matiere d'dtudes tres cofiteuses et des informations dparses qui
ne favorisent pas une bonne gestion macro-economique;
- la formation continue des cadres de l'Administration d'une part, la valorisation de l'expertise nationale dans
la gestion macro-economique et la preparation des projets d'investissements publics d'autre part, qui restent
d'actualite afin que le Togo ne perde pas la maitrise de son developpement;
- l'utilisation accrue d'institutions locales comme les Centres de Recherches de l'Universite, les bureaux
d'etudes et les consultants grace a des contrats du Gouvernement ce qui devrait avoir beaucoup d'impacts
positifs lorsqu'une option claire aura e  prise par le Gouvernement et ses bailleurs de fonds.
PERSPECTIVES POUR L'AMELIORATION DANS L'EX]ECUTION D'AUTRES PROJETS
SIMILAIRES
0 CARACTERISTIQUES ESSENTIELLES
Le projet de pre-investissement reste un appui budgetaire de la Banque Mondiale au Gouvernement pour
accdder a des services exterieurs de consultants ct au renforcement des capacitds des cadres de l'Administration
dans la gestion macro-deconomique et l'appreciation des etudes realisees par 1'exterieur. L'appui budgetaire met
I'accent sur le fait quc l'Administration n'investit pas dans les equipements disponibles par ailleurs chez les
foumisseurs; elle n'assume pas non plus des charges salariales du personnel relevant de l'Etat ; bref, il s'agit
d'une contribution A la privatisation du secteur des etudes.
0 PERSPECTIVES POUR L'AMELIORATION DANS L'EXEClUTION DE PROJETS SIMILAIRES
II conviendrait de toujours garder la vision stratdgique des etudes de developpement dans l'exdcution ; ce qui
aiderait A augmenter substantiellement l'impact positif des credits de pre-investissement. En effet, dans ce
secteur l'on admet que deux (2) A quatre (4) francs investis dans les etudes, devraient gendrer cent (100) francs
d'investissements rentables sur les trois A sept ans qui suivent les dapenses de pre-investissement . La formation
dans le domaine des dtudes de pre-investissement reste intimement liee aux fonctions exercdes dans les
differentes dtapes de la planification du projet d'investissement depuis l'idee de projet jusqu'A la reception des
ouvrages. il est donc souhaitable de veiller A la definition des postes de travail et au profil de carriere des
candidats A la formation. Par ailleurs, la circulation de l'information revet un caract&e essentiel dans l'appui
aux cadres en charge des dtudes de pre-investissement afin de minimiser les double-emplois, les tatonnements
et le vieillissement premature de la base de donnees. La constitution de base de donnees fiables et A jour devrait
recevoir toute I'attention ndcessaire et amener l'Administration A consolider ses services competents avec des
ressources provenant du Credit de Pre-investissement. A ce sujet, les services d'enquetes et statistiques, la
documentation technique et certains centres de recherches operationnelles devraient bdneficier de 20 A 30% du
credit. Les sdminaires et ateliers de dissemination de l'information ne doivent pas etre negliges, de meme que
les echanges d'experiences au niveau sous-regional et international.
Enfin, il est souhaitable de prendre des mesures appropriees pour la reconstitution des fonds de pre-
investissement A partir des ressources gendrdes par les projets d'investissements ou bien opter pour des projets-
relais afin de pdrenniser les acquis de la nouvelle dynamique instauree dans la gestion macro-economique,
I'amdlioration de la qualite des PIP et le recyclage des cadres affectes Ai ces fonctions. L'absence de solution de
continuitd serait prejudiciable au programme d'ajustement et de relance economique.
CONCLUSIONS
Le Projet de Pre-Investissement visait A accorder une facilite au Gouvernement pour la preparation des
programmes et projets d'investissement publics ainsi que le recyclage de ses agents intervenant dans le
domaine.



x
La souplesse voulue ou introduite dans la conception de l'Accord a et mise en defaut par l'interpretation
donnee aux 11% de la contrepartie gouvemementale.
A la reprise economique, un recentrage a et opere permettant une certaine acceleration dans l'utilisation des
fonds. Cependant, si des lourdeurs dans la signature des contrats du c6te du Gouvernement ont ete observees,
des retards dans les services de decaissements de la Banque Mondiale ont ete egalement releves concourant
ainsi A r6duire considerablement les progres dans 1'execution et la manifestation rapide des effets du projet en
terme de mobilisation de ressources pour l'investissement.
Durant l'execution du Projet, des concertations ont eu lieu au haut niveau entre les deux partenaires en ce qui
concerne les strat6gies de ddveloppement du Togo et l'appui de la Banque Mondiale; il reste cependant A
clarifier les strategies opdrationnelles dans des domaines aussi pointus mais vitaux comme la preparation et
I'analyse des decisions d'investissements, de gestion macro-^conomique et de promotion des ressources
humaines affectees A ces fonctions.
Malgre ses ddbuts timides, le Credit 2018-TO s'est avere vital au Gouvernement pour se positionner dans la
gestion macro-^conomique et la preparation des investissements. II serait donc dommage de starreter en si bon
chemin ! En attendant que le Gouvernement degage des moyens propres pour prendre la releve, il est
souhaitable de negocier rapidement Ic relais du Projet de Pre-lnvestissement.



xi
ETUDES REALISEES ET FINANCEES SUR LE CREDIT 201 8-TO
A-BUREAUX D'ETUDES ET CONSULTANTS NATIONAUX
ETUDES                             TOTAL          D4c.  D4c.  D4c.    DIcais.         D*ais.        Ddcais.     Dec.    Engage        TOTAL
MARCHE         1992   1993  1994       1995         1996          1997       1998      ment    __        _
I. AUDIT                                                  47.523.180    -       -           24.523.180        -
- Audit Pre-investissement 1991-992                        2.400.000                          2.400.000
- Audit des comptes du PPEP                                6.000.000                                                  _
- Audit operationnel et financier de TOGOGRAIN            10.158.180_                                                                  _
- Audit du compte de Pre-investissement 1993, 1994, 1995   5.965.000                                          _                                            _      -
- Audit du Projet Pr6-investissement 1996                  7.000.000                  =
- Audit du Projet Pr6-investissement 1997                  8.000.000                                            .
- Audit du Projet Pre-investissement 1998                  8.000.000                  _              _                                _
11. EVALUATION                                            83.135.000    .                    44.902.500   38.232.500
- Evaluation des h6tels le Lac, le Roc et 30 AoOt         29.935.000                         22.451.250    7.483.750                             _
- Evaluation des h6tels Central, Fazao et Kara            17.305.000         _               22.451.250    7.483.750
- Evaluation de la Brasserie du Benin                     17.305.000                                      17.305.000
- Evaluation de SIT                                        5.960.000                                       5.960.000
111. ETUDES SECTORIELLES                                  13.940.000                         5.576.000     8.364.000                  _    -
- Strat!eSie du secteur des transports 
- Consultant local  .                                     13.940.000                          5.576.000    8.364.000
IV. AUTRES ETUDES                                        303.340.300    _      _      -     25.750.000   136.339.030    106.595.920   -     18.983.350     15.672.000
- Information des finances et du Tr6sor Public + Formation  109.683.500                                   93.715.150                        15.968.350
- Etude de l'impact de la d6valuation sur les m6nages et les
Op6rations 6conomigues                                   11.000.000                         11.000.000             I
- R6visions du statut et proposition d'une organisation pour
I'ODEF                                                   12.000.000                        10.800.000     1.200.000
- Elaboration des statuts de la Maison de l'Industrie      3.950.000                          3.950.000
- Audit operationnel des structures centrales et regionales de
gestion macro6conomigue                                   75.309.700                            -         30.123.880    45.185.820
Lot No.1 SAFECO                                      25.660.000                                       9.791.240     15.868.760
Lot No.2 SAFECO                                      25.171.600                                      10.068.640     15.102.960                     .
Lot No. 3 APTE AFRIQUE                               24.478.100           =                          10.264.000     14.214.100
- Etude de reorganisation de la comptabilit6 du Projet Pr6-
investissement                                           13.500.000                                       8.100.000     5.400.000
- Travaux de finalisation de la dette int6rieure          11.822.100                                                     11.822.100  _
- Elaboration de progiciel de gestion de la dette a moyen
terme des entreprises publiques                           8.000.000                  _                    3.200.000                                       4.800.000
- Elaboration de progiciel de gestion du systame
d'information (SIG)                                      10.860.000 _     _                                             8.688.000                         2.172.000
- Etude portant sur l'analyse economique du programme de
licenciement APTE AFRIQUE                                14.700.000                                                    14.700.000
- Global EXCEL                                            15.000.000                                                     15.000.000       1
- Etude juridigue (MASSINA)                               14.500.000                                                     5.800.000                          S.700.000
- Etude Rapport d'achevement                               3.015.000                                                                         3.015.000
TOTAL A                                                  447.938.480                        100.751.680  182.935.530    106.595.920    .    18.983350      15.672.000



xii
B- BUREAUX D'ETUDES ET CONSULTANTS EXTERIEURS
ETUDES                           TOTAL       DMc.  Dc.    e.    Dkcais.         DiNais.          ais.        Ddcais.     Engageanet     TOTAL
MARCHE    1992  1993  1994          I5            1996          1997          199                         _
1. AUDIT                                             81.487.800          .            61.464.840    20.022.960  _
- Diagnostic organisationnel et financier             5.380.000   _            _       5.380.000
- Diagnostic organisationnel et financier de SOTONAM,
PAL, ALT et CFr                                      6.750.000                        6.750.000
- Audit financier de la Caisse d'Epargne du Togo      7.880.000                        7.880.000
- Audit financier de I'Hotel le B6nin                14.868.800       .               11.895.040     2.973.760                                  _
- Audit oo6rationnel de 1'EDITOGO                    19.319.000                        7.727.800    11.591.200
- Audit financier et diagnostic de gestion de la CNSS  27.290.000                     21.832.000     5.458.000
11. EVALUATION                                      167.302.420         _ -           26.943.900    128.545.294    11.813.226
- Evaluation financiere de la SOTONAM                15.445.000                       12.356.000     3.089.000
- Evaluation de SGMT                                 26.853.000   =            =       8.055.900    18.797.100  _
- Evaluation de CIMTOGO                              22.660.000                        6.532.000    16.128.000
- Evaluation de la SrTO                              39.377.420                                     27.564.194    11.813.226
- Evaluation de TOGOGAZ                              25.999.000                                     25.999.000
- Ddfinition de la strat6gie de d6s TOTAL de I'Etat des
H6tels de Lom6 et TROPICANA                         36.968.000                                     36.968.000
111. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE                            91.000.000    .                  78.137.000    12.863.000           _
- Assistance au cadre raglementant Ia profession de grossiste
rdpartiteur (TOGOPHARMA)                              2.000.000                        2.000.000
- Assistance du MISE (SIG)                           89.000.000                _      76.137.000    12.863.000            _
IV. ETUDES SECTORIELLES                             768.771.573    -                 225.168.469    376.336.976    53.264.398   114.001.730 _
- Rehabilitation de la route AtakpamE-Blitta        213.779.657   =                                197.593.656    16.186.001    __
- StratEgie du secteur des transpots: consultant ext6dricur  81.208.500  _            81.208.500
- Etude de d6velopntnt. urbain de la ville de Lom6   80.461.714                       80.461.714
(Reliquat)                                                              _
- Renforcement en eau potable de la ville de Lom6   393.321.702                _      63.498.255    178.743.320    37.078.397   114.001.730
V. AUTRES ETUDES                                  1.167.650.30                           -         120.555.700   501.756.400    257.845.700                287.492.500
- Elaboration d'un plan d'action des activites de
TOGOPHARMA                                           9.499.000                   _        __        9.499.000
- Etude sur Ia cr6ation de l'Institut Africain des Hautes
Etudes Bancaires                                    14.536.700          _             _            14.536.700
- Ouverture capital OTP (Assistance)                866.5S0.000                                     96.520.000   352.641.800    257.845.700                 159.572.500
- D6finition d'un schAmia ditecteur pour l'inforniatisation de
Ia Direction G6nerale du Plan                       56.468.000                                                  56.468.000       _         _  __
Auistance technique SIG au MISE                     49.833.600   =                                              49.833.600
_Selection d'un opersteur cellulaire                14.000.000                                                                                              14.000.000
- Audit du systbme informatique SIDONIA               4.813.000                                                   4.813.000
- Cabinet juridique GODErLIB                         38.000.000    _                                             38.000.000
- Conmunication                                      60.000.000    =                                                                                         60.000.000
- Aistance *u gouvernernent togolais dana le cadre du
recenment de Ia dette intdrioure                    53.920.000                                                                                             53.920.000
TOTAL B                                           2.276.212.09                       391.714.209    658.323.930   566.834.024   371.847.430                 287.492.500
TOTAL A + TOTAL B                                 2.724.150.57   I_- _               492.465.889    841.259.460   673.429.944   371.847.430    18.983.350    303.164.500



xiii
FORMATIONS FINANCEES SUR LE CREDIT 201 8-TO
THEMES                                         MIONTANT
(FCFA)
1. Seminaire sur la Privatisation organise a Nangbeto                                 6.253.000
Honoraire consultant exterieur sur la privatisation                               10.000.000
Colloque sur reforme OPTT;                                                         7.128.393
Honorair consultants DEVOTEL-DETECOM-WINDSOR                                      43.600.457
Participants: 50
2. Seminaire sur la preparation du Budget de fonctionnernent et d'investissement
suivant la nouvelle nomenclature. Participants:                                   10.794.300
3. Formation au profit de la societe civile Participants:                            35.000.000
4. Srninaire sur la revue du portefeuille de la Banque Mondiale au Togo.
Participants:                                                                     12.500.000
5. Seminaire sur le nouveau code du travail. Participants: 100                       15.100.000
6. Seminaire sur la revue des depenses publiques sur les secteurs agricoles           9.000.000
Participants: 30
7. Seminaire sur la revue des depenses publiques sur le secteur agficole.             11.000.000
Participants:
8. Fornation des cadres a l'utilisation des micro-ordinateurs. Participants: 20      10.000.000
9. Serminaire sur la promotion des marches de capitaux dans les economies en          6.183.924
croissance. Participant: Mme KOMBATE
10. Seminaire sur le nanagement de la Communication. Participant: M. TCHINLIEK        5.902.000
1i1. Mission a Abidjan de Me KOMBATE des Societes-d'Etat                                430.000
12. Fornation en France de trois (3) cadres de la Direction Generale des Impots      26.509.985
13. Formation sur themne Planification et Controle de Projet.                         8.375.000
Participant: M. AMENYAH
14. Formation de deux (2) cadres du tres;or a Dakar                                  13.042.500
15. Fornation de M. POCANAM au 10&me Colloque sur la Biologie des Mauvaises           4.000.000
Herbes
16. Remboursement sur FRANCE cing (5) billets                                        16.000.000
TOTAL                                                                               252.573.059



