Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL UISE ONLY
Report No. 9680
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
SECOND EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1204-EA)
JUNE 20, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          -     African Development Bank
DANIDA      -      Danish International Development Agency
DEG         -      German Development Company
DFI         -      Development Financing Inptitution
EAC         -      East African Community
EADB        -      East African Development Bank
EIB         -      European Investment Bank
FMO         -      Netherlands Development Finance Company
NORAD       -      Norwegian Agency for Development
SIDA        -      Swedish International Development Agency
SIFIDA      -      Societe inte aationale Financiere pour les
Investissements et le Developpement en Afrique
SPPF        -      Special Project Preparation Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20133
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 20, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report en East African Community -
Second East African DeveloRment Bank Proiect (Loan 1204-EA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on East African Community - Second East African Development
Bank Project (Loan 1204-EA)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
'~~~
Attachment
This document has a resiricted disirlwalon and)n may be used by recipients only in Ihc perfornussnce of their oMalul duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed ivilliout WVorld Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
SECOND EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PFROJECT
(LOAN 1204-EA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paee No.
PREFACE   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
EVALUATION SUMKARY  .i.i.i. .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE bAZZ'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . .
1.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.  Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
3.  Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . .        2
4.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
5.  Project Implementation ....  .      .  .    . .                 3
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
7.  Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
8.  Bank Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        5
S.  Borrower Performauce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
10.  Project Relationship ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  8
11.  Project Documentation and Data ... .     .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  8
i2.  Findings and Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER' S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . .      10
General Observations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
Conclusion ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
PART III:  STATISTIC AL INFORMTION  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  . . . . . . . . . .         13
2.  Project Timetable  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .    ...... .  .   .  13
3.  Loan Disbursements .    e.t. .  .  .  .   * .  .    . ......  .   .  13
4.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       14
5. Status of Covenants .... . . . ..                               14
6.  Use of Staff Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       14
ANNEXES
I.  Characteristics of Sub-projects  . . . . . . . . . . . .       16
II.  Performance of Sub-projects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       17
III.  Sectoral Distribution of Sub-projects  . . .  .    .  .   . .  18
IV.  Geographical Distribution of Sub-projects  . .   .   .         19
V.  Investment Cost Distribution of Sub-projects and
Size Distribution of Sub-loans.  . . . . . .  . . . .        20
VI.  Distribution by Ownership of Sub-projects  . . . . . . .       21
VII.  Summary of Loan Approvals (1976-89)  . . . . . . . . . .       22
VIII.  Comp4rative Income Statements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       23
TX. Comparative Balance Sheets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        24
X.  Rsy Financial Ratios .. . ......  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EAST AFRICAN COMMITY
SECOND EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1204-EA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second East
African Development Bank Project, for which Loan 1204-EA in the amount of
US$15.0 million was approved on February 3, 1976. The loan was closed on June
30, 1983, three years behind schedule.  It was disbursed to the extent of
US$14.97 million and the last disbursement was on February 23, 1984.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division, Eastern Africa Department, of the Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrewer (Part It).
Preparation of this PCR was started in December 1990 and is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreemetnts;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.
Parts I and III were sent to the Borrower for comments, and these
appear as Part II.



- Lli 
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
SECOND EAST_AFRICA  DEVELOPMNT HANK( PROJECT
(LOAN 1204-EA)
EVALUATION SUNM4ARY
Introduction
1.         The East African Development Bank (EADB) was established in 1967 as
one of the institutions of the then existing East African Community (EAC),
comprising the three neighboring states of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, with the
primary objective of providing financial assistance focussed on correcting the
imbalance in industrial development in the partner states.  In addition to
providing advice and staff training at the time of its establishment, the Bank
has made two loans to EADB; the first one for US$8 million was approved in 1972
which has since been fully repaid. The second one for US$15 million approved
in 1976 is the subject of this report.  Since this report is being prepared
almost seven years after the loan was closed, the report covers review of
operations up to 1989 to the extent data was available.
Objectives
2.         The basic objective of the project supported by Loan 1204-EA was to
meet part of the financial requirements of EADB to finance the import contents
of industrial projects in the three member states through 1977 (Part I, para.
3.01).
Implementation Experience
3.         The  loan became  effective  on June  7,  1976.   It  financed  13
subprojects, of which 5 in Tanzania received 45% of the loan proceeds ($6.7
million), followed by 7 in Uganda which received 39% ($5.9 million) and 1 in
Kenya which received 16% ($2.4 million). Commitments under the loan during the
first 18 months proceeded satisfactorily and by December 1977 about 77% of the
amount had been committed for nine sub?rojects. Thereafter, project implemen-
tation almost ground to a halt due to uncertainty about EADB's future following
the break-up of the community, adverse economic conditions in the region, war
between Tanzania and Uganda, and a temporary breakdown in law and order in
Uganda. Project implementation was also partly affected by the Bank's decision
in March 1979 to suspend commitments under the loan because of uncertainty
regarding EADB's future, poor condition of its portfolio and frequent delays
on the part of the member countries to externalize EADB borrowers' repayments
which impacted on EADB's own ability to repay its creditors. The suspension
was lifted in 1981 after the new treaty and charter were signed. Thereafter,
the loan was fully committed (Part I, para. 5.01). Disbursements under the
loan followed the trend of commitments; as at the end of 1978, actual
disbursements were 94% of those estimated at appraisal but thereafter they



iv -
lagged behind the eitimates and continued until early 1984 as against the
original closing date of March 31, 1980.  The delays in disbursement were
attributable to the difficult economic conditions In Tanzania and Uganda as
well ao to the security problem in Uganda (Part I, para. 5.01).
Results
4.         The  performance  of  the  subprojects  should  be  considered  as
disappointing.  Of the thirteen subprojects, only four aie reported to be
operating satisfactorily, six are experiencing operational problems, and 3
subprojects are candidates  for liquidation.   Almost all have arrears of
principal and interest.  The performance of the Ugandan subprojects is the
worst; six out of seven subprojects are either having operational problems or
are being considered for liquidation. The operational problems faced by the
six subprojects are lack of foreign exchange for importing raw materials and
spare parts, management and marketing.   They also reflect EADB's excessive
developmental  zeal and misplaced  reliance a. management  capabilities  of
sponsors of projects, including public sector projects (Part I, para. 6.01).
5.         Given the difficult political, economic and security conditions in
Ugenda, where EADB's headquarter is located, borrower performance in imple-
menting the project should be rated as mixed.  The period 1977-80 was very
difficult for EADB; the disintegration of the community in 1977 cast a pall of
uncertainty over EADB's future, nay, its very existence. In addition to the
problems in Uganda, the deteriorating economic situation in the other two
member states also affected EADB's performance.   The persistence of thes
problems over a lorg period led to a serious deterioration in the quality of
EADB's portfolio and accumulation of unacceptably large arrears.    Delays on
the part of member states to provide foreign exchange cover for remittance of
EADB borrowers' repayments were also affecting EADB's ability to service its
foreign debt and had implications for its creditworthiness.
Sustainability
6.         As most of the subprojects, financed almost a decade ago, continue
to face operational problems or are candidates for liquidation, their economic
benefits are obviously unsustainable. As an institution, EADB is now faced
with the problem of viability, given its extremely high level of loan arrears
and persistent liquidity difficulties. In these circumstances, it is doubtful
whether EADB can become a fully sustainable institution in the .ong run.
Findings and Lessons learned
7.         EADB's performance under the loan has been mixed.   During the
implementation of the project, the member countries, particularly Tanzania and
Uganda, passed through serious economic difficulties and Uganda, in addition,
went through political turmoil and hostilities. The impact of these problems
on EADB's portfolio has been severe. Portfolio arrears are very high and EADB
has been unable to enforce repayment guarantees issued by the three governments
in respect of several projects.   Furthermore, EADB has been experiencing
considerable delays in externalization of borrowers' repayments which is
creating a liquidity crisis and could affect EADB's debt servicing capacity.



- v -
S.         Presently, EADS is only duplicatt.:, the activities of the national
DPI. in the three countries and is not m&i ing ar.y unique contribution to
industrial development ot to financial intermediation.   Given the serious
portfolio problems and dependence on three central banks to externalize its
borrowers' repayments, which could have serious implications for its credit-
worthiness, EADB's sustainability over the long term appears doubtful (Part I,
para. 7.03). It, therefore, needs to rethink its operational strategy and role
in the prevailing difficult economic situation in its member countries (Part I,
para. 12.02).
9.         A few lessons may be drawn from the experience of this project.
Firstly, setting of politically determined goals for a DPI expected to operate
on coamercial and financially sound principles, can distort its operating
policies, as happened in the case of Ugande where subprojects continued to be
financed in an environment of political and economic instability. Socondly,
in times of severe foreign exchange shortages and economic difficulties, EADB
should have given priority to financing projects which had potential for
earning foreign exchange.   Thirdly, only those projects should have been
financed whose sponsors had the management capability to implement the project
and the resources to meet cost escalations. Fourthly, EADB should have taken
initiatives to rehabilitate or restructire projects experiencing operational
problems. Lastly, it should have pressed the three governments to honor their
repayment guarantees for loans to some of the public sector enterprises
(Part I, para. 12.03).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EAST AFRICAN COMUNITY
SECOND EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1204-EA)
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S EFRSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Name         : Se_ond East African Development Bank Project
Loan Number :  1204-EA
RVP Unit    : Africa Region
Country      : East African Community
Sector       : Industry
2.    Background
2.01        The three East African countries, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, which
had sharad for over four decades in colonial times the services of what
amounted to a common market (common external tariffs and free factor movement
as well as a single currency, one taxation system and common services in
communications and transportation) formalized the arrangements by signing a
Treaty of East African Cooperation in 1967.   The Treaty resulted in the
establishment of the East African Community (EAC) and provided for she
continuation of the common market and common services, albeit with certain
modifications; the changes were designed to increase the benefit of cooperation
to Tanzania and Uganda, which were relatively less developed, and to promote
a more balanced industrial growth between Kenya and the other two members. A
number of corporations, including the East African Development Bank (EADB), was
established to achieve the objectives of the Treaty.
2.02        While the economies of the three partner states remain predominant-
ly agrarian, the industrial sector was a center of impressive growth in the
early seventies in Kenya and Tanzania. Growth of manufacturing output during
1964-73 averaged 8.8Z per year in Kenya and its contribution to GDP increased
from 10.4S to 122, displacing agriculture as the largest contributor to GDP
within the monetary economy. In Tanzania, the rate of growth of manufacturing
output during the same period was 9.5 X and its contribution to GDP increased
from 8% to 102. In Uganda, industrial output during the sixties grew at an
annual average rate of 6.52; ir. the early seventies, adverse weather conditions
and the expulsion of non-citizens was the overriding factor in the industrial
sector and had serious negative effects on economic growth.
2.03        Because of the divergent development strategies and paths chosen
by Kenya and Tanzania, and political turmoil in Uganda, the EAC's intended goal
of reducing gaps in the levels of industrial development in the member states
was not achieved, although deterioration may have been prevented.   While
private ownership, including investments by non-citizenst has remained the
basic organizational form in the sector in Kenya, central planning and majority
Gorernment ownership characterized almost all major projects initiated after



1967 in Tanzania.  In Uganda,   following the expuleion of the non-citizens,
Ugandan citLzens and parastatals took over the industrial enterpriees but,
lacking management capabilities and foreign exchange for import of raw
materials and spare parts, were unable to run the plants efficiently.
2.04        A major portion of trade between the member states in the early
seventies was in manufacturing -- about 802 of total intra-communit, {rade.
Bee!auee its manufacturing sector was the largest and most efficient, Kenya
benefitted substantially from its acceso  to Ugandan and Tanzanian markets.  In
1974, 45% of Kenya's total industrial exports went to the EAC, while in the
case of Tanzania it was only 222, partly reflecting the rapid decline in
exports to Uganda since the military takeover in 1971.
2.05        Until the early seventies, the primary focus of industrialization
in all three countries was on import substitution. Thereafter, recognizing the
reduced possibilities in this area, both Kenya and Tanzania were contemplating
investments in export oriented projects.
2.06        The East African Development Bank (EADB) was established in 1967
as an EAC institution mainly to provide development finance to industrial
enterprises in the three states. While all three countries had established
development financing institutions at the national level, some with bilateral
assistance, EADB's role was seen as providing assistance in complementary
development of the industrial sectors.   Because it operated in all three
countries, it was able to provide intelligence on sectoral developments in
other partner states which would be of assistance in determining the design and
size of a project, thus avoiding duplication of productive capacity.  EADB
could also provide co-financing for projects utilizing raw materials from EAC
sources  or servicing more  than one market within  the community.   Most
importantly, because it did not have a national bias, its advice and proposals
were respected as independent and motivated in the interests of the region.
2.07        In the mid-seventies, political and economic developments led to
serious strains among the partner states (substantial loosening of economic
ties and restrictions on trade and financial transfers), culminating in the
break-up of the community in 1977.  It is worth noting that, notwithstanding
the dissolution of the Community, EADB was the only regional institution which
the three former partner states agreed should continue and for which they
signed a new treaty in 1980. This was presumably because EADB was perceived
as a mature and well-organized institution which had earned the respect of some
international donor agencies and thus was in a strong position to attract
additional long-term -esources for financing industrial enterprises in the
three countries.
3,    Project Objectives and DescriRtion
3.01        Objectives.   jne objective of the project was to meet part of
EADB's financial requirements for the financing of the import components of
industrial projects through 1977.   EADB'o objectives,  as defined in its
original charter, were to provide financial and technical assistance to promote
industrial development in such a way as to correct the imbalance between the
partner states and to undertake investments which would make the economies of
the three staces increasingly c-mplementary in the industrial sector.   To



.3-
correct the imbalance, the charter provided an investment formula, according
to which 38.75Z of total investments were required to be made in Uganda and
Tanza-Aa each and 22.52 in Kenya; compliance with the formula was to be
examined every five yearr. Following the break-up of the community, the three
member states signed a new treaty and charter in 1980 which broadened EADB's
operational mandate to include, inter alia, financing of projects in agricul-
ture and infrastructure sectors and to proviie consulting, promotion and agency
services in the region. The new charter also removed the requirement in tlz
original charter that EADB act as a vehicle for redressing industrial balance
in the region.
3.02        Description.  A line of credit of $15 million was approved by the
Bank against the joint ani several guarantees of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda to
cover approximately 502 of EBDB's foreign exchange needs and 40S of its total
resource requirements through 1977 for financing projects in the industrial
sector.   The loan was on Bank's standard terms for development  finance
institutions. Prior Bank approval was necessary for each sub-project requiring
Bank funds in excess of $650,000; the aggregate free limit was $5 million. The
sub-loans were to be made within the framework of EADB's Statement of Operating
Policies, which was designed to safeguard EADB's financial viability.
4.    Proiect Desin and Oraanizatio
4.01        The project was designed as a straightforward repeat DFI operation,
to be implementesd by the EADa, which had already received its first loan from
the BaiL in 19; 2. Established in 1967 as an EAC institution, with 30.1% of
equity held by each partner state and the remainder by various foreign banks,
EADB began operations in 1968 and soon evolved into a well-organized,
competently managed and adequately staffed institution with prudent operational
and financial policies and procedures.
5.    Proiect lmplementatlon
5.01        The loan became effective on June 7, 1976, about four months after
Board approval and three months after loan signature.   It financed 13 sub-
projects, of which 5 in Tanzania received 45% of the loan proceeds ($6.7
million), followed by 7 in Uganda which received 392 ($5.9 million) and 1 in
Kenya which received 16% ($2.4 million). Six sub-projects were based on local
raw materials and seven on imported raw materials.  Five sub-projects were in
the public sector and received about 562 of the loan amount. Commitments under
the loan during the first 18 months proceeded satisfactorily and by December
1977 about 772 of the amount had been committed for nine sub-projects.
Thereafter, project implementation almost ground to a halt due to uncertainty
about EADB's future following the break-up of the community, adverse economic
conditions in the region, war between ranzania and Uganda, and a temporary
breakdown in law and order in Uganda. For a period, the situation in Uganda
was so difficult that some of EADB's senior headquarter staff had to move their
office to Nairobi. During this period, EADB's difficulties were compounded by
the departure of its Finance Director and the Director General; the latter had
been a tower of strength for the institution since its inception. EADB carried
on for over three years without a Finance Director and a full time Director
General.   Project implementation was also partly affectod by the Bank's
decision in March 1979 to suspend commitments under the loan because of



-4-
uncertainty regarding EADB'e future, poor condition of its portfolio (EADB's
arrear affected portfolio had ircreassd from 28Z in June 1976 to 63Z in
December 1980), and frequent delays on the part of the member countries in
providing foreign exchange cover for transfer of loan repayments of EADB'e
borrowers which impacted on EADB'8 own ability to repay its creditors.  The
suspension remained in effect for about two years; it was lifted in 1981 after
the new treaty and charter were signed.   Thereafter,  the loan was fully
committed.
5.02        Disbursements under the loan followed the trend of commitments; as
at the end of 1978, actual disbursements were 942 of those estimated at
appraisal but thereafter they lagged behind the estimates and continued until
earlv 1984 as against the original closing date of March 31, 1980. The delays
in disbursement are attributable to the difficult economic conditions in
Tanzania and Uganda as wfell as to the security problem in Uganda. Most sub-
projects financed fror the loan represented expansion of existing facilities;
the beneficiary enterprises were unable to operate at reasonable capacities due
to shortage of foreign exchange and did not generate adequate funds for meeting
the local currency costs of expansions. Moreover, high rates of inflation in
Tanzania and Uganda increased the local project costs. In many cases, lack of
construction materials also affected project implementation.
5.03        While the President's Report did mention the emergence of strains
and tensions among the partner states due to political and economic reasons and
the consequent restrictions on trade and financial transfers, it did not
identify the project risks adequately, particularly those stemming from foreign
exchange shortages and other economic difficulties.   On the other hand, it
relied excessively on EADB's organizational strength and resilience to weathor
minor and major crises.
6.    Project Results
6.01        Performance of Sub-projects.  Annexes I-VI provide the available
information on sub-projects f..anced under the Loan.  Of the thirteen sub-
projects, only four are reported to be operating satisfactorily (3 in Tanzania
and 1 in Uganda), six are experiencing operational problems (3 in Uganda, 2 in
Tanzania and I in Kenya), and 3 sub-projects in Uganda are candidates for
liquidation.   Almost all have arreati  of principal and interest;  as of
November 15, 1990, arrears of principal alone overdue from them amounted to
over $DR 10 million.  The performance of the Ugandan sub-projects is the worst;
six out of seven sub-projects are either having operational problems or are
being considered for liquidation. The operational problems faced by the six
sub-projects are lack of foreign exchange for importing raw materials and spare
parts, management and marketi.g. They reflect EADB's excessive developmental
zee.l and misplaced reliance on management capabilities of sponsors of projects,
ir'.luding public sector projects, given the difficult economic conditions and
the overall foreign exchange shortages in the member countries. The perfor-
mance of the sub-projects should be considered as disappointing.
7.    Sustainability
7.01        In a DFI project it is important to review the sustainability of
the benefits of the project financed by the Bank Group as well as the



sustainability of the institution itself.  For reasons partly out of EADB's
control viz. the adverse economic situation persisting in the member states and
the problems faced by sub-project sponsors due to political turmoil in Uganda,
the performance of most of the sub-projectsal financed under the Bsank loan was
unsatisfactory. Since most of the sub-projects, financed almost a decade ago,
continue to face operational problems or are candidatee for liquidation, their
economic benefits are obviously unsustainable.
7.02        The main objectives behind EADB' creation, that is, the promotion
of industrial development in the partner states in such a way as to correct the
imbalance between the partner states and to make their economies complementary
in th- industrial sector were unrealistic, to start with, particularly because
of the divergent political and economic development paths chosen by the three
partner states and because ADB did not possess the capability to influence
their direction of economic development. The revision of the EADB charter,
which removed the requirement of redressing the industrial imbalance in the
partner states, enabled EADB to operate as any normal DFI, which raises
questions about its raison d'etre. Since then, barring the financing of three
infrastructure projects of a regional nature, EADB has not taken many
initiatives to distinguish it from a national development finance institution.
Its operations are, therefore, simply   duplicating the activities of the
national development finance institutions in the three countries.
7.03        As an institution, EADB is now faced with the problem of viability.
Because of the extremely high levels of loan arrears and serious delays in
externalization of repayments, EADB has for some years now been facing a
liquidity crisis on an almost regular basis and has been staying current on its
debt servicing with some difficulty. Although the liquidity problem may be a
part of the overall problem of foreign exchange shortages in the countries
concerned, its persistence for the past several years may also be due to some
erosion in the commitment of the tbree countries to support EADB.21 In these
circumstances, it is doubtful whether EADB can become a fully sustainable
institution in the long run.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01        The Bank's association with EADB dates back to its inception,
although in the initial stages it was mainly non-financ.al in character and
comprised advice on organization,  staffing and training.   The financial
relationship started with the Bank' s first loan of $8 million, which was
approved in June 1972 and closed in June 1976.   Throughout the project
implementation period for the second loan, the Bank maintained a very
constructive relationship with EADB, providing it with strong support and
EADB does not agree that its financing decisions were based on excessive
developmental zeal (see EADB response in item (i), Part II.   Regarding
management capabilities of project sponsors, EADB explains that in the harsh
political and economic conditions, particularly in Uganda, changes in
ownership and management took place, after EADB disbursement, that is too
late in the process, which did not meet with its appraisal requirements.
2 ADB does not consider this to be the case.



- 6 -
advice on resolution of its major problems relating to recovery of arrears from
its borrowers, obtaining foreign exchange cover from the member states for
remittance of loan recoveries, review of its financial and resources position
and, finally, acting as edministrator of grant funds which financed EADB's two
expatriate Directors General, after the first incumbent left in 1977. However,
Bank performance in supervising EADB was severely affected by the security
situation in Uganda, as a result of which some of the Bank supervision missions
had to be content with brief visits to Nairobi to meet the senior EADB staff
and discuse the latest developments.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01        Given the difficult political, economic and security conditions in
Uganda, where EADB's headquarter is located, borrower performance in imple-
menting the project (committing 77Z of the loan in 18 months after loan
effectiveness) should be rated as mixed. The period 1977-80 was very difficult
for EADB; the disintegration of the community in 1977 cast a pall of uncer-
tainty over EADB's future, nay, its very existence.   This obviously had an
impact on the morale of eADB's staff. In addition to the problems in Uganda,
the deteriorating economic situation in the other two member states also
affected EADB's performance. Its portfolio affected by arrears of over three
months increased from 28X of the total portfolio in June 1976 to 63Z in
December 1980, jeopardizing its credit-worthiness and liquidity. Delays on the
part of member states to provide foreign exchange cover for remittance of EADB
borrowers' repayments were also creating difficulties for EADB to service its
foreign debt. A brief description of EADB's overall performance is given in
the following paragraphs.
9.02        ARnrovals.  Annex VII provides a summarized country-wise breakdown
of EADB's loan approvals from 1976 through 1989. EADB's equity investments all
through have remained nominall the highest amount outstanding at any one time
was SDR 1.6 million in 1980. EADB started its lending operations in 1968 and
by the end of 1977 had approved loans and equity investments aggregating
SDR 63.8 million (EADB maintains its accounts in SDRs) spread over a wide
variety of industrial sub-sectors. The decline in amount approved started in
1978 and touched an all-time low in 1979 (SDR 850,000) due to political and
economic difficulties in the member states; the situation improved in 1981 and
approvals have since averaged SDR 12.9 million annually. EADB abandoned the
differential investment formula on revision of its charter in 1980; it also
diversified its operations by making loans in non-traditional sectors viz.
energy, transport and communications. Furthermore, it has made some working
capital loans for rehabilitation of projects in Uganda out of special grants
made available by the Nordic countries.
9.03        Portfolio and Arrears.  Over the years EADB's loan portfolio has
grown from SDR 10.2 million at the end of 1968 to SDR 65.3 million as of
December 31, 1989. Particularly since the eighties, however, the size of loan
arrears has grown out of control and now threatens EADB's creditworthiness.
The principal and interest arrears have ranged between 30-44Z of the amount of
loans outstanding, while the arrear affected portfolio has been in the range
of 54-71% of the amount of outstanding loans.   As of September 30, 1990,
arrears amounted to 44% and the arrears-affected portfolio to 711 of the
outstanding portfolio.



9.04        The deterioration in the quality of the portfolio and the build-up
of arrears are primarily due to the adverse economic situation in the member
countries in the last decade. The quality of EADB'e Ugandan portfolio is the
worst; this is due to the economic conditions as well as the unfortunate
political turmoil and hostilities that Uganda had to pass through for a number
of years. Furthermore, in its excessive developmental zeal EADB financed some
projects without making sufficient enquiries about the ability of the sponsors
to rAise local counterpart funds or to manage the projects.   The normal
operations of most projects were affected by acute and persistent shortage of
foreign exchange, and massive devaluations in the member countries. Further-
more, the long delays on the part of the central banks in member states to
allow externalization of funds repaid by EADB's borrowers in the respective
countries and the frequent devaluations placed an unbearable burden on many
borrowers, who were required to repay the equivalent of borrowed foreign
currencies in local currency at the rate prevalent on the date foreign exchange
cover was provided by the concerned central bank. It also appears that EADB's
supervision and loan collection effort did not measure up to the gravity of the
situation. This is apparent from the fact that EADB has not recovered over
SDR 14 million which is overdue from proiects whose loans were guaranteed for
repayment by the Governments of the member states. EADB is now contemplating
enforcement of Government guarsntees in the three countries and restruc-
turing/liquidation of some chronic non-performing projects.
9.05        Provisions.  As of September 30, 1990, EADB had made provisions of
SDR 9 million against investments and SDR 13 million against income. Given the
poor quality of its portfolio and the high level of arrears, the provisions are
inadequate.  As of the same date, loan installments alone in arrears of 24
months or more amounted to over SDR 20 million. Furthermore, EADB considered
a sum of SDR 4.5 million irrecoverable from 6 Kenyan projects under receiver-
ship.   Interest overdue by three months or more amounted to over SDR 21
million.
9.06        Financial Condition.  Annexes VIII-X provide summarized  income
statements, balance sheets and financial ratios covering 1982-89. EADB has
made only modest profits31 since its inception because it has not been able to
use its resources efficiently, its administrative expenses are rather high and
because in recent years it had to make substantial provisions out of its
income. Provisions amounted to 24X of the income in 1985, 33% in 1987, 39Z in
1988 and 47? in 1989. Its debt-equity ratio has throughout remained satisfac-
tory.   The extremely sat .sfactory current ratio is misleading.   Current
liabilities have all along been understated because they do not include current
maturities of EADB's long-term debt. At the same time, because of the nature
of its resources and the conditions of utilization imposed by the donors,
considerable amount of funds appearing as current assets are not really
fungible resources. Consequently, because of the inordinately high level of
arrears and problems of externalization of repayments of its borrowers, EADB
has experienced a tight liquidity position over the years and has to struggle
year after year to service its foreign debt.  A foreign exchange cash flow
s EADB states that its modest profitability is due more to the riskiness of
development banking than to its inefficiency. (See EADB's response in item
(ix) in Part II.)



projection for 1991, prepared by EADB and considered by it to be the most
likely scenario, which forecasts loan collections of over SDR 10 million and
externalization of 100S of these collections by all the three member states,
would barely enable EADB to meet its 1991 debt servicing of over SDR 9 million.
Given the past record of loan collections and externalization, EADB will have
to use all its influence and good offices with its clients and the three
central banks to remain current on its debt-servicing obligations.  It will
also have to pursue aggressively a well-designed loan collection offort to stay
solvent.
9.07        Resources. EADB's present paid-in capital of SDR 25.4 million has
been subscribed 77.342 (SDR 19.65 million) by the three member states in equal
proportion (25.78Z i.e. SDR 6.55 million each), 3.9Z (SDR 1.01 mill',on) by a
few European banks, 14.76% (SDR 3.75 millicn) by FMO of Netherlands, and 3.94Z
(SDR 1 million) by DEG of Germany. Its other resources consist of medium and
long term loans from the World Bank, ADB, EIB, SIDA, FMO, SIFIDA, three
European banks and the Swiss Government. The two largest creditors are ADB and
SIDA. In addition, SIDA, NORAD and DANIDA have provided special funds by way
of grants for rehabilitation of industries in Uganda and for providing
consultancy and other technical services.
10.   Proiect Relationship
10.01       The relationship between the Bank and EADB has remained excellent
throughout and was particularly close during the period of project implementa-
tion; this contributed to speedy commitment of 772 of loan funds during the
first 18 months. EADB was very receptiv- to~ Bank comments on the state of its
portfolio, collection of arrears, improvement of liquidity, and the quality of
external audit of its annual accounts.
10.02       Over the years, BADB has developed good beneficial relationships
witli a number of multilateral and bilateral aid agencies viz. the African
Development Bank (ADB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA), the Norwegian Agency for Development
(NORAD), the Danish Development Agency (DANIDA), the Netherlands Aid Agency
(FMO), the German Investment Agency (DEG), the Export and Import Bank of Japan,
the Swiss Rehabilitation Fund and a few other European institutions. EADE's
relationship with SIDA has been particularly close; apart from providing seven
lines of credit and grant funds for rehabilitation of industries in Uganda to
EADB, it also seconded one of its staff member to work as EADB's Director
General during the period 1981-84. Bank's relationship with these institutions
has also been excellent.
11.   Project Documentation and Data
11.01       The  Loan  Agreement  had  standard  provisions  and  no  special
covenants, except for EADB's debt-equity ratio, which was fixed at 4:1 and
which EADB did not exceed. The Staff Appraisal Report did not provide any
useful framework, nor was one needed at the time, Eor the Bank and/or the
Borrower during project implementation. While most of the data relevant to the
preparation of the PCR was provided by EADB, some important data relating to
performance of sub-projects financed under the loan (1204-EA) was not
available.



- 9-
12.   Findinfs and Lessons Learned
12.01       EADB's performance under the loan has been mixed.  While the pace
of commitments and disbursements during the first eighteen months was
satisfactory, subsequent delays necessitated the extension of the sub-project
submission and closing dates by three years.   It should be acknowledged,
though, that during the implementation of the project, the member countries,
particularly Tanzania and Uganda, passed through serious economic difficulties
and Uganda, in addition, went through political turmoil and hostilities. The
impact of these problems on EADB's portfolio has been severe; about 71Z of the
loan portfolio is affected by arrears of over three months, and these arrears
account for about 44% of the loan portfolio.  Provisions for doubtful loans
appear  to be  inadequate  and EADB has been unable  to enforce  repayment
guarantees issued by the three governments in respect of several projects.!/
Furthermore, EADB has been experiencing considerable delays in externalization
of borrowers' repayments which is creating a liquidity crisis and could affect
EADB's debt servicing capacity.
12.02       EADB's role as a regional institution has been somewhat limited;
only about 15Z of its investment in the last five years has been in projects
of a regional nature and it has organized some seminars and training courses
on a regional basis. In some cases, it has provided co-financing, jointly with
national DPIs in the region. Otherwise, it is only duplicating the activities
of the national DFIs in the region. In common with the latter, it has serious
portfolio problems, which could potentially affect its viability. In addition,
it has to rely on three central banks to provide foreign exchange for transfer
of its borrowers' repayments. Given this scenario, it needs to rethink its
operational strategy and role in the prevailing difficult economic situation
in its member countries.
12.03       In order to help EADB review its objectives and role as a regional
institution, in the light of the significant changes that have taken place in
the three partner states since its inception, the Bank made a Special Project
Preparation Facility (SPPF) grant of $200,000 to finance a restructuring study
which would provide a framework for EADB's future strategy and structure, and
an action program for restructuring its portfolio. The study is in its final
stages and should be available to the Bank shortly.
12.04       A few lessons can be drawn from the experience of implementation
of this project. Firstly, setting of politically determined goals for a DFI,
(in the case of EADB, the differential investment formula -para 3.01) expected
to operate on commercial and financially sound principles, can distort its
operating policies, as happened in the case of Uganda where sub-projects
continued to be financed in an environment of severe political and economic
instability.  Secondly, in view of the chronic foreign exchange shortages and
the worsening economic situation, EADB should have concentrated on financing
' EADB states that no member Government has declined to honor its guarantee
when invoked, but the process has been dilatory. (See EADB's comment no.
(viii) in Part II.)



10 -
projects which had potential for earning foreign exchange.11  Thirdly,  it
should have done a more thorough appraisal of projects with a view to ensuring
that  the  sponsors  had  the necessary  counterpart  funds   and management
capability to implement the projects.   Fourthly,  in respect of projects
bxperiencing operational problems, it should have taken initiatives to provide
technical and financial advice, directly or with the help of consultants to
rehabilitate or restructure them.  Lastly, it e;hould have pressed the three
governments to honor their repayment guarante': quickly for loans to some of
the public sector enterprises.
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part II represents the comments on Part I and III of the Project Completion
Report by the East African Development Bank.
General Observations
The Project Committee of EADB feels that generally the IDA report
is well balanced. However, there are some issues/impressions which ought to
be corrected as indicated below:
(i)   "EADB's investment decisions are based on excessive develoumental
zeal".
The meeting did not agree with this position.   At the time of
making investment decisions, we are guided by facts and circum-
stances then obtaining. Economic viability is important for our
investment decisions. However, it is the financial analysis which
determines our decisions one way or the other. We have, however,
been operating in volatile economic and political conditions which
have adversely affected our portfolio. As adequately discussed in
the report, the hostile climate was more evident in Uganda which
accounts for more than fifty percent of EADB's arrears.
(ii)   "Misplaced reliance on management caDabilities of Sponsors of
proiect"
We try our best to evaluate ability of sponsors as managers. Where
sponsors can demonstrate evidence of management competence (e.g.
expansion), the analysis is not usually complicated. However, for
new projects,  it is usually more difficult.   The past harsh
political and economic conditions of especially Uganda contributed
to changes in project ownership and management (after EADB
disbursement) which did not necessarily meet the appraisal
requirements - but too late to put down our foot then. Management
E BADB states (see Part II) that since the early eighties, it promoted many
export-oriented projecto which were allowed to maintain external accounts
partly to facilitate foreign debt servicing. During the last five years,
30X of its investments has been in foreign exchange earning projects.



- 11 -
evaluation including soliciting outside management support, is
given a lot of weight in our appraisal nowadays.
(iii)   Cost Overruns
Overruns have mainly resulted from slippage in project Implementa-
tion. Implementation slippage has significantly been attributable
to outside factors - in particular hostile environment. There are
projects in Uganda which took ten years to implement instead of the
two years originall, planned. Otherwise, it has not been easy to
assess precise project costs under unstable economic conditions.
(iv)   EADB General Role
We complement other financiers in the sub-region. We bring in
additional foreign currency which would not have otherwise been
brought into the sub-region. Because of the size of many projects
and of operational policy limitations, EADB and other DFIs in the
sub-region have to co-finance. We have many examples where we have
co-financed. We do not compete with other DPIs. The sub-region
is still in need of developmental fundd (forex and local) and this
explains the presence of so many other DFI. in the area i.e. ADD,
FMO, DEG, EIB, IPC, SIFIDA, Swedfund, IFU/Denmark, CDC, etc. vho
are basically involved in development financing.
(v)   EADB Regional Role
About 15 of our investment in the last five years has been in
direct regional projects.  Apart from direct regional projects,
EADB does, and will continue to assist complementary projects in
the sub-region.  The complementarity varies from projects which
facilitate trade e.g. oil seeds, tourism and the like.
Other regional activities which EADB does:
-  Organizing training on an East African basis.
-  Organizing seminars on an East African basis.
-  Playing the catalytic role of sensitizing member governments in
arrear of common and beneficial interest to member states
through carrying out various relevant studies.
We would furthermore like East African companies to exploit
opportunities in the PTA market.
(vi)   Exoort Market Promotion
Prom early aighties (following externalization problems in
Tanzania), EADB deliberately promoted export oriented projects
which were allowed to operate external accounts into which export
proceeds were paid. The latter were partly used to service EADB
loans directly.   Examples include Amboni Ltd.,  DARACO,  CIC,
Tropical Food Processors, Uhuru Highway/Heridien Hotel Project,
Ziwa Horticulture exporters, etc. In the last five years, about



- 12 -
30S of our investments has been foreign currency earning projects.
The future objective is to increase the percentage of our invest-
ment in forex earning projects.   Our current pipeline bears
testimony to this.
(vii)   Member Governments' commitment
Member Goverrments'  commitment is not doubted.   That is why,
despite the many economic problems besetting the economies, the
Bank has been able to service its loans.   Member Governments
endeavor to honor their guarantees (where applicable) and to
facilitate the allocation of foreign exchange even at times of real
scarcity.
(viii)   "Failure to enforce Government Guarantees"
Enforcement of Government guarantee has not always provided the
expected results in time.   This is mainly attributable to the
process - otherwise no member country has declined to honor its
guarantee to EADB when invoked.
(ix)   "EADB has made modest prof it because of its inefficient use of
resources!
Our observation is that the riskiness of development banking
contributes more to EADB's modest profitability than inefficiency.
(x)   High Administrative Costs
Cost cutting measures have been instituted and are yielding
results. This is evident from Annex X.
Conclusion
The meeting noted that most of the issues raised above could have
been clarified earlier if the World Bank officers who prepared the report had
the opportunity to discuss them with lADB.



- 13 -
PART III$ STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Creditt
Loan/Credit                           Year of
TitLe               Purpose         Aoproval    Status          o9Ments
Loan 843-EAC
1.East African      To meet part of    1972       Fully disbursed
Development Bank    EADB's financial
requirements for
financing import
components of
industrial projects
in partner states
viz.Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda
2.    Project Timetable
Date         Date           Date
_tp-m                Planned       Revised       Actual
Identification           6-4-74          -           6-4-74
Preparation             11-19-74         -          11-19-74
Appraisal Mission        5-19-75         -           5-19-75
Loan Negotiations        10-6-75      10-20-75       11-3-75
Board Approval           1-20-76        2-3-76        2-3-76
Loan Signature            3-1-76          -           3-1-76
Loan Effectiveness       5-31-76        6-7-76        6-7-76
Loan Closing             3-31-80    6-30-81/82/83   6-30-83
Loan Completion          9-30-80      12-31-83      2-23-84
3.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Calendar Year     1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Appraisal Estimate          2.0   7.3  12.5  15.0
Actual                      0.8   6.9   9.1  10.1  11.7  13.7  14.9  15.0
Actual as 2 of Estimate      40    94    73    67    78    91    99   100



- 14 -
4.    Proiect ImlRImentation
Appraisal
Indicators                        EstiJate             Actual
Submission of sub-projects
for Bank approval/authorization   3-31-78              6-30-80
Loan disbursement                  3-31-80             6-30-83
5.    Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant               Subiect                 Comnliance       Status
Loan Agreement     Consolidated debt of        During project  In comp-
Section 4.06       Borrower & its subsi-       implementation  liance
diaries not to exceed
4 times consolidated
capital & surplus of
Borrower & its subsi-
diaries
6. Use of Staff Resources
A.  Staff Inguts
1775 FY76 Fm7  FS78  MO9 M8_0  "I  82  L8   Flt84  791  TOTAL
Preappra.la    2.9                                                -     2.9
Appraisal     14.4   12.1  -   -   _    .     _   _    _     _         26.5
mNgotione       -    -   -     -    -   -     -   -    -     -
Suervision   -    0.6    19.7  11.4  7.)  1.0  2.0  0.8  1.4  0.8  4.0  49.0
Other          0.85    6.6    1.                    1 .    08    40    85.5
Total        17.8    19.3    19.7  11.4  7.3  1.0  2.0  0.8  1.4  0.8  4.0  $5.5



- 1S -
6. Use of Staff Resources (cont'd.)
B.  Missi.ns
Stage of          Month/    No. of   Days in   SpecialiOn    Perf. Rating           Type of
Pro1ect Cycle        Year    Persons    Field    Represented         Status          gPobtlm
Throuah Anuraisal
Identification a/    6/74         2         12    Fin. Analyst
Economist
Preparation b/       11/74        1          2    Fin. Analyst
Appraisal             5/75        2         17    Fin. Analysts
Appraisal through
Board Approval           -        -          -           -             -
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness            -        -          -           -             -
Sunervision           9176        2         NA    Fin. Analysts        2            Management
8/77        3         12    Fin. Analysts        2            Management
Economist                        Financial
6/78        2          3    Fin. Analysts        2            Management
Financial
3/79        2          5    Fin. Analysts        2            Management
Financial
12/79        2          7    Fin. Analysts        2            Management
Financial
2/81        1          1    Fin. Analyst         2            Financial
11/82        2          3    Fin. Analysts        2            Financial
a/ Combined mission for supervision of the First East African Development Bank Project.
b/ Brief updating mission.



EAST AFRICAN DEVEWIDREK    BANK (BADB)
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUB-PROJECTS APPROVED UNDER LOAN 1204-EA
EADB's Assistance
IBRD Sub-Project No.           Sector          Products        Ownership      Owner-          Location        Actual         Local           Foreign
ship 2                         Project         Currency       Currency
Cost
1.  Tanzania Food Corp.        Industry        Food            Private         1002           Arusha          $ 2,169,000      -             $1,367,6z5
2.  Tanzania Pharma.           Industry        Human           Public          1002           Arusba          $ 7,712,000       -            $1,928.000
Drugs
3.  Lake Victoria              Industry        Soft            Public          1002           Kampala         $ 2.812.000       -            $1,200,000
Bottling Co.                               Drinks
4.  Sanyu Tissues              Industry        Tissue          Private         1002           Kampala         $ 3,6'3,000       -            $  838,000
5.  South Nyanza               Agricul-        Sugar           Public          1002           Avendo          $75,000,000       -            $2,400,000
Sugar Co.                  ture
6.  Poultry Products              -            Chicken         Private         1002           Kampala         $ 3,400,00        -            :1.a088,175
meat
7.  Mbeya Cement               Mining          Cement          Public          1002           Mbeya           $41,395,000       -            $1,780,695
8.  Metal Products             Industry        Steel/Al.       Private          -             Dar-es-         $ 6,126,000       -            $1,064,337
Products                                       Salaa:
9.  Nyanza Textiles            industry        Textile         Private         1002           Jinja           $ 1,628,000       -            $1,091,161
Industry
10. Printpak (U)               Industry        Paper           Public         100S            Jinja           $ 2,750,000      -             $1,100,959
Products
11. Casements (A)              Industry        Steel           Private        1002            Dar-es-         $   584,000      -             $  502,305
Products                                       Salam
12. Kabale Industries          Industry        Concrete        Private        1002            Kasese          $   707,000      -             $  276,030
Tiles
13. Sapoba Bookshop Press      Industry        Paper           Private        100%            Kampala         $   556,000      -             $  308,782



EAST AFRICAN DEVElOPHENT BARN
PERFORMANCE OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 1204-EL
k6nancial               EconomLtc               Investment              Jobs             Cost per
ROR 2                   ROR 2                 Coat ('000)             Created            Job
BORROWER'S MAWE                          Est.    Actual          Est.    Actual              Est.                    Est.            Est.
A.      In Operation
Tanzania Food Corporation                        37.8      -              15.3      _             $ 2.i69,000                112           $19,366
Tanzania Phamsceuticals                          33        -              36        _             $ 7,712,000                262           $29,435
Lake Victoria Bot?.ling Co.                      17        -              18 l                    $ 2,812,000                124           $22,677
South Nyanza Sugar Company                       11        -              19                      $75,000,000              3,000           $250o0
Hbeya Cement                                     12        -              15        -             $41,395,000                472           $87,701
Metal Products                                   "/A       -              N/A       _             $ 6,126.000                N/A
Nyanza Textile Industries Lfiited                N/A       -              P/A       -             $ 1,628,000                N/A                -
Printpak (U) Limited                             27        -              32        _             $ 2,750.000                 29           $94,827
Casements (A)                                    N/A       -              N/A       -             $   584,000                S/A                -
Sapoba Bookshop Press                            33        -              25                      $   556,000                 60           $ 9,266
D.      Under Construction
Sanyu Tissues Ltd.                               24        -              19        _             $ 3,643.000                 94           $39.172
Kabale Industries                                30        -              29        -             $   707,000                 47           $15,042
C.      Winding Mp
Poultry Products                                 26        -              40        -             $ 3,400,000                155           $21.935
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PAST AFRICAN DEVELOP AENT BANK
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 1204-EA
T O T A L                            EADB  ASSISTANCE              IBED FINANCING
Sectoral          No.   Project       2 by        2 Project            Amount           2 EADB      Amount        2 IBED
Distribution              Cost       Number         Cost                                Amount                    Amount
Manufacturing      10    28.687.000    77Z          192              9,697,169            652       9,697,169        652
Agro-processing    2    78,400,000    152           532              3,488,175            232       3,488,175        232
Mining              1    41.395.000      82         282              1.780.695            122        1.78&.695       122
13    148.482,000  1002         100Y              14,966,039          1002       14,966,039      1002



ST ACAN D                  ANK
GEOGRAPHICAL DISmTIBUTION OF PROJECTS ASSISTED UNDER LOAN 1204-EA
E A D B Is  Assistance
No. of        Z of                                             S of         Total Cost of      Total No.
Country            Projects    Total No.   Loan          Equity       Total        Total          Projects         Employees
Kenya                 1            82      $2,400,000        -      $2,400,000       161        $ 75.000,000.00       3,000
Uganda                7           54X      $5,903,077        -      $5.903,077       391        $ 15,514.000.00         508
Tanzania              5           38S      S6.662.962        -      S6.662.962       451        S 57.968.000.00         846
13         1001    $14,966,039         -      $14,966,039      100X       $148,482,000.00       4.354
IxI
4



FAST AFRICAN DKVELOPHUT DANK
INTESThENT COST DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNIDER IOAN 1204-EA
T 0 T A L                        lADB ASSISTANCE                 IBRD FINANCING
2            2 by                     2 by                           2 by
Cost Distribution              No.    Project Cost             by No.         Amt.   Amount           Amount         Amount          Amount
Less than - 1,000,000          3         1.847,000             232             12    1,087,087         72             1,087,087       72
1,000.001 - 5.000.000          6        16.402,000            462             112    6,685,918       452             6,685,918       452
5,000,001 - 10,000,000         2         1,838,000             15.52           92    3,012,338        202            3,012.338       202
10,000.001 - Above             2       116,395,000            15.52           792    4,180,696        482            4.180,696       482
SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-LOANS FINANCED UNDER LOAR 1204-EA
T 0 T A L                        EADB ASSISTANCE                IBRD FINANCING
2            Z by                     S by                           2 by
Loan Size Distribution         No.    Project Cost            by No.          Amt.   Amount           Amount         Amount          Amount
Less than-   250,000           0                 0               0              0              0       0                       0       0
250,001   -   500,000          2         1,263,000              15.52           12       584,783       41               584,783        4%
500,001   - 1,000,000          2         4,227,000              15.52           32    1,340,305        92              1.340,305       92
1,000,001 - 2,500,000          9       143,019,000             69Z             962   13,040,951      872             13.040,951       872
2,500,001 - 5,000,000          0                 0              0               0              0        0                      0       0
5,000,001 - 10,000,000         0                  0             0               0               0       0                      0       0
13       148,482,000             1002           1002   14,966,039       1002           14,966,039      1002
x!



EAST AFRICAN DRVALOP T  A
DISTRIBUTION BY OWNERSHIP OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 1204-EA
Number                   X  Number            E ADB Financing (Amount $m)       2 EADB Financing
Pr vate  Public  Total    Private  Public  Total    Private   Public   Total         Private  Public  Total
KENYA           -        1       1          -       8Z      87         -          2.4     2.4         -        16Z     162
TANZANIA        3        2       5          23%    151    381          3.0        3.7     6.7        201       252     451
UGANDA          5        2       7          38%    161    541          3.6       2.3      5.9        24%       15%     39t
8       5       13         611    39%   100%          6.6        8.4    15.0        44Z       56%    100?    '



- 22 -
Annex VII
BUT AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BAW
SUMMARY OF LOAN APPROVALS (1976 - 89)
(SDRs '000)
YEAR       UGANDA     KENYA      TANZANIA   REGIONAL   TOTAL
1976       2.070        876      4,503                   7,449
1977       2.278      3,594      2,712                   8,584
1978       :,730      2,277        414                   4,421
1979         -          -          850                     850
1980         331        715        -                     1,046
1981       1,222      3,160      1,290                   5,672
1982       3,400      2,210        800                   6,410
1983       4,980      2,630      4,040       2,320      13,970
1984       4,060      4,960      6,010       1,000      16,030
1985       4,410      3,593      9,392                  17,395
1986       4,646      3,835      4,328                  12,809
1987       3,893      5,626      5,602                  15,121
1988       5,536      6,312      4,722                  16,570
1989       8,239        577      3,512                  12,328



EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Comparative Income Statements (1982-1989)
1982      1983       1984       1985       1986      1987       1988       1989
(Amounts in SDR million)
INCOME
Investments                4.1       4.7        5.5        7.0        6.9       7.4        8.6       10.0
Other Income               0.3       0.4        0.5        0.5        0.6       0.7        0.7        1.8
Total Income               4.4       5.1        6.0        7.5        7.5       8.1        9.3       11.8
EXPENDITURE
Financial Charges          1.4        1.4       1.7        2.1        2.2       2.2        2.5        3.7
Admin. Costs               1.1        1.4       1.4        1.8        1.9        1.9       1.7        1.6
Depreciation               0.2       0.2        0.2        0.2        0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3
Provisions                 1.3        1.1       1.2        1.8        1.5       2.7        3.6        5.6
Total Expenditure          4.0       4.1        4.5        5.9        5.9       7.1        8.1       11.2
Net Income                 0.4        1.0       1.5        1.6        1.6        1.0       1.2        0.6
x
c-
'-.
'-.



EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Comparative Balance Sheets (1982-1989)
1982       1983       1984      1985        1986       1987       1988       1989
(Amounts in SDR million)
ASSETS
Current Assets                    12.8       18.9       17.2       15.8       19.3       19.1       27.4       32.1
Net Loans                         30.7       33.9       40.3       44.4       46.1       47.8       66.4       65.3
Equity Investments                 1.2        1.1        1.0        0.8        0.6        0.5        0.6        0.5
Total Net Portfolio               31.9       35.0       41.3       45.2      46.7        48.4       67.0       65.8
Fixed Assets                       2.6        2.5        2.3        2.3        2.3        2.2        2.1        1.9
Total Assets                      47.3       56.4      60.8       63.3       68.3        69.7       96.5       99.8
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                0.7        1.1        1.7        2.1        2.7        2.7        1.5        2.2
Term Loans                        23.6      32.0       35.9       37.4       38.3       36.4       52.5       50.9
Other Funds                        5.4        5.8        6.1        6.8      10.5       13.5       15.8       17.2
Share Capital                     13.0      13.0       13.0       13.0       13.0       13.0       22.7       25.4
Retained Earnings                  4.6        4.5        4.1       4.0         3.8        4.1        4.0        4.1
Total Liab. & Equity              47.3      56.4       60.8       63.3       68.3       69.7       96.5       99.8



EAST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Statement of Key Financial Ratios 1982-1989
1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989
Long-term debtlequity ratio                       1.1        1.5        1.7        1.7         1.7        1.5        1.7       1.46
Current ratio                                    18.3       17.2       10.1        7!.5        7.1        7.1       18.3       14.6
Debt-service coverage ratio                       1.8        2.2        2.A        1.7         1.8        1.7        1.4        1.8
Profit before Tax as Z of
Average Total Assets                            0.9        1.9        2.6        2.6        2.4        1.4         1.4        0.6 ~
Net Profit as'? of
Average Equity                                  2.3        5.7        8.6        9.4        9.5         5.9        5.5        2.1
Financial Expenses as Z of
Average Total Assets                            3.1        2.7        2.9        3.4        3.3        3.2         3.0        3.8
Administrative Expenses as
2 of Average Total Assets                       2.4        2.7        2.4        2.9        2.9        2.8        2.0        1.6
Income frem Loan Portfolio as
Z of Averagc L oan Portfolio                   13.3       14.6       14.8       16.5       15.2       15.8       15.1       15.2
Return on Average Total Assets                    0.9        1.9        2.6        2.6        2.4         1.4        1.4        0.6



