Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4393-BR
RFPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$78.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
September 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 Cruzeiro(Cr$)/Cruzado(Cz$)
US$1.00               ,        Cr$8,891 1/
US$1.00                        Cz$13.80 (February 28, 1986) 2/
Cz$1.00                       US$0.072464 (February 28, 1986)2/
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                   2    January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program  =    April 1 to March 31
Project                                     April 1 to March 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (November 1985).
2/ A new currency, the Cruzado, equal to 1,000 cruzeiros, was introduced
effective February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate shown above. The
cruzeiro will contilue to be legal tender until March 1, 1987, but will
be devalued against the Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45% starting
February 28, 1986.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
CD                 Community Development
CIDAPI             Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario do Piaui
(State Agricultural Development Company)
COBAL              Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Company)
CPATSA             Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
EMATER-PI          Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de Piaui
(Piaui State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company)
EMBRAPA            Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
IC                 Comissao Inter:.inisterial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
LDP                Local Development Project
MINTER             Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program
POLONORDESTE       Programa de Desenvolvimento de  Areas Integradas
do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of
the Northeast)
RDC                Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SAPI               Secretaria de Agricultura de Piaui
(State Secretariat of Agriculture)
SEPLAN             Secretaria de Planejamento
(State Secretariat of Planning)
SIMA               Sistema de Informacao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing and Information System)
This doccument has a restricted distriutie- :nd nmy be used by.in the peUror,mnca
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
SRDC              Conselbo Estadual de Dcsenvolvime'ito Rurnl
(State RuraL Development Counctl)
SUDENE            Superintendencia de DeseavolvimenLo *1o Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
TU                Technical Unit of the State Secretariat of Planning
UEPAE-PI          Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estedual
de Piaui
(Plaui Branch of the Federal Agricultural Research
Company)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing
Agency:         A Technical Unit (T.U.) of Piaui's Secretariat of Planning
for coordination of all State and Federal agencies
participating in the Piaui Rural Development Plan.
Amount:         US$78.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Some 65,000 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in 70 municipalities of the State of Piaui would
directly benefit from the project. A larger number of
families would also benefit from the water supply,
community development, fisheries and marketing components.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is one of a series of projects within
the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). The
project objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
production and productivity in the State of Piaui; (b)
generate employment opportunities for low-income farm
families; (c) increase Piaui's institutional capacity to
provide efficient agricultural services for small farmers;
and (d) promote water resource development and technology
generation and diffusion to decrease small farmer
vulnerability to recurring drought3. It would support
water resource development for both agriculture and
domestic use, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, investment credit, marketing services, funding
for community subprojects and project administration and
training.
Risks:           Project risks include: (a) possible inefficient delivery of
project services; (b) lack of sufficient inter-
institutional cooperation; (c) delays and shortfalls in
counterpart funding; (d) insecurity of land tenure; and
(e) recurring drought conditions. The project has been
designed to minimize these risks.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
-----USS Mionss
A. Water Resource Development                15.8         2.8        18.6
B. Agricultural Research
and Basic Seed Production                7.4         0.3         7.7
C.  Agricultural Extension                   34.0         1.2        35.2
D.  Rural Investment Credit                  35.0         6.2        41.2
E.  Marketing Services                        1.5         0.1         1.6
F.  Support to Small Rural Communities    18.8            3.0        21.8
G.  Project Administration and Training    9.7            0.2         9.9
Total Baseline Costs                            122.2        13.8       136.0
Physical Contingencies                            1.5        0.5         2.0
Price Contingencies                              21.3         1.0       22.3
Total Project Cost                              145.0        15.3      160.3 1/
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign    Total
-      S--- $  Millions --
Government                                      82.3         -          82.3
IBRD                                            62.7        15.3        78.0
TOTAL                                          145.0        i.5.3      160.3
a,           -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY       19872/ 1988  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
-         -------US$ Millions
Annual         7.1   10.6  10.9   11.7   12.4   11.5    7.6    6.0    1.7
Cumulative    7.1   17.7  28.6   40.3   52.7   64.2   71.8   76.3   78.0
Rate of Return: 18%
Map No. IBRD 19575
I/ Including about US$5.8 million of local taxes.
2J Including initial deposit of US$3.5 million into the Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$78.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of
US$78.0 million to help finance a Northeast Rural Development Project in
Piaui. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART' I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to a fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and State representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Mr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On Mr. Neves' death in April 1985, Vice-President Jos6 Sarney
became President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives
stated by Mr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New
Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and
anti-poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on "traditional"
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic infra-
structure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for private
sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a more rapid
increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential condition a
return to GDP growth of at least 6% a year. Three major stabilization aims
are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public sector deficit, re-
negotiation of the external debt, and the control of inflation.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth in real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign
borrowing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's mediumr and long-term debt more
than doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total
obligations of approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The
efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong
internal pressures and increased inflation. The economy remained
vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases in oil prices
occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates increased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to US$12.4 billion.  Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of exter-
nal developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified adjust-
ment program. In February 1983, the IMP approved Extended Fund Facility
and compensatory financing arrangements, for a total amount equivalent to
about US$5.4 billion for the 1983-85 period. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 19B4 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,



very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP
fell by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12X
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the msin industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s--when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs--was undermined by the
recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984, when GDP grew 4.5%. Balance-of-
payments performance was again highly positive, aided by exchange rate
changes which fully accounted for domestic inflation and by the strong
growth of the US economy. An unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1
billion was generated, and Brazil's international reserve position markedly
improved. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall,
much of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current
US dollars, total exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the
comparable increase for industrial exports was 37%. In 1985, GDP growth
accelerated, reaching 8.31 for the year. The recovery was led by industry,
though investment spending remained low. Industrial employment increased
by 6Z, and open unemployment declined significantly in the major urban
centers. Externally, the trade surplus amounted to over US$12.4 billion,
the current account deficit was about 0.5% of GDP, and gross international
reserves remained at a level equivalent to about 8 months of imports.
Without new commercial bank borrowing in 1985, the country's external debt
was stable, at almost US$104 billion.
10.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from 1.6% of GDP in 1984 to
3.2Z in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized industrial
sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages, resulted in real
wage gains, and Federal Government salaries were increased to compensate
for large previous declines. These policies contributed to inflation.
Prices rose 235% in 1985, in spite of temporary price restraints imposed by
the new Government earlier in the year.
11.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation accelerated late in the year as regulated prices were
increased to compensate for price freezes in earlier months and as
businesses anticipated the effects of a drought in the South. By January
and February of 1986, monthly inflation was 16% and 14%, respectively. A
program to reduce inflation gradually was being implemented at that time.
Centered around a substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit, it involved
higher taxes and cuts in Federal Government and state enterprise
expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986 by the
unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury



Secretariat to centralize budget disbursements. A program for
restructuring and selective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated. Alarmed by the spurt in inflation, the Government tightened
consumer cretit and announced a plan to increase food imports to offset the
drought-related increase in agricultural prices. It soon decided, however,
that a more raidical comprehensive program to stop inflation was needed.
Plano Cruzado
12.      On February 28, the Gove:nsment initiated the Plano Cruzado, to
eliminate the rapid inflation which was threatening Brazilian economic
stability and prospects for sustained growth. The program seeks both to
eliminate the impact of past, indexed inflation and to change future
Inflation expectations. It features a currency reform, with the new
cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros; a temporary price freeze on goods
and services; an exchange rate set at Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period
to be determined; wage adjustments to their average real value over the
previous 6 months, with annual adjustments thereafter, at least partly
indexed to inflation; the freezing for one year of rent and mortgage
payments; prohibition of indexation of financial contracts for periods of
less than a year, except for personal savings accounts; the conversion of
nominal cruzeiro contracts to appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of
indexed Government bonds to cruzados at the parity existing on February 28,
without any adjustment, at least for one year, in the nominal value of the
new bonds; and a number of measures intended to liberalize the financial
system. These sweeping financial reforms were accompanied by a continued
effort to reduce the fiscal deficit and to use monetary policy to stabilize
and, if possible, reduce real interest rates. A limited unemployment
insurance program was introduced.
13.       Initial results of the program were positive and popular support,
widespread. Consumer prices rose only by 3.4% in the March-June period,
while industrial wholesale prices declined by 2.8%. Economic activity,
after an initial pause, has continued to expand. GDP growth for 1986 is
expected to be about 7%. Investment indicators are increasing: capital
goods production was 26% higher in March-May than a year previously, while
machinery imports were 40% higher in the first half of 1986 than a year
ago. The trade surplus is running at an annual level of US$12.5 billion,
even with a 30% increase in non-oil imports during the first six months of
the year. Although the exchange rate is temporarily fixed, the real
effective exchange rate has not appreciated since February, helped by the
continuing fall in the U.S. dollar.
Economic Outlook
14.       Price stability is a priority objective of the Government.  The
Government's efforts to keep inflationary pressures from reemerging have
included keeping the public sector deficit under control, following a
prudent monetary policy, and using imports, as needed, to offset shortages
of key products while price controls are still in place. Initially, the
Government allowed a rapid, non-inflationary increase in the money supply,
following the adoption of the Cruzado Plan, to accommodate the public's



-5-
increased demand for money as Inflationary expectations were reduced. By
July, it was clear that domestic demand was increasing too rapidly.
Consequently, the Government tightened monetary policy, and interest rates
increased substantially. By August, the nomlnal rate on Government
securities was about 30% on an annualized basis, compared to 15% in March.
Given the large amount of domestic public debt, these higher interest rates
might make it difficult for the Government to achieve a fiscal deficit
below last year's level of 3.5% of GDP. Although the price freeze is being
maintained, some items (including beef, milk, automobiles, and selected
household items) have become scarce and unofficial premia are being charged
in some instances. There is clearly a need to gradually relax the price
freeze, in order to maintain public confidence in the Government's
stabilization program and longer-run growth plans. To decontrol prices
without causing a sharp acceleration of inflation, domestic demand would
have to be restrained further, the fiscal deficit reduced, and imports
increased.
15.       Sustained economic growth is also an important focus of the
Government's agenda. Its recently announced "Target Plan" for 1986-89 sets
national economic targets and priorities for major productive,
infrastructure, and social sectors. A National Development Fund has been
established to provide the resources for a major increase in public and
private investment. In addition, the Government is undertaking structural
adjustments which should foster more efficient growth. Among the more
important changes are those included in the program of agricultural sector
reforms, which have as major objectives the liberalization of the markets
for key agricultural goods and the establishment of positive, floating
interest rates for agricultural credit; and in the ongoing financial
reforms, designed to improve banking efficiency, develop long-term
financial instruments to support investment, and improve control over
monetary policy.
16.       GDP growth of 6-7% per annum is needed to improve living
standards, and to generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum)
required to fit new entrants into the labor force and reabsorb gradually
those still affected by the recent recession. As the Government
recognizes, long-term growth of this magnitude requires continued success
in the implementation of the stabilization program, further efforts to
reduce the public sector deficit, and the maintainance of a sound exchange
rate policy. A focus on further export promotion, improved resource
allocation and productive efficiency, public sector reforms, and increased
savings and investment is also needed.
17.       The country's prospects depend on external factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social
policies pursued within the country. Recent developments, including the
decline in international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have
been positive for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a
balance-of-payments gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in
July with commercial bank creditors reschedules 1985 maturities, rolls over
1986 maturities until early 1987, and reduces interest rates on this debt
from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR.  This agreement, which affects about 20%



- 6 -
of Brazil's variable rate debt, will reduce annual interest payments by
some US$140 million. A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make
it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Financing and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements In Its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of annual GDP
growth between 6 and 7% in 1986-90, with additional foreign financing.
Brazil's net medium- and long-term financing requirements from
multilateral, bilateral, and commercial sources are projected to average
about US$2.8 billion annually in the period 1986-90. Of this amount,
approximately US$1.5 billion would be needed annually from commercial
sources. With these moderate levels of net new foreign borrowing, Brazil's
total medium- and long-term debt would grow at an annual rate of about 3.0%
from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of international inflation, and
would thus decline in real terms.
20.       Brazil's creditworthiness indicators are expected to improve
substantially by the end of the decade. The medium- and long-term debt
service ratio is projected to fall from 77% of goods and non-factor service
exports in 1985, before the March rescheduling, to about 50% in 1990.
Similarly, the ratio of total external debt to exports, which amounted to
3.6 in 1985, is projected to decline to 2.4 by 1990. Nonetheless, debt
service payments will remain high. Interest payments alone would be
equivalent to 22% of exports in 1990, compared to 39% of exports in 1985.
Therefore, Brazil will either need to reschedule its commercial bank debt
further or seek much larger amounts of new gross borrowing. With
continuation of its adjustment program and of its sound balance-of-payments
performance, and an adequate but moderate flow of net new foreign
financing, Brazil's long-tenm prospects are good.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1986, the Bank had made 145 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,147.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1986 was



US$3,687.9 million. Debt outstanding and disbursed was US$5,042.0 million,
equivalent to 10% of the Bank's portfolio. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments.
22.       Over the FY77-85 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged
frJm US$425 million to about US$1,523 million per year. Eleven loans
iotalling US$1,620.0 million were approved in FY86. They were: a small
towns improvement project in the amount of US$24.5 million; a Northeast
urban reconstruction project for US$100.0 million; an irrigation
engineering project for US$48.0 million; a metropolitan urban development
project for US$55.0 million; a second agricultural extension project for
US$155.0 million; a Northeast rural development project for US$92.0
million; an irrigation project fur US$57.0 million; a Northeast health
project for $59.5 million; a public sector management project for US$29
million; a power sector project for US$500 million; and a credit and
marketing reform project for US$500 million. Work is advanced for an
industrial skills formation project; an urban transport project; a highways
project; an irrigation sector project; an investment finance project; and
several projects in the Northeast region, including the Itaparica
resettlement project and rural development and irrigation projects.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated at US$89 billion at the end of
1985. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 5.5% while its share
in total debt service is estimated at 3.9%.
24.       As of March 31, 1986, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,041.14 million, of which US$710.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$330.41 million, US$255.47 million
represent loans and US$74.94 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1986 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Sustained economic growth with social progress requires
substantial domestic adjustments. Stability and growth will depend on
tighter public sector expenditure and deficit control, increased savings
and investment, and a sound balance of payments. To reduce the fiscal
deficit, and to promote greater overall efficiency in the use of available
domestic and external resources, the Governmnent will have to reduce its
participation in direct productive activities, while concentrating a
growing share of its total expenditures in the social sectors and in other
traditional Government services. The private sector, therefore, will have
an increasingly important role in the future growth of productivity and
production. In this policy framework, the Bank lending strategy is
designed to support the ongoing restructuring process, promote the
mobilization and effective use of resources, and contribute to the
attainment of social and regional development objectives to which high
priority is also attached by the Government.
26.       The Bank lending strategy is supported by an intensive economic
policy dialogue, through which the conclusions of the Bank's economic and



sector work are being taken into account by the Brazilian authorities. The
composition of the lending program has been decided jointly by the
Government and the Bank, also in support of the strategy summarized above.
Most of the proposed loans aim at supporting one or more of three key
objectives: (a) structural reforms in agriculture, industry and the
management of the public sector; (b) the rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure; and (c) the increase in productivity, and the
improvement in living conditions, of the rural and urban poor.
27.       Three projects, that were approved by the Executive Directors in
June 1986, address important aspects of the structural reform process, in
support of the first lending objective. The Public Sector Management Loan
is directed toward improving programming and monitoring within the
Government and developing capacity within the Pldnning Ministry to promote
the financial rehabilitation of state enterprises. An important aspect of
this loan is the annual exchange of views between the Bank and the
Government on the public investment program. The Power Sector
Rehabilitation Loan will deepen the process of rehabilitating an important
group of state enterprises. The four-year sector investment program
includes only high priority projects, and its .ssociated financial plan
envisages the full financial rehabilitation of the sector during the
1986-89 period, with substantial annual increases in sector revenues,
beginning in 1987. Finally, the Credit and Marketing Reform Loan supports
an important reform program based upon a market-oriented shift in the
Government's agricultural policies. The major policy reforms are: (i) the
adoption of a new rural credit policy based on floating interest rates,
which will imply a substantial reduction of credit subsidies; and (ii) the
liberalization of trade of key agricultural products, including the removal
of controls on exports, imports, and prices, except in the case of extreme
price fluctuations.
28.       Taken together, the policies and decisions referred to in the
previous paragraph constitute a major step forward in the process of
structural reform of the Brazilian econumy. These reforms are part of
Brazil's short- and medium-term economic program, which is now being
updated by the Government to take full account of the expected results of
the financial and stabilization policy decisions adopted since January and
February of this year. Subsequent operations in support of Brazil's
structural adjustment process are likely to be related, inter alia, to the
ongoing reform of the country's financial system; to the increase in
efficiency and competitiveness of the agricultural and industrial sectors;
and to the power sector rehabilitation program.
29.       The second lending objective--rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure--will be pursued mainly through loans for power,
transportation, and water supply and sewerage, some of which are also aimed
at other key objectives. Of particular importance in this respect are the
planned operations for the power sector; these operations would support the
implementation of the Sector Rehabilitation Program that was prepared and
approved by the Government in connection with the FY86 Power Sector
Rehabilitation loan. Lending for transportation will be directed toward
the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing transportation network



- 9 -
with expansion in areas where economic activity is outgrowing present
capacity. Future loans for water supply and sewerage will be mostly
directed to the Northeast Region.
30.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research and extension, land reform,
integrated rural development, water supply, sewerage, and health are
already assisting the improvement of the living conditions, and the
increase in productivity of the Brazilian population, particularly the
rural and urban poor of the Northeast Region. Future lending in the health
sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in the North-
east, and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the Northwest.
Continued lending for integrated rural development and irrigation projects
in the Northeast of Brazil will support the Government's objectives to
further alleviate poverty, by reducing the region's vulnerability to
drought, improving regional institutions, and broadening land ownership.
Further lending for urban development will address ways to improve urban
services and infrastructure, while simultaneously strengthening the
financial basis of municipalities, particularly in the Northeast Region,
with a view toward self-financing of investments and cost recovery. New
projects for water supply and sewerage will also foster these goals while
extending services to rural areas and to the low-income urban population.
Education leading will continue to strengthen financial and administrative
capacity while also increasing the contribution of education to the
development process, especially in the Northeast. Environmental and
resettlement issues associated with electric power investments in the
Northeast are being addressed in the Power Sector loan, approved in FY86,
and in a proposed Itaparica resettlement project.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources
from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions. Since
1976, 11 cofinancing operations for about US$570 million were arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. There have been no coflnancing
opportunities with commercial banks in the past four years, as the volume
and terms of commercial bank financing available to Brazil were determined
within the framework of debt rescheduling negotiations. In view, however,
of Brazil's current programs of structural adjustment, its recent progress
in restoring a sound balance-of-payments position, and its current efforts
to control inflation, the prospects for renewed voluntary lending from
commercial banks should be improving, although the likelihood of a future
multi-year rescheduling might pose some difficulties in this respect. In
this framework, the Bank's cofinancing instruments may well play a positive
role in assisting Brazil to regain its normal access to international
capital markets.



- 10 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
32.       Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In
1970, agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active
population and 67% of total exports. In 1984, these figures were 13%, 30%,
and 38%, respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was rapid expansion in
Brazil's agriculture (5% per annum); during the recession in the early
1980s, output and investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
33.       The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply
disparate rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual
crops. The most dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy
capital investment or high levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus,
tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane, on large commercial farms in central and
southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and in some cases declines,
were recorded for such staple food crops as rice, maize, wheat, beans,
manioc and potatoes.
34.       These trends in agricultural output were reflected in
agricultural trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports
depended heavily on soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar.
Of total agricultural exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15% were
accounted for by these five crops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of
Brazil's US$9.43 billion of agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of
agricultural exports hardly grew at all, except in 1984, when coffee and
orange juice were aided by highly favorable price movements.
The Rural Nortbeast
35.       The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia,
the northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais, and the island of
Fernando do Noronha, with a total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18% of the
country's total area). The Northeast has been the nation's foremost
problem region since the late 1800s.
36.       Drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and
limited employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of poverty
and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from
the region, partially in response to a five-year drought (1979 to 1983).
In 1980, the Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 29% of
the country's total), growing at 2.2% per annum with a population density
of 22.5 inhabitants per km2. Half the population lives in rural areas and
over 50% of the work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is
highly concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70% of all farms) occupy less than
6% of the farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all farms) occupy more than
40% of the farm area. Rural incomes are very low. In 1980, over 80% of
the rural population earned less than the minimum salary (about US$675
annually, or 35% of the national average).



- 11 -
37.       The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal,
cassava, sugar, and cotton) represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture. The agreste, a transitional zone contiguous with
semi-arid areas, is dominated by mixed farming, as well as the raising of
cattle. The sparsely populated, semi-arid sertao is the largest of the
subregions and the most vulnerable to periodic droughts.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
38.       Until the 1950s most Government efforts to assist in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and
incentives for export crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development
and the need for improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of
the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE).  SUDENE
was originally responsible for coordination of public investment, drought
emergency measures and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new
private investment. The initiative for regional policy formulation was
transferred to various Federal agencies in the 19709 with SUDENE continuing
to play an important role in the coordination of federally-funded special
rural programs.
39.       The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The
first was based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It
included the Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Develupment of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast and the Special Program of Support for
Poor Populations of the Sugar Growing Zones. The second approach was
concerned with alleviating the effects of drought. It included several
parallel programs such as the Water Resources Use Prograw, the Semi-Arid
Tropics Research Program and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well
as large federal public irrigation projects.
40.       Planning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first
two approaches in alleviating rural poverty had been limited. The new
initiative is being implemented through a series of sectoral projects in
such areas as land tenure, federal irrigation, health, education and
integrated rural development. The Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP) is a 15-year program based upon a comprehensive regional policy
framework, subsectoral strategy guidelines, multi-year state rural
investment plans and the integration of all rural special programs under
unified planning and implementation procedures.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
41.       The Bank has made 38 loans, totalling US$2,897.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one credit and
marketing reform loan for US$500 million; supplemental financing for



- 12 -
US$30.5 million under the Special Action Program; three loans for
US$519.2 million, for agroindustries; two, for US$60.5 million, for
livestock; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two, for
US$100 million for agricultural research; two for US$255 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement;
and 24, totalling US$1,011.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation
and rural development projects in the Northeastl/, in Minas Gerais, and in
the North and Northwest. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Alto
Turi Land Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the project raised
settler incomes beyond expectations, but was less successful in the areas
of environmental protection, community organization and strengthening of
cooperatives. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Lower Sao
Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed that, despite
implementation delays due to design changes and social tension in the area,
beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates, and small
farmers were capable of moving successfully from subsistence to commercial
agriculture.
42.       Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight states of the Northeast. Approved
from 1976 to 1983, six of the projects are still being executed and the
other four have been substantially completed. Implementation has improved
over the years, especially in project planning and agency coordination.
All projects have experienced implementation and disbursement delays mainly
because of the unusually severe 1979-83 drought, delays in providing local
funds, limited execution capacity for carrying out small-scale irrigation
activities and initial lags in the generation of drought-resistant
technology for small farmers. These problems were addressed during the
preparation of the NRDP.
The State of Piaui
43.       Location and Natural Features. Piaui, with 250,000 km2, is the
third largest state in the Northeast. It has few important rivers, but has
an abundant aquifer. However, soils are typically acid and of low
fertility, except in the river valleys. The climate varies from semi-humid
to semi-arid with irregular annual rainfall that ranges from 1,600 mm on
the coast to 600 am in the southeast. The vegetation consists of savannah
in the southwest, dry bush in the semi-arid southeast and native palm that
covers the central region.
44.       Economic and Social Conditions.  Piaui is one of the poorest
states in the country. Almost 80% of the 2.3 million inhabitants earn less
than one tenth of the average GDP per capita in Brazil (1980). The
situation is worse in rural areas, where 60% of the population generates
only 22% of Piaui's GDP. Infant mortality is high (140 deaths/1,000 live
1,   A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast, Washington, D.C. 1983.



- 13 -
births), and three-quarters of the children under the age of five suffer
from malnutrition. The lack of potable water and sanitation are major
problems. The average life expectancy for someone living in Piaui is ten
years lower than the average for all Brazil.
45.       Land Use, Tenure and Production.  One-tenth of Piauit's
agricultural area is cropped, four-tenths are grazed, and half is covered
with forest and bush.  Land tenure is concentrated; over 90% of Piaui's
250,000 farms are less than 100 ha, but account for only 20% of the State's
territory.  Most small farmers do not own the land they work; however 80Z
of Piaut's rice, bean, cassava, and maize crops is produced by them,
although yields are as much as 40% below the averages for Northeast
Brazil.  Piaui is only self-sufficient in rice and cassava and imports 40%
of other food crops, in addition to large quantities of beef, fish, and
poultry.
46.       Agricultural Services.   A Technical Unit (T.U.) within the State
Secretariat of Planning was created to administer and coordinate the
State's rural development programs.  Agricultural research is the
responsibility of the Piaui Branch (UEPAE-PI) of the Federal Agricultural
Research Company (EMBRAPA). Agricultural extension is provided by the
State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMATER-PI) through
a network of regional and local offices. Agricultural credit is provided
through an adequate branch network of four major banks, the Bank of Brazil,
the Bank of Northeast Brazil, the National Bank for Cooperative Credit and
the State Bank of Piaui. Water resource development, still at an incipient
stage, is the responsibility of the State Agricultural Development Company
(CIDAPI). Land cadastral activities are handled by the State Land
Institute.
47.       Rural Development.  The Bank has financed the Piaui Rural
Development (Parnaiba Valley) Project with a loan of US$29 million (Loan
2015-BR) signed in August 1981. Project implementation has been consistent
with that of other POLONORDESTE projects (para. 42 above). The project is
one of the few in the Northeast that has successfully implemented a
comprehensive set of land activities; it has also given the State
sufficient experience to implement the proposed project which covers a much
larger area. The closing date for the on-going project is December 31,
1986, when the area would be incorporated into the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
48.       The NRDP presents a new opportunity for the Bank to support
poverty alleviation and institution-building objectives in the Northeast of
Brazil. Common problems detected in the on-going projects (para. 42
above), skewed patterns of land ownership and the experience gained by
SUDENE and state institutions, convinced both the Government and the Bank
that a unified regional and sectoral approach was needed.



- 14 -
49.       In August 1982 the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP, which will eventually consist of ten projects. In
April 1985, as part of the Program, the Bank approved the Northeast Rural
Development I and II Projects (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR) for the States of
Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte. In addition to supporting the Sergipe
Rural Development Plan, the first project established the structure and
operating procedures for regional program planning, coordination and
research to support all ten Northeast state rural development plans. In
June 1985, the Bank approved the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project (Loan 2593-BR) that finances land cadastral activities in all ten
Northeastern states. In June 1986, the Bank approved a Northeast Rural
Development Project for the State of Pernambuco (Loan 2718-BR); similar
projects for the States of Bahia and Ceara are presented jointly with the
project proposed in this report. A project for the State of Maranhao has
already been appraised, and the three remaining projects for the States of
Alagoas, Paraiba and Minas Gerais are being prepared for Bank appraisal.
50.       Preparation of the Piaui project was carried out by the TU
(para. 46 above) with assistance from SUDENE, the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program, and the Bank. The project was appraised by the Bank
in October/November 1985, and negotiations took place in May 1986. The
Brazilian delegation was led by Ms. Stael Martins Baltar of the Federal
Ministry of Planning. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6117-BR) is being
distributed separately. Annex III provides other key project data.
Priority Areas
51.       Based on the relative concentration of small farmers and on the
existence of an underdeveloped agricultural potential, the TU selected 70
of Piaui's 115 municipalities as priority areas for development. These
municipalities lie in ten of the State's eleven regions (Map IBRD 19575).
Project Objectives and Description
52.       The main objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(a) increase agricultural production and productivity in the State;
(b) generate employment opportunities for low-income farm families;
(c) increase Piaui's capacity to provide efficient agricultural services to
its small farmers; and (d) promote water resource development and
technology generation and diffusion to decrease small farmer vulnerability
to recurring drought. The project would benefit an estimated 65,000
low-income farm families. The project components are described below.
53.       Water Resource Development.  This component would include
(a) construction of two state-managed irrigation schemes and consolidation
of five schemes in the Parnaiba Valley totalling 3,595 ha of newly
irrigated land and benefiting about 1,450 farm families; (b) studies to
support the development of the State's irrigation plan and the preparation
of irrigation projects for implementation under a subsequent stage of the
NRDP; (c) a program of technical assistance to strengthen implementing
capacity of state irrigation agencies; (d) construction of about 300 simple
water supply systems and repairs of about 1000 systems (70% of which are



- 15 -
still working), benefiting a total of 200,000 people in small rural
communities; and (e) construction of two fish hatcheries to produce about
9 million fingerlings per year, fish research, and extension to about 3,000
fishermen. In addition, 4,000 ha of private irrigation and 150 small
fishermen would be financed under the rural investment credit conponent.
During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a)
prior to initiating engineering design it would submit for Bank approval an
environmental impact study of the reservoir to be created by the Piracuruca
dam; (b) a panel of experts would review the final design and inspect the
construction of the Piracuruca dam as well as undertake periodic reviews of
all major dams servicing schemes covered by the project; (c) within six
months of loan signature, it would define with SUDENE's assistance and in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank: (i) the internal structures of the
Irrigation Division in the State Secretariat of Planning and of CIDAPI's
Water Resource Unit, (ii) staffing requirements and staff profiles for
those agencies, and (iii) their operational linkages; and (d) put the
preceding organizational improvements into effect.
54.       Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production.   Research would
be directed towards simple technology to make farming systems more
productive and resistant to possible drought and would include:
(a) construction and equipping of two substations; (b) four agroecological
and natural resource studies to assist in future research planning; (c) 345
short- and medium-term applied research trials at experiment stations to
improve production technology; (d) 42 farm-level observation units to test
and adapt integrated farm production technology; (e) basic seed and nursery
stock production on about 75 ha; and (f) production and distribution of 800
improved breeding goats.
55.       Agricultural Extension.  This component would include:  (a)
establishment and equipping of 35 local offices; (b) establishment of about
1,800 demonstration plots; (c) salaries and recurrent costs for 370
agricultural and social extension agents, 50 subject-matter specialists and
supervisory personnel, and about 110 administrative staff; and
(d) production of about 10 million tree seedlings for reforestation.
56.       Rural Credit.  The project would finance medium- and long-term
credit for on-farm investments for about 19,500 farmers (30% of the 65,000
direct beneficiaries). A greater number would receive short-term
production credit to be financed by the participating banks (para. 46
above). Farmers would contribute with their labor to on-farm investment
but, due to limited savings after the drought, financing would cover up to
100% of the cost of goods required for on-farm investment, with a maximmu
repayment period of twelve years and a maximum grace period of three
years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes larger than 4 ha, and
automobiles would not be eligible. Financing would not exceed ceilings
established for the NRDP credit program in the Central Bank's Manual for
Rural Credit for individual farmers and, also, for farmer's associations
and cooperatives provided that 70% of their members are small farmers who
would directly benefit from the investments (see para. 69 below).



- 16 -
57.       Marketing Services.  The component is designed to increase
farmers' knowledge of marketing and prices, improve the provision of
agricultural inputs, and help the State establish a food wholesaling
service in rural areas. To achieve this, the project would include:
(a) expansion of the marketing information service (SIMA); (b) marketing of
improved seed through cooperatives; and (c) establishment of a food
wholesale service for private retailers by the Federal Food Company
(COBAL), including the expansion of two rural service centers.
58.       Support to Small Rural Communities.  This component would
facilitate small-farmer participation in the project and create job
opportunities. The component would include: (a) creation of a community
development (CD) fund of about US$19.3 million to make grants for local
subprojeets; (b) purchase of vehicles and equipment; and (c) hiring and
training of 23 community development agents. EMATER-PI would be
responsible for the implementation of the component and the TU for
administering the CD fund. Farmers' groups would identify, plan and
execute subprojects that would encompass economic activities or community
infrastructure and would include training for community leaders. Written
proposals detailing objectives, benefits, implementation methodology, and
cost-sharing would be subject to Municipal Councils' approval. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) the CD
fund would be established and maintained under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) no funds would be released to beneficiary
groups prior to the signing of the agreement between the TU and the groups
or mumnicipalities (in the case of unincorporated groups); and (c) not later
than December 31, 1988, the Bank and the TU would review the performance of
the grants for economic subprojects to establish the feasibility of further
funding of subprojects on a loan basis.
59.       Project Administration and Training.  The TU has been designated
to administer, coordinate and integrate all federally-funded rural programs
under the project. All project related training would be centrally
coordinated by the TU. The project would strengthen the TU's
administrative capabilities by financing salaries of about 70 higher-level
and related support staff, travel expenses, office equipment, training and
other operating costs. The current administrative organization for the
ongoing project (para. 47 above) would be restructured to take account of
the proposed state-wide rural development project. During negotiations,
the State Government provided assurances that the TU would be reorganized,
and adequately staffed and maintained.
Land Tenure Improvement
60.       Secure land tenure is essential for sustained rural development.
The improvement of land tenure conditions in the Northeast continues to be
a complex task that has justified a single, regional, Bank-financed
project, the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (para. 49
above). Redistribution targets, procedures for land acquisition,
allotment, and beneficiary selection were agreed as conditions for that
loan. During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that in the project priority areas: (a) at least 132,000 ha



- 17 -
would be available for redistribution to project beneficiaries by
March 31, 1988; and (b) at least an additional 113,000 ha would be
available by March 31, 1990.
Project Organization and Implementation
61.       Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission
(IC), chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior (HINTER)
and comprised of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Planning, Land Reform, and Finance, and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has
overall policy, planning and budgeting responsibility for the NRDP. As
regional coordinator of the NRDP, SUDENE's Directorate for the Program of
Support to Small Farmers would be receiving policy backing from a regional
Rural Development Council (RDC) which now is being established and would
include representatives from all the Northeastern states.
62.       State and Local Levels.  A State Rural Development Council
(SRDC), chaired by the Governor, with the Secretary for Planning as
Executive Secretary, and with up to five other State Secretaries, would
provide overall guidance for rural development activities. The day-to-day
work would be carried out by the TU under its own budget, salary structure
and administrative personnel procedures. Because the unification of the
federally-funded Northeast rural special programs is important, it would be
a condition of loan effectiveness that the Bank be provided with evidence
that the planning, budgeting, staffing and administration of all
federally-funded rural special programs in Piaui have been be unified under
the coordination of the TU.
63.       Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the eight-year implementation
period. Once the Federal Government establishes overall funding
availability for the NRDP for the next year, state allocations would be
established by SUDENE in consultation with the RDC. The TU would
consolidate each executing agency's detailed annual operating plans, ensure
internal consistency and submit them for approval by SRDC and SUDENE.
SUDENE would consolidate state plans into a regional operating plan to be
presented to the IC as the basis for the portaria (administrative
regulation) signed by the Ministers and legally establishing budget
allocations for each State. During negotiations, the Federal Government
provided assurances that: (a) the regional operating plan would be sent
each year to the Bank for comment prior to approval; (b) the portaria, the
final regional operating plan and the Piaui staize operating plan would
be sent to the Bank not later than April 1 of each year; and (c) any
proposed changes in the planning and budgeting process would be submitted
to the Bank for comment prior to enactment.
64.       Accounts and Auditing.  Each agency would maintain its own
separate accounts for project expenditures, to be audited annually by
auditors acceptable to the Bank.  During negotiations, the Federal and
State Governments provided assurances that: (a) project accounts would be
maintained according to practices satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of
reference for the auditors would include verification of the Statements of



- 18 -
Expenditures and the Special Account; and (c) copies of the audit report
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of the project's
fiscal year.
65.       Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered into between: (a) the TU and federal
agencies; (b) executing agencies, with the participation of the TU, when
more than one is involved in executing a project component; and (c) the TU
or an executing agency and the concerned municipality or group prior to
construction of civil works or initiation of a community subproject. These
agreements would provide execution guidelines and targets, reporting
requirements, procedures for inter-agency collaboration and funding
conditions linked to performance criteria. During negotiations, the
Federal and State Governments provided assurances that they would enter
into all necessary agreements not later than six months after loan
signing.
66.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation arrange-
ments have simplified reporting requirements and would provide accurate and
timely information for project management and annual planning. The TU
would receive from executing agencies monthly reports on key physical and
financial indicators and would produce quarterly consolidated monitoring
summaries. During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that: (a) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank not later
than three months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter; (b) the
TU's Monitoring and Evaluation division would be fully staffed under condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) terms of reference and institu-
tional arrangements for evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Cost
67.       Total project costs are estimated at US$160.3 million (see Loan
and Project Summary) with a direct and indirect foreign exchange component
of US$15.3 million, or about 10%. The total cost is based on the
assumption that all goods and services would be acquired in Brazil, with
the exception of specialized consultants' services. The cost estimate
includes about US$5.8 million equivalent in applicable local taxes.
Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 1% and 14% of baseline
costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs
at 15% for irrigation and water supply construction; 10% for other
construction; and 5% for equipment, furniture and vehicles. Price
contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms, based on international
inflation rates estimated at 7.2% for 1986, 6.8% for 1987 and 1988, 7.0%
for 1989, 7.1% for 1990 and 4.0% thereafter. It was assumed that periodic
local currency devaluations, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis,
would compensate for differences between projected US dollar inflation and
local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
68.       The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$78.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of



- 19 -
taxes. The proposed loan would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs and 43% of local cost.. The loan would be repayable over 15
years, including 3 years of grace, and would bear interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate. The loan would be made to the Federative Republic
of Brazil, which would carry the foreign exchange risk and provide
counterpart funds as necessary to complete the project. Funding procedures
would be those adopted for the NRDP (para 63 above). Funds would be
channelled from the Treasury, through MINTER and SUDENE to either a
specific project account in the State for activities executed by state
agencies or directly to federal executing agencies. Monthly advances of
Government counterpart funds would also be made through the Central Bank to
cover the estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures. During negotia-
tions, the Federal Government provided assurances that the portaria
(administrative regulation) establishing the above funding procedures would
not be changed without Bank approval. The Government, moreover, took
additional decisions in August 1986 to ensure the timely availability of
counterpart funds. These decisions include the provision in the annual
Federal Budget of the full amount required for the execution of all the
Northeast Rural Development projects; the monthly release of these
resources in accordance with schedules and amounts agreed upon with the
Bank; and the simplification of procedures for chanelling the released
funds to the project executing units.
On-Lending Terms
69.       Proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant basis,
to participating federal agencles and the State of Piaui. In the case of
agricultural credit, the Central Bank would rediscount the subloans dis-
bursed by the participating banks. Following the February 28, 1986 finan-
cial and monetary reform (para. 13 above), the Government decided, in May
1986, to adopt a new interest rate policy for rural credit. This policy-
which is part of the policy framework for the Credit and Marketing Reform
project (paras. 22 and 27 above)--aims at maintaining, in general, interest
rates that would be positive in real terms and would fluctuate according to
market conditions. Another important policy objective is to reduce credit
subsidies substantially. There would be a general agricultural interest
rate, applicable to rural investment credit operations outside the North
and Northeast regions, equal to the rate on commercial banks' certificates
of deposit (Certificados de Deposito Bancario, CDB) minus 10 percentage
points. This rate would be adjusted every six months, on March 1st and
September 1st of each year, to a level 10 percentage points below the CDB
rate prevailing then. For short-term credit, the interest rate would be
initially set at the level prevailing for investment credit at the time of
signing the contract and would remain fixed for the term of the loan.
Until February 28, 1987, the general rate has been fixed at 10 and it is
expected that, in subsequent periods, the rate will fluctuate near 10% in
real terms. The interest rates for investment and short-term credit to be
applied to the small Northeast farmers who would benefit from the proposed
project would be: 2 percentage points below the general rate, for
investments in sugarcane, cocoa, coffee and rubber; 3 percentage points
below the general rate, for investments in irrigation, which would be
changed to 2.5 percentage points below the general rate in 1987, and to 2



- 20 -
percentage points below in 1988 and thereafter; end 30% of the general
rate, for other investments. These rates represent a substantial
improvement over the ones prevailing until last February.
70.       During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that: (a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the
participating banks to carry out the project's investment credit component;
(b) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry out this
component in accordance with the lending terms and conditions set forth in
paras. 56 and 69 above; (c) each of the participating banks would provide
monthly information to SUDENE and the T.U. on investment credit
availability, demand and lending per bank agency; and (d) priority would be
given by the participating banks to allocations of short-term production
credit to their agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to
finance the working capital requirements of project beneficiaries. The new
rural interest policy referred to in para. 69 above has provided the basis
for an amendment to the original agreement between the Bank and the
Government on rural interest rates (negotiated in February 1983), in
connection with the Agricultural Credit and Export Development Project
(Loan 2348-BR). This amendment also provides for an annual review of
Brazil's agricultural credit policy by the Bank and the Government.
Cost Recovery
71.       Although it is not Government policy to obtain full cost recovery
on rural programs for low-income families, current legislation allows
CIDAPI to recover 130X of annual operation and maintenance costs, arid
public investments in common irrigation and drainage infrastructure over a
50-year period. The initial investment is revalued but without charging
interest.2/ The mnicipalities would cover the costs of operation and
maintenance of the water supply services until the Northeast Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Program begins in 1988; at that stage, consumers
would be expected to pay for the service. During negotiations, the State
Government provided assurances that: (a) cost recovery provisions for
public irrigation schemes would be implemented in accordance with
Government legislation that is satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) drinking
water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would
begin to be charged to consumers in 1989.
Procurement
72.       Civil works, estimated at US$16.8 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry that is
capable of carrying out project works. As individual construction works
are small and dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be
interested, but would not be excluded from bidding. Some comminity
development civil works would be carried out by the beneficiaries under
2/   For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects, see
Brazil: Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation ProJect, Sta'f
Appraisal Report (Green Cover Report No. 5975-BR).



- 21 -
agreements with the TU (para. 58 above). Equipment, materials and vehicles
required by the project, totalling some US$6.6 million, almost all locally
produced, would be procured by the several executing agencies at various
locations over the project implementation period, in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Civil works
contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000 and goods aad services
contracts for more than US$100,000 would be subject to prior Bank review of
procurement documentation (about 70% and 20% of the value of civil works,
and goods and services, respectively). Consultants' services totalling
some 11 man-years, would be procured both locally and internationally in
accordance with Bank guidelines. During negotiations, the Federal and
State Governments provided assurances that they would follow the
procurement arrangements outlined above and in the following table.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Type of Project Expenditure  LCB       Other         N.A.          Total
Civil Works                16.8 ( 9.2)                          16.8  ( 9.2)
Equipment, Vehicles
and Furniture             6.6 ( 1.8)                           6.6  C 1.8)
Technical Assistance                   1.0 (1.0)                 1.0  C 1.0)
Studies and Training                                4.3 ( 2.2)   4.3  C 2.2)
Rural Investment Credit                            41.2 (28.8)  41.2  (28.8)
Cormmnity Subprojects                              19.3 (13.5)  19.3  (13.5)
Salares and Allowances                            52.4 (14.5)  52.4  (14.5)
Other Operating Expenses  _       _                18.7 ( 7.0)  18.7  ( 7.0)
Total                   23.4 (11.0) 1.0 (1.0) 135.9 (66.0) 160.3  (78.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the estimated respective amounts to lit
financed by the Bank.
Disbursements
73.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout
the eight-and-a-half-year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against
project expenditures made for water resource development, credit and
support to small commmunities, and at a rate of 50% against expenditures
made for marketing. Foreign consultants' services for water resource
development would be financed at 100% of foreign expenditures.
Disbursements for the remaining components, which have a high rate of
recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project expenditures
until aggregate amounts of US$1.4 million for agricultural research,
US$6.8 million for extension, and US$2.1 million for administration and
training have been disbursed. Tlereafter, disbursements for those
categories would be made at a rate of 30% of project expenditures until
aggregate amounts of US$1.8 million for agricultural research,



- 22 -
US$8.0 million for extension, and US$2.5 millioai for administration and
training have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these categories
would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. To enable an early start of
project execution, project expenditures (except agricultural credit)
incurred after December 1, 1985 (end of project appraisal), but before loan
signature, would be eligible for reimbursement up to US$4.0 million
equivalent. However, no disbursements would be made for the extension,
researcb, water supply, irrigation, fisheries and administration components
in the municipalities of the ongoing project until funds allocated for
those components under Loan 2015-BR have been fully committed or cancelled
(para. 47 above). Disbursement projections reflect the disbursement
profile for previous rural development projects in Brazil.
74.       Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical
assistance expenses under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of
Expenditure prepared by the various executing agencies and certified by the
TU. Supporting doc"umentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would
be made available during project supervision. Standard documentation for
contracts exceeding US$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank. To reduce
Government prefinancing requirements, a Special Account would be opened in
the Central Bank with an initial deposit equivalent to US$3.5 million.
Withdrawals in cruzados from the Special Account, supported by Statements
of Expenditures, would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the
date of the expenditure.  The Central Bank would send the corresponding
withdrawal applications to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special
Account. The disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated to finance the
construction of public irrigation schemes would be subject to the following
conditions: (a) Bank approval of the scope and contents of the technical
assistance program for state irrigation agencies (para. 53(c) above);
(b) receipt by the Bank of proof of acquisition of the land required for
such schemes; and tc) Bank approval of detailed engineering designs,
resettlement plans, and operation and maintenance standards for such
schemes. Any loan proceeds so allocated, which by June 30, 1988 are not
committed to a specific public irrigation scheme approved by the Bank,
would be cancelled.
Project Benefits and Justification
75.       Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The impact of the project
on production would result from increased productivity and an expansion of
cropped areas. At full project development, the annual value of
incremental production is estimated to be US$40 million; annual fiscal
revenues from the value-added tax on agricultural products is estimated to
be US$4.8 million. Incremental production, that would be marketed through
existing channels, is not expected to create marketing constraints as
Piaui's present production does not meet demand (para. 45 above).
Improved marketing facilities, water supply systems and community
activities would also provide substantial benefits to the population,
especially to women. Expanded agricultural activity would create jobs
equivalent to some 19,000 man-years annually. Improved farming practices
and careful use of agrochemicals due to an expanded and trained extension
staff would have a beneficial impact on the environment. Estimated



- 23 -
financial rates of return for illustrative farm models range from 27% to
46%. Family incomes of project beneficiaries, who all belong to the
poverty target group, are estimated to range between US$1,386 and US$2,221
at full development, representing an increase of 55% to 125% over present
farm income levels, not taking into account any supplemental income from
off-farm work.
76.       Economic Analysis   The economic rate of return has been
estimated at 18%. Sensitivity tests showed that when project benefits fall
by 40% or project costs rise by over 67% the rate of return falls below the
estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three years in
achieving project benefits, such as might occur during a severe drought,
would result in a 13% rate of return.
Project Risks
77.       Although projects under NRDP are simpler in design than previous
rural development projects, efficient delivery of project services and
inter-institutional cooperation would still be important for project
success. The project includes monitoring, evaluation and technical
assistance to foster a more efficient institutional environment. Delays
and shortfalls in counterpart funding and rural credit could decrease the
proposed project's impact. Recent changes in funding procedures, the
merging of the rural special programs, the regional scope of the Northeast
Rural Development Program, of which the project is part, and the broad
support which the program enjoys among Government and local leaders, should
help the project to receive adequate funding. At farm level, the security
of land tenure is still a problem; implementation of the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and of the Government's
agrarian reform should help minimize this risk. Many farmers still face
recurring drought conditions. Decreasing these risks has influenced
project design by increasing the focus on water resource development and on
small farmer technology generation and diffusion.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
September 25, 1986
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
- 24 -
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
BRAZIL
Reference Groups (MAE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965        1973    Estimate        LAC           Europe
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)   8512.0         8512.0      8512.0
Agricultural (X of total)           21.1        24.6        28.0
GNP PER CAPITA (UMS)                    ..           ..     1720.0      1782.8      1973.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)         84292.1   102982.1    132580.1
Urban pop. (% of total)             50.4        59.3        71.7        68.9        48.4
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                          2.5         2.3         2.3          1.6
Urban                                          4.7         4.0         3.6         3.7
Life expect. at birth (yrs)         56.9        60.0        64.1        65.6        67.9
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (mill)                                      178.6
Stationary pop. (mili)                                   292.9
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land                46.9        49.3        55.5        53.5       149.1
Pop. age structure (X):
0-14 yrs                         44.0         42.7        37.5        38.7        31.3
i5-64 yrs                        53.1        54.1        58.4         57.1        61.8
65 and above                      2.9          3.2         4.1         4.3         7.2
Crude birth rate (per thou)         39.3        33.4        29.6        30.1        23.0
Crude death rate (per thou)         11.0         9.6         8.0         7.7         8.B
rotal fertility rate                5.8          4.7         3.7         3.9         3.0
Infant mort. rate (per thou)    104.5           89.8        67.8        56.1        53.8
Child death rate (per thou)         15.4        11.0         5.5         4.3         5.0
Family planning:
Acceptors. annual (thou)            ..       147.9
Users (l of married women)          ..          ..        50.0        46.2
FOOO. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 a 100)              85.6        90.6       114.6       105.2       101.8
Per capita supply of:
Calories (Z of requirmnts)    100.6          102.9       106.0       109.3       129.S
Proteins (grams per day)         60.5         59.8        59.8        65.0        88.4
Pop. per phy5icIan (thou)            2.5         1.8         1.3 a       1.3          1.1
Pop. per nurse (thou)                1.5         1.1         1.2 b       1.2         0.9
Pop. per nospital bed (thou)         0.4         0.3         0.3 a       0.4         0.3
Access to safe water
(C  of population):  Total          ..       55.0        71.0 a      66.3         76.5
Urban         ..        78.0        80.0 a      77.0        95.1
Rural         ..        28.0        51.0 a      44.8        62.6
Population Growth              Infant Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
5     .0 ------              0                                 _
4- ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      a
2-                          D.~~~~~~~~ 
-   40-
3965-73 1973-34         1960 1965 1970 1975 1930      1960 1965 1970 1975 lED
ZI BRAZIL                                       U  SRAZIL
CzrlRST R  GROUP                                a  rIRST REF GROUP



ANNXS I
-25-                                   Page 2 of 7
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
BRAZIL
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recant    MId-Incom      Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate       LAC           Europe
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (tnou)       26505.6    32280.6    44259.1
Femal  ()                       18 .        21.0       24.0        23.9        36.6
Agriculture (20                 48.5        40.6       31.2 a      31.8        43.2
Industry (70                    20.0        23.3       26.6 a      26.0        25.0
Participation rate (7)
Total                           31.4        31.3       33.4        32.3        42.9
Male                            50.6        49.1       50.3        49.2        54.5
Fmale                           12.0        13.3        16.0       15.4        31.4
Age dspendency ratio               0.9         0.8         0.7        0.8         0.6
HDUSING
Average size of household:
Total                                        4.8        4.2 a
Urban                                        4.6         4.1 a
Rural                                        5.2        4.5 a
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                                       55.6       67.4 a
Urban                                       79.1       38.5 a
Rural                                       12.5       20.6 a
EDUCArION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                 108.0        82.0      102.0       107.3       103.9
male                  109.0       82.0       106.0       109.7      111.0
Female                108.0       82.0        99.0       105.8      106.6
Secondary: Total                16.0        17.0       42.0 a      49.1        55.5
Male                 16.0        16.0       31.0 a      44.5       60.2
Female              I6.0 lSO               36.0 a     46.7        50.6
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                         28.2        22.2       26.0        29.8        24.7
Secondary                       14.9        10.4       15.7        16.3        16.0
Pupils reaching grade 6 ((%)                  33.2       39.3        55.2        95.4
INCOME. CONSJlnPTION. ASD POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap..
(kg or oil equivalent)           285.8       S88.5      753.4       999.0      1176.4
Percentage of private ineome
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 20%                     60.0 c      63.5
Lowest 20%                       3.8 c       3.2
Lowest 40%                      10.8 c       9.0
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USs per capita):
Urban
Rural                                                 liSO.O d
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income lewl (%)
Urban
Rural
Passenger cars/thou pop.          13.5        29.8       44.7 a      45.3        93.3
Newspaper cireulation
(per thousand population)         30.9        39.3                   94.9       141.4
EPD July 1986
Notc: Grop awage. ce populiban wSghWtd. CoantqY Cowao.  ud ON due WJawIty sad to not eb lfnm. Ibb  Oel
mated. im stw to anr 7mr bIu  191S2 and Ift 1073 butwn 1J7U and ltSM and me, recant stim  betvee 1112 ad ISIS
. li . b. 1161. c. lSdO. d. 1977.



- 26 -                                     ANNEX I
Definitions of Social Indicators                             Page 3 of 7
The definition of a particular social indicator may  Infant (age 0-1) mortality rate - Number of infants
vary among countries or within one country over   per thousand livc births who die before reaching one
time. For instance, different countries define "urban  year of age, in a given year.
arca" or "safe waler' in different ways.          Child (age 1-4) mortality rate - Number of dcaths
of children, age 1 -4, per thousand children in the
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                 same age group in a given year. For most developing
Toal - Total surface area comprising land area and  countries these data are derived from models using
inland waters.                                    information on infant mortality rates.
Agricultural (percentagc oJf toal) - Estimate of agri-    Family planning - acceptors, (thousands) - Annual
cultural area used for crops, pastures. market and  number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow, as percentage of  ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
total.                                            ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of married wom-
CNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita csti-    en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
mates at current market prices, calculated by the  age who are practising, or whose husbands are
conversion meLhod used for the World Bank Arias.  practising, any form of contraception. Women of
1986.                                             child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549.
although for some countries contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                   measured for another age group.
Total population - mid-year (millions)
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different  FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
countries follow different definitions of urban popu-  Index offoodproductionper capita (1974- 76 = 100)
lation. Such differences may affect comparability of  - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data among countries.                             commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
Population growth rate (percent) - total and urban -    seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-  mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
Lions.                                            of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
Lif e expectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a  trients (for example, tea and coffee are excluded).
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    Commodities include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals,
mortality for all people at the time of its birth were  vegetables, oil seeds. sugarcane and sugar beets,
to stay the same throughout its life.             livestock, and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
Populatiion projections                           tion of each country is based on national average
Population in 2000 - The projection of population  producer price weights.
given total population by age and sex, fertility and  Per capita supply of calories (percentage of require-
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and  ments) - Computed from energy equivalent of net
migration in Lhe base year 1980. until the population  food supplies available in country per capita per day.
reaches a stationary state.                       Available supplies comprise domestic production,
Stationur. pfjpulation - The projected population  imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net
level when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.,    supplies exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agri-
the birth rale is constant and equal to the death rate,    culture. quantities used in food processing, and loss-
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    es in distribution. Requirements were estimated for
zero.                                             1977 by the Food and Agnculture Organization
Population densit , agricultural land - Population per    (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.  activity and health considering body weights, envi-
Populat.ion age structure (percent) - Children 0-14  ronmental temperature, age and sex distribution of
years. working age 15-64 years, and people of 65  population.
years and over as percentages of population.      Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand  content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
population.                                       supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand     all countrics established by United States Depart-
population.                                       ment of Agriculture provide for minimum ailow-
rotalfertility rate - The average number of children  ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
that would be born alive to a woman during her    grams of animal and pulse protein. Thesc standards
lifetime if during her childbearing years she were to    arc lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and
bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-    23 grams of animal protein as an average for the
ing age-specific fertility rates.                 world, as proposed by FAO.



ANNEX I
-27 -                                Page 4 of 7
Population per physician - Population divided by    group of individuals who share living quarters and
number of practising physicians qualified from a  main meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
medical school at university level.               included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided  Percentage of dwellings with electricity - total, urban,
by number of practising graduate nurses, assistant    and rural - Conventional dwellings with electricity in
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
Population per hospital bed - Population divided by
nwnber of hospital beds available in public and pri-    EDUCATION
vatc, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    Enroliment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments     Primary School Enrollment - total, male andfemale
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
tablishments principally providing custodial care are    percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.                                     many countries consider primay school age to be
Access to safe water (percentage of population) - total,    6-11 years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
urban, andrural- People (total, urban, and rural) with    ences in country practices in the ages and duration
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes treat-    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated  countries with universal education, gross enrollment
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and  may excoed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
tain or standpost located not more than 200 meters    school age.
from a house may be considered within reasonable    Secondary School Enrollment - total, male and
access of that house. In rural areas masonable access   female - Computed in a similar manner, but includes
would imply that members of the household do not    pupils enrolled in  vocational, or teacher training
have to spcnd a disproportionate part of the day    secondary schools, for pupils usually of 12 to 17
fetching water. Absent and incomplete responses, and    years of age.
large variations between countries, may affect the  Pupil-teacher ratio -primary, and secondary - Total
validity of the overall results of the country and  students enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisons. In addition, cerain defuiitions    number of teachers.
and classifications such as urban and rural, reason-  Percentage pupi's reaching grade six - The percen-
able access to safe water in rural areas, safe water    tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
sources twhen they are not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably from country to country
and thus affect comparability of the data         INCOME;, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
LABOR FORCE                                       Energy consumption per capita (kilograms of oil equi-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically activc    valent) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
persons, including armed forces and unemployed but    mary energy (coal and lignite, petroleum, natural
excluding housewives and students. Definitions in    gas. and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
varioLLs countries are not comparable.            Private income distribution - income (both in cash
variouscountris are ot comprable.and kind) accruing to percentile groups of house-
Female (percent) - Rmale labor force as a percen-
tage of total labor force.                        holds ranked by total household income.
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    Passenger cars (per shousand population) - lncludes
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    motor cars seating fewer than eight persons; ex-
labor force.                                      cludes ambulances, hearses and military vehicles.
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
tion. manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    Average circulation of "daily general interest news-
a percentag: of total labor force.                paper," defined as a periodical publication devoted
Participation rate {Percent) - total, male, andfemale    primarily to recording general news. It is considered
- Participation rates are computed as the percentage    to be "daily" i it appears at least four times a week.
of population of all ages in the labor force. These are  Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per
based on International Labour Office (ILO) data on  capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the agc-sex structure of the population.          level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    adequate diet plus essential nonfoad requirements
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
15-64).                                           imate measures of poverty levels, and should be
interpreted with considerable caution.
HOUISING                                          Estimated popdulaion below absolute poverty income
Average size of household (persons per houselold) -    level (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
total. urban, and rural - A household consists of a    populations who live in -absolute poverty."



ASI
Nrof 7
rqpaItaril     136.4 sIl.m (Cd-IW)
kw  tr w taui uI,.1n (INs)
Ows Me
tO M LLimi  1t                                                     AlilLot  Cmt   Rm  (Z
Ilidt  eaLr                  (IVA)                               Ac tiL I                                                       Pr m .t *ed
195      19110    1s111     1982       1%3       ISffd         1985L      [Wb       19ii     19RS       1989      190
Itimal hAxt
CGe DNestkl  1'tt              Z1Z.D)         5sh       7.2     -3.b       0.9       -1.2       4.5           IL1       h.h        7.5       7.S       ;.5       7.S
ItOtilb                     24.2m           6.8      6.3      64       -2.5         2.2      4.3            g.5       Lll       4.5       4.5       4.5       6.5
nitry                        62,m2           S.9      7.9     -i         O.h        4.4       5.            9.0       L.5        9.1       9.1       9.1       9.1
lu,w.i                       10,82S         10.3      7.3    -0.3         1.7      -1.5       L.e            7.8       b.5       7.1       7.1       7.1       7.I
GOuatim                       165,51           U4       1.5      0.2        L3       -2.0       O.h           9.1        6.0       L.        h.9       6.7       hiS
[k    mutnmi                   3,317         -L.       IZ.I   -15.9       -4.2       -17.5      LA            s.I        2.5      26.4      12.4      12.2      12.]
brsu i f W0s                   29,3J9         IZ.4     22.7     ZD9       -8.4        3l.6     24.9          -2.8      -3.5        4.0       S.0      %5         6.5
1as ME09a                      17.36s        -9.b       1.3    -13.4      -5.2      -17.2     -LS            -LS       3S.7        5.7      11.9      111.5      9.9
G0a. Maeiat Sahw               23l,8t          6.4     13.b    -16.h     -10.6       -14      2Z 6            10.2      11.5      21.9       9.7      11.1       12.1
Lw biet r (3970.30)                          Ms       2,955    S,64   31.1U         8g,261   01,541      25.711
Balms Bf.e (se,mraSrIE3)                      8LI      5L7      91.1      179.5     577.0  I.Uh.         6,23(
Sume of DPi at Isn Pc (2)                                  hum   hAnal tisume (2)
(At fAins Pits)                                      (t Gatat 393 klist)
1975       19d1      1915d    IW9/c                         197540   19O845   39540
Ce Dometic  FWat                       mu0.0    BlO       3M0.      m1.e                            o.S        1.7       7.4
Mhtwlhs                              9.2       31.0      11.5       9.8                           9.5        1.5       4.1
I nsq                               31.1      23.       3.8        3L2                            4.6       0.S       9.0
Ser!es                              4l.b       U.3       44L7      411.0                          1.3        1.3       7.0
Caatu a                                7b.6      83.3     711        i Ls                           7.7       2.2        5.9
-    jrMM.gA/b                          7.3      21'.I     16.6      an                             2e       -62        36.5
1!ima G5!                              7.5       8s        12.5      11.0                           6.4       8.8      64.
Ipwto G5                              11.4       11.2      1.5        9.5                          -1.3      -9.S       11.7
GC= tItll S5ikp                       2LI        Ih.1      36.4      23.8                          -I.h       4.        16.1
An Of 2 Of tOP
(nl Ownms Qemse  Pice)
PtIC  Ptes  (BaCsl CNst)                                 1970     197S    1919   119W     I91'  1981
GIme lIans                                               I6.      19.3    2L.8    3L.    3S.9    21.2
G          _nu  aatfi                                     14.4     15.3    17.6    19.8    31.2    ZS.4
Sapbi C) orcDildt  -)                                      2.2      t       3.2     L.3    -.4    -4.2
CiptUt EImulUms                                            2.6      3.8     3.7      4.1     3.5     3.6
PIad    aft)                                              0.4      4.2      0.5     3.9      4.9     7.6
Warff lSkt&m                     190DW  191DS  19S
OW OQud 3*. (2)                     7.0      0.5     7.8
Git rerq t  QCete k& (2)            1.0     -1.9     5.5
tatgBauwptimtu.t8h lift (2)    6.5           -       -
in                                 1.3      ML7      3.0
hukutlh 9a                          0.0      0.5     0.4
qmwut Klutclty                    -02       -L4      1.6
/r Iht  pits;   mpanow  -   Ip             Mc faucet    at will   aSt dU to ettti cD ur Idl     timims ad e_udim.
7i 197540  -mt     a  for Wm la t; alIets Pw adu.s  Yoan, f_t fled lUaw t. etd  dwa   ht sta  tbaidnt                               u ln ittae.
7(I mow 1asw gitn     etlt         n      fbe    dw Isuj II3 a ntmy bsit a dror pianit fia. - wit - catIem to tie fata  assrptes.
APt 15, 198S



A4f 1
PIII h *1f I
HAZTL -  EXIUIL I0U*3f /d
tout
15 i111.41, at                                           A&i,al Skawtli Rteh.s (23 - (Ct .ri,utm.t 197Yl prImAlY.
limnit Prid.u
I it d I . a t a r             (1985)                                 A i  t u a I                                                   I' r a le   t r
1975     19811     593i       19352       19113    ISH"       1911"5c    519Hh      1987       19Nlt                1"I
listonal Trade
rdw,u.11ihq.t                    25,hD            23.9      21.2       9.9      -3.0        27.5      26.          2.5       -1.5       bi.n       %jl        5.4       0.5
Fria                            11,9I 9          31.7      Jl.4     4b68      -10.1        14.3       3.1        24. 1     -1.4        11.2       5.h        l.h       .h
ra .dwturmjb                     3,638            0.n      275       40.h        7.4       43.5      2h.3       -15.4        1.4       4.5        5.f        7.1      31.3
lir8u5ie l4wr                     13,LI.5        -15.0       1.4      -9.4     -24.3       -I5.9      -2.2       -A.8        25.         5.7       11.9      DO.        Al. 
Pou  &  xuuwr Goods             I.; S            R.2      11.2     4.8        -1.2       4-.1       -2.0        -5.3      119.9     -45.0        7.11       7.0       h.h
Petmii                          5,694           -3.8      -9.8     -5)        -L h       -50.h    -13.7       -5S.0         2.2      30.9       11.7      5l1.l      111.1
idiauym ad mtL1paut             2.494            4.N       .4 -h.9           -12.2       -13.0       A.4        14.5      42.3        lI.b      lb.5       11.4      12.11
lthwi                           3.450          -D1.h      -2.        3.8     -2D.3       -1.3        D.9         2.9       13.1      12.3        9.4        9.2       1.4
bqin  Prilmdez                                      9       147        12F       11b         97        [M2        'IN       104        lOh        114        122       III
lqort PrL.. e1.ma                                   71       125       138        152        143        IW2         99        14         91         91       imf        III
Term of Trade ld5 125                                        118        93         75         88        1Mt         98        121       117        55[h       116       515
Quq.mttim of 'lne u1iue T13de (2)                                6wrawe h&avl  N1u,er  (1)
(St aormt Priam)                                          (at amlntat IWO7 pvrtm)1
5915       i m        1985       198)                           1975-8    1W45    191-9
E.qi                                    10.0       53O        100.0     ILnO                               5.8       II.t)      4.5
Pjriy                                  62L7       44.8      46.8       41.0                              1.1        8.h6       .6
Nmd&Aufzct  _b                         37.3       55.2       53.2       S.0                            71.2 In    Zl2.        5.5
Irs                                     I0.O       (10        100.0     1.0                              -1.4       -2.7       12.5
Foud aid OxwrGoods                      9.8       11.1       12.0      50.8                             17.5     -17.h        8.3
Pecnala                                25.4       4A4       44.1        37.5                             4.1      -9.4        8.9
1kdan  ad   KipLIMlet                  Z6.5      15.4        19.2       28.3                            -7.5      -7.4       23.4
Otla                                   38.3       29.1       26.7       26.4                            -1.9      -.1         51.5
Shm  of Ted. with                      9uhm   f trdu   with                  Rmme oF trade wlch 0XI
lniditrial C tria  (1                  3Io lepbi' crCnt rim (2)                 womt1ig Cnatrlts (2
Mnmtm of 1Tid                       1975      19210    I93    195           5975     1983    1983       9 198'      759_5 19  59153    19P4
Eaqr                               70.2      V7.3    58.7    b3.3         Zl.S      2.5      Z3.9    22.0         2.8     ID.5I      .8      8.
7wmrtB                             b7.3      41.8    37.1    39.6          8.7      15.8     I. l     37.8      21.1      41.1    41.b    389
/a  For the perud  1981-19-5. Prdmy Pamkitas imiud  s      e-prarm.d  hWO   phis im, am.
/b For ciw period 1975-1910. _f,urm  tich   cthw goos..
7d  FPwjecte dwoom  ad ewm  are a  1984 prixs.
Aumt 15. 159b



10)0
full NiliSeop at tYriat trics)
Popm,Seitoa  1 224,4 S 111at (m4-180112
GHF  PO  Caite al  liI4S,040 (     tId-)
I97s       1910        19111       to9l2       liii       2198        lo96  I.98             29111        9611        IiNi       2190
SvC ineRrt. er Ccoed  aol SorI-ew       46,02    -21,11        -11,19s    -t1,W47      4.             SHEb        134         20          111)      -112        -721        -in
tKpolet of d ead.                      5.670      a.10 2      23,291     20.175      22,I1W      32,UI       23,427     212,20      29.311      31,040      17,X14      43.0b6
leprt  of T ood                       122.210     22,9S5     22,091      11.391      2,129       21,91b      13,1it     14,0b4      1,tIl       I9.147      122r619    2b1,1
HoL Facter tIuas                      -I,7113     4,21       -9,13L    -11,95    -1in1113    -50,991    -l0,h4b         -IM11I    -4,9b2   -2I0,56        -20.,14   -'I,.b4
C-f whIch intsr-t papaSt.           (2,042)    (4,331)    (7,162    (9.311bl)  (C,731   (19,541    i,32151            (3,1225     (A,437)    ("181)        (9,011)   (9,11N)
os KbLT debt)
fot Nw-hma,te rlrvlo                  -1,421      -1,220     .2,863      .4,119      -2,661      -2,745     -9,7no      -2,217      -31,81      -2,925     -44111k    -15,122
Net Traoeirm                               12          126         In6        -30         305         171         154           0          a           a 0         0
Car-tot &A-=NH  1o41eiwo                4,059    -12,435    -11,004    -24,217         4,502          1I7         278         269        lie       412         -726        -211
Direct Prtvet  b5 .so-oL                   892       12.21       I,Se     1   9b 44                 1,07b         7To         792        D17      2I0m         2,24.2      1,421
illbLS wtse (Htot)                       4,0         4,492       6.10 bD      ,496     71123       08252        12154       2,44       2,212       2,327       1,131       1.36
Uria  blebureosowit                   (4,1522    11,113)    21,043)   (21,9132   (20,903)    1b,010          111.1      14,2W       15,506      le,1l9      11,721    I2.121
Aaartilmtted                          (2,112)    (6,620n)   (1,26)    (1,444)           ,)1    7,811         10,111     122.12      13.294      11,102      22,072     11.124
IrctilA  Imam Abroad (Not)               -190         -21        -921       -b94         122         *14         mm -2,420           -1,901      *2,12n     -2,425      -2,714
Other CaPItal (tinrudlia errors
ead ..toeloa)                            -75       1,642      2,.39       2,70b      -5,9"       -2,907     -21.26        -6.1        -926        -712     -171        -517
Cen1t.. in Kanarese (- moItcet-
turraeee)                             12122        2 ,39       -849       1,151         12       -1,021          7        --52        -601      .1,104     2.2,4      -l,237
b,trertlo,l Iee.er"o  la                 1,319       6,622       7,W19      1,993       6,189       2,9."b     92,409     12Ih5'      11,142      12.1664     14,001      1,242
(oT  hich gold)                          5s       15,242         901         45         207         41        2,001       a.. nAa.                0.4.       115         A..
Ibeer.- em 1tlb,  oT In -trcs (0611) 3.)                  ,11        1.3         2.6         LI.        7.1         7.5         1.0          .1        5.9         S. 5.       .2
(CeNrel Cepts- and Debt
Cros  Onabamonveta                       0,912      21.3113     16.012      14,961     20,9)2    lb,0911       22.457      14.299     15.45       14,459      25,121      24,512
Of fidcl Creats                         -           -           -          -
Capeoee1gaal Losas                       102          19          29                   -           -
OmC                                     87          lb         l7          gU        -           -          -           -           *                      _ -
LIDA                                  -           -          -           -           -          -           -                       ----
Other                                   12 3                     I
Hoo-Cc,,cmeelooal IDl..                4,150      121.29      54,024     146,51      ID,598      l0,095     25.,47      24,299      11.1435     1,419       11.21     2b.413
OfficIal Cro rt Credits                11t         b12        6IIS        842       2,06        2.307       3.210      2,220       2.230       1.280       2,290      1.242
IttD                                   250         Us3        91          621       9,204       3,294        190       1,209      12538        1,819      1.5150      1,55
OtImr eultiLeterel                     119         I8O         190        331         217         209         239        304         235         313        324         4Z2
Privt.                               6,220      10.151     2.%0       13.4D5       8.318      15.228      9,305      112,46      12,522      12,959      12,209     12.994
Etstanat Debt
Debt O,tottUdlng NW DLbarod           22,t56      51,49      4A.625          ?1 73,3  75472      57,013     69,079      90.625     92.774     91,063      99,605    103.293
PuhIIbcIbitPly  masrantaod         151,92       39,694     14,513      496911      57.159     4b,502      89,079      90,525      92.774     91,092      99,505    1(1.293
Prlste *on-Goeraatlod                9,593      24,bD1     19.792      231.12      21,512     20,511      i..          MA.        os..       s.s.       n.e.         D.e.
Undtaboresd Debt                       2.711      23,026      12,643     24,132      13,911      13,727      22.002    13,"49       14.921      15,015      Is51,4     21.247
22521) i11C011 (23
,BR5  dfeh   ,rltee gross
d,shorsunoati                 3.5        3.2         2.4         4.2       11.1         5.2         6.1         L.5        *.9        11.2        35.1        15.2
UHID w0D/ttol D00                          4.1         3.7         3.h       317          4.6         4.5        1.5         6.2         7.D         d.0        8.?        9'4
I2 0 Debt ervicftelttl dolt Serviw  e      2.l         2.2         2.1        2.5         4.2         3.8         2.9        4.3         4.9        1S.21       6.8         7.3
Debrt S-oeI
Total Scrvic  Paymats /* h             1.670      13,141      15.333     I1.e2l      11.206      202,71     19.l41      21.070      21.720      212804     21.0b5      22.362
Ittrost/e                           (2,042)     4,332       7,905       9.322       5.473       9,646      9,315       6,225       6,427      5,702       9,05        9.2316
Pejosela As t tlerte (7ts)                36.5        14.5        bO.b       71.7         6.01tf     72.2        76.8       75.4        72.4        h11.0      3.5         50.4
Aeroge Iotreot 1tie  . mw
Coorantsd toeah. (1) I                      1.7        12.7        15.3        12.7       11.4        122.         9.7        9.2         9.2         9.2         9.2        9.0
lfitet l                                   8.0o         9.5       20.5       11.9        30.1       13.2         D...        t,.        i.e.        D.-.        s.c. M.
Prlnte S(rrs                               5.9        11.6        55.3        13.1       13.1        12.5        o.i.       a.-.        0.0.        N.5.        a.5.       5..
Aorag.s NCtity of 81.
CGraotsd tLos  (orote) Je                   9.0         9.1         9.7        ID.9        9.3         5.6         9.9        11.5        11.6      I2.1         51.b        11.6
Offietal                                  15.4        12.7        22.0        13.7       11.9         1.6        0.4.       0.4.        0.0.        5... 6.5.              5.5.
Prrtate Sorce                              4.9         5.9         9.17       30.2        8.t 1        .5        n.e.       i.e.        s.c.        n.-.        5.5.       ...a
As Z at Debt D tetaodlog
opteeber 30, 159
aetority Strcturn of Pebilc Debt OtetuatlIs
loititss de- el   tth.  5 year.                                   67.25
lIturitles    .athi  10 ymrs                                     92.83
Iotsre.c Structorae of 0bt DetotodisX
insiu  t aso W.112.1  tbe fist Yor                               s
s  De. Gt Iclude gold sa  dollar wl"tio, edijet_eut.
7i; lotorot NW aarL.ataop a          d cias *nd I..g ters debt.
7;; 2Ablit Dobt mly for 2971.
Id  Prslstnry.
7T  leterot an sdis  ud losl-ure Sbt.
77  Imskdo  only avortizttio   rctas1i1 paid.
MA. - Not  ,-ailsble.                                                                                                                             apat 15. 29S



- 31 -                            ANNEX TI
Page I of 3
THE STATUS OF HANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUHMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan f  Year            Borrower                   Purpose        Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Seventy nine loans fully disbursed                                   3,672.7
1317     1976  Brazil                           Agro-lndustry           83.0       24.6
1452     1977  Brazil                           Education               32.0         .9
1488     1977  Brazil                           Rural Development       11.0        1.1
1537     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development       24.0       11.6
1538     1978  EIJETROBRAS                      Power                  127.4        8.1
1568     1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0         .2
1589     1978  Brazil                          IRural Development       37.0       11.0
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0          .1
1714     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       26.0       14.6
1720     1979  Brazil                           Urban Development       70.0       18.5
1721     1979  CWPEL                            Power                  109.0       22.3
1728     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       31.4        6.8
1729     1979  Brazil                           Irrigation              2B.0        3.1
1730-5   1979  Brazil                           Roads                  107.9        3.9
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control       34.0       22.2
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           130.0         .1
1839     1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport        159.0       26.9
:850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           139.0       13.5
1867     1980  Brazil                           Education               32.0       14.2
1877     1980  State of Ninas Gerais            Rural Development       63.0       45.5
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                  100.5       56.2
1924     1981  Brazil                           Rural Development       56.0       12.4
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                   54.0       39.2
1965     1981  EBTV                             Urban Transport         90.0       46.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           180.0       69.5
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0        20.3
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             29.0       13.3
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             60.0        4.9
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             67.0       25.6
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0        4.5
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highways               240.0       60.8
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       11.1
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      141.5
2163     1982  Brazill                          Agriculture             26.4       16.2
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development      123.9       99.2
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Development       42.7       27.0
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development        8.9        3.1
2196     1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore               304.5       69.3



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount lees   Undis-
Loan 1   Year            Borrower                    Purpose      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads           154.0      102.6
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da HabWtacao      Water Supply           302.3       134.8
226B     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries        400.0      358.5
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Development       67.8       57.7
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urban Development       52.7       40.1
2347     1983  Brazil                           Export Development    352.0           .7
2348     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            303.0          .5
2353     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             65.2       57.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture              7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             22.8       22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  250.6      223.0
2365     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  222.8       103.3
2366     1983  Brazil                           Education               20.0       13.6
2412     1984  Brazil                           Education               40.0       33.0
2446     1984  Brazil                           Federal Highways       210.0      165.5
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health                  55.5       49.4
2448     1984  Brazil                           Realth Studies           2.0        2.0
2488     1985  Brazil                           Development Barking   300.0       249.3
2489     1985  Brazil                           Education               72.0       64.5
2523     1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.3       58.0
2524/1   1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.4       61.4
25327T   1985  Brazil                           Rural WS&S Pilot        16.3        16.3
2563     1985  Brazil                           Railways               200.0      184.8
2564     1985  Eletrobras                       Power Transmission    400.0       388.8
2565     1985  Eletrobras                       Power Distribution    312.0       301.0
2593/1   1985  Brazil                           Land Tenure            100.0      100.0
262317   1985  State of Santa Catarina          Urban Development       24.5       24.5
2654T7  1985  Brazil                            Urban Reconstruction  100.0       100.0
Total                                                11,147.10/2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  2,169.37
Total now outstanding                                8,977.73
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                               8,977.73
Total undisbursed                                                3,890.5
11 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
T3 Not yet signed.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/lDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
Pm 3at 3
N.         or ElF w INVDM (a  -". 1M. 296)
VW                                   OI bneI                                     TwdtA t   tel
1927                Em  a kall Q1i da E1botriid*                             Ula.         1Wpm                  2.0       -       2.0D
19Y                Otit, t L A. Oakd.. a Pq*                                 MAp ad Fqr                          1.D      -       1.23
iBis               0. 11. 16 Pta   lb tawl, L.A. hLttWv hru                                                     OA        -       o
1938               WUJEOrWUd do tail,  . A. - bistria. Oamit                tern VrAtS                          2.45      -       L
iD                cI_u.. watn  de. ChIbt farttad, S. A.                                                         1.2.0     -       1.3
199                Cahuan a . 4. A.                                         Nip                                 4.0       -       4.0
19981 IM A9m61372  t   VWll., L A.                                           tat                                am        1.93    9.93
1w61e1%9            W  1  Oea. Ctaa,  .*L. 6NIp MM Pqur                                                         3.71      3.71    949
198fl372           Ulemftetl, L A. - IstrS . O_wredo d ftrttUua.             79llMoM                            L2)       3.03    11.3
199                hekqlas l . S. A.                                        PMatd                               5.30      2J      8.3
1970               iololaifm, . LA. irAmtrSs a     iaow                           o i                           5.3D      am      L3
[9W1       O         tdu., L A. tAtu a Crca                    L             MS  C*f                            4.60    12.       6.1J
1971               IUdo mis - OupSa& deinluam doi                            Nip                                6.90      -       4.90
197/i975/198N      Omuta ab a n  na1al de Mm.                                                                  11t9.14    6.70   D1.4
i974/B771l         CqaddsiaW -i de Qata. -0ME01                              stal                              76.97    13.2   9#.24
i973               tpht.I lie    D      t Nd - 7urI                         cOpital lit  Daiqat                 5.0t      -       50
1973/i97            qprap de ImmlvIaf de Ims. lsn   - UmSa. L A. &             id m m uSd ktirnq               S5AD       8.74   93.74
1974                tertam Vil., S. A.                                       tict , and wan1    l fEqSt         6.0D      -       6.0
1974               ki1I de Tao2_ Ta,u     L SA. h                              1ttl                            31.0D      -      3l14
1975/199          4Aum c.sm t      tz!.1  LU.                               Inc  la                            6.0       1.19    7.37
1975               dt_n   uOaa, L A.                                         TanduSmiel                        IODA       -      20OD
1ji               lltilt. LatroA - sTe  a Ndant, B. A.                      T1tla                              6.45      2.00    7.45
IM/EO   l ! Tu    S. A. - TOW Nflus dIolat -bir                                                                 16.20)             23
I?7                - SL A. Pdst  tethors                                     I= aid Ahdsa "tw                   3.00      -      3L.
1917               M.armRi dao iwt S. A.                                     mw                                 5.11D     -      15.00
19711               Oa  Sim-Va S. A.                                         Irt  ad Stat                       8.3       ).0    11.38
119               tilw do tal t1. a Valeao. S. A.                            rar VdWSa                         80.4D     5.2?   65.27
19[0               berIn  do 11. S. A. - t1D.                                halywA  C.nn                       2.L0      -       LW
1960               1s  do sn  StA - Dapa - grliLbm. dloaoarl
a ?cme   de oizsa _iwOn                                                                   3.10     2.0      4.30
[9g                Vill,rdi  InhEtrnI de 3m  L A. - VDIA                     In. ad Bonl                        SD        -       5.0t
I960               FI - C lr &  Is bi lal &   ropIIa                         oa.is ad tcud mi.                  25.00    2.L0    17.00
2960               Omtilaia Caewte LA.                                       Cac.la ad 1t m1dcaim                -       0.5      0.25
1290               Stete Ammma 0d*k5a Mmml SM                                ihnitar.                          3.0       6.0    41.00
2960               Th1bu1     W                          PeItqle             0     t ad ImdmI                  43.m      5.0    4.0t
151                ta1w4r                                                      . ml Cqtt q .                     -        2.3     1.30
I9SI               Cmpm*da   nlrm da Agrqsaui - COM                          lbm a    ,d frcalu                 5.50      3.0     3.30
1962                ifo                                                      Oflhs ad  erudatal                46.OD     4.0    M.0
1912              COtso CAM                                                       and Cneilm   Nal.            40.0       5.0    4m
19S2               Aptllag S. A.                                           1mpr Captal  rm                    30.00     0.45    D.4
19S3               Cas  qz       i delnaPdl p    O) Ct Crpital til1                                             -         .01     .01
1983               AaI kigmu                                                 kad aid Fad Fmra                   23.      -   D 2.0
19E3                apds Dmas da Aoq  tra ia P ls                                                               6 h.10   -        CID
1963               FM - rol a    1qau    S.h ANIP 4 qAWr MAIM                                                  3.0D       217    617
1993                sotSJ                          Lha ad Foad Poamig                                           3.0      2        s0 5.30
1963               CIS                                                      aOt ad  Caticm I al.               35sm      -       S5m
2966               rlUr PFad                                                 ofcW. ad ktadatsb   _              3.0     53.0      L
1968               &uptu Atanlqdda I-b-i a_i                                 Omla ad _aclutmIa                AmD        4.00    200
1965               qd>ISe di IMi                                             aoss aid Ntzadumu                 3.D       1s0     5m0
The.. OM  a5 93.42    15.72 10t01.i
Ze  Oalladmu, 1h,tsns ad SKIM                                                      615.93    3D0,    710.73
ueal Oa a mm  id by N    ]PC                                                       35.47     74.94   331.41
tat likdiSsu                                                                        6649    _&4,2    79.26
AfuA 3.1966



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  SUDENE and Federal and State
Government Agencies with Bank
and PAO assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank   : 1982
Cd) Appraisal mission departure        : October 1985
Ce) Negotiations                       : May, 1986
(f)  Estimated Loan Effectiveness      : September, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Lo..n Conditions
(a' rural investment credit would be granted in accordance with terms
agreed with the Bank (paras. 56 and 69);
(b) community support grants will not be disbursed until an agreement
between the TU and the grant's beneficiaries has been signed
(para. 58);
(c) land would be available for distribution at times and in
quantities agreed with the Bank (para. 60); and
(d)  funding procedures would be maintained on the terms agreed with
the Bank (para. 68).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2. Special Condition of Effectiveness
All federally-funded rural special programs would be unified at
the state level (para. 62).
3. Special Conditions of Disbursement
The disbursement of loan proceeds allocated to finance the
construction of public irrigation schemes would be subject to the
following conditions: (a) Bank approval of the scope and contents
of the technical assistance program for state irrigation agencies;
(b) receipt by the Bank of proof of acquisition of the land
required for such schemes; and (c) Bank approval of detailed
engineering designs, resettlement plans and operation and
maintenance standards for such schemes (para. 74).
4. Special Condition of Cancellation
The amount of US$9.0 million equivalent, set aside to finance the
construction of up to seven public irrigation schemes, would be
cancelled if the funds are not committed to a specific project
approved by the Bank by June 30, 1988 (para. 74).



A TL ANTI C    O C E A N
- R :: Z I
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMR                                                                   O
Northeast Rural Development IV Project (Piaui)
a.                            PRIORITY AREAS
A     Research Centers
*     Research Field Stalions
Priority Areas
Riversj                                                              J     >^Us-| w
e     State Capital                                                 1/
o    Towns (Municipal Capitals)
Selected Roads
Municipal Boundaries
State Boundaries
International Boundaries
5 ~ ~~~ Alil 50  05
so               I]                      2Wa5 /1 >}D i
BOA ESPERANCA
RESERVOIP_Rg  -
1'                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
/~~~~ ~                                          BRAZoy   -   .n 4 I L1            b 
_ f= ___e r =_W                "n                      MO_
B OA ESPERAN                               C     A,  A                           arasu,s.
PERNAMBUCO *;'5  t   ;    u L ' >   1
5 ~ ~~~t : 45lni. 45-
G   I      I A 
\ b   \   /   Y   (                  \             \                       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
\  S.|nD  F  lom  ma  \  / / \\ - 111 de ADvD \ e W >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D



