ro,ma of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6117-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
September 26, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   Cruzeiro (Cr$)/Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00                =         Cr$8,891 t/
US$1.00                =         Cz$13.80 (February 28, 1986)2/
Cz$1.00                =        US$0.072464 (February 28, 1986)2/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FIGCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                   =    January I to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program         April 1 to March 31
Project                                -    April 1 to March 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (November 1985)
2/  A new currency, the Cruzado, equal to 1,000 cruzeiros, was introduced
effective February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate shown above. The cruzeiro
will continue to be legal tender until March 1, 1987, but will be devalued
against the Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45% starting February 28, 1986.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CD                 Community Development
CIDAPI             Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario do Piaui
(State Agricultural Development Company)
COBAL              Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Company)
CPATSA             Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
ENATER-PI          Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de Piaui
(Piaui State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company)
EMBRAPA            Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
IC                 Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
LDP                Local Development Project
MINTER             Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program
POLONORDESTE       Programa de Desenvolvimento de  Areas Integradas
do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of
the Northeast)
RDC                Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SAPI               Secretaria de Agricultura de Piaui
(State Secretariat of Agriculture)
SEPLAN             Secretaria de Planejamento
(State Secretariat of Planning)
SIMA               Sistema de Informacao ee Me. cado Agricola
(Agricultt.ral Marketing and Information System)
SRDC               Conselho Estadual de Des:,,volvimento Rural
(State Ruial Development Council)
SUDENE             Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TU               Technical Unit of the State's Secretariat of Planning
UEPAE-PI         Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual
de Piaui
(Piaui Branch of the Federal Agricultural Research
Company)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................I.......,.             1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ........... ..                              3
Agriculture in the National Economy ....         ...................    3
The Rural Northeast ...........       ............................    3
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast ...    4
Experience with Past Bank Lending    .........................    4
The State of Piaui ..............                                   5
III.  THE PROJECT  *..............................................    6
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement          .................    6
Priority Areas         7.................   ...........*......    7
Project Objectives and Description              .....              7
Water Resource Development           ...........................    7
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production   ......    7
Agricultural Extension           ...............................    7
Rural Credit         .........................................    8
Marketing Services ....         ........ ............. ....    8
Support to Small Rural Communities          ...................    8
Project Administration and Training          ..................    8
Land Tenure Improvement ..*9.............                          9
Project Organization and Implementation         ........            9
Federal and Regional Levels ....         ......................    9
State and Local Levels                     .................  9
Annual Planning and Budgeting ..........       ..............    9
Accounts and Auditing ..........................   10
Operating Agreements .........                               10
Monitoring and Evaluation           ............................   10
Project Cost ......................... **O...... O... O..........  10
Financing Plan .......*............#...******.*.*...*.*e..   11
On-lending Terms ...      ....... .... .                           11
Cost Recovery          ..............                              12
Procurement ..........        .. .. ....                          12
Disbursements ..........*.........                                13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during October/November 1985. The mission comprised Messrs. M.
Fairless (Mission Leader), H. Floyd, D. Mitchnik (Bank); M. Hagerstrom,
J. M. Pliego-Gutierrez and M. Gil (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
.~ ~ ~~~~~~rg
Page No.
Project Benefits and Justification         ........................  14
Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes       ................    14
Economic Analysis        .......   ...................... .......  14
Project Risks          ..................... .                   14
IV.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    .........    15
Annex 1 - PRDJECr DESCRIPTION ............................              17
Table 1.1  State Structure of Land Holdingsings#.......      24
Table 1.2  Evolution of State Agricultural Production..      25
Table 1.3  Project Priority Areas and Beneficiary
Distribution  .,                                  26
Table 1.4  List of Municipalities in the Project Area..      27
Table 1.5  Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities...      28
Table 1.6  Summary Account by Project Component ***..o*    29
Table 1.7  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements met    30
Table 1.8  Allocation of Loan Proceeds ................      31
Annex 2 - PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT        ...................  32
Table 2.1  List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies.    34
Chart 1    Project Coordination and Management Chart...      35
Chart 2    Implementation Schedule        ....................  36
Annex 3 - FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS .......................       37
Table 3.1  Total Annual Area and Production of Major
Crops and Livestock Without Project and at
Full Development .     ...........................    39
Table 3.2  CharacteristicF of Illustrative Farm Models
Used in Financial and Economic Analysis......    40
Table 3.3  Yields and Areas of Major Crops at Farm Level
without Project and at Full Development  .....   41
Table 3.4  Project Economic Analysis ....................    42
Table 3.5  Principal Prices Used for Financial and
Economic Analysis             ...............    43
Table 3.6  Project Sensitivity Analysis ................    44
Annex 4 - DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE      ...........  45
Maps:
IBRD 18686 - Yearly Land Adjudication Operations
IBRD 19575 - Priority Areas
IBRD 19576 - Agricultural Potential Defined by
Dependable Rainfall



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing
Agency:        A Technical Unit (T. U.) of Piaui's Secretariat of Planning
for coordination of all State and Federal agencies
participating in the Piaui Rural Development Plan.
Amount:        US$78.0 million equivalent.
Terms:         Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries: Some 65,000 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in 70 municipalities of the State of Piaui would
directly benefit from the project. A larger number of
families would also benefit from the water supply, community
development, fisheries and marketing components.
Project
Description:   The proposed project is one of a series of projects within
the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). The
project objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
production and productivity in the State of Piaui; (b)
generate employment opportunities for low-income farm
families; (c) increase Piaui's institutional capacity to
provide efficient agricultural services for small farmers;
and (d) promote water resource development and technology
generation and diffusion to decrease small farmer
vulnerability to recurring droughts. It would support water
resource development for both agriculture and domestic use,
agricultural resea:ch. agricultural extension, investment
credit, marketing services, funding for community
subprojects and project administration and training.
Risks:         P oject risks include: (a)  possible inefficient delivery of
,roject services; (b) lack of sufficient inter-institutional
cooperation; (c) delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding; (d) insecurity of land tenure; and (e) recurring
drought conditions. The project has been designed to
minimize these risks.



-2
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
---- US$ Millions -
A.  Water Resource Development               15.8         2.8         18.6
B.  Agricultural Research
and Basic Seed Production                7.4        0.3          7.7
C.  Agricultural Extension                   34.0         1.2         35.2
D.  Rural Investment Credit                  35.0         6.2         41.2
E.  Marketing Serv-ices                       1.5         0.1          1.6
F.  Support to Small Rural Communities    18.8            3.0         21.8
G.  Project Administration and Training    9.7            0.2          9.9
Total Baseline Costs                           122.2        13.8        136.0
Physical Contingencies                            1.5        0.5          2.0
Price Contingencies                             21.3         1.0         22.3
Total Project Cost                             145.0        15.3        160.3 1/
=. . m
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
-------US$ Millions -
Government                                      82.3          -          82.3
IBRD                                            62.7        15.3         78.0
TOTAL                                          145.0        15.3        160.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY          1987 2/ 1988  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
- -                  US  Millions                      --------
Annual            7.1   10.6   10.9   11.7   12.4   11.5    7.6   4.5          1.7
Cumulative        7.1   17.7   28.6   40.3   52.7   64.2   71.8  76.3    78.0
Rate of Return:  18%
Map No. IBRD 18686
IBRD 19575
IBKD 19576
Including about US$5.8 million of local taxes.
2y Including initial deposit of US$3.5 million into the Special Account.



-3-
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A lculture in the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of exports
and employment,-though a relatively small contributor to GDP.  In 1970,
agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active population
and 67% of total exports. In 1984, these figures were 13%, 30%, and 38%,
respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was rapid expansion in Brazil's
agriculture (5% per annum); during the recession in the early 1980s, output and
investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
2.02      The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply disparate
rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual crops. The most
dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy capital investment or high
levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus, tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane, on large
comme:cial farms in central and southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and in
some cases declines, were recorded for such staple food crops as rice, maize,
wheat, beans, manioc and potatoes.
2.03      These trends in agricultural output were reflected in agricultural
trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports depended heavily on
soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar. Of total agricultural
exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15% were accounted for by these five
crops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of Brazil's US$9.43 billion of
agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of agricultural exports hardly grew
at all, except in 1984, when coffee and orange juice were aided by highly
favorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
2.04      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio
Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, the northern
portion of the State of Minas Gerais, and the island of Fernando do Noronha, with
a total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18% of the country's total area). The
Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem region since the late 1800s.
2.05      Drought, uncertain rainfall, 3kewed land distribution, and limited
employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of poverty and
underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from the region,
partially in response to a five-year drought (1979 to 1983). In 1980, the
Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 29% of the country's total),
growing at 2.2% per annum with a population density of 22.5 inhabitants per km2.
Half the population lives in rural areas and over 50% of the work force is engaged
in agriculture. Land ownership Is highly concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70% of
all farms) occupy less than 6% of the farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all
farms) occupy more than 40% of the farm area. Rural incomes are very low. In
1980, over 80% of the rural population earned less than the minimum salary (about
US$675 annually, or 35% of the national average).
2.06      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal., cassava,
sugar, and cotton) represent significant shares of national production. The zona



- 4 -
da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains one-third of tne regional
population and a major proportion of industry and plantetlon agriculture. The
agreste, a transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas, is dominated by
mixed farming, as well as the raising of cattle.  The sparsely populated semi-arld
sertao 's the largest of the subregions and the most vulnerable to periodic
droughts.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
2.07      Until the 1950s most Government efforts to assist in the rural Northeast
were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and incentives for export
crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development and the need for improved
regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency for the
Development of the Northeast (SUDENE).  SUDENE was originally responsible for
coordination of public investment, drought emergency measures and powerful fiscal
and credit incentives to attract new private investment. The initiative for
regional policy formulation was transferred to various Federal agencies in the
1970s with SUDENE continuing to play an important role in the coordination of
federally-funded special rural programs.
2.08      The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The first was
based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It included the
Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), the
Special Program of Support for the Development of the Semi-Arid Region of the
Northeast and the Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar
Growing Zones. The second approach was concerned with alleviating the effects of
droughts. It included several parallel programs such as the Water Resources Use
Program, the Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program and the Drought Emergency Relief
Program, as well as large federal public irrigation projects.
2.09      Planning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first two
approaches in alleviating rural poverty had been limited. The new initiative is
being implemented through a series of sectoral projects in such areas as land
tenure, federal irrigation, health, education and integrated rural development.
The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) is a 15-year program based upon a
comprehensive regional policy framework, subsectoral strategy guidelines,
multi-year state rural investment plans and the integration of all rural special
programs under unified planning and implementation procedures.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
2.10      The Bank has made 38 loans, totaling US$2,897.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one agricultural
credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one credit and marketing reform loan
for US$500.0 million; supplemental financing for US$30.5 million under the Special
Action Progran; three loans for US$519.2 million, for agroindustries; two, for
US$60.5 million, for livestock; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two,
for US$100 million for agricultural research; two for US$255 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement; and
24, totalling US$1,011.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation and rural
development projects in the Northeast 3/, in Minas Gerais, and in the North and
Northwest. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Alto Turi Land Settlement
3/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank Country
Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development Programs for the
Northeair,!washIgton, D.c., 1983.



-5
Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the project raised settler incomes beyond
expectations, but was less successful in the areas of environmental protection,
community organization and strengthening of cooperatives. The Project Performance
Audit Report for the Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed
that, despite implementation delays due to design changes and social tension in
the area, beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates, and
small farmers were capabX4 of moving successfully from subsistence to commercial
agriculture.
2.11      Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural development
projects located in eight states of the Northeast. Approved from 1976 to 1983,
six of the projects are still being executed and the other four have been
substantially completed. Implementation had improved over the years, especially
in project planning and agency coordination. All projects have experienced
implementation and disbursement delays mainly because of the unusually severe
1979-83 drought, delays in providing local funds, limited execution capacity for
carrying out small-scale irrigation activities and initial lags in the generation
of drought-resistant technology for small farmers. These problems were addressed
during the preparation of the NRDP.
The State of Piaui
2.12      Location and Natural Features.  Piaui, with 250,000 km2, is the third
largest state in the Northeast. it has few important rivers, but has an abundant
aquifer. However, soils are typically acid and of low fertility, except in the
river valleys. The climate varies from semi-humid to semi-arid with irregular
annual rainfall that ranges from 1,600 mm on the coast to 600 mm in the
southeast. The vegetation consists of savannah in the southwest, dry bush in the
semi-arid southeast and native palm that covers the central region.
2.13      Economic and Social Conditions.  Piaui is one of the poorest states in
the country. Almost 80% of the 2.3 million inhabitants earn less than one tenth
of the average GDP per capita in Brazil (1980). The situation is worse in rural
areas, where 60% of the population generates only 22% of Piaui's GDP. Infant
mortality is high (140 deaths/1,000 live births), and three-quarters of the
children under the age of five suffer from malnutrition. The lack of potable
water and sanitation are major problems. The average life expectancy for someone
living in Piaui is ten years lower than the average for all Brazil.
2.14      Land Use, Tenure and Production.  One-tenth of Piaui's agricultural area
is cropped, four-tenths are grazed, and half is covered in forest and bush. Land
tenure is concentrated; over 90% of Piaui's 250,000 farms are less than 100 ha,
but account for only 20% of the State's territory. Most small farmers do not own'
the land they work; however 80% of Piaui's rice, bean, cassava, and maize crops is
produced by them, although yields are as much as 40% below the averages for
Northeast Brazil. Piaui is only self-sufficient in rice and cassava and imports
40% of other food crops, in addition to large quantities of beef, fish, and
poultry.
2.15      Agricultural Services.   A Technical Unit (T. U.) within the State
Secretariat of Planning was created to administer and coordinate the State's rural
development programs. Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Piaui
Branch (UEPAE-PI) of the Federal Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA).



- 6 -
Agricultural extension is provided by the State Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Company (EMATER-PI) through a network of regional and local offices.
Agricultural credit is provided through an adequate branch network of four major
banks, the Bank of Brazil, the Bank of Northeaat Brazil, the National Bank 'cor
Cooperative Credit and the State Bank of Piaui. Water resource development, still
at an incipient stage, is the responsibility of the State Agricultural Development
Company (CIDALT).  Land cadastral activities are handled by the State Land
Institute.
2.16      Rural Development.  The Bank has financed the Piaui Rural Development
(Parnaiba Valley) Project with a loan of US$29 million (Loan 2015-BR) signed in
August 1981. Project implementation has been consistent with that of other
POLONORDESTE projects (para. 2.11). The project is one of the few in the
Northeast that has successfully implemented a comprehensive set of land
activities; it has also given the State sufficient experience to implement the
proposed project which covers a much larger area. The closing date for the
on-going project is 1icember 31, 1986, when the area would be incorporated into
the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01      The NRDP presents a new opportunity for the Bank to support poverty
alleviation and institution-building objactives in the Northeast of Brazil.
Common problems detected in the on-going projects (paras. 2.11 and 2.16),
skewed patterns of land ownership and the experience gained by SUDENE and state
institutions, convinced both the Government and the Bank that a unified regional
and sectoral approach was needed.
3.02      In August 1982 the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP which will eventually consist of ten projects. In April 1985,
as part of the Program, the Bank approved the Northeast Rural Development I and II
Projects (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR) for the States of Sergipe and Rio Grande do
Norte. In addition to supporting the Sergipe Rural Development Plan, the first
project established the structure and operating procedures for regional program
planning, coordination and research to support all ten Northeast state rural
development plans. In June 1985, the Bank approved the Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) that finances land cadastral activities
in all ten Northeastern states. In June 1986, the Bank approved a Northeast Rural
Development Project for the State of Pernambuco (Loan 2718-BR); similar projects
for the States of Bahia and Ceara are being presented jointly with the project
proposed in this report. A project for the State of Maranhao has already been
apprAised, and the three remaining projects for the States of Alagoas, Paraiba and
Minas Geriis are being prepared for Bank appraisal.
3.03      Preparation of the Piaui project was carried out by the TU (para. 3.12)
with assistance from SUDENE, the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, and the
Bank. The project was appraised by the Bank in October/November 1985, and
negotiations took place in May 1986, The Brazilian delegation was led by Mrs.
Stael Martins Baltar of the Federal Ministry of Planning.



-7-
Priority Areas
3.04      Based on the relative concentration of small farmers and on the
existence of an underdeveloped agricultural potential, the TU selected 70 of
Piaui's 115 municipalities as priority areas for development. These
municipalities lie in ten of the State's eleven regions (Map IBRD 19575).
'roject Objectives and Description
3.05      The main objectives of the proposed project would be to: (a) increase
agricultural production and productivity in the State; (b) generate employment
opportunities for low-income farm families; (c) increase Piaui's capacity to
provide efficient agricultural services to its small farmers; and (d) promote
water resource development and technology generation and diffusion to decrease
small farmer vulnerability to recurring drought. The project would benefit an
estimated 65,000 low-income farm families. The project components are described
below and are expanded upon in Annex 1.
3.06      Water Resource Development.  This component would include (a)
construction of two state-managed irrigation schemes and consolidation of five
schemes in the Parnaiba Valley totalling 3,595 ha of newly irrigated land and
benefiting about 1,450 farm families; (b) studies to support the development of
the State's irrigation plan and the preparation of irrigation projects for
implementation under a subsequent stage of the NRDP; (c) a program of technical
assistance to strengthen implementing capacity of state irrigation agencies; (d)
construction of about 300 simple water supply systems and repairs of about 1000
systems (70% of which are still working), benefiting a total of 200,000 people in
small rural communities; and (e) construction of two fish hatcheries to produce
about 9 million fingerlings per year, fish research, and extension to about 3,000
fishermen. In addition, 4,000 ha of private irrigation and 150 small fishermen
would be financed under the rural investment credit component. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) prior to
initiatirg engineering design it would submit for Bank approval an environmental
impact study of the reservoir to be created by the Piracuruca dam; (b) a panel of
experts would review the final design and inspect the construction of the
Piracuruca dam as well as undertake periodic reviews of all major dams servicing
schemes covered by the project; (c) within six months of loan signature, it would
define with SUDENE's assistance and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank: (i) the
internal structures of the Irrigation Division in the State Secretariat of
Planning and of CIDAPI's Water Resource Unit, (ii) staffing requirements and staff
profiles for those agencies, and (iii) their operational linkages, and (d) put the
preceding organizational improvements into effect (para. 4.03(a)).
3.07      Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production.   Research would be
directed towards simple technology to make farming systems more productive and
resistant to possible adverse climatic conditions and would include: (a)
construction and equipping of two substations; (b) four agroecological and natural
resource studies to assist in future research planning; (c) 345 short- and
medium-term applied research trials at experiment stations to improve production
technology; (d) 42 farm-level observation units to test and adapt integrated farm
production technology; (e) basic seed and nursery stock production on about 75 ha;
and (f) production and distribution of 800 improved breeding goats.
3.08      Agricultural Extension.  This component would include: (a) establishment



-8-
and equipping of 35 local offices; (b) establishment of about 1,800 demonstration
plots; (c) salaries and recurrent costs for 370 agricultural and social extension
agents, 50 subject-matter specialists and supervisory personnel, and about 110
administrative staff; and (d) production of about 10 million tree seedlings for
reforestation.
3.09      Rural Credit.  The project would finance medium- and long-term credit
for on-farm investments for about 19,500 farmers (30% of the 65,000 direct
beneficiaries). A greater number would receive short-term production credit to be
financed by the participating banks (para. 2.15). Farmers would contribute with
their labor to on-farm investments but, due to limited savings after thb drought,
financing would cover up to 100% of the cost of goods required for on-farm
investment, with a maximum repayment period of twelve years and a maximum grace
period of three years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes larger than 4
ha, and automobiles would not be eligible. Financing would not exceed ceilings
established for the NRDP credit program in the Central Bank's Manual for Rural
Credit for individual farmers and, also, for farmer's associations and
cooperatives provided that 70% of their members are small farmers who would
directly benefit from the investment (paras. 3.22 and 3.23).
3.10      Marketing Services.  This component is designed to increase farmers'
knowledge of marketing and prices, improve the provision of agricultural inputs,
and help the State establish a food wholesaling service in rural areas. To
achieve this, the project would include: (a) expansion of the marketing
information service (SIMA); (b) marketing of improved seed through cooperatives;
and (c) establishment of a food wholesale service for private retailers by the
Federal Food Company (COBAL), including the expansion of two rural service
centers.
3.11      Support to Small Rural Communities.  This component would facilitate
small-farmer participation in the project and create job opportunities. The
component would include: (a) creation of a community development (CD) fund of
about US$19.3 million to make grants for local subprojects; (b) purchase of
vehicles and equipment; and (c) hiring and training of 23 community development
agents. EMATER-PI would be responsible for the implementation of the component
and the TU for administering the CD fund. Farmers' groups would identify, plan
and execute subprojects that would encompass economic activities or community
infrastructure and would include training for community leaders. Written
proposals detailing objectives, benefits, implementation methodology, and
cost-sharing would be subject to Municipal Councils' approval. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) the CD fund would
be established and maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) no funds would be released to beneficiary groups prior to the signing of the
agreement between the TU and the groups or municipalities (in the case of
unincorporated groups); and (c) not later than December 31, 1988, the Bank and the
TU would review the performance of the grants for economic subprojects to
establish the feasibility of further funding of subprojects on a loan basis
(para. 4.03 (b)).
3.12      Project Administration and Training.  The TU has been designated to
administer, coordinate and integrate all federally-funded rural programs under the
project. All project-related training would be centrally coordinated by the TU.
The project would strengthen the TU's administrative capabilities by financing
salaries of about 70 higher-level and related support staff, travel expenses,



-9-
office equipment, training and other operating costs. The current administrative
organization for the ongoing project (para. 2.16) would be restructured to take
account of the proposed state-wide rural development project. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that the TU would be
reorganized, and adequately staffed and maintained (para. 4.03 (c)).
'"and Tenure Improvement
3.13      Secure land tenure is essential for sustained rural development.  The
improvement of land tenure conditions in the Northeast continues to be a complex
task that has justified a single, regional, Bank-financed project, the Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (para. 3.02). Redistribution targets,
procedures for land acquisition, allotment, and beneficiary selection were agreed
as conditions for that loan. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments provided assurances that in the project priority areas: (a) at least
132,000 ha would be available for redistribution to project beneficiaries by March
31, 1988; and (b) at least an additional 113,000 ha would be available by March
31, 1990 (para. 4.01 (a)).
Project Organization and implementation
3.14      Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission (IC),
chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior (MINTER) and
comprised of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Planning, Land
Reform, and Finance, and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall policy planning
and budgeting responsibility for the NRDP. As regional coordinator of the NRDP,
SUDENE's Directorate for the Program of Support to Small Farmers would be
receiving policy backing from a regional Rural Development Council (RDC), which
now is being established and would include representatives from all Northeastern
States.
3.15      State and Local Levels.  A State Rural Development Council (SRDC),
chaired by the Governor with the Secretary for Planning as Executive Secretary and
with up to five other State Secretaries, would provide overall guidance for rural
development activities. The day-to-day work would be carried out by the TU under
its own budget, salary structure and administrative personnel procedures.  Because
the unification of the federally-funded Northeast rural special programs is
important, it would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the Bank be provided
with evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing and administration of all
federally-funded rural special programs in Piaui have been unified under the
coordination of the TU (para. 4.04)).
3.16      Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjustad annually during the eight-year implementation period.
Once the Federal Government establishes overall funding availability for the NRDP
for the next year, state allocations would be established by SUDENE in
consultation with the RDC. The TU would consolidate each executing agency's
detailed annual operating plans, ensure internal consistency and submit them for
approval by SRDC and SUDENE. SUDENE would consolidate state plans into a regional
operating plan to be presented to the IC as the basis for the portaria
(administrative regulation) signed by the Ministers and legally establishing
budget allocations for each State. During negotiations, the Federal Government
provided assurances that: (a) the regional operating plan would be sent each year
to the Bank for comment prior to approval; (b) the porteria, the final regional



- 10 -
operating plan and the Piaui state operating plan would be sent to the Bank not
later than April 1 of each year; and (c) any proposed changes in the
planning and budgeting process would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to
enactment (para. 4.02 (a)).
3.17      Accounts and Auditing.  Each agency would maintain its own separate
accounts for project expenditures, to be audited annually by auditors acceptable
to the Bank. During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that: (a) project accounts would be maintained according to practices
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference for the auditors would include
verification of the Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account; and (c)
copies of the audit report would be sent to the Bank within six months of the
close of the project's fiscal year (para. 4.01 (b)).
3.18      Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered into between:  (a) the TV and federal
agencies; (b) executing agencies, with the participation of the TU, when more than
one is involved in executing a project component; and (c) the TU or an executing
agency and the concerned municipality or group prior to construction of civil
works or initiation of a community subproject. These agreements would provide
execution guidelines and targets, reporting requirements, procedures for
inter-agency collaboration and funding conditions linked to performance criteria.
During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that
they would enter into all necessary agreements not later than six months after
loan signing (para. 4.01 (c)).
-3.19      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have
simplified reporting requirements and would provide accurate and timely
information for project management and annual planning. The TU would receive from
executing agencies monthly reports on key physical and financial indicators and
would produce quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries. During negotiations,
the State Government provided assurances that: (a) quarterly monitoring reports
would be sent to the Bank not later than three months after the end of the
respective fiscal quarter; (b) the TU's Monitoring and Evaluation division would
be fully staffed under conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) terms of
reference and institutional arrangements for evaluations would be satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.03 (d)). (Details on Project Organization and Management are
given in Annex 2.)
Project Cost
3.20      Total project costs are estimated at US$160.3 million (see Loan and
Project Summary) with a direct and indirect foreign exchange component of US$15.3
million, or about 10%. The total cost is based on the assumption that all goods
and services would be acquired in Brazil, with the exception of specialized
consultants' services. The cost estimate includes about US$5.8 million equivalent
in applicable local taxes. Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 1%
and 14% of baseline costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were added to
baseline costs at 15% for irrigation and water supply construction; 10% for other
construction; and 5% for equipment, furniture and vehicles. Price contingencies
were estimated in US dollar terms, based on international inflation rates
estimated at 7.2% for 1986, 6.8% for 1987 and 1988, 7.0% for 1989, 7.1% for 1990
and 4.0% thereafter. It was assumed that periodic local currency devaluations,
estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for differences
between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.



- 11 -
Financing Plan
3.21      The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$78.0 millitn
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of taxes.
The proposed loan would finance 100% o7 direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
and 43% of local costs. The loan would be repayable over 15 years, including 3
years of grace, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The
loan would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil, which would carry the
foreign exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as necessary to complete the
project. Funding procedures would be those adopted for the NRDP (para. 3.16).
Funds would be channelled from the Treasury, through MINTER and SUDENE to either a
specific project account in the State for activities executed by state agencies or
directly to federal executing agencies. Monthly advances of Government
counterpart funds would also be made through the Central Bank to cover the
estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures. During negotiations, the Federal
Government provided assurances that the portaria (administrative regulation)
establishing the above funding procedures would not be changed without Bank
approval (para. 4.02 (b). The Government, moreover, took additional decisions in
August 1986 to ensure the timely availability of counterpart funds. These
decisions include the provision in the annual Federal Budget of the full amount
required for the execution of all the Northeast Rural Development projects; the
monthly release of these resources in accordance with schedules and amounts agreed
upon with the Bank; and the simplification of procedures for channelling the
released funds to the project executing units.
On-Lending Terms
3.22      Proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant basis, to
participating federal agencies and the State of Piaui. In the case of
agricultural credit, the Central Bank would rediscount the subloans disbursed by
the participating banks. Following the February 28, 1986 financial and monetary
reform, the Government decided, in May 1986, to adopt a new interest rate policy
for rural credit. This policy--which is part of the policy framework for the
Credit and Marketing Reform Project - aims at maintaining, in general, interest
rates that would be positive in real terms and vould fluctuate according to market
conditions. Another important policy objective is to reduce credit subsidies
substantially. There would be a general agricultural interest rate, applicable to
rural investment credit operations outside the North and the Northeast regions,
equal to the rate on commercial banks' certificates of deposit (Certificados de
Deposito Bancario, CDB) minus 10 percentage points. This rate would be adjusted
every six months, on March 1st and September 1st of each year, to a level 10
percentage points below the CDB rate prevailing then. For short-term credit, the
interest rate would be initially set at the level prevailing for investment credit
at the time of signing the contract and would remain fixed for the term of the
loan. Until February 28, 1987, the general rate has been fixed at 10% and it is
expected that, in subsequent periods, the rate will fluctuate near 10% in real
terms. The interest rates for investment and short-term credit to be applied to
the small Northeast farmers who would benefit from the proposed project would be:
2 percentage points below the general rate, for investments in sugarcane, cocoa,
coffee and rubber; 3 percentage points below the general rate, for investments in
irrigation, which would be changed to 2.5 percentage points below the general rate
in 1987, and to 2 percentage points below in 1988 and thereafter; and 30% of the
general rate, for other investments. These rates represent a substantial
improvement over the ones prevailing until last February.
3.23      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:



- 12 -
(a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating banks to
carry out the project's Investment credit component; (b) the Central Bank and the
other participating banks would carry out this component in accordance with the
lending terms and conditions set forth in paras. 3.09 and 3.22 above; (c) each of
the participating banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and the T. U.
on investment credit availability, demand and lending per bank agency; and (d)
priority would be given by the participating banks to allocations of short-term
production credit to their agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate
to finance the working capital requirements of project beneficiaries (para.
4.02 (c). The new rural interest policy referred to in para. 3.22 above has
provided the basis for an amendment to the original agreement between the Bank and
the Government on rural interest rates (negotiated in February 1983), in
connection with the Agricultural Credit and Export Development Project (Loan
2348-BR). This amendment also provides for an annual review of Brazil's
agricultural credit policy by the Bank and the Government.
Cost Recovery
3.24      Although it is not Government policy to obtain full cost recovery on
rural programs for low-income families, current legislation allows CIDAPI to
recover 100% of annual operation and maintenance costs and public investments in
common irrigation and drainage infrastructure over a 50-year period. The initial
investment is revalued, but without charging interest 4/. The municipalities
would cover the costs of operation and maintenance of the water supply services
until the Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program begins in 1988; at
that stage consumers would be expected to pay for the service. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) cost recovery
provisions for public irrigation schemes would be implemented in accordance with
Government legislation that is satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) drinking water
supply charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would begin to be
charged to consumers in 1989 (para. 4.03(e)).
Procurement
3.25      Civil works, estimated at US$16.8 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry that is capable of
carrying out project works. As individual construction works are small and
dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, but would not be
excluded from bidding. Some community development civil works would be carried
out by the beneficiaries under agreements with the TU (para. 3.11). Equipment,
materials and vehicles required by the project, totalling some US$6.6 million,
almost all locally produced, would be procured by the several executing agencies
at various locations over the project implementation period, in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Civil works
contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000 and goods and services contracts
for more than US$100,000 would be subject to prior Bank review of procurement
documentation (about 70% and 20% of the value of civil works, and goods and
4/ For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects see Brazil:
Upper and Middle zao Francisco lrrigation Project, Staff Appraisal Report
Report No. 5975-BR).



- 13 -
services, respectively). Coneultants' services totalling some 11 man-years, would
be procured both locally and internationally in accordance with Bank guidelines.
During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that
they would follow the procurement arrangements outlined above and in the following
table (para. 4.01 (d)).
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Type of Project Expenditure  LCB        Other        N.A.           Total
Civil Works                16.8 ( 9.2)                           16.8  ( 9.2)
Equipment, Vehicles
nad Frniture              6.6   1.8)                            6.6    1.8
Technical Assistance                    1.0 (1.0)                 l.O    l.O
Studies and Training                                4.3   2.2)   4.3    2.2
Rural Investment Credit                            41.2  28.8   41.2   28.8
Community Subprojects                              19.3  13.5   19.3   13.5
Salaries and Allowances                            52.4  14.5)  52.4   14.5
Other Operating Expenses                           18.7   7.0)  18.7    7.0)
Total                   23.4 (11.0) 1.O (1.0) T135   66.Q) 160.-3   78.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the estimated respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank.
Disbursements
3.26      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout the
eight and a half year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against project
expenditures made for water resource development, credit and support to small
commmunities, and at a rate of 50S against expenditures made for marketing.
Foreign consultants' services for water resource development would be financed at
100% of foreign expenditures. Disbursements for the remaining components, which
have a high rate of recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project
expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$1.4 million for agricultural research,
US$6.8 million for extension, and US$2.1 million for administration and training
have been disbursed. Thereafter, disbursements for those categories would be made
at a rate of 30% of project expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$1.8 million
for agricultural research, Us$8.0 million for extensioni and US$2.5 million for
administration and training have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these
categories would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. To enable an early start of
project execution, project expenditures (except agricultural credit) incurred
after December 1, 1985 (end of projcct appraisal), but before loan signature,
would be eligible for reimbursement up to US$4.0 million equivalent. However, no
disbursements would be made for the extension, research, water supply, irrigation,
fisheries and administration components in the municipalities of the ongoing
project until funds allocated for those components unde%z Loan 2015-BR have been
fully committed or cancelled (para. 2.16). Disbursement projections reflect the
disbursement profile for previous rural development projects in Brazil.
3.27      Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical assistance
expenses under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of Expenditure prepared
by the various executing agencies and certified by the TU. Supporting
documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would be made available



- 14 -
during project supervision. Standard documentation for contracts exceeding
US$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank. To reduce Government prefinancing
requirements, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an
initial deposit equivalent to US$3.5 million. Withdrawals in cruzados from the
Special Account, supported by Statements of Expenditures, would be made at the
exchange rate that prevailed on the date of the expenditure. The Central Bank
would send the corresponding withdrawal applications to the Bank, which would then
replenish the Special Account. The disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated to
finance the construction of public irrigation schemes would be subject to the
following conditions: (a) Bank approval of the scope and content of the technical
assistance program for state irrigation agencies (para. 3.06(c)); (b) receipt by
the Bank of proof of acquisition of the land required for such schemes; and (c)
Bank approval of detailed engineering designs, resettlement plans, and operation
and maintenance standards for such schemes (para. 4.05). Any loan proceeds so
allocated, which by June 30, 1988 are not committed to a specific public
irrigation scheme approved by the Bank, would be cancelled (para. 4.06).
Project Benefits and Justification
3.28      Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The impact of the project on
production would result trom increased productivity and an expansion of cropped
areas. At full project development, the annual value of incremental production is
estimated to be US$40 million; annual fiscal revenues from the value-added tax on
agricultural products is estimated to be US$4.8 million. Incremental production
that would be marketed through existing channels is not expected to create
marketing constraints as Piaui's present production does not meet demand (para.
2.14). Improved marketing facilities, water supply systems and community
activities would also provide substantial benefits to the population, especially
to women. Expanded agricultural activity would create jobs equivalent to some
19,000 man-years annually. Improved farming practices and careful use of
agrochemicals due to an expanded and trained extension staff would have a
beneficial impact on the environment. Estimated financial rates of return for
illustrative farm models range from 27% to 46%. Family incomes of project
beneficiaries, who all belong to the poverty target group, are estimated to range
between US$1,386 and US$2,221 at full development, representing an increase of 55%
to 125% over present farm income levels, not taking into account any supplemental
income from off-farm work.
3.29      Economic Analysis.  The economic rate of return has been estimated as
18%. Sensitivity tests show that when project benefits fall by 40% or project
costs rise by over 67% the rate of return falls below the estimated 11%
opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three years in achieving project benefits,
such as might occur during a severe drought, would result in a 13% rate of
return. (Details of the Project Benefits and Economic Analysis are given in
Annex 3.)
Project Risks
3.30      Although projects under NRDP are simpler in design than previous rural
development projects, efficient delivery of project services and
inter-institutional cooperation would still be important for project success. The
project includes monitoring, evaluation and technical assistance to foster a more
efficient institutional environment. Delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding
and rural credit could decrease the proposed project's impact. Recent changes in
funding procedures, the merging of the rural special programs, the regional scope
of the Northeast Rural Development Program, of which the project is



- 15 -
part, and the broad support which the program enjoys among Government and local
leaders, should help the project to receive adequate funding. At farm level, the
security of land tenure is still a problem; implementation of the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and of the Government's agrarian
reform should help minimize this risk. Many farmers still face recurring drought
conditions. Decreasing these risks has influenced project design by increasing
the focus on water resource development and on small farmer technology generation
and diffusion.
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During negotiations both the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that:
(a) at least 132,000 ha by March 31, 1988, and an additional 113,000 ha by
March 31, 1990 would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries in priority areas (para. 3.13);
(b) (i) project accounts would be maintained according to practices
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the terms of reference for the auditors
would include verification of the Statements of Expenditures and the
Special Accourt; and (iii) copies of the audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the project's
fiscal year (para. 3.17);
(c) all necessary operating agreements would be entered into no later than
-six months after loan signing (para. 3.18); and
(d) procurement procedures would be as specified in para. 3.25.
4.02      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a)  (i) the regional operating plan would ue sent each year to the Bank for
comment prior to approval; (ii) the portaria, the final regional
operating plan and the Piaui state operating plan would be sent to the
Bank not later than April 1 of each year; (iii) any proposed changes in
the planning and budgeting process would be submitted to the Bank for
comment prior to enactment (para. 3.16);
(b) the administrative regulation establishing funding procedures would not
be changed without Bank approval (para. 3.21); and
(c) for rural credit, the sufficiency of funds, the eligibility criteria,
terms and conditions, reporting provisions, and credit priorities would
be applied as outlined in paras. 3.09 and 3.23;
4.03      During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that:
(a) (i) prior to initiating engineering design it would submit for Bank
approval an environmental impact study of the reservoir to be created by
the Piracuruca dam; (ii) a panel of experts would review the final
design and inspect the construction of the Piracuruca dam as well as
undertake periodic reviews of all major dams servicing schemes covered
by the project; (iii) within six months of loan signature, it would
define with SUDENE's assistance and in a manner satisfactory to the



- 16 -
Bank: (a) the internal structures of the Irrigation Division in the
State Secretariat of Planning and of CIDAPI's Water Resource Unit; (b)
staffing requirements and staff profiles for those agencies; (c) their
operational linkages; and (d) put the preceding organizational
improvements into effect (para. 3.06);
(b) (i) the community development fund would be established and
maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) no funds would be released to beneficiary groups prior to the
signing of the agreement between the TU and the groups, or
municipalities (in the case of unincorporated groups); and (iii) not
later than December 31, 1988, the Bank and the TU would review
performance of the grants for the economic subprojects to establish the
feasibility of further community fund operations on a loan basis
(para. 3.11);
(c) the TU would be reorganized, and adequately staffed and maintained
(para. 3.12);
(d) (i) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank not
later than three months after the end of the respective fiscal
quarter; (ii) the TU's Monitoring and Evaluation division would be fully
staffed, under conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) terms of
reference and institutional arrangements for evaluation would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.19); and
(e)  (i) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation schemes would be
implemented in accordance with Government legislation; and (ii) drinking
water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would
begin to be charged to consumers in 1989 (para. 3.24).
4.04      It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the Bank be provided
with evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing and administration of all
federally-funded rural special programs in Piaui be unified under the coordination
of the TU (para. 3.15).
4.05      It would be a condition of disbursement for loan proceeds financing the
construction of public irrigation schemes that the Bank had: (i) approved the
scope and content of the technical assistance program for state irrigation
agencies; (ii) received proof of acquisition of the land required for irrigation
schemes; and (iii) approved the detailed engineering designs, resettlement plans,
and operation and maintenance standards for irrigation schemes (para. 3.27).
4.06      Any loan proceeds allocated for the construction of public irrigation
schemes, which by June 30, 1988 are not committed to a specific public irrigation
scheme approved by the Bank, would be cancelled (para. 3.27).
4.07      Subject to reaching the above agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$78.0 million equivalent with a term of 15 years,
including a 3-year grace period.
September 26, 1986.



- 17 -
ANNEX
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELO?MENT PROJECT - PIAUI
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Land Tenure and Agricultural Production
1.        About 92% of Piaui's 250,000 farms are smaller than 100 ha, yet they
account for only 20% of the area. Furthermore, 72% of the small farms (less than
100 ha) are worked by farmers without legal title to the land. The vast majority
of these producers work on rainfed farms that are smaller than 10 ha; they are,
however, responsible for the bulk of the State's agricultural production (Table
1.1).
2.        Piaui has an overall deficit of agricultural products, especially of
basic food crops. It has only recently achieved self sufficiency in the
production of rice and cassava, is almost self sufficient in the production of
beans and still has a maize deficit. Piaui also imports large quantities of beef,
milk, fish and poultry (Table 1.2).
B. Project Areas
3.        The project areas, or priority areas, where the state rural development
plan would take place include 70 of Piaui's 115 municipalities. These lie
scattered throughout ten of the State's eleven administrative regions and were
chosen on the basis of their concentration of small farmers and their
underdeveloped agricultural potential (Tables 1.3 and 1.4).
C. Detailed Features of Project Components
Water Resource Development
4.        The public irrigation subcomponent would consist of the following
schemes: Vale do Piracuruca (2,315 ha), Vale do Itaueira (100 ha) and the
completion (1,180 ha) and consolidation (1,220 ha) of the five small to
medium-sized irrigation schemes currently being implemented under the Vale do
Parnaiba Project (2,400 ha in total); in all, some 1,450 newly settled families
would benefit. In addition, about 4,000 ha of private irrigation financed under
the rural investment credit component is expected to benefit 2,000 families. The
project would also finance the acquisition by the State of external technical
services, during the first three years of project implementation, to provide the
Water Resource Division (SRH) with general technical advice and the State
Agricultural Development Company (CIDAPI) with specialized assistance in project
implementation and irrigation perimeter management.
5.        The execution of the public irrigation component would be carried out by
the newly created SRH within the Planning Secretariat and by CIDAPI which would be
strengthened under the project. SRH would be responsible for planning and
coordinating irrigation activities, including the drafting of feasibility studies,



- 18 -
final engineering design (usually undertaken by consultants), basic studies for
the State's irrigation planning, preparation of projects to be implemented in
subsequent NRDP phases and monitoring and evaluation of irrigation activities.
CIDAPI would be responsible for construction supervision, execution of settlement
programs, management of the irrigation perimeters, collection of water tariffs and
technical assistance to farmers. EMATER-PI would be responsible for the
implementation of the private irrigation program and for providing extension
services to public irrigated perimeters where agreements with CIDAPI were
arranged. The State would strengthen both the Irrigation Division in the
Secretariat of Agriculture and CIDAPI's Irrigation Unit and define with SUDENE's
assistance and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank the details of: (i) the
Department's and Unit's internal structures; (ii) staffing requirements and staff
profiles for those agencies; (iii) the operational linkages between both
irrigation agencies; and (iv) put the preceeding organizational improvements into
effect.
6.        The planning and execution of the irrigation subcomponent would be
subject to the following conditions: (i) Bank approval of the scope and content of
the technical assistance program for the state irrigation agencies; (ii) receipt
by the Bank of the proof of acquisition of the land required for the irr.gation
schemes; and (iii) Bank approval of detailed engineering designs, resettlement
plans, and operation and maintenance standards for such schemes. In the case of
the Vale do Piracuruca an assessment of the expected environmental impact of the
reservoir would be required prior to the detailed engineering design, as well as a
detailed justificatioa of reservoir capacity incliding design-level determination
of water resources and needs; also, proof of acquisition of land to be flooded and
the related resettlement program would require Bank approval prior to
disbursement. In the case of the schemes belonging to the Vale do Parnaiba
(namely Lagoa do Buriti, Campo Largo, Cajazeira, Caeiras and Varzea Grande) a
reformulation of the ongoiag schemes would be included with the detailed
engineering design. Cost recovery through water tariffs would be implemented in
accordance with Federal Government legislation. All funds financed from the Bank
loan that are not committed to a specific public irrigation scheme approved by the
Bank, by June 30, 1988, would be cancelled.
7.        The cost of collective infrastructure varies considerably: in the Vale
do Piracuruca, it is estimated at US$3,950/ha; in the Vale do Itaueira, where the
dam is already built, at US$660/ha; and in the Vale do Parnaiba, where oniy Dart
of the infrastructure is built, at US$1,630/ha. On-farm works average about
US$1,700/ha.
8.        The water supply subcomponent would consist of the construction of: 140
simple water supply systems with bore-holed wells, 158 smaller systems using
hand-dug wells, the recuperation of 275 water systems that have stopped
functioning, and of 718 that are still working but need repairs. This
subcomponent is only expected to be financed for the first two years of project
implementation as this action would later be funded by the Bank-financed Northeast
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program currently under preparation. Each
simple water supply system would include a deep or shallow well, pumping
equipment, a storage tank, laundry facilities, and one or more standpipes that
would serve from 10 to 100 families. Water supply systems would be designed for
an average flow of 30 liters per capita per day. The per capita investment cost
of new systems is estimated to be between US$15 and US$33. This value is low if
compared to other states, because of simpler design (no transmission line) and a
high ground warer table.



- 19 -
9.        Administration of the water supply component would be carried out by
SK, but the coastruction of the water supply systems would be carried out by
CIDAPI or by small contractors under CIDAPI's supervision. Selection criteria for
communities would include village size, per capita investment costs, community
willingness to gradually assume responsibility for operation and maintenance and
location. Preference would be given to areas where various communities require
new systems so as to allow for economies of scale in drilliug costs. During a
transition period, until the Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program
becomes effective, the municipalitiet and the State would assist the communities
in meeting operating expenses. CIDAPI would discuss the location of the wells
and standpipes with the recipients before installation of the systems; it would
also provide technical backstopping and preventive maintenance and training to the
community.
10.       The fisheries subcomponent would be based on the work started under the
Piaui Rural Development (Parnaiba Valley) Project: it would consist of continuing
extension to some 3,000 salt-water fishermen (who are also farmers), continuing
fishing research for the first three years of the project, and establishing two
fish hatcheries for the annual production of 9 million fingerlings (mostly carp
and native Amazon River species).
11.       Extension to fishermen would continue to be undertaken by EMATER-PI.
Financial assistance for fishing research provided to the Superintendency for the
Development of Fish (SUDEPE) under the ongoing project would be gradually phased
out: after the third year of project implementation SUDEPE would not receive
project funds. The first fish hatchery is not to be constructed until the third
year of project implementation (with technical assistance given by the Sao
Francisco River Valley Development Company) to allow sufficient experience to be
gained by the implementing agency, the Secretariat of Agriculture (SAPI), from a
State-financed station scheduled to begin production in 1986. Fingerlings would
be sold at a price sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs of each
hatchery.
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production
12.       The Federal Agricultural Research Company's (EMBRAPA) and the Piaui
Branch of EMBRAPA (UEPAE-PI) research programs have developed and would continue
to develop technical recommendations to improve agricultural productivity.
Recently there have been considerable improvements in coordination among state
research units under the guidance of EMBRAPA, more focus on the small farmer, and
a shift from commodity-based research to farm systems research. The project would
finance: (a) construction and equipping of two experiment substations; (b) four
natural resource studies to assist in future research planning; (c) 345 applied
research trials to be carried out at experiment stations to improve production
technology; (d) installation of about 42 farm-level observation units to test
improved technology using farmer participation; (e) annual seed production and
nursery stock production from 75 ha; (f) production and distribution of about 800
improved breeding goats; and (g) incremental e- -ipment, salaries, training and
other operating expenses related to these activ. 'es.
13.       The implementing agency would be UEPAE-    as Piaui is one of the
northeastern states that does not have its own stal supported agricultural
research institution.  The two experiment substatJ    to be constructed would be
part of UEPAE-PI and would be constructed at Picos       Floriano,where research on



- 20 -
the sertao and cerrado regions would be done. Technical supervision, training,
coordination with research programs in other states,and review of annual plans
would be the responsibility of the Federal Center of Agricultural Research for the
Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA), which is receSling support for these activities under
Northeast Rural Development I Project (Loan 2353-BR). UEPAE-PI would develop
research in cooperation with both farmers and extension officers, and appraise
results from the farm-level observation units. Cooperating farmers who have
observation units on their farms would contribute to the costs of investments
(about 25% of total costs, mostly using credit and by providing labor). Once the
observation units have been technically and economically proven, they would be
replicated through demonstration units under the aegis of EMATER-PI.
14.       UEPAE-PI would also expand an existing program to produce basic seeds
for four major crops: rice, beans, maize and graim sorghum. The project would
finance investment costs for sheds, vehicles, agricultural equipment, and
recurrent costs. The basic seed produced would be sold to cooperatives for
multiplication. UEPAE-PI would also produce seedlings that would be distributed
through EMATER-PI. UEPAE-PI would expand its existing goat program to produce
about 100 goats of improved breeding stock per year. They would be distributed to
small farmers through a credit-in-kind program under the organization of
MATER-PI.
Agricultural Extension
15.       EMATER-PI is already providing extension to farmers in part of the
State. Under the proposed project the extension service would be expanded to
reach about 65,000 farm families by full project development. The project would
finance: (a) the construction and equipping of 35 local offices; (b) establishment
of about 1,800 demonstration plots; (c) recurrent costs for about 370 agricultural
and social extension agents (two agricultural agents for every social extension
agent), 50 subject-matter specialists and supervisory personnel, and about 110
administrative staff; (d) the production of about 10 million seedlings mainly of
algaroba and sabia; and (e) project-related vehicles, training and operating
costs.
16.       EMATER-PI field staff are organized into 14 regional offices.  Most
supervisory personnel and subject-matter specialists would be located in regional
offices or in Teresina and would travel to supervii' local extension agents at
least once a month for a week at a time. At district level, each extension agent
would assist, on a fixed schedule, six to ten groups of 20-30 farmers ot6anized
around contact farmers and demonstration plots. The ratio of agricultural
extension agents to farm families by the eighth year of project implementation
would be 1:300. Some extensionists would specialize in dealing with farmers who
also fish and others with farmers who Larm in irrigated perimeters. Social
extension workers would work with farm families to improve sanitation, child care,
family nutrition, small animal husbandry and vegetable gardens. About 23
extensionists would work exclusively on the Support to Small Communities
component. Specialists from the Federal Company for Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension would supervise EMATER-PI at least once a month. In-service
training for extension staff would be undertaken at EMATER-PI's training center in
Teresina and at UEPAE-PI.
17.       Extension activities would encourage adoption of simple, low-cost
practices which would improve crop yields, expand the cultivated area and increase
livestock production. Many practices to reach these objectives are already
proven, such as: (a) increased use of animal traction to improve land preparation



- 21 -
and labor productivity; (b) use of improved seeds; (c) contour plowing to improve
water and soil conservati,n; (d) improved weed control; (e) use of
drought-resistant and perennial crops; (f) improved animal husbandry; and (g)
improved pastures and cultivated forage crops.
18.       Agricultural extension agents would also be responsible for the
implementation of the social iorestry activities aimed at producing some 10
million seedlings for farmers to plant for fuelwood,. timber, fruit and fodder
tree8. Small nurseries would be installed at village level and EMATER-PI
technical staff would be specifically trained in seedling production,
distribution, and wood lot management.
Rural Investment Credit
19.       See paras. 3.09, 3.22 and 3.23.
Marketing Services
20.       The marketing services component is designed to increase farmers'
knowledge of markets and prices, improve the timely provision and marketing of
some agricultural inputs, and expand an efficient food retail service throughout
the project area. Ongoing Government schemes, such as the Minimum Price Scheme
and the Advance Purchase Scheme of farmers' surpluses, would continue, but not
with Bank support.
21.       The marketing information service (SIMA) is an ongoing activity carried
out by the Ministry of Agriculture. It provides farmers with timely advice on
local and regional prices, storage facilities, transport,and selling options. The
project would establish two regional offices, in addition to the three offices
currently working. The project would finance staff salaries, vehicles, and office
equipment.
22.       The main farm input the project would help in marketing would be
improved seed. The marketing of some 4,000 tons of improved rice, maize, beans,
and cotton seed would be carried out by farmers' cooperatives. They would use
project funds for their initial purchase of Improved seed and would charge prices
sufficient to cover their costs.
23.       The expansion of the food wholesale service would be carried out by the
state branch of the Federal Food Company (COBAL), which has been operating mainly
in urban areas. Under the project, ODBAL would extend its operations into rural
areas, enabling some 270 retailers to affiliate with o0BAL's Rede Somar Scheme,
whereby goods are purchased by small retailers from COBAL at lower prices than
those purchased through the private wholesale system. Pitail prices for these
goods are then controlled by 0DBAL and the savings (about 10-15%) are passed on to
consumers (estimated to be about 200,000 rural families). The project would
finance: (a) the expansion and renovation of two service centers (in Teresina and
Parnaiba) to allow for more regional purchasing of basic food crops; and (b)
vehicles, equipment and initial stock.
24.       Training of extension agents in marketing techniques would be carried
out by EMATER-PI. After training it is anticipated that the extension agents
would pass on their knowledge to farmers. The courses for extension agents would
include product marketing systems, advantages of crop classification, market
preferences, processing, handling, and crop storage.



22 -
Support to Small Rural Communities
25.       The objectives of this component are. to help formal and informal groups
of farmers participate in their own development by: (a) providing them with a
system whereby they select, plan, implement, manage, and monitor local development
projects suited to their own needs; (b) safeguarding their own interests through
group representation; and (c) enabling them to improve their economic base through
organizing joint resources for higher production. In order to carry out these
objectives, the component would include: (a) creation of a community grant fund of
US$19.4 million to finance local development projects; (b) purchase of vehicles
and equipment; and (c) training and recurrent costs of about 23 community
development agents. Most of the 65,000 project beneficiaries would benefit
directly or indirectly as a result of the local development projects (LDP).
26.       The community development (CD) fund would finance three categories of
LDPs: (a) those expected to raise incomes (representing in total at least 60% of
the fund) such as cottage industries, building of fish ponds, and small animal
production schemes; (b) those expected to improve the communities' infrastructure
(representing at least 25% of the fund) such as construction of communal laundry
facilities, small irrigation and drainage schemes; and (c) those that improve the
communities' organization (representing not more than 15% of the fund), such as
training group leaders and giving legal assistance for land tenure matters.
Guidelines have been established to help select LDPs:
(a)  LDPs would be submitted in writing to Municipal Councils and would
include objectives, justification, expected beaefits, method of
implementation, cost sharing (groups would participate with about 15% of
costs), and monitoring and evaluation;
(b)  the fund would not finance schemes funded by other project components
nor the construction of schools, health posts, roads, or rural
electrification;
(c)  the fund would not finance recurrent costs of LDPs; and
(d)  the group would be solely responsible for the management and
administration of the LDPs that should attempt to benefit the community
and eventually become self-sustaining.
27.       EMATER-PI would be responsible for the implementation of the component.
It would recruit, mainly from within its own existing staff, 23 full-time CD
agents who would be university graduates. These agents, each one covering three
municipalities, would stimulate community organizations and assist in the
formulation of group requests for LCPs. Group requests would then be submitted
to Municipal Councils for discussion, analysis, evaluation, and approval.
Municipal Council members would be elected by village, and each village would send
two representatives to the Council. The relevant CD agent and regional
coordinators from EMATER-PI and the TU would also participate in the analysis and
evaluation of group requests. The TU could reverse the Municipal Council's
recommendation if it did not conform with the stated guidelines, or postpone
funding if funds had been exhausted for the current fiscal year.
28.       Disbursements would be made in installments and progress in
implementation would be supervised by the CD agent. In the case of a legally



- 23 -
registered association or group, disbursements would be made directly to the group
through a bank account. In the case of an unincorporated group, the agreement
would be signed by the municipality on behalf of the group and funds would be
channelled through the municipality. At present all funds would be disbursed on a
grant basis but by the end of 1988, the TU and the Bank would review the
experience to date on the economically based LDPs to study the possibility of
carrying out further CD fund operations on a loan basis.
29.       Monitoring and evaluation of the LDPs would be extremely important to
both the groups themselves and the development of the component itself. During
the preparation of a group request the CD agent and the group would determine the
procedures required for monitoring and evaluation. As a participatory effort
monitoring and evaluation would: (a) increase the awareness and commitment within
the community; (b) allow findings to be fed back immediately to the group; and (c)
as an ongoing process, give the CD agent a closer understanding of the project and
of the community's evolution.
Project Administration and Training
30.       See Annex 2.
D. Project Cost
31.       See para. 3.20 and Annex 1, Tables 1.5 and 1.6.
E. Project Financing
32.       See para. 3.21.
F. Procurement
33.       See para. 3.25.
G. Disbursements
34.       See paras. 3.26 and 3.27 and Annex 1, Tables 1.7 and 1.8
R. Accounts and Auditing
35.       See para. 3.17.
I. Progress Reporting and Monitoring and Evaluation
36.       See para. 3.19 and Annex 2.



-  24  -                           ANNEX 1
Table 1.1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
-      State Structure of Land Holdings
Farms                        Farms
Without                      Without
Area     Farms      Titles        Area    Farms   Titles
(ha)     (No.)      (No.)          (x)     (x)      (%)
Less than 10 ha       392,400  179,497    157,957          4        72      88
10-50 ha             869,600   37,474       7,120          8       15       19
50-100 ha            917,100   13,436          672         8         5       5
Subtotal            2,179,100  230,407    165,749         20       92       72
More than 100 ha   8,983,000   18,722          749        80         8       4
Total for Piaui   11,162,100  249,129    166,498         100       100      67
Source: FIBGE Census, 1980



-25-                               ANNEK I
T- r.2
N ~EAM
N3M1AST MAL DWWEIrW    ND=  - PIAUI
Solution of State &Lq4ftwal Production
1970       1975      1980       1981       1982       1983
1Mjor Cop~
Rice
Production          52,134    157,535     76,807     87,585     213,103    136,372
Demand              72,216    100,043    120,939    131,675     128,283    1,159
Surplus/(Deficit)   (20,082)    57,492    (44,132)   (44,090)   84,820       1,213
Production          21,411     39,994     27,670     37,110      48,558    60,687
DatMxd              44,599     51,727     57,654     60,611      58,798    60,327
Surplus/(Deficit)   (23,188)   (11,733)   (29,984)   (23,501)    (10,240)     360
Production          45,496    138,998     73,548     43,365     122,036    113,722
tDtemd             103,714    116,252    120,588    123,184     119,876    121,579
Surplus/(Deficit)   (58,218)    22,746    (47,040)   (79,819)    2,160     (7,857)
Cassava
ProductiQi         547,659    545,153    833,866    882,916   1,048,950  1,133,746
DnIntd             738,047    864,189  1,011,874  1,036,827   1,084,784  1,011,344
Surplus/(IDeficit)  (190,388)  (319,036)  (178,008)  (153,911)    (35,834)   122,402
Beef
Proxduction         24,440     17,595     20,336     -            -          -
Dmaiad              16,533     20,978     26,502      -           -          -
Surplus/(Deficit)    7,907     (3,383)    (6,166)    -            -          _
kw MLIk
Production          22,239     30,978     43,552     -            -          -
DamKI               40,934     50,823     62,875     -            -           -
Surplus/(Deficit)   (18,695)   (19,845)   (19,323)   -            -          -
Fish
Produxtion           2,270      3,669      3,756     -            -
DTriad              13,046     14,933     17,069      -           -
SUrIpus/(Deficit)   (10,776)   (11,264)   (13,313)   -            -
Source: CEP3XD, Volume III



NL rEAS R      M
NUaAST           VE              - PEWI
Project Priority Areas ad Bmica  DJs*tributim
Eatire Sta                                          Project Prorit Ara                            Est, .ted
Muber of           Laid                              Nter of       Ied           Rural       Naber             NLabr of
wegiows          1M1inidpalities      Area (Kin2)  EFopulation          Iiinicipellties Area (KW2)   Pbpilation  of Fadis           efi         a
VALE DO PARNAIBA       29               29,041        944,614                29           29,041       391,161      78,232             32,760
FA213ZENS ESAUWAIS     10               16,202        142,699                 2            5,814       30,814       6,163               1,430
VALE DO GUM1XELA       21               60,408         162,618               21           60,408       115,548      23,110             12,320
VALE DO ITAEUtRA        4               15,075         49,727                 1            3,112        7,780        1,556              1,440
VAIE DO FMIAUBD         5               15,010         61,251                 5           15,010       47,421        9,484             2,080   C
VAIE DO 1IMA           7               14,846        216,483                 3            5,697       54,121       10,824             3,335
IBIAPABA. PIAUMJiE      5               17,428         102,972                1            3,019       14,189        2,838               710
VALE O SAMBI1N)         9                9,002         83,581                 3            2,772        17,186       3,436              3,120
VALE DO GIURIBAS       18               29,367         269,532                4            10,670       72,556      14,511             6,765
VALE DO UNTiJRI PREIU   3               26,534         29,141                               -            -            -
VALE DO PIAUI           4               18,021         76,403                 1            9,862       34,517        6,903              1,'m
UDrALS                115              250,934       2,139,021               70          145,405       785,293     157,057             65,00XD
a/ Estimated nuiber of fwijales beref1ttig at ful  evelpiwt frEm the State Rural klelopet  lan.
Souroe: SELAIN4/PIAI "PrograM de Apoto aD FPuexi Prdtx3tOr MuMal" Vol I., Aust 1985.
wx



-  27  -                        ANNEX I
Table 1.4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
List of Municipalities in the Pro;ect Area
VALE DO PARNAIBA
1.   Agricolandia                         10.  Eliseu Martins
2.   Agua Branca                           11.  Guadalupe
3.   Altos                                 12.  Gilbues
4.   Amarante                              13.  Jerumenha
5.   Angical                               14.  Landri Sales
6.   Barras                                15.  Manoel Emidio
7.   Barro Duro                            16.  Marcos Parente
8.   Batalha                              17.  Monte Alegre
9.   Buriti dos Lopes                      18.  Palrmeiras do Piaui
10.  Demerval Lobao                       19.  Parnagua
11.  Esperantina                          20.  Redencao do Gurgueia
12.  Hugo Napoleao                        21.  Santa Luz
13.  Joaquim Pires
14. Jose de Freitas
15.  Luis Correia                         VALE DO ITAUEIRA
16.  Luzilandia                            1.   Itaueira
17. Matias Olimpio
18. Miguel Alves                          VALE DO FIDALGO
19. Miguel Leao
20.  Monsenhor Gil                         1.   Paes Landim
21.  Nossa S. dos Remedios                2.   Sao Joao do Piaui
22.  Palmeirais                           3.   Sao Jose do Peixe
23.  Parnaiba                             4.   Simplicio Mendes
24.  Porto                                 5.   Socorro do Piaui
25. Regeneracao
26.  Sao Goncalo                          VALE DO LONGA
27. Sao Pedro
28.  Teresina                              1.   Campo Maior
29.  Uniao                                2.   Capitao de Campos
3.   Piripi
FAZENDAS ESTADUAIS                           '
IBIAPABA PIAUIENSE
1.   Oeiras
2.   Santa Cruz do Piaui                  1.  Pedro II
VALE DO GURGUEIA                          VALE DO SAMBITO
1.   Antonio Almeida                      1.  Elesbao Veloso
2.   Avelino Lopes                        2.   Francinopolis
3.   Barreiras                            3.   Varzea Grande
4.   Bertolinia
5.   Bom Jesus                            VALE DO GUARIBAS
6.   Corrente
7.   Cristalandia                          1.   Itainopolis
8.   Cristino Castro                      2.   Pimenteiras
9.   Curimata                             3.   Plo IX
4.   Picos
VALE DO PIAUI
1.   Sao Raimundo Nonato



ANNEX 1
~Tik& 1.J
BRZIL
NRTHEAST RURL DEYELIPIENT PROBRMN
NORtHAST RiAL DEVELOPNfT PROMJECT - Piaui
Annual Cost Phasi of Project Activittea
Base Costs
1996/1987 1987/1988 I9/1999 1989/1990 19909   11/1992 IM/1993 1993/1S94  TOTAL
A. HATER RESOURCES EWLEPINENT
DONESTIC VlTER SUPIES                          296     1t32                   -                                      -    1i625
PUBLC MIRR1ATiSN                             3,0i7    46541     1,912-   24003    2,219         646      58        451   154365
FEASIBILITY STUDIES                              -       105      215       2Q5       125         -         -        -       730
FISHIN6 ACIVITIES                              88       279       194         -        88       243        -         -       891
Sub-total VATER RESOWRCS DEVELOIPIENT           30431    6*334    2*320    2W208    2,431          8e9      548       451    18,612
B. AGRIULTIU   RESEACH
APPLIED RESEARCH                                 -      996       958       787       849       858      770       740    5,959
STUDES                                         108       132      108         -         -         -         -        -       347
SEED AND SCAt PRCTIOM                          223      200       155       155       168       156       155      155   I1368
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                  331     1,328    1.221        942    1,017      1,014      925       896    7,674
C. RURAL EXTENSION
EXTENSION                                    2,186    44059    3,810    44047    3,985    4,434    4,489    4.304    31,313
SOCIAL REFOESTATION                             -        77       193       270       541     1,160   1160        466    3*967
wub-Total RURAL EXTENSION                      2,186     4*136    4.003    4,317    4,S25    5,594    59649    49769   35*180
D. CREDIT                                       1,337    3.257    55b60      6,661     7960      7.295    5,i49     3.938    41.158
E. IIRKETINO SERYICES
MOOICETINFORIITION                             21        92        80        80        80        90       80        80       596
FOOD SUPPLY                                      -        -       438         -         -         -        -         -       438
IPUT SUPPLY                                   106        99       171       132         -        -         -         -       600
Sub-Total NARKETING SERVICES                     127       291       689       213        80        80       8Q        80    1*642
F. SUPPORT TO SIALL CNUNWITIES
CO$IMUNITY FUND                                29       938    2*322      3,579     4,643     5.514    1,161    1,161    19,347
ADMINISTRATION                                 138      247       318       346       359       362      355       334    2,460
- - -            - -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- - - -            
Sub-Total SUPPOT TO SMALL COIUWITIES              167    1,186    2,640      3,925    5,002    5,876      1,516     1,495   21,807
6. ADMINISTRATION AND TRAINM
PROJECT AdMINISTRATION                          -     1,154     1,209     1,385     1,274    1.042     19042    1,114    8W221
TINING                                        219       495       426       215       160        97       75        35    1.722
StbTotal ADMINISTRATION AND TRAINING             219     1.649    1,635    1*601    1,434    1,139   1118          19149    9,943
Total BASELINE COSTS                             779    18*IB11    18,068   19,867   22,450   21,987   14,985   12,778  136,015
Physical Contingeies                             396      748       244       252       257        61       35         2     1,994
Price Contingencies                             246      1t598    1,917    2.623    3,584    3,923    4,237    4,193   22t321
Total PROJECT CSS                                8.440   20,527   20.229   22,742   26,291   25.971    19,258    16,t72   160,330
Taxes                                           967    1,573        812       747       784      604       317       111    5,813
Foreign Exdw*e                                 1,177    2,706    2,003    24334    2*120    2,290    1*171           909   15,311
June 2 1986 09:40



I9 TS919          0                   lot             59               t6t                        09            *L99  *9'                                I$'             9s        at                      9'         00UU~3W
19  1                                                  99-                          89                                   -u            9W9        09  - ---- *9 .--    ----O l                                        1
901*z   %It   024099   uo0                   99640o          ooz'o            Lt'469        o  o n s      ou           as;*i   as's            W';*t       MT1          96      u65i       MMI'                   19060      991                                l 1,06t06S arm    "I
ml)  ,s  s;    ;w~~~~~~~~  92  -                                         -~~~          -  -- ---      - --- ---- ----------    -   -- -w-----  - -s ----  --                                     5           &0        99             ~~                             34
o   010   *464'                          V   S           u                              -      a                   -        u              90z                      ;       Es        a          -            99*';      ii;et-p-"                                      ztm
toot  si    r590491r    U' l   -t               Mot'          09l              Itte6l       609    OD*   965            Mito9  96'!           tl1';!     89!';         5*!     06g'S    968          855         5951       599'9                            8SAS  301185    10101
0       010    MM'9      595'!               686'A           SO'                             6     55!    ON5                    Bale0'        99545      5*59i         1!    !I6'*       000'S                              866                            9150  JJ9VIH6  "pi
o    o'o  at';   as':  -    -                 -            -   -    -                 .    ~          ~ ~ ~~                        ~         ~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~- ---------   - --                                                     0118 I
o       o'o    we                                                                                                                                                                                                 we         - -- ---        8  -      3w151$    vwk993
o    'O   OtA                 -                           --                                                        -                                 --                     -                                --(IL3M ) S8U'Nt0 6                                    1161
IO      010   lot's      -                    99 I             *-                           -      -      t                                    OK *1       TOE          tit      905       a1         -           49          860                    Ss0U'emir"    no1 le
O       010   SOlM                           two              SUI              -                   -      -                     E8511          -          U -           -        06        Ot         -3 -                    -                                  swuMM  m's
0         W'   9599      -        -.-0                        -           --i           -     -     --.--          ---  :-       -             69          I              !       5         !         -                                                    3OlI66
o  1   906t    -                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ilsa-      m1-051 *  * 599  2-      "Draw33 11
O       0,10   556                            5'                W                                           M           -        -505                      6              0       *' 00It             -            1*9'S      I                                       I33    le
0'  B'~~~~~~  0S~~~~    -  -  -  -          -             -      -      -            -        -             -           - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------- - --------1945
S,      B'S    MIT                           St 9             0                                     of-     I           -                      9           -o            -       -         to                      99         -                                    UIIU
609  0'S    099'!  -  -  905  659  -  -  -   *9           -        -              01591      *5            -       565        99         -           66         -                                     53091960ow SMIK
IS      0'S  9 0'        -        -          5                                                       9     :-                    -5!                       59*                     2       ( 93.1-snow 33Ul
otill   olti  zwzl                                                                                                  061       tiz                     M-6        am                         an   IM3 tncl-4104~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16018360539113  '
S~1913 IV
ttol, 9m u 'i695          13336iv                        1193609       1951688          z                        23                 160060 6331 6I O4M        3M M48              SNOW 11361 034 3180114 81316,81
U1191,63                                                                                                                            -                         ------ ~~~~~~~---- --   -39183
19391354  ~  ~          ----------    9391998030795601 1690611hw               S339683  8811160                      6996015   WU"            5209*3533913311
4500, an)
PR163  3fOJJ *4 "9333   "WA
5060463951313031     low3LOX=
1933 T    lm



-  30  -                         ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
~~ ~ (US$ Milikon)
Disbursement      Cumulative
Bank Year       Quarter          During           Amount       Balance
Fiscal         Ending           Quavter         Disbursed    of Loan
1987       Dec. 31, 1986          4.7 1/          4.7           73.3
March 31, 1987        1.2             5.9           72.2
June 30, 1987         1.2             7.1           70.9
1988       Sept. 30, 1987         1.3             8.4           69.6
Dec. 31, 1987         3.1            11.5           66.5
March 31, 1988        3.1             14.6          63.4
June 30, 1988         3.1            17.7           60.3
1989       Sept. 30, 1988         3.1            20.8           57.2
Dec. 31, 1988         2.6            23.4           54.6
March 31, 1989        2.6            26.0            52.0
June 30, 1989         2.6            28.6           49.4
1990       Sept. 30, 1989         2.6            31.2           46.8
Dec. 31, 1989         3.0            34.2           43.8
March 31, 1990        3.0            37.2           40.8
June 30, 1990         3.1            40.3           37.7
1991       Sept. 30, 1990         3.1            43.4           34.6
Dec. 31, 1990         3.1            46.5           31.5
March 31, 1991        3.1            49.6            28.4
June 30, 1991         3.1            52.7           25.3
1992       Sept. 30, 1991         3.1            55.8           22.2
Dec. 31, 1991         2.8            58.6           19.4
March 31, 1992        2.8            61.4            16.6
June 30, 1992         2.8            64.2            13.8
1993       Sept. 30, 1992         2.8            67.0           11.0
Dec. 31, 1992         1.6            68.6            9.4
March 31, 1993        1.6            70.2            7.8
June 30, 1993         1.6            71.8            6.2
1994       Sept. 30, 1993         1.2            73.0            5.0
Dec. 31, 1993         1.2            74.2             3.8
March 31, 1994        1.1            75.3            2.7
June 30, 1994         1.0            76.3             1.7
1995       Sept. 30, 1994         0.9            77.2            0.8
Dec. 31, 1994         0.5            77.7            0.3
March 31, 1995        0.3            78.0            0.0
1/ Including initial deposit of US$3.5 million into the Specla} Account.



-  31  -                      ANNEX I
Table 1.8
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                     Item                                   Amount
US$ Million
I        Water Resources Development.                            13.5
70% of expenditures.
II        Agricultural Research.  50% of expenditures              2.3
up to an aggregate disbursement under this
category of US$1.4 million; 30% thereafter
until the aggregate reaches US$1.8 million;
and 10% thereafter
III        Rural Extension.                                         10.4
50% of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of
US$6.8 million; 30% thereafter
until the aggregate reaches
US$8.0 million; and 10% thereafter.
IV        Credit.                                                 25.9
70% of expenditures
V        Marketing.                                               0.8
50% of expenditures.
VI         Support to Small Communities.                            14.1
70% of expenditures
VII         Administration and Training.
(i) Administration. 50% of expenditures                  2.4
up to an aggregate disbursement of US$1.5
million; 30% thereafter until the aggregate
reaches US$1.8 million; and 10% thereafter
(ii) Training. 50% of expenditures up to an              0.8
aggregate disbursement of US$0.6 million;
30% thereafter until the aggregate reaches
US$0.7 million; and 10% thereafter
vIII         Unallocated                                               7.8
78.0



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Aspects
Federal and Regional Levels
1.        An Interministerial Commission (IC) for the Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP), chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior and
comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Land Reform
and Agriculture and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall policy and planning
responsibility for the NRDP (Chart 1). The Director for the Program of Support to
Small Farmers within SUDENE would be the regional coordinator of the NRDP, in
which the proposed project participates. The Directorate would receive policy
backing for its work through the regional Rural Development Council (RDC), linked
to SUDENE's Deliberative Council which includes all of the Northeast State
Governors. The RDC would consist of the Superintendent of SUDENE, senior
management of the SDR, representatives of the involved federal ministries and
banks, and the Northeast State Secretaries responsible for program coordination.
State and Local Levels
2.        A State Rural Development Council (SRDC), chaired by the Governor with
the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary and including other State
Secretaries as members, would provide overall guidance for rural development
activities.
3.        The Technical Unit (TU) within the Secretariat of Planning's Foundation
for Rural Programs, an agency with its own budget, salary structure and
administrative personnel procedures, would be the agency responsible for
administering and coordinating (including training) all federally-funded rural
programs and for fully integrating them under the project (Table 2.1). Under the
project it would be responsible for: (a) consolidating annual operating plans
drafted by executing agencies; (b) sdpervising project performance and advising
the SRDC on institutional or technical difficulties; (c) monitoring progress and
preparing reimbursement requests; (d) evaluating ongoing projects; and (e)
administering training activities and the community development fund.
4.        The TU would reorganize its administrative structure to adjust to the
needs of the NRDP. Its headquarters in Teresina would have up to 70 technicians
organized into an executive secretariat, a deputy executive secretariat (directly
in charge of three units: planning, monitoring and evaluation, and training) and
six units that would cover land, water resources, agricultural development,
support to small rural communities, financing and administration, and field
operations. The field offices would gradually expand in number from three in the



- 33 -
first year to an expected ten in the fifth. Field offices would have up to three
project officers, namely: a field manager, an officer covering economic activities
(such as extension), and another officer for social activities (such as support to
small rural communities).
B. Training
5.        Training programs would be emphasized and would be centrally coordinated
and administered by the Training Division to avoid duplication and conflicting
strategies among state agencies. The five types of training given would be:
(a) Induction Training. The objective would be to give an initial
orientation for staff, farmers and community leaders as to the basic
project concepts, components, expectations, and the underlying strategy
of 'participation" in the implementation of projeet activities. It
would be given by the TU.
(b) Project Component Training. The objective would be to provide technical
training by component for staff. Responsibility for assessing the needs
and undertaking the execution of the training program would remain with
the implementing agencies, but the TU's Training Division would have to
give its clearance before releasing project funds.
(c) Management Training. The objective would be to improve both the TU's
own managerial skills (both at central and regional level) as well as
those of the implementing agencies. Though organized by the TU, the
courses themselves would be given by consultants.
(d) Training of Trainers. The TU in cooperation with SUDENE would train
trainers, usually with the assistance of consultants.
(e) Farmer Training. Farmers wqould receive training on specific components,
such as credit, marketing, and community development. In each case the
respective implementing state agency would be responsible for the
training.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.        Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to simplify
reporting requirements and to provide accurate and timely information for project
management and annual planning. The TU would receive from executing agencies
monthly reports on key physical and financial indicators (Chart 2). In addition,
the TU's monitoring and evaluation division would be strengthened to coordinate
monitoring and evaluation and assist regional offices to carry out ongoing
evaluation of project activities including agricultural production. State
evaluation activities under the proposed project would comprise: (a) a baseline
survey; (b) ongoing evaluation and special studies of selected topics; (c)
mid-term evaluation; and (d) post-project evaluation.



-  34  -                      ANNEX 2
Table 2.l1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
List of Executing and Collaborating  Agencies
M-ain
Executing
Project Activity                        Agency      Main Collaborating Agencies
Water Resource Development
- State public irrigation              CIDAPI      Consultants
- Fingerling production                SAPI        SUDENE
- Feasibility studies                  TU          Consultants
- Rural community water supply         CIDAPI      Private Contractors
State Agricultural Research
- Studies, trials, observation units  UEPAE-PI    EMBRAPA-CPATSA
- Basic seed production                UEPAE-PI    EMATER-PI
- Fish Research                        SUDEPE
Rural Extension
- Agricultural Extension               EMATER-PI   EMBRATER-EMBRAPA
- Social Forestry                      EMATER-PI   TU
Rural Investment Credit                 BB, BNB,    EMATER-Pi
BEP, BNCC
Marketing Services
- Service centers                      COBAL       CEASA
- Marketing information                SIMA        CEASA
- Retail shops                         COBAL       Farmers Cooperatives
- Training courses                     EMATER-PI
Support to Small Rural Communities
- Community activities                 Community   TU-EMATER-PI
groups
- Training and technical assistance   TU           EMATER-PI
State Project Administration
- M & E                                TU          SUDENE
- Training                             TU and
Executing
Agencies



----- ! I -------                                                                               ii          I
I
ii
S                     6
*                     a
a                     6
*
*                            91
1                                                             75
a                    62                                                                    U
*                    .1
O                    62
1   gu
'1
*                    IfI                       __________                                  III                  "it
6.
6
   III               *                                      B     'II
11111:
                     I
I   Mu      iii       j     lit                                      Eu               I
ft
II
I.'
I                     S                                              U
II
*                    aa
6
i .lI
II                    I
1                    6I
*                    a
,S                                           1111
I           -         a                                                                                     'I
I                    6
L eo  en sO - -- - ad                                                                      II



NORD1WAS RURAL DVELOPMB PROGRAM
NotsllRuraDwslDprm   Project - Piaui
Sc~~s SPf
m*=C0kvCN"    avtuaI                     2           3           4                       61
.  2_  d4        _ 341314 4 a         2 3_4  _       a 3 4  12 a  4  _  a  3  4             4
S>~dismsid   4*DFt            Ct*R       *, hS* *r .. - _  _ _  _    _- _ _ _  -   _   _  _-   ....................  
~                              tAA      ** .* _    _       _ _   _   _   _    _   -_ _  _-         
.~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0. me mm  W.
a4nI t hI1w8fP _t4                         _ _- _-                     
AGM~Uc~M QEARCH& UA.W WED pgKoCnOt
a-~~~~~PI - - EE- - --  -IXI
F~~C" c Waft-  --                                            -  - 
Sllt 10Ottac         CO IN~A   _   _  _ _   _   _  - _                 _     _ _  _  -                
fIabOtvrai~d otAsf            BWIME It P                                                                              
sew  s*$*  Cngs               COOEALA
**--a------cEQA-4                  -  --    -  -     --      -      -- 
h_etsV - arsg2tn SAFI
SwPOR to s4A4t mAA cc.41.aV
StAl ffiOJCl A*4SIAUAIM
iotOnhwIwIotog                tu----                                      -----
1cWs.cna ha gemgnt hcuwng    pi-                       -      -------                 -     ---               - 
__4_______F__pknCapW   __    ::::::p   -:-  :::   :  :: P::i:~                                                                                  !
lg0u..... .... aSdOfc                                                    -  -    -AC    -  - 



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
A. Financial Benefits
1.        The estimated increase in crop and livestock production (Annex 3, Table
3.1) due to the project's implementation was derived from illustrative farm
models. The farm models (Annex 3, Table 3.2) take into account the present low
level of production and likelihood of only simple investments being made by
farmers. The internal financial rates of return range from 27% to 46%; however,
the incomes to be derived are not high. The projected increases in crop yields
are shown in Table 3.3. Agricultural production would be increased through a
combination of increased productivity and expansion of the cropped area.
Increased productivity would result mainly from increasing the cropping intensity
on irrigated lands, more widespread use of improved seeds, and better cultivation
practices. The expansion of the cropped area would be possible due to the
Increased use of irrigated land and animal traction. Cropping patterns are not
expected to change dramatically. In the rainfed areas more drought-resistant
crops such as short-cycle maize and grain sorghum would be introduced. In areas
benefiting from irrigation, farmers are expected to increase the proportion of
more profitable cash crops such as vegetables. Expansion of both cattle and goat
herds would occur mainly from improved animal husbandry and better feeding
resulting from increased use of artificial pastures (such as buffel grass), cactus
and legume fodder trees (algaroba). At full development (Year 12) the annual
incremental production generated by the project is estimated to be US$40 million
(in November 1985 farm-gate prices), with two-thirds of the incremental value of
production resulting from crops and one-third from animal products. Incremental
production is not expected to lead to marketing constraints as Piaui's present
production does not meet demand. Production would be marketed through existing
channels and the project would attempt to increase small farmer's competitive
position by improving market information and providing training in post-harvest
techniques.
2.        The increased production would raise incomes considerably.  More
importantly, it would give greater food security by reducing the adverse impact of
the effects of droughts. Because current sources of supplemental income, such as
off-farm work, have not been taken into account, the difference between present
incomes and project incomes may be overstated by the models. The latter suggest
that net annual family farm benefits, which currently range from US$130 to US$260
per capita would increase from 55% to 125% at full development. The expansion of
agricultural activities alone would create new on-farm opportunities equivalent to
about 19,000 man-years annually. Most of this demand would be for unskilled labor
that would be met with family labor. However, many small rural community
subprojects would also generate demand for local employment, possibly of a
semi-skilled nature.



- 38 -
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
3.        The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be about 18%
with a 20-year analysis (Table 3.4). The cost stream for the economic analysis is
based on four elements: (a) all Piaui project costs, except those related to
studies, water supply systems, forestry, fishing marketing facilities and stocks,
and the community development component or 80% of total state project costs; (b)
10% of regional administration costs financed under the Northeast Rural
Development Project - Sergipe; (c) 7X of regional research costs financed under
Northeast Rural Development Projects for Sergipe and Bahia (this percentage is
equal to the proportion of Piaui's rural population within the Northeast's rural
population); and (d) recurrent state costs on a declining basis from Years 9 to 12
and constant Year 12 costs during Years 13 to 20.
4.        The evaluation of incremental net benefits included two elements: (a)
benefits from farmers expected to use investment credit (3,450 irrigated farms and
15,960 rainfed farms) equivalent to 30% of the 65,000 farmers in the project area;
and (b) an estimate for the incremental benefits accruing to the remaining farmers
who would be reached by the extension service and who would adopt improved farming
practices without using formal credit (25% of the remaining 45,500 farmers). No
benefits were included from the fisheries or social forestry components because
they are too small to have any substantial weight when compared to on-farm
benefits.
5.        Economic prices at the farm-gate were derived for the main traded goods
including maize, rice, and chemical fertilizers, taking into account international
trading prices, freight, insurance, processing and handling costs with price
trends projected according to those estimated by the Bank's Economic Arnalysis and
Projection Department at 1985 constant prices (Table 3.5). Beans, sorghum,
cassava and goat meat were valued at financial farm-gate prices. All other
outputs and inputs (including labor) were adjusted by the standard conversion
factor (0.83) to account for domest'c price distortions.
6.        Sensitivity tests showed that the rate of return is fairly insensitive
to possible variations in costs and benefits. Project benefits would need to fall
by 40% or project costs rise by 67% before the rate of return would fall below the
estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. Also, a lag of three years in
achieving project results, such as might occur during a severe drought, would
result in a M3% rate of return (Table 3.6).



-39-                                       MXAl 3
Table 3.1
3RAZI                                           -
NRdEASE RURLr     L       PRAM
IEAST R RML 1EVflt    PW  - -PUI
Total Anual Area and Production of Mjor Crops end Livestock Wittwut PrMject and at Fll Develojuat
Without Project            With Project                     hicrea_ta1
Area     Production       Area      Production       Area      Production     Value
(ha)       (tons)         (ha)       (tons)          (ha)      (ttms)       (US$'000)
Cgssa a/             20,170      44,350        34,185      97,405         14,015      53,055        7,340
Cbtton                6,950       1,430         6,950       1,730             0          300         109
Cbpeas               36,210      16,895        54,505      34,930        18,295       18,035       9,383
Mbize                39,175      44,680        43,420      82,415         4,245       37,735       4,160
Rice (rainfed)       23,130      52,820        23,130      75,685             0       22,865       5,0Z6
Rioe (irrigated)      6,245                     8,000                     1,755
&brghm                    -          -          2,900       4,340         2,900        4,343         390
DLlons                               -          1,000       8,000          1,000       8,000         387
ahions                               -            745       8,940           745        8,940         719
Ibtal CFops         131,880                    174,835                   42,955                    27,514
Semi-Impoved
Pasture            63,300                   194,980                   131,680
In,roved Pasture          -                    18,850                    18,850
NIative Pasture     376,585                   266,435                   (100,150)
Livestock
(Cacass Wt.)
Gbat Meat                 -       1,355             -       5,670             -        4,315       4,999
Beef                      -       3,125             -       9,410             -        6,285       7,933
at Production expressed in cassava mreal (dried); 1,000 kg. of cassava roots yields 260 kg. of dried meal.
April 4, 1986



MWASr MR& D3VELiW          F  - IAM
Crter1ctic of UlbtFatve Famn Mtxdels VOW in FYnal gtd Enl mr              IS
Yrs to
Estialatei                                                                       Easy xUn E  mefits      IND-         Ra             Rt2n per dy Tda               FIR
bDdel N.  Distribztm       Sie           Fan________            in          l               Pdecroec                 )W,AL  l_v*IqVmxt               E    E wIuect    (ooer 20 ye)
of Farim      (ha)    TYpe       LAvestoc        -cat                                                                                          
1           2,630        28       dalrd    (at            Serta          $s-Arid            650        1,233         583         7             2.56          3.39             40
2           1,95'        71     Raifed                                    Sod-Arid        1,121        2,027         906         7             2.95          4.92             28
Bee Cattle
3          13,700        32     Ralnfed                   (irado         S8Mi-bld           904        1,386         482         4             2.90          3.73             37
4           9,425        68     Rainfed    Gta             Ctrado        Semi-had         1,312        2,221         909         5             3.44          5.22             27       0
Bef Cattle
S           1,490        20 1/P      c      QGats          AU                AU             734        1,645         911         4             3.39          3.43             46
6           2,OOD        31     Private    Q              AU                 AUl          1,'9         2,215        1,168        4             3.35          4.33             43
Tbtal      30,825
1/ of whIch 2 ba IrrIgaW.
Fit 4, 198



-       41 -   -U3
,w m wvu mar - FMN
,,e1d uM- of WEo (mw at ti lant
vAthm* t Po1ec (V.0.) sod at 3i1 RM41t (P.o.)
W.O.           P.D.          J u             .0        PJ.
Og,{h@~~~-   -(be)
sHdi-Azu   a                               (l- 1)  28 h-
Qaa,a   o _p                                                                      1.0        2.0
cam NMI                            1.010           1,350           3D
*Npew _1                                            1 D            29
+   easo                                                                     I.o        2.0
rel                                SOD            i0             40
om-                                  280            390            3
Nium. Otu  + Ntie + OEM=                                                          2.0         2.0
Peuxm. O*ttx                         170            505            21
240            310            29
130            170           31
Galn S9r*                                 0          I,SCO             -          0           0.5
Su*Ald (Itdm  2)          71 1w
tassava +   .m                                                                    2.0         2.5
(k       NMal  lIm    1,                            350            3D
m-                                   140            180            29
#hfre + oupe                                                                       1.0        2.0
Nd=                                  S00            7C0            40
GMs                                  23D            390            39
Ebruw. O,tat   + P       + OCeum                                                  2.0         2.0
Pensn. Cxtm                          170            205            21
1Lra                                 240            310            29
130            170            31
atn Sorg=                                 0          1,5W0             -          0           1.0
Smd-hadd (MIdel 3)        32 1b
Oisv +   B                                                                        1.0        2.0
Gomma)Ml                           1,105           1,45D           29
*4*ea                                165            210            27
RWs + dhe                                                                         2.0        2.0
Rim<                                 940           1,30D           38
*M                                   530            740            40
!1e  +   C                                                                        1.0         1.0
Ihlm                                 6m             750            25
ONV-                                 30D            30             30
S:dF%Md (.l 4)            68 hw
<ama + Q_                                                                         2.0    3.0
(k3M_                               1,105          1,430           29
(xup                                 165            210            27
. +1NI                                                                            2.0        2.',
Ri~w                                490            1,300           38
I~ize                                530            740            40
ldhle + cmpem                                                                      1.0        1.0
maim                                 61             750            25
(GMs                                 300            390            30
UbC Irdp1td (VbIal 5) 20 tI 1I
Ia + 0 sw                                                                          1.0       2.0
dt=                                  62D          2,800           352
ONam                                 330            885           168
ava + (bq_                                                                        0           1.0
03va                               1,180          1,535            30
Gmeas                                175            225            29
IrriT t  Rkw                          1,5w0          1.950            39          I.S        2.0
Irrtgat     ws                            0         12,00              -          0          0.5
Private IraW(mA6) 31 tail
Palnfd 
l3ixe + 0mquam                                                                    1.0        2.5
t*d                                  650          2,80           352
(mkaWs                               33D            8             168
(asam$a + OMpa                                                                    1.0         1.0
(maa                               1,180          1,535            30
Qgaa                                 175            225            29
rigatId Rim                           1,500          1.950            30          2.0        2.5
Iriatul Wm                                0          8,00              -          0          0.5
o/f o dda2 to InUfta.



RA7.1L
NORTHEAST RURAL eVELlPNENT PROJECT- Piaui
Project Econoaic Analsis
(in millions af Ctszeitos of November 1985)
1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10      11      12      13      14      15      16      1?       18      19     20
FARIN C9EFITS
6ROSS ON-FARIH 8EIEFITS                    7529   26150   58457  100233  155235  236405  289634  332984  364520  376589  380749  382543  382543  382543 392543 382543  3923  3253  383  382543
GROSS ON-FARN COSTS                       21202   47921   80191  112172  152412  180494  193807  188731  186073  16157  166686  V70834  171009  170959  177349  179186  174864  17545  169562  164520
TOTAL ON-FMN  INCREIENTAL NET BENEFITS  -13673  -21671  -21734  -11939    2823   5591l  104727  144253  178447 209432 214063 211709  211534  211584  205194  203357  20767?  209M9  212981  216023
PROJECt COSTS
IRRIGATION                                23329   33081   13703   13121   14414    3329    3329    3329    2705    2091    1456    832     932032            832     8333            832      932    832
RESEARCH                                   5408    7012    7032    5620    6107   6076    5749    5632    4576    3520    2464    1408    1409          1409     1408     140 0    1408   1408 4    Iff
SED AND GOAT PROIIJCTION                   1554    1437    1141    1141    1186     144    1141    1141      927     713     499    295    295       285    295      295     295     295     295    295
EXTENSION                                 27691   29366   27520   29227   21920   31639   32701   31870   25995    119   13944   7968    7948    7968    7968    7A68    7968    79611          7968    96i
MARAETING                                   419     639     5S5     595     595     59      5       595      484     372     261     149     149     149                     14S 14  149    14V    14  14
PROJeCT ADNINISTRATON                      7465    8372    8728    9989    9206    7570    7567    8183    6649    5114    3580    2045    2045   2045   2045    2045    2045    2045   2045   2045
TRAINING                                   3571    3729    3208    1623    1202     733    566      260     211      163     114      65      65      65      65      65      65      65      65      65
REIOAL PH0UM  CO INORDIATINi               9278    1910    2033       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
REGIONAL RESEARCH  I                       2426     748     749       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
RE61OL RESEARCN III                       1031     622     551     542     516     516     507        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -               -
tOTiAL PROECT COST                        82171   96816   65259   61857   62146  51602  52155  51010   41446  31881   22317   12752   12752   12752   12752   12752  12752   12752   12752   12752 M
==== ---  ------- ==  ==== ==3     --= ==53 = e5==3 =  ====55 =352=_ -==5e  ==m=o  _= =5 = ====- _==e55=                          =Ozz= 55=O 55e5= 5 55    5555  555s f
TOTAL PROJECT INlCREENTAL NET PENEFITS  -95944 -108487  -86993  -7376  -59323    4309   52572   93243  137002  176551  191747  199957  199792  1M3?  192442  190605  194927  196246  200229  203271
Jkm 2i 1986 09:49



-  43  -ANNEX3
Table 3.5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
(Cruzeiros in Constant November 1985 Prices)
Selected Products        Unit            Financial          Economic
1986     1995
Cow Peas                 per kg            4,625         4,625     4,t25
Maize                     "                  980         1,610      1,797
Rice                      "  "             1,955         1,587     2,214
Sorghum                                      800           800       800
Cotton                    "                3,290         2,730     2,730
Cassava Meal                               1,230         1,230     1,230
Goat Meat                                 10,300        10,300    10,300
Selected Inputs
Urea                                       2,100         2,185     2,958
Triple Superphosphate                      3,500         2,176     2,336
Potassium Chloride        "                2,500         1,696     1,874
Source: Bank Mission



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHET RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
Prolect Sensitivity Analysis
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
DTOT      UP 10       UP 20X      UP0    DOIINW1OZ    OMN 202    NWN 502  LA 1 YMLA2YEARS AS 3 YEAP
CTOT              17.9rv      19.293      20.481      23.511       16,549      14.940       8.560      15.965       14.330      12.9"
UP 102            16.687      17?99"      19.180      22.221       15.247      13.640       7.275      14.801       13,282      12.037
UP 202            15.497      16.800       17.ff      21.038      14.059      12,456       6.104       13.741      12.320      11.172
UP 502            12.456      13.753      14.940       17.M        11.025       9.431      31101        11.035       9,896        s :
Dow  10x          19.431      20.732      21.926      24.927       17.990      16.380       9.9#3      17.254      15.492       14.043
lW 202            21.038      22.333      23.511      26.494       19.600      17.0        11579       18.698       16.795      154228
DOM  502          27.344      28.586      29.704      32,487       25.953      24,380      l7.9"       24.440      22.017       19.991
LAG I YEAR                                                        -           -                 -      17.990       15,965      14.330
LAS 2 YEARS                  -                 -            -           -           -           -           -       17,90       15.965
LAG 3 YEARS            -           -           -            -           _           _           _           _            -      17,990
SIITCHING VALUES AT 112
ARISAL    SIITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREA                  VALUE        VALUE        CHANGE
BTOT              670.S63,97   401.591,92       -40.112
CMOT              401.591.92   6704563,97        66.981
Net Present Value at MCC 112  268t972.1
Internal Rate ot Return   182
Cowan Eeuivalent Rate of Return = 20.2X                                                                                                                   .
Okt What's next? ESubtile  ECON/ANALYSIS  ottached]
eA



-  45  -                              ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIAUI
Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Selected Bank Reports and Studies on Northeast Brazil:
- World Bank Report 3938-BR, 'Rural Development Programs for
Brazil's Northeast: An Interim Assessment," February 7, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5350-BR, 'Northeast Rural Development Project -
Sergipe," March 12, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5349-BR, "Northeast Rural Development Project -
Rio Grande do Norte," April 8, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5360-BR, "Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project," May 31, 1985.
- World Bank Report (Green Cover) 5709-BR, 'Northeast Rural Development
Project - Bahia," July 16, 1985.
2.   SUDENE: Project Analysis Report on Piaui State Rural Development Plan,
'Programa do Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural," August 1985.
3.   State Government of Piaui:
Volume   I -  Program Summary
Volume  iI -  General Reference
-   Part A - Piaui in the Regional Context
-   Part B - The State of Piaui
-   Part C - The Small Farmer
Volume III -  The Project
-   Part A - Land Tenancy
- Part B - Water Resource Development
- Part C - Rural Extension
- Part D - Agricultural Research
- Part E - Support to Small Rural Communities
- Part F - Rural Credit
- Part G - Marketing
- Part H - Training
- Part I - Farm Models
Volume IV- Project Administration
- Part A - Organization and Administration
- Part B - Monitoring and Evaluation



- 46 -
Volume   V-  Annexes
- Part A - Project areas
- Part B - Soil and Water Resources
- Part C - Water Supply
- Part D - Private Irrigation
- Part E - State Public Irrigation
- Part F - Fish and Fish Farming
- Part a - Interinstitutional Coordination
4.   COBAL:  "Centrais de Servicos" - Teresina, Parnaiba
5.   EMATER-PI: "Reflorestamento Social" - Teresina
6.   IBRD, SUDENE and State Government of Piaui: "Minutes of
Understanding," November 1985
7.   IBRD Supplementary Staff Working Papers:
1. Water Supply
2. Irrigation
3. Support to Small Rural Communities
4. Marketing



BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM                                                y
1                             NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE                      I'.
j IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                            K             BRAZIL L   REGSQ
PA R A                   '' .ufnzv            YEARLY LAND ADJUDICATION OPERATIONS
LISAO                                                         I              ,   B soJo   -,  t
--     South   Armeric a
,  bT   ,,            s >41444V'b4     A '        54.1I
I wo -.g                  i '-s' s..-/  "        1100.
(CL..1 -
tehn  p-I   GAN\OE
I ~~~~~~~~~~,>-                                       r'Co 0440N,} 
, ~ ~ ~         e-d-    o|b   ' 0' 204                           CEARA          o>   -        
A <-                                          I/                 LE44%                                RIO0 G R A N DE  SD
K t                                                                                 ji<,w  .   ;   O, .uO   .,o    f .  DO  NORTE
- - C                                                (    -PARAIBA
0-C.           ZDM  t ) s 9i 5                       >PIAUi
,48       [ -                                   t_         OCnw    \      . '  /s  P A R A I B A1. 
t OM J P I A U i ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o044V  04404f                                                       ,544 - gbl
| F                                                                -wossr P yt ERNAMBUCO  "'
I   ,;               OBL/reu                  f <     I   WNSP                ->E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.  t4440 >tgnw O "4
.   A,          (       --'    '  -                                   t  .      .. to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u-"   I.,-
><  g  ' T9;<o - -                    \ $%.b    ALAGOAS
!44-P -,                                        .      .         ,   .        -
z / ,-.s-o~l e _ v f ~aF0  1
,'O     /          ,        2       .      ,      GL44         "C< .
ALAGOAS
, ( 0 4 3, . .  0 +.      , r
41-                                                /                  0*,5          n'"o'-O
1/.                                                           d                                 :sce9- o<jorato
->   *.  0404  "'-           ,f                                           :   Yeor   2
--.' 4S                                                  40?enOO005Yo 
-                       /       X        '5I                           K           6.5- () L. n ad;udictio. unde,
|   F . D .)    8    2                     o       ,.                    \                          O   Nuicl-ei Ce nters
0                           CL - RAS!IIA)/-   4L  /   ,6tD  f53  State Capitals
>              ,Fh         COW5,-IC'                      Cs:...
10       A         b          oW                        4.47 .                  QODOS 1      1
AIS                                                   ntexona '  Projec l Boundaris
1 reW/of V~+~l                1S do                            >                   O       100      7fJ4    30 KIIES/JIT ERS
.hd.            oe'                             IfJO   di4wti     IESO
_~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~                                                                                ~         ~ ~~~~~ ~V-  Ye_ L_U 5 



W              F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
44.~                                   44                                                 42.   
B R A Z t L                                                         '                1  
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM  
Northeast Rural Development IV Project (Piaul)
4             -              PRIORITY AREAS
,     Re3earch Centers
F Research Field Stations
Priority Areas
--~     F1Rivers
o    State Capital
o    Towns )intuunicipal Capitals)
Selected Roads
- .----- Municipal Boundaries                                  Asg 
-   State Boundaries
International Boundaries
o                     10 0                  20,,flS                                                           Pein r        i)+
snvo  .,                              01,00\ 7  _. @PQ
'OA ESPrPlCA                   - Fco                        0 _   C -,,,, .p
11- i   i '                -               4 11,    Sb  Ao t, r
PC7A 6ESP.fRANC.A  .._,dfF                           i \            -      zmj> - 
,2..PERNAMBUCO
$.nl. I.--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~010110    I
GOt  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     Z~~~~~ZO'~~~~~~~~~       IBR      8sI oT .. '
._    .001001000101 fJ1ssrin/             :       \ 1 M;Y               70 @P               P
G 0   A                                              ' /             100
P t bIm \ ' 'tA~1010                               2        m    i    7D (   t  )    3mMo            -Z(  Irr
10 P111811,                                                   100,,10    0,,100101do   . 5     s  P/aU)iE(           Sl,  Ta  100  
45' nBat_                           bb44A1A, l)t       P        111 G 0,1010,101 and<F,rt3d17P1tu;          dd \
-8    if v          M ;2                       |                       /                           g   d'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:



45S.                                                 S44 I
B R A  Z I L                                                                              005005
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Northeast Rural Development IV Project (Piaui)  k  tN;
Agricultural Potential Defined by Dependable Rainfall
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
(Ha~rgreaves, 1 974)
Cta.mf,catlon:    ltoorip!ioo                                                                               jlOSt
Very ard        Not suited for rain-ted Sgri-jttiira.
Arid            im-ited suitab,ity fur rain-Wed agrioigture.
Prod.urloo posslsile fOr crops raq.r)nV a
Ser-arid        3 to 4 months #rowirog50'r05t
Produot'of possible tor crops                        ;I
Wet-Dry         requ,ring a good /eve of moisture
adeqoscy dur-ng 5 or more months.             i 540 1AS SOS
lsohyets in mm.                                   ufrmls ,                      51 i5r55       O ,,.,I
Rivers
0)    State Capital
a    Towns (Municipal Capitals)
Selected Roads
Municipal Boundaries                    .                 sgrCst,s     a.,,. nsio
-r . --State Boundaries                                         * 54s \       A5ia
International Boundaries                              ns       l       *iwsleSA
01   r,p   ttirt   '~    200                                      i                     is ra    n
Kflisme-ei
Fi1s055o                                                       S                     ,~~~~~~~ ....,~~~~PERNAMBUCO
;/Q          .    s               IIIU-             * 
'flDD"rc :  /                   4                        P               a         |      i*0o.laV   /Z  (<r<
ontalve ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Tero,sinatr_ 
G 0 1 A S~~~~~~~~~~~~iVro15 01 05,0S                                                                                   
d~~~~~~~~~   -                                                                                                        C3gv f r S 
>+y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Oo                                   ainpis,     si|t.  ff  IS   1PRABC
GO                                                                                550 '-   r' -'- ' ---'' 1 .'-' r5/   .   ''5i  ''
\~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eo  m fsi 00,0500,                                             i e \
\ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ 0 Sfa5 FllonOnO o  eN ne\  /' . J            -'
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 0'O                                                                                         ormr....      1 .
0051                   \\                 !55.0 Si 000050 51dl tOC550~                                                o     rs    s
G ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     5                        .55                        .      15 ej         Srbl~  i   _orEnl
a   \   rCorwnh   \   <                 JW b IrrostonS FYO           AS dOUVIA  ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
loSt/dlSlW&  ' CPT@=n TM0a clwltef' @;st D _~~4~
{   \    140PIWI  /                           hrswernanafCOaSt                       4))        KltNelee51  590 AEX X9W  3~~-A



