Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2762 BR
(Northeast Rural Development Project - Piaui)
between
STATE OF PIAUA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 20, 1987
as Amended
LOAN NUMBER 2762 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 1987, between STATE OF PIAUI (hereinafter called the 
State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called 
the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty 
four million dollars ($84,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the State agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set 
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The State shall carry out and cause the Executing Entities to 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and, without in any way limiting 
the obligation of the Borrower under Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement, shall 
provide whenever needed, in a timely manner, all funds, facilities, services and other 
resources necessary for the carrying out of the  Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the foregoing, and for purposes of carrying out the 
Project, the State shall: (i) take all actions necessary to ensure the availability of 
the counterpart funds to be provided by the State for the carrying out of the Project 
in a timely manner; (ii) maintain TU with functions, staff and organizational 
structure satisfactory to the Bank, inter alia, as provided for in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and with the authority for, inter alia, entering into agreements, 
administering funds, and making payments; and (iii) cause TU to enter into agreements 
with Associacaes and the Executing Entities, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, such agreements to contain, inter alia: (A) the obligation of the 
Associacaes and of the Executing Entities to carry out their respective Parts of the 
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and of the Loan 
Agreement, when applicable; (B) the obligation of TU to provide the resources required 
by the Associacaes and the  Executing Entities to carry out their obligations, with 
specific reference to the terms on which the funds will be transferred and disbursed; 
(C) the obligation of the Associacaes and of the Executing Entities to furnish to TU 
periodic reports on physical and financial indicators showing the progress on the 
execution of their respective Parts of the Project; and (D) the right of the TU to 
suspend disbursements in respect of Associacaes or of  Executing Entities and to 
unilaterally terminate the agreement in case of failure by any such Associacao or 
Executing Entity to carry out its obligations in a diligent manner.
(c)
The State shall cause TU to prepare a consolidated monitoring summary on 
the implementation of the Project during each semester, of such scope and in such 
detail as shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish each such report to SUDENE 
and the Bank no later than three months after the end of each semester.
(d)
The State shall cause TU to: (i) prepare, in consultation with SUDENE, a 
POA and a budget for the Project for each fiscal year; and (ii) furnish to the Bank 
and to SDR, for review, by not later than November 30 of each year, any such POA for 
the following year.
(e)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the preparation, appraisal, 
execution, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Subprojects shall be done in 
accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(f)
The State shall cause TU to enter into agreements, satisfactory to the 
Bank, with public or private entities acceptable to the Bank, for the Provisional 
Execution of a Subproject by such entities.
(g)
The State shall cause TU to prepare, jointly with the Beneficiary, 
Subprojects to be carried out under Part I of the Project, and to provide SUDENE and 
the Bank, by not later than
December 31, 1992, the Subprojects to be carried out under such part of the Project, 
together with the justification of their technical, economic, financial and managerial 
feasibility.
(h)
The State shall: (i) cause TU to establish an account under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in a financial institution acceptable to the 
Bank, the proceeds of such account to be used exclusively for expenditures related to 
Page  3
the carrying out the Project, and (ii) promptly deposit in such account all advances 
received from the Borrower or SUDENE pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of the Loan 
Agreement, in addition to all counterpart funds to be provided by the State pursuant 
to Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
and the employment of
consultants to assist the State and the Executing Entities in carrying out the Project 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The State shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all 
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the State 
and any relevant records and documents in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank and SUDENE with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Loan.
(b)
The State shall promptly inform the Bank and SUDENE of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the State of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The State shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The State shall maintain, and cause TU and the Executing 
Entities to maintain, separate accounts (including the account referred to in Section 
2.01 (h) of this  Agreement) and records adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their respective operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, including, without limitation to 
the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which 
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
(b)
The State shall retain and cause TU and the Executing Entities to retain, 
until one year after the Closing Date, copies of all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account 
of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. The State shall:
(a)
cause the accounts referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement for 
each fiscal year to be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year: (i) certified copies of the accounts 
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement as so audited; and (ii) the report 
of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate 
opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made 
available to it and withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of 
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
Page  4
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts 
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, as well as the audit thereof, as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. The State and the Bank agree that access to land of an adequate 
quality and secure tenure for small-scale farmers is important for sustained rural 
development in the State and for successfully carrying out the Project. To that effect 
the State shall take and cause to be taken all actions necessary to acquire and make 
available for redistribution to Project Beneficiaries suitable land in the area where 
the Project is carried out, selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the 
Bank, including the following:
(a)
an amount of not less than 301,000 hectares by March 31, 1989; and
 
(b)
an additional amount of not less than 299,000 hectares by March 31, 1990.
 
Section 3.04. The State shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the action 
plans referred to in Section 3.01 (f) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the State shall: (a) cause 
the Beneficiaries of Subprojects that include works for Small Productive Community 
Investments to contribute with fifteen percent of the costs of such works, in cash or 
in kind;
(b)
cause the Beneficiaries of Subprojects that include Small Rural 
Infrastructure Investments to contribute with fifteen percent of the costs of such 
Investments, in cash or in kind, provided, however, that such contribution may also be 
made by the municipality or municipalities in whose territory such Subproject is to be 
carried out;
(c)
take all actions, satisfactory to the Bank, to recover the public 
expenditures towards the cost of Small Productive Community Investments under Part I 
of the Project, from the
Beneficiaries to whose benefit such investments are made, over a period of no more 
than fifteen years after the respective expenditure is incurred, with up to four years 
of grace, with interest and adjustment of the outstanding amount from time to time, to 
reflect the variations in the TRD for each respective period, provided, however, that 
the amount of the expenditures to be so recovered, except in the case of investments 
for agricultural marketing, may be reduced by thirty percent. For this purpose, the 
State shall enter, before such public expenditures are made, into agreements with the 
Beneficiaries concerned, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the obligation of 
such Beneficiaries to repay such public expenditures, and into arrangements with one 
or several financial institutions located in the State, satisfactory to the Bank, 
providing for the administration of the recovery of such funds through the services of 
such financial institutions; and
(d)
take all actions, satisfactory to the Bank, to recover the capital cost 
of the common irrigation facilities constructed under Parts A and I of the Project, 
and, except for the first year of operation of such facilities, shall cause the 
Associacao concerned to collect the recurrent cost of operation and maintenance of the 
respective irrigation schemes incurred from the Beneficiaries forming such Associacao. 
For the purposes of this paragraph, the capital cost of the common irrigation 
facilities shall be adjusted annually, to reflect the variations in the TRD for each 
year.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the State 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the State thereof.
Page  5
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the State:
Secretaria de Estado de Coordenacao e Desenvolvimento
Rua da Estrela, No. 350
65.000 Sao Luis, Maranhao
Brazil
Telex:
98-2369
With copies to:
(i)
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-2207
(ii)
Departamento de Desenvolvimento Regional
Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Regional da
Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "E" - 7o andar
70062 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-2509
For the Bank:
International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the State may 
Page  6
be taken or executed by the State's Secretario de Coordenacao e Desenvolvimento or 
such other person or persons as such Secretario shall designate in writing, and the 
State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Brasilia, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
STATE OF PIAUI
By /s/ Epitacio Cafeteira
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jan Wijnand
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of Subprojects
Preparation and Appraisal
1.
Each Subproject shall be prepared by TU, in consultation with the prospective 
Beneficiary.
2.
Subprojects shall be carried out by an Associacao, under management and 
organizational arrangements satisfactory to TU, SUDENE and the Bank. In exceptional 
cases, and for a limited period of time to be determined by SUDENE and the Bank on a 
case by case basis, a Subproject may be provisionally executed by a private or public 
entity designated by TU, and acceptable to SUDENE and the Bank.
3.
The preparation of Subprojects shall follow guidelines and criteria satisfactory 
to SDR, SUDENE and the Bank, as amended from time to time.
4.
Proposals for Subprojects shall contain, inter alia, information on the overall 
objective, purposes, instruments, activities, environmental impact, responsibilities, 
schedules and resources for each Subproject, as well as quantitative indicators of the 
achievement of its objective, means to verify such achievements, assumptions regarding 
external factors that may affect its performance, activity schedules, resources 
required and responsibilities for the carrying out of such activities. For this 
purpose TU shall prepare for each Subproject, and present to SUDENE and to the Bank, a 
document, satisfactory to the Bank, such document to serve as the basis for planning, 
management of Subproject execution, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of each 
respective Subproject.
5.
Subprojects proposed and approved shall have an economic internal rate of return 
of not less than 12% or an economic net present value of no less than zero at a 
discount rate of 12%, and shall not exhibit negative projected net cash flows after 
financing and debt service for individual Beneficiaries and for Associacaes.
6.
Subproject proposals shall be submitted by TU to SUDENE for appraisal, in 
accordance with formats satisfactory to SUDENE and the Bank, as amended from time to 
Page  7
time. SUDENE shall submit proposals approved by it to the Bank for review and 
approval.
7.
Subprojects approved by the Bank and SUDENE shall be included in the POA for 
each year in which the respective Subproject is being carried out.
Implementation
8.
Subprojects shall be carried out after:
 
(a)
approval by SUDENE and the Bank has been obtained for the Subproject;
 
(b)
the necessary budget for the first year of implementation has been made 
effectively available by the State;
(c)
a specific Subproject agreement (Convenio de Subprojeto) has been entered 
into between the State and the Associacao or the entity responsible for Provisional 
Execution, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, 
the obligation of the Associacao or entity to procure the goods, works and services 
required under the Subprojects in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, 
and to maintain separate accounts for expenditures made under Subprojects, and to have 
such separate accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; and
(d)
a Subproject manager and administrative staff, satisfactory to SUDENE and 
the Bank, have been employed by the Associacao or entity in charge of Provisional 
Execution, and any
managerial and technical assistance contracts proposed for the Subproject, 
satisfactory to the Bank, have been signed.
9.
TU shall not participate in the carrying out of any Sub-project, but shall be 
available for consultation by the Associacao, and shall provide the necessary training 
to the managerial and administrative staff of the Associacao in charge of the 
execution of the Subproject.
10.
TU shall monitor and supervise the implementation of the Subproject with regard 
to its technical, financial and managerial aspects, in accordance with the document 
established for the
respective Subproject referred to in paragraph 4 above and with the implementation and 
reporting schedule agreed with the Beneficiary or entity responsible for Provisional 
Execution from time to time.
11.
TU shall not make any payments for expenditures under contracts entered into by 
a Beneficiary or an entity responsible for Provisional Execution, unless any such 
contract has been duly approved by TU prior to being signed.
12.
TU shall report to SUDENE, from time to time, on the progress of the 
implementation of the Subprojects and on any technical, financial and managerial 
problems encountered, according to
schedules and formats agreed between the TU and SUDENE, satisfactory to the Bank, as 
amended from time to time.
13.
Any change in the design and parameters of an approved Subproject, as specified 
in the document referred to in paragraph 4 above for each Subproject, shall not be 
effected without the prior approval of SUDENE and the Bank to such change.
14.
TU shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, from time to time during and 
after the execution of a Subproject, evaluations of the achievement of Subproject 
targets as defined in the document referred to in paragraph 4 above for each 
Subproject, shall formulate appropriate recommendations on the basis of such 
evaluations, and shall present to SDR, SUDENE and the Bank, as soon as available, the 
results of its evaluations and recommendations.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  8
I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate 
any preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank shall such 
goods contain 
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of 
the value of the completed 
goods; and
 
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking 
into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and similar 
taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the goods pursuant to the 
bids. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a 
bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have 
to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000, but more than 
the equivalent of $150,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $17,000,000, and 
goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000, but more than the 
equivalent of $50,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  9
2.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $4,000,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,500,000, may be procured on the 
basis of evaluation of price quotations from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) contracts procured under Part A of this Schedule; 
(ii) the first three contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised 
locally, irrespective of their cost; (iii) other civil works contracts estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; and (iv) other contracts for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however, 
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the 
Special Account, the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to 
the Bank, pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the contract required 
to be furnished to the Bank, pursuant to paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
together with the other information specified therein, shall be furnished to the Bank 
as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the State and the Executing Entities in carrying out the 
Project, the State shall employ and cause the Executing Entities to employ consultants 
whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
III.
Other Provisions
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes FSRMM.
SCHEDULE 3
Functions, Structure and Staffing of TU
1.
TU shall perform, inter alia, the following functions:
 
(a)
coordination of the identification, planning and preparation of 
Subprojects, including the execution of necessary studies, in consultation with the 
prospective Beneficiaries of such Subprojects, with the technical assistance provided 
for under the Project;
(b)
preparation and presentation to SUDENE of Subproject proposals, including 
Page  10
the documents referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, concerning 
of the technical, financial, economic and managerial viability of Subprojects;
(c)
mobilization of prospective Beneficiaries, promotion of the participation 
of Beneficiaries in the planning and preparation of Subprojects, identification of 
suitable organizational arrangements for the execution of Subprojects, and assistance 
in the formation of Associacaes and in the establishment of a management of 
Associacaes, prior to the execution of a Subproject;
(d)
formulation of POAs;
 
(e)
making available to Associacaes or to entities in charge of the 
Provisional Execution funds for the carrying out of Sub-projects, and exercising the 
financial control of the expenditures made by Associacaes or entities;
(f)
field supervision of Subproject implementation;
 
(g)
monitoring of the carrying out of Subprojects and of the research 
activities under Part B of the Project;
(h)
evaluation of the impact of the Subprojects with regard to their 
objectives, purposes and targets, with the technical assistance provided for under the 
Project;
(i)
accounting for all funds received and expenditures made under the 
Project, with the exception of the funds allocated to Part D and to Subloans under 
Part I of the Project; and
(j)
training of Beneficiaries, their representatives and managerial and 
administrative personnel of the Associacaes, in the conduct of the affairs of the 
Associacaes, their management and administration.
2.
TU shall be composed of the following organizational units:
 
(a)
the office of the coordinator, including a coordinator, a deputy 
coordinator and an evaluation and planning committee;
(b)
an administrative unit, charged with the administration of TU, its 
administrative funds, personnel, equipment and vehicles, and responsible for the 
administration of the funds allocated to the Project (with the exception of those 
allocated to Subloans under Part I of the Project), including the transfer of funds to 
Associacaes and other Executing Entities, and the accounting for and control of such 
funds;
(c)
a planning and evaluation unit charged with the functions listed in 
subparagraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (h) of paragraph 1 above; and
(d)
a supervision and monitoring unit, charged with the supervision and 
monitoring of the implementation of Subprojects, through field supervision and 
analysis of monitoring reports from
the Associacaes.
3.
The higher level staff of TU shall consist of about 49 persons, including the 
coordinator, the deputy coordinator and the head of each unit.
