Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H189 RW 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 2, 2005 
 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H189 RW 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 2, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF 
RWANDA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Recipient a letter dated 
October 7, 2005, 2005 (the Letter of Development Policy (LDP)), describing a program 
of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable 
reductions in poverty (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Recipient's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
 
(B) 
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; 
(C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant 
in one (1) tranche as hereinafter provided; and 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement  
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  3
2
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Budget Framework Paper” means the Recipient’s document, prepared 
by its Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (as hereinafter defined), outlining its 
budget policy for the subsequent medium-term and intended budget allocations for the 
subsequent year; 
(b) 
“Budget Execution Report” means the Recipient’s report, prepared by its 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (as hereinafter defined), on implementation 
of the Recipient’s Budget; 
(c) 
“Citizen Report Card” means the household survey of the Recipient’s 
citizens’ views on the relevance and quality of its public service delivery; 
(d) 
“COMESA” means the Common Market for Eastern and Southern 
Africa; 
(e) 
“Contract for the Management of ELECTROGAZ” means the contract 
for the management of ELECTROGAZ (as hereinafter defined), signed on behalf of the 
Recipient on August 28, 2003 and Lahmeyer International GmbH on September 5, 2003; 
(f) 
“Development Assistance Committee” means the principal body through 
which the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development addresses issues 
relating to cooperation with developing countries; 
(g) 
“Directorate of Water and Sanitation” means the unit within the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Lands, Environment, Forests, Water, and Natural Resources  
(as hereinafter defined) responsible for water and sanitation; 
(h) 
“District” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 04/2001 of January 13, 2001, representing a 
designated area and population within the territory of the Recipient; 
(i) 
“Education Sector Strategic Plan” means the document setting out the 
Recipient’s policies, programs, and financing strategy for its education sector; 
(j) “ELECTROGAZ” 
means 
Etablissement Public de Production, de 
Transport, et de Distribution d’Electricité, d’Eau, et de Gaz
 (Public Establishment for 
Production, Transport, and Electricity, Water, and Gas Distribution), a governmental 
Page  4
3
enterprise established and operating under the Recipient
’s Law No. 18/76 of 
April 20, 1976, as amended by its Law No. 18/99 of August 30, 1999; 
(k) 
“Medium-Term Expenditure Framework” or “MTEF” means the 
transparent planning and budget formulation process within which the Cabinet establishes 
credible envelopes for allocating public resources to its strategic priorities while ensuring 
overall fiscal discipline; 
(l) 
“Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning” means the Recipient’s 
ministry responsible for finance and economic planning; 
(m) 
“Ministry of Lands, Environment, Forests, Water, and Natural 
Resources” means the Recipient’s ministry responsible for lands, environment, forests, 
water, and natural resources; 
(n) 
“OECD” means the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development; 
(o) 
“Office of the Accountant General” means the Recipient’s office 
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Cabinet Decision of February 13, 2005 and which 
is responsible for accounting and treasury matters; 
(p) 
“Office of the Ombudsman” means the Recipient’s office established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 25/2003 of June 15, 2003 and which is responsible 
for investigation of allegations of abuse of office and corruption by public officials; 
(q) 
“Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper” or “PRSP” means the document 
setting out a country's macroeconomic, structural, and social policies and programs to 
promote growth and reduce poverty, as well as associated external financing needs, 
prepared by governments through a participatory process involving civil society and 
development partners, including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund; 
(r) 
“Province” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 43/2000 of December 29, 2000, representing a 
designated area and population within the territory of the Recipient; 
(s) 
“Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency” means the Recipient’s agency 
established and operating under its Law No. 39/2001 of September 13, 2001 and 
responsible for the regulation of public utilities; 
Page  5
4
(t) 
“
RwandaTel
”
means the 
Société Rwandaise de Télécommunications
 or 
the Rwandan Telecommunications Company; and 
(u) 
“
Rwandex
”
means the Recipient’s company engaged in the processing 
and export of coffee and hides as well as general merchandising. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 37,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the 
Grant Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from 
the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in Dollars 
designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association (Deposit Account); and  
(ii) the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into said 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
Page  6
5
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.    The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on April 15 
and October 15 in each year.
 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
6
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request.  
Section 3.03.  Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not  
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
7
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for finance 
and economic planning is designated as the representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient:
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P. O. Box 158 
 
Kigali 
 
Republic of Rwanda 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(250) 577 581 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Kigali, Republic of Rwanda, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By /s/ Paul Manasseh Nshuti  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
Africa Region 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
 
 
manufactured 
 
tobacco refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  11
10 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party;  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of 
Page  12
11 
 
such contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  13
12 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement
 
A. Private-Sector 
Led 
Growth
1. 
The Recipient has brought 
RwandaTel
,
Rwandex
,
and the Nshili-Kivu tea 
plantation to the point of sale to qualified buyers, in accordance with paragraph 3 
of the LDP. 
2. 
For the purposes of the preceding
 paragraph, the phrase “brought . . . to 
the point of sale” means: (i) carried out an evaluation of the stocks of the 
concerned enterprise, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
an evaluation of its assets and 
liabilities; (ii) prepared a prospectus for distribution to prospective buyers; (iii) 
solicited offers for the purchase of share capital; (iv) evaluated any such offers 
and selected successful bidders; and (v) invited the successful bidders to enter into 
good faith negotiations. 
3. 
The Recipient has initiated the privatization process of the Bugarama, 
Gikonko, and Rwamagana rice factories, in accordance with paragraph 3 of the 
LDP.  
4. 
For the purposes of the preceding paragraph, the phrase “initiated the 
privatization process” means: (i) carried out an evaluation of the stocks of the 
concerned enterprise, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
an evaluation of its assets and 
liabilities;  
(ii) prepared a prospectus for distribution to prospective buyers; and (iii) solicited 
offers for the purchase of share capital. 
B. Education
5. 
The Recipient’s 2006-08 MTEF ceilings and 2006 Budget Framework 
Paper are consistent with its Education Sector Strategic Plan, in accordance with 
paragraph 4 of the LDP. 
6. 
The Recipient has presented its Education MTEF to its development 
partners
 
in July 2005, in accordance with paragraph 4 of the LDP. 
Page  14
13 
 
C. Health 
Services
7. 
The Recipient has carried out a comparative review of the two (2) pilot 
performance-based remuneration schemes for high-impact services implemented 
from January to December 2004, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the LDP. 
Page  15
14 
 
8. 
The Recipient has made provisions in its 2006 Budget Framework Paper 
to transfer at least 75% of the recurrent costs of the remuneration schemes 
referred to in the preceding paragraph from donor funding to its 2006 Budget 
(Budget Framework 
 
Paper: Section 4.2. c: Results-Based Allocation), in accordance with paragraph 5 
of  
the LDP. 
D. Water 
Sector
9. 
The Recipient has developed guidelines to assist Districts in contracting 
private operators for management of new or rehabilitated water adduction 
systems, in accordance with paragraph 6 of the LDP. 
10. 
Management contracts for new or rehabilitated water adduction systems 
have been concluded in at least one (1) District in each of the four (4) pilot 
Provinces of Butare, Cyangugu, Gitarama, and Byumba, in accordance with 
paragraph 6 of the LDP. 
E. Energy 
Sector
11. 
The Recipient has, through the Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency, 
approved revised ELECTROGAZ tariffs, in accordance with paragraph 7 of the 
LDP. 
12. 
The Recipient has revised the performance indicators set out in the 
Contract for the Management of ELECTROGAZ, in accordance with paragraph 7 
of the LDP. 
F. 
Public Expenditure Management
13. 
The Recipient has submitted its draft 2006 budget law to Cabinet, 
consistent with its macroeconomic policy framework, 2006-08 MTEF, including 
detailed, output-oriented MTEFs for the education, energy, health, and water 
sectors, and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper priorities, in accordance with 
paragraph 9 of the LDP. 
Page  16
15 
 
14. 
The Recipient has submitted to Parliament, through its Auditor General 
and along with his opinion thereon, its 2004 Budget Execution Report, in 
accordance with paragraph 9 of the LDP. 
15. 
The Recipient has established the Office of the Accountant General and 
commissioned a study to determine ways of supporting its operationalization, in 
accordance with paragraph 9 of the LDP. 
16. 
The Recipient has commissioned a capacity needs assessment in respect of 
accountants and internal auditors in its civil service at the central level, in 
accordance with paragraph 9 of the LDP. 
G. Transparency 
and 
Accountability
17. 
The Recipient’s Organic Budget Law has been adopted by the Lower 
Chamber of Parliament, in accordance with paragraph 10 of the LDP. 
18. 
The Recipient has submitted to Parliament a revised draft public 
procurement law which establishes a new independent regulatory body, notably 
with responsibility for: 
 
(a) provision of advice to contracting entities; (b) preparation of amendments to 
the legislative and regulatory framework and implementing regulations for public 
procurement; and (c) provision of implementation tools and documents to support 
training and capacity building of implementation staff, all consistent with 
international best practice, specifically the OECD Development Assistance 
Committee and COMESA public procurement guidelines, in accordance with 
paragraph 10 of the LDP. 
19. 
The Recipient has prepared the 2005-07 action plan for the Office of the 
Ombudsman, in accordance with paragraph 10 of the LDP. 
H. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
20. 
The Recipient has prepared the PRSP Annual Progress Report covering 
the third year (2004-05) of PRSP implementation, in accordance with paragraph 
11 of the LDP. 
Page  17
16 
 
21. 
The Recipient has published the results of a baseline pilot survey of 
Citizen Report Cards relating to the quality of education and health services, in 
accordance with paragraph 11 of the LDP. 
Page  18
17 
 
SCHEDULE 3  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General 
Conditions are modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, and Article VII are 
deleted in their entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue 
to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read: 
12. 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Grant Agreement, in support of which the Grant is made.” 
Page  19
18 
 
4. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the currency 
specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Grant Agreement; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the 
Recipient shall be made in such currency or currencies as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably select.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.02 (a) and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.02 Currencies in which Commitment Charges are 
Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(c) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(d) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03. Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
5. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant 
from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Grant Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
Page  20
19 
 
6. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
Page  21
20 
 
7. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in  
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read: “any other development 
grant, credit or financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 
(c) (i) is modified to read: “any development grant, credit or 
financing agreement”. 
8. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of  
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
9. 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the performance by the 
Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Grant.” 
10. 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and
 
9.07.
 
