Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1604 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Operation II 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health; Water Supply; General Education Sector; Energy 
Project ID 
P092944 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Date PID Prepared 
April 12, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
End of June/ Early July 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 15, 2006 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Rwanda is a small, landlocked country with a population of approximately 8.2 million and per capita 
GDP of approximately US$230, one of the lowest in the world. Its population density, at about 340 
inhabitants per square kilometer, is one of the highest in the world, with most people (approximately 85 
percent) living in rural areas. The economy is based on agriculture, which is estimated to account for 
about 41 percent of GDP, while services account for about 38 percent and consist mainly of wholesale 
and resale trade in various products, transportation, and public administration. Industry accounts for 21 
percent of GDP, with roughly half of this share attributed to manufacturing and the other half to 
construction. 
 
Though Rwanda has made a remarkable transition from reconstruction to development in the eleven 
years since the genocide
—in which close to one million people were killed, two million people were 
driven into exile, over a hundred thousand people were put in prison, and thousands of people were 
handicapped physically and mentally—the legacy remains and the country is likely to depend on 
significant levels of external assistance for years to come. Domestically, Rwanda continues to make 
good progress on reconciliation, carrying out demobilization, reintegration, and professionalization of 
the army and police force. Over 2004-2005 Rwanda also accelerated the holding of community-based 
hearings (i.e., Gacaca) of the genocide accused. Following the adoption of a new Constitution and 
presidential and legislative elections in 2003, the GoR continues to demonstrate its commitment to good 
governance,
1
for example improving management of government-owned assets to reduce unnecessary 
public expenditures.  
 
Despite major electricity shortages, real GDP growth recovered from 0.9 percent in 2003 to four percent 
in 2004, driven by strong activity in construction, transport, and communication. Agriculture in general 
saw no growth; however exports crops saw an increase, with coffee exports 38 percent higher than in 
2003. Rice production increased by 64 percent. Roots, tubers, fruits, and vegetables saw a decline in 
production. The manufacturing industry grew by seven percent, though performance varied within the 
sector following the energy crisis.  Construction grew by 7.5 percent. Overall, services grew by just 
under eight percent, with the finance sub-sector growing by 21 percent and transport by 12 percent, 
while wholesale and retail sub-sector growth was modest at one percent.  The food and beverage sub-
sector, led by beer and lemonades, grew by 5.6 percent. By contrast, the electricity, gas, and water sub-
1
A
minister in charge of good governance was appointed, the Office of the Ombudsman was established, and elections of mediators and 
national women councilors were successfully completed in July 2004, in line with PRSC I.   
Page  2
sector declined by 22 percent. The consumer price index recorded an inflation rate of 10.2 percent in 
2004
2
,
compared to 7.7 percent in 2003. This was driven by inflation in the food and drinks sub-sector 
(16.4 percent) and the utilities sub-sector (18.2 percent) due to energy and fuel cost rises.   
 
The country’s balance of payments improved markedly in 2004 compared to 2003. Following a 
doubling of coffee exports, from US$15 million in 2003 to US$32 million in 2004, and volume and 
price increases for metals, exports rose from US$63 million to US$98 million in 2004, an increase of 55 
percent. However, Rwanda continues to suffer from a narrow export base. Annual exports per capita 
amount to just US$18 compared to an average of US$145 in Sub- Saharan Africa.  High volatility of 
prices for coffee and metals continue to cause major volatility in the external accounts. The terms of 
trade index in 2004 was 65 compared to 100 in 1995. With heavy demand for imports of consumer, 
energy, and capital goods, the current account deficit as a share of GDP has been high at about 16-18 
percent in recent years (18 percent in 2004;  compared to 19 percent in 2003).  
 
In 2004, total domestic revenue amounted to RwF149.3 billion, representing 14 percent of GDP, 
compared to a budgeted amount of RwF133.7 billion. The higher than expected performance was due to 
improved collection of personal income tax following a more complete audit of companies’ books, 
higher collections of non-tax revenue due to administrative improvements, an increased consumption 
tax, and better value-added tax performance due to a shift of the composition of imports from raw 
materials to finished goods, which are taxed at a higher rate.
3
Total expenditures in 2004 amounted to 
RwF306.9 billion, RwF5.8 billion over the budgeted amount. Total expenditures and net lending were 
contained at 26.1 percent of GDP in 2004, compared to the planned ratio of 28.3 percent. The total 
included RwF180.9 billion spent on recurrent expenditures, RwF89.5 billion on capital expenditures, 
and RwF21.6 billion on net lending. On net lending, there was a RwF17.9 billion difference between 
actual and budgeted expenditures on net lending, explained by the repayment to the Preferential Trade 
Area Bank of a government-guaranteed loan to Prime Holdings in the amount of US$10 million; the 
purchase of generators worth RwF3.5 billion for Electrogaz to address the energy crisis; and the 
replacement of strategic stocks of fuel of RwF1.4 billion. Higher revenue, coupled with expenditure 
restraint, resulted in a domestic fiscal deficit (excluding demobilization spending) of 5.5 percent of 
GDP. 
 
The rationale for continuing World Bank support to the GoR remains valid since the GoR has made 
steady progress in implementing its reform program under PRSC I.  Progress on outcomes has been 
observed. As indicated above, coffee exports increased by more than 100 percent in USD value  in 2004 
compared to 2003; in addition, school enrollments have increased by more than 50 percent, 
immunization coverage is at 96 percent, among the best in Sub-Saharan Africa, and enrollment in micro-
insurance health schemes has increased from seven percent to 27 percent. 
 
Proposed objective(s) 
 
The GoR elaborates six priority action areas in its  July 2002 PRSP to achieve PRSP objectives: (i) 
agricultural transformation and rural development; (ii) human development in education and health and 
protecting vulnerable groups; (iii) economic infrastructure for development; (iv) human resourcess and 
capacity building; (v) building an enabling environment for private sector development; and (vi) good 
2
End of year inflation rate. 
3
VAT and consumption taxes are calculated on the sum of the CIF (cost, insurance, freight) value and imports duties. The latter are higher 
for finished goods. 
Page  3
governance.  The proposed operation would support the GoR to continue to make progress in these 
areas. 
As discussed in the PRSC I program document, in line with PRSP objectives, the PRSC program 
focuses on a set of policies and reforms intended to (a) create a favorable private sector investment 
climate that would promote macroeconomic stability and sustained economic growth; (b) improve 
quality, coverage, and equity of basic service delivery through improved expenditure efficiency; and (c) 
support overall improvement of public expenditure management and governance, with an emphasis on 
transparency and accountability to citizens’ voice and participation. The broad outcomes expected at the 
end of the first PRSC series (i.e., PRSCs I, II, and III) include:  
·
Continued macroeconomic stability, maintenance of low number of days to open a business, and 
increased exports to GDP ratio;   
·
A
monitorable, increased proportion of children having completed primary school;   
·
Measurable reduction of under-five mortality and impact of communicable disease;
 
·
Measurable increased access to clean water and sanitation facilities.  
·
A
clear regulatory framework for the energy sector, including a transparent regulatory tariff setting 
mechanism.  
 
Preliminary description 
 
The proposed PRSC II would continue to focus on and help the GoR as it implements the next steps in 
its reform program, including (a) creating a strong basis for private sector-led economic growth, driven 
by agricultural transformation, promotion of exports, and deepening of the financial sector; (b) 
strengthening the results orientation of its Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and 
associated sectoral MTEFs, particularly in education, health, water, and energy, strengthening the 
linkages between MTEF priorities and the budget, and expanding performance-based contracting of 
services; and (c) continued strengthening of governance and transparency, particularly through further 
improvements to the fiduciary framework and empowerment of local communities.   
 
The proposed PRSC II would encompass the following components: 
 
1. 
Private Sector Development, Agricultural Transformation, and Growth.
 High growth 
scenarios as envisaged in the PRSP to meet MDGs and generate income and employment are only 
possible with private sector development. In addition, a key part of Rwanda’s growth strategy in the 
short- to medium-term is agricultural transformation, since the economy remains largely agrarian. 
Linked to this, and to the longer term growth strategy, the GoR is focusing on diversifying the economy, 
promoting exports and investment, expanding tourism, introducing information communications 
technology, and continuing improvements in the banking/financial sector.
 
With a focus on agro-business 
and micro-enterprise, the GoR is committed to developing and implementing an export promotion 
strategy, advancing privatization, improving the overall business environment, and furthering financial 
and banking sector reforms. The proposed PRSC II would focus on addressing productivity constraints 
and intensified input use to increase production for domestic and export markets.  The GoR also aims to 
improve the competitiveness of traditional exports while increasing the value added (e.g., by improving 
process efficiency along the supply chain, from production, transformation, and marketing, to trade and 
exports) to address constraints posed by high transport costs
.
Page  4
2. 
Human Development: Education and Health.
 Following on progress under PRSC I, the 
proposed PRSC II would support the GoR as it continues efforts to meet the three broad objectives in the 
education sector (a) universalizing nine years of basic education; (b) increasing the proportion of poor 
students and female students in post-primary (i.e., secondary) education; and (c) improving the quality 
of education services. Progress toward these objectives requires adherence to a fiscally viable, long-term 
education sector development plan, transfer of public resources to schools, and accountability for results 
in terms of access and quality of services, and their long-term sustainability.  The main objectives of the 
GoR’s health program are to reduce under five mortality rates and maternal mortality rates and improve 
other health indicators through increased utilization of evidence-based interventions, increased access to 
these interventions by poor people, improved accountability and efficiency of the health system, and 
fiscal sustainability of budget support. Following progress under PRSC I, in which performance-based 
payment schemes for high impact health services (i.e., immunization and assisted deliveries) were 
piloted, the main issues that the health sector is now focusing on include (a) continued support of the 
basic health program under implementation (e.g., immunization, payment of civil servants and basic 
supplies in health centers and hospitals) within the Ministry of Health’s budget ceilings; and (b) 
introduction of conditional contracts for the purchase of specific health service packages through a new 
line item in the Ministry’s budget.  
 
3. 
Infrastructure: Water and Energy.
 In complement to investment projects in water and energy 
the proposed PRSC II would continue to support the GoR’s policy actions in these sectors.  The 
proposed PRSC II would further the development of more efficient management of existing water 
supply systems through private operators, help the GoR to continue to improve donor coordination in the 
sector, and focus on the approval and implementation of a new water law. In energy, the GoR has taken 
several measures to address the 2004 energy crisis. The proposed PRSC II would help the GoR to 
implement follow-on reform measures, including tariff reform, building capacity of the multi-sector 
regulator, the Rwanda Utility Regulatory Agency, and improving Electrogaz’s (the electricity utility) 
private management contract. Development of Lake Kivu gas is a priority over the medium to long term.  
In addition, at the request of the GoR, policy dialogue in the transport sector will likely be introduced 
under the proposed PRSC II, in complement to investment operations under development in this sector. 
 
4.
 
Governance: Public Expenditure Management, Transparency, and Accountability.
 In the 
area of public expenditure management, the GoR has made good progress in strengthening management 
of public finances, though it faces several challenges going forward, which the proposed PRSC II would 
help to address.  This includes strengthening the linkages between national strategic planning, the 
MTEF, and resource allocation through annual budgets; addressing weaknesses in the financial 
accounting and auditing systemsl; increasing capacity of budget agencies so that they are able to prepare 
adequate financial information. The GoR’s public financial management reform program was largely 
based on the Financial Accountability Review and Action Plan.  Following this, a wealth of additional 
analysis/studies on that status of Rwanda’s public financial management reforms has been produced. 
These disparate pieces of information will will now be be pulled together in a comprehensive report, 
which will outline remaining challenges and provides a “roadmap” for the public financial management 
reform program going forward. On transparency and accoutability, key issues to be addressed under the 
proposed PRSC II include strengthening, modernizing, and building government capacity for 
procurement and furthering the use of citizen report cards to track government progress in delivery of 
basic services to poor people.  The proposed PRSC II would also continue to support the GoR to 
develop monitoring and evaluation capabilities, which are now aimed at selecting performance 
indicators for all sectors and districts that can be monitored, with clear feedback mechanisms to policies 
and budget allocation and capacity building for line-ministries and districts to support and develop 
sound management information systems and to develop the capacity of the Rwanda National Institute of 
Statistics.  
Page  5
Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed PRSC II is not expected to have any direct, negative environmental impacts. However, the 
Environmental Assessment and Social Management Analysis carried out during the preparation of 
PRSC I continues to provide useful analysis and guidance to the national and local public sector 
agencies’ in their roles and responsibilities to manage the environmental and social issues.  The 
proposed PRSC II would continue to support the GoR’s capacity building of its Rwanda Environment 
Management Authority (REMA), which was newly established under PRSC I.  The GoR’s next steps in 
this area include approval and implementation of the new Environmental Law, completion of guidelines 
on environmental impact assessments, and building REMA’s human resource capacity.  In a 
demonstration of commitment to this agenda, the GoR Budget has allocated budgetary resources to 
REMA’s management in 2005 and 2006 
 
Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
80 
 Total 
80 
 
Contact point 
 
Contact: Agnes L. B. Soucat 
Title: Sr Economist (Health) 
Tel: (202) 473-4027 
Email: asoucat@worldbank.org 
 
