CC ." a.0TS LOAN NUMBER 2313 PAN
0                             Guarantee Agreement
(Sixth Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                             1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2313 PAN
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     * *     * , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (herein4fter called the Guarantor) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
two million one hundred thousand dollars ($32,100,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and.
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
0              Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not


﻿as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any., on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual perform-
ance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,. all*.as set
forth .ip ,the Loan Agreemento ..          .. ..    .
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01, of this Agreement, the. Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there .is, reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower.will be inade-
quate, to meet the estimated expenditures, required for the carry-
ing out of the, Project,. to make arrangements, satisfactory 'to the
Bank ,.promptly to provide the'Borrower or cause the Borrower to
be prov4ded with such funds as are needed to meet such expendi-
tures,.,,..
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to,..or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other exte.rnal debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation,' realization or distribution of.
foreign exchange held- under the. control or I for: the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
publib asset...-(as -hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, 'whith will- .or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the .reditor of such"external debt in-. the allocation,
realization or'distributioA of' foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the :Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at.-no cost
to the Bank, -equally iand ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating' or permitting the -,creation -%of -such lien, shall make         0
express provision to that effect; provided, -however, that,' if for-
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be.
made with respect to any lien created on -assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank.§ecure the principal of, and
interest and other charge  on, the. Loan by aqn equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the 16ank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply 'to: (.) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿3-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
L assets of 'the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,' for the Gua-
rantor.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Guarantor shall pay and shall cause each of its
departments and agencies (excluding its municipalities and auto-
nomous agencies) to pay all their outstanding debts to the Bor-
rower for past services rendered by March 30, 1984;
(b) the Guarantor shall: (i) by October 31, 1983, prepare a
program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the payment of the out-
standing debts to the Borrower for past services rendered of its
municipalities and autonomous agencies, such program to include
the dates by which the debts shall be paid; and (ii) promptly
thereafter carry out such program; and
(c) the Guarantor shall pay and cause each of its depart-
ments and agencies to pay all their future debts to the Borrower
for services rendered or to be rendered, promptly after the date
of billing so that the Guarantor and its departments and agencies
shall maintain at all times, in the aggregate, no more than sixty
days of electricity billings outstanding and upaid.
0
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Tesoro of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
.; Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-4-
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Tesoro
Panama City
Republic of Panama
Cable address:                    Telex:
HACIENDA                         MINIHACIN 3682352
Panama
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H.Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of AmericaQ
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC Z. PANAMA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   <
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿O
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
O                            ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 198.J
FOR SECRETARY


