Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13048-BR
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
OF THE LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN DEPARTMENT I
TO
THIE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE
RAIN FOREST TRUST FUND
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$2.1 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
JUNE 6, 1995
Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 5, 1995)
Currency                           Brazilian Real
Exchange Rate               :      US$1.11
US$1.00                     =      R$0.904
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                            3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                     10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)           100 hectares = 0.386 sq miles
1 nautical mile                    1853 meters
1 cubic meter (m3)                 1.31 cubic yards or 264.2 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)                    2.2 pounds
1 ton                              1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



ACRONYMS
AC            State of Acre
AP            State of Amapa
AM            State of Amazonas
CEC           Commission of European Communities
CRI           Cart6rio de Registro de Im6veis (Real Estate Register)
DAF           Diretoria de Assuntos Fundiarios (Directorate of Land Tenure
Issues), FUNAI
DM            Deutsche Mark
DPU           Departamento de Patrimonio da Uniao (Federal Property
Register)
EMBRAPA    Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (Brazilian
Agricultural Research Corporation)
FUNAI         Funda,co Nacional do fndio (National Indian Foundation)
GIS           Geographic Information System
FNS           Fundac,o Nacional de Sauide (National Health Foundation)
GOB           Government of Brazil
GTZ           Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Agency for Technical Cooperation)
IAG           International Advisory Group (Pilot Program to Conserve the
Brazilian Rain Forest)
IBAMA         Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais
Renovgveis (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and
Renewable Natural Resources)
INCRA         Instituto Nacional de Coloniza,co e Reforma Agraria (National
Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Credit Institution for
Reconstruction)
MA            State of Maranhao
MMA           Ministerio do Meio Ambiente e da Amazonia Legal (Ministry
of the Environment and the Legal Amazon)
MT            State of Mato Grosso
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PA            State of Para
RFT           Rain Forest Trust Fund
RO            State of Rondonia
RR            State of Roraima
SPCU          Special Project Coordinating Unit
TO            State of Tocantins
TOR           Terms of Reference






BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS *
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .....................................   i
I. BACKGROUND  ................................................    1
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement ..............................    3
II. THE PROJECT ................................................    4
Project Objectives .............................................    4
Project Description .....................                                                       4
Project Components     ...........................................                              4
Project Cost and Financing ...................   7
Project Implementation   ..........................................                             7
Procurement and Disbursement  ....................................    9
Project Sustainability ...........................................   11
Rationale for RFT Funding  .......................................   11
Poverty Aspects ..............................................   12
Environmental Aspects ..........................................   12
Project Benefits  ..............................................   12
Project Risks ................................................   13
m. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................... 13
Schedule A .......................................................16
Schedule B-1  ....................................................   18
Schedule B-2  ....................................................   19
Schedule C .......................................................  20
IV. TECHNICAL ANNEXES  .........................................   21
ANNEX 1: LEGAL AND TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF INDIGENOUS AREA
REGULARIZATION ......................................  22
ANNEX 2: PRIORITIZATION AND PROPOSED LIST OF INDIGENOUS AREAS  ..  31
ANNEX 3: LEGAL ASPECTS OF NATURAL RESOURCE USE IN INDIGENOUS
AREAS, AND CONFLICTS BETWEEN CONSERVATION UNITS AND
INDIGENOUS RESERVES ..................................   38
This project is based on the findings of a World Bank and KfW  appraisal team which visited
Brasilia from April 5 to 16, 1994. The Mission was composed of Messrs./Mmes. Judith
Lisansky, Graciela Lituma and Jamison Suter (Land and Forest Team, LA1EA); Christoph
Diewald (LAIEA); Hans Schutz (KfW); and Eberhart Goll (GTZ). Additional preparation work
was done by Messrs./Mmes. Daniel Gross and Irani Escolano (Environmental Policy Team,
LAlEA); and Douglas Graham (LATEN). The Rain Forest Pilot Progran Manager is Mr.
Stephen J. Ettinger, the Project Advisor is Mr. Orville Grimes and the Country Director is Mr.
Gobind T. Nankani.



ANNEX 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ........................... 43
ANNEX 5: PARTICIPATION BY INDIGENOUS PEOPLE AND CRITERIA FOR
DEVELOPING SURVEILLANCE AND PROTECTION PLANS FOR
INDIGENOUS AREAS ....................................  47
ANNEX 6: CAPACITY-BUILDING AND STUDIES ...................... 51
ANNEX 7: MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN  ................... 55
ANNEX 8: FUNAI EXTERNALLY FUNDED SPECIAL PROJECTS IN THE
LEGAL AMAZON ...... .............           .................... 62
ANNEX 9: REPORT AND DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES  ....           .......... 64
ANNEX 10: DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES ........ ..          ............ 65
Map IBRD No. 26184



BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Grantor:                          Rain Forest Trust Fund (RFT)
Recipient:                        Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency:                 National Indian Foundation (FUNAI)
Beneficiaries:                    Indigenous Populations of the Legal Amazon
Poverty:                          Not Applicable
Amount:                           US$2.1 million (RFT)
Terms:                            Grant
Financing Plan:
Source                            TOTAL (US$ million) equivalent
Rain Forest Trust Fund (grant)    2.1
KfW (grant)                       16.6*
Brazilian Government              2.2
Total                             20.9
Economic Rate of Return:          N/A
Map:                              IBRD No. 26184
* The German contribution is DM30 million. Based on an exchange rate prevailing at the time of
appraisal, the dollar equivalent is US$16.6 million. Actual dollar equivalents are subject to
fluctuations based on exchange rate movements.






NIEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
OF THE LATIN ANIERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN DEPARTMENT I
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A GRANT FROM THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST TRUST FUND
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
1.     I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed grant from the Rain Forest Trust Fund (RFT) to the Government of
Brazil for US$2.1 million. The grant will partially finance the Indigenous Lands
Project. This project is part of the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain
Forest, which is funded by the Group of Seven countries, the European Union, and
the Netherlands, and administered by the World Bank.
I. BACKGROUND
2.      The Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest was created to
protect the biologically diverse and globally important forests of the Brazilian Amazon
region. The Program provides support for an integrated set of projects designed to
reduce the rate of deforestation in the rain forests. Together, these projects are
designed to: (i) strengthen the capacity of the public sector to set and enforce sound
environmental policy; (ii) improve the management of special protected areas; and (iii)
increase the knowledge base on conservation and sustainable development in the
Amazon rain forests. The present project would address the second objective,
primarily by regularizing' a significant portion of indigenous lands in the Amazon
region. For millennia, indigenous people have exploited the Amazon rain forest
ecosystem without causing major environmental degradation. Brazil's indigenous
people have primary and inherent rights to about 89 million hectares or 17.5 percent
of the area of the Legal Amazon2, nearly all of which is under native forest cover.
3.     In 1500 the indigenous population of Brazil may have been as large as eight
million. As a result of continuous colonization of territory, warfare, disease, and
assimilation, Brazil's indigenous population has fallen to about 240,000 today, of
which approximately 145,000 indigenous people live in the Amazon region. This
massive depopulation was caused primarily by the introduction of western diseases.
I The process of regularizing indigenous lands refers to the steps necessary to legally
recognize them. Full regularization of indigenous lands is comprised of the following three basic
steps: (I) Identification and Delimitation; (II) Demarcation; and (III) Regularization. Based on
Brazilian usage, the English terms indigenous area and indigenous lands may be used
interchangeably. In Brazil the term indigenous reserve is generally used when the indigenous
people have been relocated to a new area that is not their traditional habitat. Indigenous Dark is
an older infrequently used term for an indigenous area. See Annex 1 for a more complete and
detailed description of the technical and legal steps necessary for full regularization.
2 The Legal Amazon is defined under Brazilian law as the area comprised of the States of
Acre, Amapd, Amazonas. Para. Rond6nia, Roraima and parts of Maranhao, Mato Grosso and
Tocantins.



2
Morbidity and mortality were further aggravated by decreased access to natural
resources when indigenous lands are occupied or traditional livelihoods altered by
resettlement, dependency on outsiders or inadequate land allocations.
4.     The indigenous people of Brazil are traditionally organized at a tribal level,
with no political institutions above the village level. Thus, while two neighboring
populations may be culturally and linguistically similar, they often regard themselves
as separate peoples. Most indigenous people of the Amazon basin retain their native
language and customs, but are increasingly involved in the regional economy and
social system. Under traditional resource management regimes, indigenous people
have relatively low negative impact on the environment. In many areas, settlers,
wildcat miners and loggers have caused environmental damage to the rain forest areas
and endangered the health and security of the indigenous people, as well as their
ability to maintain traditional lifestyles.
5.     Since the early part of the 20th century, Brazilian law has treated indigenous
people as wards of the state, with broad rights guaranteed under the Constitution.
The most basic of these rights is legal recognition of their lands. Indigenous lands are
owned by the nation, but indigenous communities have exclusive usufruct rights to all
above-ground, aquatic and soil resources in their respective areas. Government policy
limits all economic activity on indigenous lands other than traditional subsistence
pursuits. The rights of indigenous people to profitably exploit their natural resources
or lease these rights to other parties is currently a subject of policy debate. See
Annex 3 for more details of the legal aspects of natural resource use in indigenous
areas.
6.     Article 67 of the Temporary Provisions of the Federal Constitution of October
1988 requires that all indigenous lands in Brazil be demarcated by October 1993.
There are 532 indigenous areas recognized by the Brazilian National Indian
Foundation (FUNAI), of which 370 are located in the nine states of the Legal
Amazon. Only 50% of Brazil's indigenous areas were demarcated by this deadline,
largely because inadequate resources were allocated. The failure to meet the target
deadline, however, does not reduce the need or modify the legal mandate to complete
this task.
7.     The National Indian Foundation (FUNAI), created ih 1967, has been
responsible for regularizing and protecting indigenous areas and for providing health,
education and other services. Since then, FUNAI has had a number of
reorganizations and changes of responsibilities, with some supporting services being
returned to line agencies. It has a dedicated and experienced core staff with strong
capacity in land regularization. However, relatively few FUNAI field staff have
received training in indigenous issues or administration. Furthermore, FUNAI is
short of computer equipment needed to more effectively monitor indigenous lands.
8.       The proposed project would cover seven of the Legal Amazon states, where
a total of 280 indigenous areas are located. The other two states, Rond6nia and Mlato



3
Grosso, already have separate Bank operations, the Rond6nia Natural Resource
Management and Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Projects (Loans 3444-
BR and 3492-BR), covering the needs of indigenous people. To date in the states to
be covered by the proposed project, 116 indigenous areas (41 %) have been
demarcated, although not always fully regularized, an additional 91 indigenous areas
(33%) have been delimited but not demarcated, and approximately 73 areas (26%) are
yet to be identified. The proposed project would result in further work toward
regularization of about 127 of the most threatened and vulnerable indigenous areas,
thus contributing significantly toward compliance with the 1988 Constitution. See
Annex 2, Tables I and 2a-c for a summary of the status of areas by state and a
prioritized list of areas to be affected under this project. This project would facilitate
the implementation of two related pilot projects to meet urgent needs to improve the
conditions of indigenous people which were partly developed with preinvestment
financing under the Pilot Program. One pilot, a community-based indigenous health
program, will be carried out under the National Health Foundation (FNS), and the
second pilot is a sustainable development project currently being developed with the
technical assistance and support of the German Agency for Technical Cooperation
(GTZ).
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
9.     Since 1980, the World Bank has supported several projects in the Amazon
region. They have included special components (financed entirely by the
Government) designed to help protect indigenous populations that might be affected by
Bank-sponsored development projects.3 These components supported regularization
of a considerable incremental area of indigenous land, basic health services, civil
works, equipment and administrative costs. They have already benefitted several
thousand indigenous people. However, these activities suffered from lapses in
financing, administrative difficulties stenmming from the general weakness of FUNAI,
and the volatility of the frontier situation where improved access, lack of surveillance
and enforcement of protected areas, and illegal use of natural resources has led to
conflicts. Nevertheless, these projects succeeded in blocking and even reversing the
encroachment of unsustainable colonization projects, squatting, ranching and mining
activities onto indigenous land, preserving millions of hectares in relatively
undegraded state. The lessons from these projects are: (a) the most durable benefits
accrued from demarcation and regularization of indigenous lands; and (b) the least
durable benefits were those involving introduction of exotic technologies and services
without due involvement of the indigenous population in project identification or
implementation or without training and means for the indigenous people to maintain
them. The proposed project builds on these lessons by providing for stable financing
and focusing mainly on demarcation and regularization of indigenous lands which has
POLONOROESTE (Loans 2062-BR, 2116-BR and 2353-BR) and Carajas Iron Ore (Loan 2196-BR). The
Rond6nia Natural Resource Mlanagement (PLANAFLORO, Loan 3444-BR), and Mato Grosso Natural Resource
Management (PRODEAGRO, Loan 3492-BR) have not yet accumulated enough experience for lessons to be learned.



4
a permanent and irreversible effect and by minimizing investments in areas that
FUNAI is not yet ready to address.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
10.    The general objective of the proposed project is to improve the conservation
of natural resources in indigenous areas and increase the well-being of indigenous
people through: (i) regularization of indigenous lands in the Legal Amazon; and (ii)
improved protection of indigenous populations and areas.
Project Description
11.    To achieve these objectives, the project would finance technical assistance,
training, surveying and demarcation services (normally contracted for in the private
sector), equipment, vehicles, pilot community-based and applied research sub-projects,
and operational costs, including travel, per diem, fuel and supplies, for the following
four components: (i) Regularization of Indigenous Lands; (ii) Surveillance and
Protection of Indigenous Areas; (iii) Capacity-Building and Studies; and (iv) Support
to Project Management.
Project Components
12.    Component 1: Regularization of Indigenous Lands (Total estimated cost:
US$16.6 million). This component would support identification, demarcation and
regularization of indigenous lands in all Legal Amazon states except Rond6nia and
Mato Grosso. The design of the project is based on an annual review of the highest
priority indigenous areas requiring regularization and annual revisions of the project
workplan. Therefore, the number of areas targeted in each subcomponent is an
estimate. The project will regularize as many areas as project funds permit. The
legal and technical aspects of regularization of indigenous lands are described in detail
in Annex 1. The component would consist of:
Subcomponent I - Identification: (i) identification and delimitation of an
estimated 42 of the highest priority indigenous areas not yet identified; and (ii)
updating of information on at least four areas previously delimited.
Identifications to be undertaken under this project would include
environmental diagnostics.
Subcomponent 2 - Demarcation and Regularization: (i) demarcation of an
estimated 81 of the highest priority indigenous areas already delimited; (ii)
whenever required, preparation and implementation of compensation and/or
resettlement pians for good faith non-Indian inhabitants; (iii) Presidential
confirmation of demarcated indigenous areas; and (iv) local and federal
registration of confirmed areas.



5
Subcomponent 3 - Environmental Diagnostics: development and
implementation of environmental diagnostics for priority areas to be
demarcated under the project.
13.    FUNAI has established a priority list based primarily on risk factors and
degree of local support to establish the order in which identifications and demarcations
would take place. Risk factors include (i) vulnerability, such as proximity to cities
and settlements and/or regional development projects, and (ii) physical or cultural
threats, such as epidemics and/or inter-ethnic conflicts. Regularization work would be
undertaken based on the proposed priority list which is fully described in Annex 2
(see para. 20). Consultation with and participation of indigenous communities in this
component are described in Annex 5. In certain cases, the final stage of
regularization of indigenous lands would require removing good-faith non-Indians
from indigenous areas. During negotiations agreement was reached that the
compensation and/or resettlement plans for good faith non-Indian inhabitants in
indigenous areas to be demarcated under the project would be based on the Sectoral
Resettlement and Compensation Principles which were discussed during appraisal and
finalized during negotiations (para. 34(a)). Where necessary, a Compensation and/or
Resettlement Plan satisfactory to the Bank will be prepared prior to beginning
demarcation activities in concerned indigenous areas (see para. 12, Subcomponent 2).
The compensation costs will be financed by counterpart funds. Studies to evaluate
and plan appropriate resettlement alternatives for indigenous areas containing larger
non-Indian settlements will be funded under the project as needed (see para. 15,
Subcomponent 3). To minimize delays in demarcations, the dates of requests for and
issuance of the declaratory orders of indigenous usufruct (Portaria Declarat6ria de
Posse Indigena) by the Ministry of Justice (FUNAI's parent agency) would be
followed by the project (see para. 20). Annex 1 provides further information on
declaratory orders. Also, to minimize areas of conflict, the project would not finance
regularization activities where conservation units are superimposed on indigenous
areas, unless the resolutions of these conflicts have been previously and mutually
agreed upon by the responsible institutions (see para. 20 and Annex 3).
14.    Component 2: Surveillance and Protection of Indigenous Areas (Total
estimated cost: US$1.6 million). The objective of this component is to assist
indigenous people in developing plans for activities designed to protect their areas
while securing their subsistence and conserving the natural resource base. Therefore,
the plans would be developed and implemented largely by the affected indigenous
population. As needed, logistical, technical and scientific support for the design and
implementation of the plan will be provided by FUNAI regional administrative
offices, FUNAI identification teams and/or pertinent NGOs. To ensure the
effectiveness and sustainability of the protection plans during and after the proposed
project, the plans would help create the conditions for their own maintenance, by
means of economically and ecologically sustainable income-generating activities as
well as rudimentary infrastructure. Among the types of activities to be supported
would be the encouragement of voluntary patrolling by establishing strategically
located control bases (consisting of agricultural fields or fishing or hunting camps to



6
be visited periodically by the indigenous people); intensification of the use of
traditional areas for hunting or collecting forest products; and possible decrease in
visiting or travel to populated border areas to diminish exposure to diseases and other
threats. In cases of invasions of indigenous areas which are judged as highly
threatening to the physical integrity of an area, the indigenous community, through
FUNAI, could request the help of pertinent government agencies (IBAMA, the
Federal Police and others) capable of clearing the area. In situations in which
indigenous groups are relatively incapable of protecting themselves, for example,
because of cultural characteristics, newness of the contact situation, or absence of
sufficient numbers of adults, FUNAI would assume responsibility for the design and
initial implementation of the protection plan but with substantial participation of the
indigenous community. The protection plans would be based on criteria proposed and
discussed during appraisal and detailed in Annex 5. During negotiations agreement
was reached on the criteria for preparing and implementing protection plans and
mechanisms to assure long-term indigenous lands protection, as set forth in a side
letter dated February 23, 1995 (para. 34(b)(i)). Also, during negotiations agreement
was reached that the agreed-upon criteria will be used, and that the Project
Consultative Commission will review and provide recommendations on each
protection plan developed under the project (see para. 19 and Annex 5) (para.
34(b)(ii)).
15.    Component 3: Capacity-Building and Studies (Total estimated cost: US$1.6
million). This component would support activities to strengthen the protection of
indigenous populations and regularization and improved conditions for the
management of indigenous lands. The training program and studies are described in
more detail in Annex 6. The component would consist of:
Subcomponent 1 - Geographic Information System: implementation and
training for a Geographic Information System (GIS) to improve the
regularization and monitoring activities of indigenous lands.
Subcomponent 2 - Training in Indigenous Issues: five courses in indigenous
issues for FUNAI field staff, representatives of pertinent governmental
agencies, NGOs and indigenous people. Indigenous issues courses would
cover administrative, cultural, legal, environmental and technical issues.
FUNAI provided satisfactory basic qualification requirements for NGOs and
government agencies to provide technical assistance and training, and
satisfactory criteria and mechanisms for selecting trainees. These are
summarized in Annex 6. FUNAI will use Bank guidelines to select and
contract agencies to provide technical assistance.
Subcomponent 3 - Studies: (i) study and test of a methodology for a rapid
environmental diagnostic of the natural resources in indigenous areas; (ii)
study to test and evaluate alternative methods of demarcation, specifically the
planting of marker species along boundaries; (iii) studies of legal and policy
issues with respect to indigenous rights and natural resource use and



7
management; and (iv) studies of resettlement recommendations for good faith
non-Indians from indigenous areas in specific cases. FUNAI has prepared
satisfactory terms of reference for the first two studies, which are summarized
in Annex 6. Agreement was reached during negotiations that terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank for (i) the legal studies would be submitted
to the Bank by June 30, 1995 (para. 34(c)) and (ii) resettlement studies would
be submitted whenever necessary (para. 34(d)).
16.    Component 4: Support to Project Manazement (Total estimated cost: US$1.1
million). The activities to be supported under this component include: (i) project
management and (ii) independent evaluation. Project implementation and
conditionalities are summarized below in paragraphs 18 to 21 and further described in
Annex 4. The monitoring and evaluation plan is presented in Annex 7.
Project Cost and Financing
17.   The total project cost (including contingencies) is estimated at US$20.9
million. The project would be financed by the Rain Forest Trust Fund (RFT)
(US$2.1 million), Germany through KfW (DM 30.0 million, currently equivalent to
about US$16.6 million) and the Federative Republic of Brazil (US$2.2 million).
Price contingencies were based on international inflation rates and physical
contingencies from zero percent to 15 percent according to the expenditure category.
Financing would be parallel, and would be made available on a grant basis. RFT
funds would finance Components 3 and 4, except the part of Component 3 for
computer equipment and training to be financed by German funds. German funds
would finance Components I (except compensation costs), 2, and the computer costs
from Component 3. The Goverrnment of Brazil would finance compensation costs in
Component 1.
Project Implementation
1 8.   Management. The proposed project would be carried out over five and a half
years, and would be implemented primarily by FUNAI. Project implementation
would be coordinated by the Special Projects Coordination Unit (SPCU) of FUNAI,
which also functions as the relevant Technical Secretariat for the Pilot Program. The
SPCU would report directly to the President of FUNAI and the Executive Secretariat
of the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest in the Ministry of the
Environment and the Legal Amazon (MMA). The SPCU would be assisted by a
Project Technical Coordination Unit (TC) and short-term technical consultants.
FUNAI has prepared satisfactory terms of reference for short-term consultancies to be
contracted during the first year of the project. Project management would also be
supported by a technical consultant to be provided by GTZ and approved by the
Governrnent of Brazil. Several directorates and departments within FUNAI would
carry out specific project activities. FUNAI's land regularization unit is strong and
well staffed, and with key training financed under the project it will be fully capable
of implementing the land regularization component of the project. The project will



8
also contract for specific services with qualified NGOs and governmental
organizations. FUNAI has presented satisfactory basic requirements for selecting
NGOs and governmental organizations. FUNAI will enter into agreements
(convenios) with: (i) the Ministry of the Environment and the Legal Amazon (MMA)
for ensuring timely availability of funds to implement the project; and, whenever
necessary, with (ii) qualified NGOs, universities, international and other Brazilian
government agencies to undertake or support specific project activities, as appropriate.
Signature of the legal agreement between FUNAI and MMA would also be a
condition of Grant effectiveness (para. 35(a)). Further details on project management
are provided in Annex 4.
19.    Participation. Procedures to ensure adequate consultation and participation of
indigenous people in project implementation were discussed and agreed at appraisal
and are summarized in Annex 5. Systematic indigenous consultation will be further
strengthened by the creation of a special Project Consultative Commission (PCC),
which will consist of four representatives of indigenous organizations or NGOs to be
selected by consultation with indigenous people and four government representatives.
The Consultative Commission will advise and provide formal evaluations on project
implermentation and performance for the SPCU and the Pilot Program to Conserve the
Brazilian Rain Forest. The criteria and mechanism for selecting non-government
members of the Consultative Commission was discussed during appraisal and finalized
durina negotiations. The establishment of the PCC (Annex 5) under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition for grant effectiveness (para.
35(b)).
20.    Annual Operating Plans. Monitoring and Reporting. The SPCU will prepare
the Annual Operating Plan in conjunction with the Project Technical Coordination
Unit (TC) and executing FUNAI directorates for submission to the Bank and KfW.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Bank would receive FUNAI's Arnual
Operating Plan by November 30 of the year before each operational plan which would
include: (i) project activities to be carried out during the next calendar year, including
indication of the number of good faith non-Indian inhabitants to be removed from
indigenous areas to be demarcated (see Annex 7); (ii) studies to confirm the necessity
of resettlement and analyze available options whenever the Annual Operating Plan
indicates that resettlement may be required; (iii) the priority list of proposed
indigenous areas to be regularized as reviewed and revised by FUNAI and the Project
Consultative Commission to take into account the beneficiaries' current needs; (iv) the
list of indigenous areas ineligible for financing due to unresolved conflicts with
conservation units; and (v) the proposed annual budget allocation for counterpart
funds (para. 34(e)). The presentation of each year's Annual Operating Plan
satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of disbursement (para. 36(a)). As a condition
of grant effectiveness, FUNAI would be required to present for the first year of the
project its Annual Operating Plan (para. 35(c)). The Annual Operating Plan will
specify the financial and operational indicators and implementation targets that will be
used for project monitoring. During negotiations, agreement was reached on basic
monitoring indicators including: (i) socio-economic indicators for good faith non-



9
Indians being removed from indigenous areas; and (ii) indicators for the issuance of
declaratory orders of indigenous usufruct (Portaria Declarat6ria de Posse Indigena)
by the Ministry of Justice (FUNAI's parent agency); these monitoring indicators will
be used to prepare the quarterly and semi annual reports (para. 34(f)). During
negotiations, it was agreed that semi-annual reports on the implementation progress of
the project would be submitted to the Bank by February 28 and August 31 of each
year (para. 34(g)). The SPCU will receive quarterly financial and operating reports
from executing directorates and other participating organizations based on the agreed
on indicators from the Annual Operating Plan by the end of the month after each
quarter. The SPCU, with the assistance of the Project Technical Coordination Unit
(TC), will prepare consolidated biannual financial and operational monitoring and
implementation progress reports based on the quarterly reports.
21.    Evaluation. In addition to the biannual evaluative reports on the project
compiled by FUNAI and reviewed by the Project Consultative Commission, the
project will also contract for independent evaluations to be carried out by a qualified
consulting firm, NGO or university. The project evaluation will include a baseline
study, a mid-term evaluation, and a final evaluation. This evaluation will also use
indicators to assess the impact of the compensation and resettlement plans on non-
Indian inhabitants of indigenous areas covered under the project. A draft project
monitoring and evaluation system is described in Annex 7. At negotiations, it was
agreed that the terms of reference for the project evaluation will be presented to the
Bank by July 15. 1995, the baseline study by December 31, 1995, the mid-term
evaluation by September 30. 1997, and the final evaluation by six months after the
conclusion of the project (para. 34(h)). Bank missions are planned for six-month
intervals to supervise project progress. Supervision would be led by a unit established
in the Brasilia resident mission to look after all Pilot Program projects. During
negotiations, it was agreed that rot later than September 30 of each year the
Government would hold an annual review with the Bank, at which time the adequacy
of the project strategy would be assessed and modifications discussed and agreed, if
necessary (para. 34(i)).
Procurement and Disbursement
22.    FUNAI, as the executing agency, will be responsible for all procurement
under the project, which will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines, and
will ensure the competitiveness, in terms of price and quality, of the items procured
and their suitability for the purposes intended. FUNAI has experience with Bank
procurement guidelines, in particular with respect to the implementation of pre-
investment studies financed by the Bank under the Pilot Program. Civil works will
not be financed by the RFT grant. KfW will finance all the civil works and
demarcation field works following KFW procurement procedures. These works will
be scattered throughout the Amazon region, and will be dispersed in time over the
five and a half years of the project.



10
23.    Goods, including computers, office and field work equipment and supplies,
purchase of seedlings for demarcating borders and training materials are about ten
percent of total project costs (US$250,000 approximately). These supplies and
equipment with diverse characteristics would be purchased over the five and a half
years of the project. Therefore, these items would be procured in packages valued
below US$100,000 through shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank by obtaining
three quotations by any eligible contractors. Documentation related to these purchases
would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank during field supervision. The
procurement arrangements for the project are shown in Schedule B.
24.   The project would also finance consulting services, training and operational
expenses. The operational expenses include travel, per diem and miscellaneous
services for government officials. The selection and appointment of consultants for
studies, workshops, training and technical assistance would follow the Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrower and the World
Bank Executing Agencv, dated August 1981. Selection of consultant firms valued at
US$ 60,000 or more would be subject to prior Bank review (Terms of Reference,
budgets, letters of invitation, evaluations and proposed contracts). For individual
consultants, prior Bank review (TOR, qualifications and conditions of employment)
would be required for contracts valued at US$30,000 or more. Below these limits,
Bank prior review would apply only to TORs.
25.   The proposed RFT grant of US$2.1 million would be disbursed over a period
of five and a half years (Schedule B-2). The project Completion Date would be June
30, 2000, and the Closing Date would be December 31, 2000. The proceeds of the
RFT grant would be disbursed against 100% of eligible expenditures for consultancies
and training, operational expenses and equipment and supplies.
26.    RFT Grant funds would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) for consultant services for firms whose contract value is below US$60,000;
for consultant services for individuals whose contract value is below US$30,000; for
all equipment and supplies contracts; and for all operational expenses. Supporting
documentation for such expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank but would be
made available for review by Bank supervision missions. All other disbursements will
be made against fully documented withdrawal applications. The KfW funds would be
disbursed directly by KfW on the basis of KfW's own internal procedures as 100% of
the total expenditures in the following categories: civil works, consultancie; and
training, operational expenses, and equipment and supplies.
27.    Accounts and Audits. FUNAI would maintain separate accounts for project
expenditures. In order to expedite project execution, a Special Account will be
opened and maintained in US dollars at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.
Expected authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$150,000. The
project accounts and the Special Account will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. After the audit, and not later than six months after
the close of the fiscal year, FUNAI will transmit certified copies of the audited



11
accounts, together with certified copies of the auditors' reports to the Bank. At
negotiations, it was agreed that (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would
be maintained and audited annually by independent auditors according to standards
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the auditors would
include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the examination and verification of the
SOEs for the project accounts; and (iii) certified copies of the audited accounts and of
the auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year (para. 34(j)).
Project Sustainability
28.    Under the Brazilian Constitution, demarcation with confirmation by
Presidential decree is a legal act ratifying a pre-existing right to the land by
indigenous people. Legal protection, demarcation and regularization efforts would
prevent or suppress future encroachments on indigenous reserves. Prevention of
encroachment, however, also requires physical maintenance and active patrolling of
boundaries by the Government. The project would enhance sustainability of project
objectives by emphasizing indigenous participation in the Ciovernment's policies and
actions related to land demarcation, boundary maintenance and surveillance. Since
outside encroachment is a major cause of declining indigenous health, investments in
land demarcation should have a beneficial impact on indigenous health status and help
to reduce the future costs of health care in these areas. Finally, the Pilot Program to
Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest includes other projects designed to support
monitoring and enforcement of environmental legislation. This will be coordinated
with FUNAI's effort to further protect indigenous areas, which should produce a
synergistic effect.
Rationale for RFT Funding
29.    The Bank's assistance strategy for Brazil, which was discussed by the
Executive Directors on June 29, 1993, with an additional discussion expected on June
29, 1995, is to support policies and investments that encourage economic growth and
macroeconomic stability, with emphasis on efficient resource allocation and
administration in the public sector and appropriate targeting and delivery of support
systems to the poor. The Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest
supports the objectives of the country strategy. This project would protect significant
amounts of natural and cultural resources in the Amazon region. Indigenous areas of
the Legal Amazon constitute the largest remaining reserves of some of the biologically
richest and least exploited forested portions of the Amazon, greater than all other
conservation units in the region combined. Regularization provides a durable legal
instrument for protecting and conserving these areas. This project will further
regularize at least 77% of the total remaining indigenous areas requiring identification,
delimitation or demarcation in seven states. Modifications to the uses and
management of natural resources in indigenous areas, either because of changes in law
or policies, or because of income-generating projects, will be addressed and closely
monitored by the project, which seeks to protect the Amazon rain forest by



12
Amazon rain forest by maximizing the capacity of indigenous people to benefit from
the sustainable management of their natural resources.
Poverty Aspects
30.    The project does not have a specific poverty focus, nor is it expected to have
major impacts on poverty reduction. However, the project will contribute
significantly to improving the well-being of about 44,000 indigenous people whose
rights to land and natural resources would be assured by the regularization and
protection activities funded under the project.
Environmental Aspects
31.    Successful implementation of the project would help secure the rights of
indigenous people in the Amazon basin to maintain their distinctive lifeways,
including their relatively low-impact subsistence pursuits. It would help prevent
encroachment of outsiders and effectively block illegal colonization projects, extensive
ranching and mining projects, thus contributing to the protection of natural resources
in indigenous areas. The environrnental impacts of the project would be assessed and
mitigated by the following measures: (i) carrying out innovative environmental
diagnostics during reserve identification missions (Aimex 6); (ii) the development and
implementation of compensation and/or resettlement plans for non-Indian occupants, if
needed; and (iii) monitoring of the legal and policy changes and their implications for
indigenous people's rights to use or commercialize natural resources (Annexes 3 and
6). In accordance with the Bank's Indigenous Peoples Operational Directive 4.20, the
project itself can be considered an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan. The
compensation and/or resettlement principles to be followed for this project, discussed
and agreed in principle during appraisal and finalized during negotiations, are in
accordance with the spirit of the Bank's Involuntary Resettlement Operational
Directive 4.30. The project design includes mechanisms for indigenous participation
(see Annex 5). With regard to environmental assessment, the Project is rated "B."
Project Benefits
32.    The principal beneficiaries of the project are all the indigenous people in the
areas to be regularized, whose access to land and resources would be assured in
perpetuity by the legal demarcation of their traditional lands. The project will support
the Government of Brazil in its efforts to help indigenous people in the Amazon have
the freedom to decide about maintaining their cultural identity and lifeways, and will
contribute to the preservation of the Amazon environment. Indigenous people and the
environment would also benefit directly from efforts to improve natural resource
management, especially where indigenous groups have begun to adopt modern
technologies. By protecting indigenous lands, the project would also help to slow the
pace of deforestation and its negative impact on global biodiversity and greenhouse
gases.



13
Project Risks
33.    The major risks to project implementation are posed by the great political
sensitivity of indigenous issues in Brazil. These risks include: (i) possible
implications this sensitivity may have for the commitment of the government to the
regularization of indigenous lands; (ii) legal, bureaucratic and physical difficulties of
the regularization process; (iii) government sensitivity to external funding for the
proposed project activities; and (iv) delays or cancellations of internal and/or external
funding. Specific risks include: (i) potential delays in the prompt demarcation of
indigenous lands due to possible bureaucratic obstacles within the Government of
Brazil; (ii) potential changes and/or delays due to proposed legislation or
Constitutional revisions; and (iii) lack of interagency coordination and capacity for
resolving conflicts relating to non-Indians in indigenous areas. Under the project, the
risk of possible delays due to changes in Brazilian policies or procedures will be
addressed by providing for annual program reviews by FUNAI, NGOs, the Bank and
other donors, and by making prompt action a major indicator of project performance.
Delays in the timely implementation of regularization activities would be reported to
the donors. The annual reviews would provide a basis for discussions and the
revision and streamlining of procedures, when necessary. The general weakness of
FUNAI does not pose a major risk to the project because FUNAI's key operating
division for project activities (regularization of indigenous lands) is demonstrably
strong and efficient. Supervision by in-country GTZ and Bank staff will also facilitate
close monitoring of the project.
HII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
34.    During negotiations, the Bank and the Government agreed that:
(a)    any possible compensation and/or resettlement coming from the need
to reclaim indigenous lands for areas scheduled to be demarcated
would be based on a detailed site-specific Compensation and/or
Resettlement Action Plan acceptable to the Bank based on agreed upon
Sectoral Compensation and Resettlement Principles (para. 13);
(b)    (i) the criteria for preparing and implementing surveillance and
protection plans and the mechanisms to assure long-term indigenous
lands protection are satisfactory to the Bank and; (ii) that each
protection plan developed under the project would be based on the
agreed criteria and be reviewed by the Project Consultative
Commission (para. 14);
(c)    terms of reference for the legal studies satisfactory to the Bank would
be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1995 (para. 15);
(d)    terms of reference for resettlement studies satisfactory to the Bank
would be submitted to the Bank whenever necessary (para. 15);



14
(e)    the Bank would receive FUNAI's Annual Operating Plan by
November 30 of the year before each operational plan which would
include: (i) project activities to be carried out during the next calendar
year, including the number of good faith non-Indian inhabitants to be
removed from indigenous areas to be demarcated; (ii) resettlement
studies whenever necessary; (iii) the priority list of proposed
indigenous areas to be regularized; (iv) the list of indigenous areas
ineligible for financing due to unresolved conflicts with conservation
units; and (v) the proposed annual budget allocation for counterpart
funds (para. 20);
(f)    basic monitoring indicators were satisfactory to the Bank and include:
(i) socio-economic indicators for good faith non-Indians being
removed from indigenous areas; and (ii) indicators for the issuance of
declaratory orders of indigenous usufruct (Portaria Declarat6ria de
Posse Indigena) by the Ministry of Justice (FUNAI's parent agency).
These monitoring indicators will be used to prepare the quarterly and
semi-annual reports (para. 20);
(g)    semi-annual reports on the implemeniation progress of the project
would be submitted to the Bank by February 28 and August 31 of
each year (para. 20);
(h)    the terms of reference for the project evaluation would be presented to
the Bank by July 15, 1995; the baseline study by December 31, 1995;
the mid-term evaluation by September 30, 1997; and the final
evaluation within six months after the conclusion of the project (para.
21);
(i)    not later than September 30 of each year an annual review would be
held with the Bank, at which time the adequacy of the project strategy
would be assessed and modifications discussed and agreed, if
necessary (para. 21);
(j)    (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would be maintained
and audited annually by independent auditors according to standards
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the
auditors would include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the
examination and verification of the SOEs for the project accounts; and
(iii) certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close
of each fiscal year (para. 27).



15
35.   Conditions of Grant effectiveness are:
(a)    signature of the legal project implementation agreement (convenio)
satisfactory to the Bank between FUNAI and Ministry of the
Environment and the Legal Amazon (MMA) (para. 18);
(b)   the establishment of the Project Consultative Commission under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 19);
(c)    submission by FUNAL of the Annual Operating Plan for the first year
of the project satisfactory to the Bank (para. 20);
36.   The condition of disbursement is:
(a)   the presentation of each year's Annual Operating Plan satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 20).
37.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed RFT grant would comply
with Resolution 92-2 of the Bank's Executive Directors, and recommend approval of
the grant.
Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 6, 1995



16
Schedule A
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE TIE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENTS (US$ million)
COMPONENT                                             Local      Foreign      Total
1. Regularization of Indigenous Lands                 13.8        0.0         13.8
2. Surveillance and Protection Plans                   1.3        0.0          1.3
3. Capacity-Building and Studies                      0.8         0.5          1.3
4. Support to Project Management                       1.0        0.0          1.0
TOTAL COSTS                                           16.9        0.5         17.4
Physical contingencies                                2.0         0.1          2.1
Price contingencies                                    1.4        0.0          1.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                   20.3        0.6         20.9



17
Schedule A
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAMNI TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
COMPONENTS BY FINANCIERS
(US$ million equivalent)
COMPONENT                    |RFT  [_KfW   IGOB  |TOTAL
Regularization of Indigenous Lands
Identification                                     0.73                0.7
Demarcation and Regularization                     10.69    2.13      12.8
Environmental Diagnostics                          0.26                0.3
Surveillance and Protection of Indigenous
Areas
Development and Implementation of Plans             1.33               1.3
Capacity-Building and Studies
Capacity-Building'                       0.76      0.50                1.2
Studies                                  0.11                          0.1
Support to Project Management
Project Management                       0.68                          0.7
Independent Evaluation                   0.26                          0.3
Unallocated                                     0.29      3.08     0.11       3.5
Total                                           2.10      16.59    2.24      20.9|
Percent of total                                  o0        79       11       100
1 The RFT and KtW funds are for entirely separate subcomponents.



18
Schedule B-1
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (US$ million)
ITEMS                           ICB      NCB        OTHER         NBF   TOTAL
1.    Civil/Field Works'                                         13.37     13.37
2.     Consultancies and                               1.22       0.52      1.74
Training                                       (1.22)       (-)       (-)
3.     Operational Expenses2                          0.63        1.48      2.11
(0.63)       (-)       (-)
4.     Equipment/Supplies                              0.25       1.19      1.44
(0.25)       (-)       (-)
5.     Compensation                                               2.24      2.24
TOTAL                                          (2.10)     18.80     20.90
ICB           =      International Competitive Bidding
NCB           =      National Competitive Bidding
OTHER         =      Includes consulting services to be procured according to Bank guidelines for
hiring of consultants, training, research expenses
NBF           =      Not Bank-Financed (GOB and KfW)
Numbers in parentheses reflect RFT financing.
Includes mainly demarcations scattered throughout the Amazon, to be carried out over five and
a half years and to be financed by KfW.
2 Includes travel, per diem, training and miscellaneous services.



19
Schedule B-2
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE, TIE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS (US$ 000)
CATEGORY           RFT      Item and % of
l______________  Funding    Expenditures
Consultancies           1,060        100
Services                 530         100
Equipment/Supplies        220        100
Unallocated               290        100
[ TOTAL             ]    2,100 1
RFT DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE (US$ 000)
BANK FY              FY96 |    FY97       FY98       FY99       FY2000 |   FY2001
ANNUAL                502        507        410        331         220         130
| CUMULATIVE            502      1,009      1,419      1,750       1,970       2,100



20
Schedule C
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Time Taken to Prepare:             20 months (August 1992 to April 1994)
Prepared By:                       National Indian Foundation (FUNAI)
World Bank: Judith Lisansky, Graciela Lituma, Daniel Gross,
Robert Kaplan, Jamison Suter
First Bank Mission:                August 1992
Appraisal Mission Departure:       April 1994
Date of Negotiations:              August 1994 - May 1995
Planned Date of Effectiveness:     July 1995
Summary Supervision Plan:          Missions are planned for six-month intervals to supervise
progress.
One mission each year will be planned as an annual review to
assess the adequacy of the project strategy and, if necessary,
discuss design modifications. Supervision staff would be
based in Brasilia.



21
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
IV. TECHNICAL ANNEXES
Annex 1        LEGAL AND TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF INDIGENOUS AREA
REGULARIZATION
Annex 2        PRIORITIZATION AND PROPOSED LIST OF INDIGENOUS AREAS
Annex 3        LEGAL ASPECTS OF NATURAL RESOURCE USE IN INDIGENOUS
AREAS, AND CONFLICTS BETWEEN CONSERVATION UNITS AND
INDIGENOUS RESERVES
Annex 4        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Annex 5        PARTICIPATION BY INDIGENOUS PEOPLE AND CRITERIA FOR
DEVELOPING SURVEILLANCE AND PROTECTION PLANS FOR
INDIGENOUS AREAS
Annex 6        CAPACITY-BUILDING AND STUDIES
Annex 7        MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN
Annex 8        FUNAI EXTERNALLY FUNDED SPECIAL PROJECTS IN THE LEGAL
AMAZON
Annex 9        REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
Annex 10       DETAILED COST TABLES
Map:          IBRD No. 26184



22                              Annex 1
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ANNEX 1: LEGAL AND TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF INDIGENOUS AREA
REGULARIZATION
1.    Full regularization of indigenous lands in Brazil consists of three main steps:
(I) Identification and Delimitation, (II) Demarcation, and (III) Regularization. Each
step includes a specific set of activities which are described below and summarized in
Table 1.
2.     Preliminary Steps. When the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) learns of
an indigenous group of which it was not previously aware, the first step is to gather
all existing information and data about the group. Once the existing information is
evaluated, FUNAI's Directorate of Land Tenure Issues (DAF) characterizes the
indigenous presence, opens a process, and the indigenous area is put on a list to be
identified and delimited.
r. Identification and Delimitation
3.    Identification and delimitation consists of: (i) nominating the Working Group
to carry out the identification and delimitation; (ii) fieldwork and consultations; (iii)
the issuing, review and approval of the Working Group's final report; (iv) official
publication of the delimitation; (v) forwarding of the signed delimitation
recommendation and request for formal recognition of indigenous occupancy to the
Ministry of Justice; and (vi) issuance of the Declaratory Order (Portaria Declarat6roa
de Posse Ind(gena). If necessary, requests to resettle good faith non-Indians from the
indigenous area are forwarded to the National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform (INCRA) after the identification report is approved. FUNAI may also request
police or military assistance in removing illegal invaders, such as gold miners, at this
or other points in the regularization process.
4.     DAF/FUNAI nominates and confirms a specific Working Group composed of
FUNAI staff and outside specialists to carry out the identification and delimitation.
The Working Group is always headed by an anthropologist, usually with extensive
experience with the indigenous group(s), a surveyor and land tenure specialists from
FUNAI, INCRA and sometimes the corresponding state agencies. Under the auspices
of this project, FUNAI will initiate the inclusion of an environmental diagnostic of the
natural resources and management needs of the proposed area as part of the
identification studies. The Working Group carries out anthropological,
ethnohistorical, mapping and land tenure studies of the area traditionally inhabited by
the indigenous group. Field studies are carried out collaboratively with the
participation of the indigenous group (see Annex 5) and consultations are carried out
with non-Indian residents. The identification work, which takes about two months,
produces a report on the cultural situation of the group; defines and maps the
geographical limits of the area; and documents the tenure situation of good faith non-
Indians within the indigenous areas. The enabling legislation is Article 231 in the
Federal Constitution and Decree 22, Article 2, Paragraphs 1-3.



23                               Annex 1
5.     The identification and delimitation report issued by the Working Group is then
analyzed by DAF and FUNAI anthropologists. If they concur with its
recommendations, the report is submitted to the President of FUNAI for approval and
signature, and the findings are published in the National Official Gazette (Didrio
Oficial da Uniao) which formally acknowledges the delimitation of the area and
inforns the public of its existence. The enabling legislation is Decree 22, Article 2,
Paragraphs 6-7.
6.     Issuance of the Declaratory Order of Indigenous Usufruct. Once approved,
the signed delimitation recommendation is forwarded to FUNAI's parent agency, the
Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice, upon review and approval, issues a
Declaratory Order of Indigenous Usufruct (Portaria Declarat6ria de Posse Indigena)
that authorizes the physical demarcation of the indigenous area. The enabling
legislation is Decree 22, Article 2, Paragraphs 8-10. There is no legal time limit for
the issuance of Declaratory Orders. The proposed project sought assurances of timely
processing, and it was agreed that reports of the issuances of Declaratory Orders
would be submitted to the Pilot Program for the Conservation of the Brazilian
Rainforest and the program donors.
7.     Non-Indians in Indigenous Areas. The Working Group's tenure report lists all
non-Indian settlers actually residing in the area and their possessions. The Working
Group must complete a background and inventory questionnaire for each non-Indian
person or family encountered residing within the indigenous area. If resettlement of
good faith non-Indians will be necessary and is requested, FUNAI forwards the tenure
report and requests to the National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform
(INCRA), the federal agency with jurisdiction for resettlement. Compensation for
"good faith" non-Indian inhabitants is undertaken by FUNAI.
II. Demarcation
8.     The demarcation of an indigenous area consists of physically opening a 6-
meter wide swath (picada) along its boundaries and the placing of concrete or
aluminum markers every 2000 meters. Before opening borders, satellites plot
geodesic lines between border points. The demarcation distinguishes between
boundaries in forests which require the 6-meter opening (linha seca) and naturally
occurring boundaries (linha natural) which do not require a cleared border, such as
rivers, contiguous indigenous reserves, or international borders. Since the cost of
opening and maintaining the cleared borders (linha seca) is very high, the project
includes experimentation with alternative methods of marking and maintaining
boundaries, including the planting of marker species and other methods.
9.     Physical demarcation may proceed in several ways: (a) competitive bidding of
topographical firms; (b) contracts with local entities under the supervision of FUNAI;
(c) execution by the indigenous people and/or NGOs, or by agreement with other
governmental entities, such as the army. If the demarcation is to be carried out by a
topographical firm, the contract is competitively bid. The indigenous people are
alwavs consulted about the methods of demarcation to be employed, and even when
outside entities carrv out the work, indigenous representatives accompany and
supervise the work. Indigenous participation in demarcation is also described in



24                               Annex 1
Annex 5. FUNAI also always provides close supervision for all demarcations.
Topographic firms have carried out the majority of demarcations. Bidding procedures
and mobilization of the demarcation team takes, on the average, three months.
Physical demarcation may vary from one to six months, depending on the size and
difficulty of access of the indigenous area. Timing of the preparatory phase is
important because demarcations can only be carried out during the six-month
Amazonian dry season. Once the physical demarcation is completed, finalized maps
are prepared, reviewed and checked by DAF/FUNAI, and the (Presidential)
demarcation decree is drafted, usually over a period of two months. The enabling
legislation for demarcation is the Indian Law (6001), Article 19.
III. Regularization
10.    Presidential Confirmation. The next step is the decree that confirms the
approval of the indigenous area that is signed by the President of Brazil
(homologafdo). Timing required varies, but the average is 45 days. The enabling
legislation is the Indian Law (6001), Article 19, and Decree 22, Article 9.
11.    Registration. The next steps for full regularization are the registration of the
area in the appropriate local land registry office or offices (cart6rio de registro de
im6veis or CRI) and the Federal Property Registry (Departamento de Patrim6nio da
Uniao or DPU). FUNAI works with local land registry offices and the DPU to
complete the registrations. Registration activities take, on the average, one month.
The enabling legislation is the Indian Law (6001), Article 19, and Decree 22, Article
10.
12.    Compensation of Non-Indian Inhabitants. After physical demarcation is
completed, the identification and delimitation Working Group's tenure report is
analyzed by FUNAI's Compensation Commission, which determines which inhabitants
are in "good faith" and reviews the values of the goods to be compensated. The
Conmission's findings are published in the official government gazette. reviewed and
signed by the President of FUNAI, and compensation is paid. The enabling
legislation is Article 231, Paragraph 6 of the Federal Constitution; Article 34 of the
Indian Law (6001); Decree 22; and FUNAI Portaria 69/89.
Other Nleasures
13.    Other actions can be taken to secure indigenous areas, including: (i)
interdiction: and (ii) rechecking and re-posting indigenous area boundaries.
Interdiction consists of the provisional recognition of an indigenous area prior to
identification and delimitation. This is generally done on an emergency basis for
isolated groups under direct threats such as the invasion of their lands. FUNAI
requests the interdiction from the Ministry of Justice. The enabling legislation is
Decree 22, Article 8. Lastly, FUNAI also may arrange for orders for the boundaries
of an indigenous area to be rechecked with additional clearing and replacement of
markers. as needed.



Tahle 1:       Steps Required for Full Regularization of Indigenous Reserves
STEP                       PURPOSE                     PRODUCT                     TIMING                       EXECUTOR
Preliminary Steps
(A) Hear about indigenous    Gather available                                                                   FUNAI
area                       information
(B) Characterize indigenous   Gather available         Open a process for                                       Directory of Land Tenure
presence                   information                 identification - put on list to                          Issues (DAF)/FUNAI
be delimited
1. Identification/
Delimitation
(A) Nominate Working       Create Working Group        Working Group of            30 days, beginning with the   DAF identifies personnel
Group                                                  specialists: anthropologist,   identification of the     for Working Group which
surveyor, land tenure       anthropologist who will be    the President of FUNAI        u.
specialist, environmental   the group coordinator        finalizes by portaria.
specialist, others                                       Working group is
composed of FUNAI
staff and outside
specialists
(governmental, NGO or
other)
(B) Review available       Studies, reports, other data                            30 days, done                Anthropologist/ Group
information                                                                        simultaneously with step     Coordinator
(A), starting when the
anthropologist is identified
(C) Ethnohistorical and    Identify the indigenous     Ethnological study          45 days                      Anthropologist of the
sociological field studies  people's spatial occupation                                                         Working Group
of the area, including
cultural and economic
uses. Delimit the
I indigenous area.



STFEI'                      PURPOSE                     PRODUCT                     TIMING                        EXECUTOR
(D) Cartographic Studies    Establish position of       2 Maps: (a) coordinates     30 days from completion of   Surveyor
indigenous population and    and boundaries of the area,  (C)
lands                       (b) location of indigenous
activities and uses of the
area
(E) Tenure Studies          Inventories the number of    Tenure report, list and    75 days, contemporaneous    Land tenure specialist
non-Indian inhabitants and    valuation of non-Indian,  with (C) and (D)              (from FUNAI, INCRA or
their improvements.         non-removable                                             other government
Records/researches market  improvements                                              agency)
values for improvements
(F) Environmental           Characterize the ecological   Environmental diagnostic  105 days, contemporaneous   Environmental specialist
Diagnostic                  characteristics of the      report                      with (C), (D) and (G)
proposed reserve and
surrounding area
(G) Final Report            Assemble all information    Final report that           60 days beginning after      Anthropologist
characterizing the         characterizes and delimits    fieldwork (C)
indigenouis lands to be     the indigenous land to be
demarcated                 demarcated
(H) Analysis of the final   Evaluate the final report   Final recornmenidation of   30 days frorn completion of   DAF and FUNAI
report                                                  FUNAI's Directorate of      final report                 anthropologists
Land Tenure Affairs (DAF),
based upon reviews by
FUNAI anthropologists
(I) Approval of the final   Complete procedures        Ii) President of FUNAI's     1 5 days                     President of FUNAI, and
report and publication of   necessary to request the    signature on final report,                               DAF/FUNAI
the delimitation           issuance of a Portaria      (ii) official publication in
Declarat6ria from the      the National Gazette,
Ministry of Justice        (iii) forwarding the signed
delimitation                                                                              >
recommendation to the
Ministry of Justice                                                                      x
____________________________                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x



STEIIl l:lU RPOSE                                        PRODUCT                      TIMING                         EXECUTOR
(J) Process non-Indian      Forward resettlement         Tenure Report and            Could be done at any time      DAF and FUNAI Legal
resettlement requests       assistance to INCRA          assistance requests           after identification and      Department
forwarded to appropriate    tenure studies completed
federal agencies for further
action
(K) Portaria declarat6ria de   Formal recognition of     Issuance of a portaria that    Average time: variable      Ministry of Justice
posse indigena              indigenous occupancy by      establishes physical
the State                   demarcation
HI. Demarcation'
(A) Prepare operational     Develop an area's            Operational plan (for each   1 5 days                      Director of FUNAI
plan                        demarcation guidelines and   indigenous area)                                           Demarcation Department
plans
(B) Preparation of tender   Preparation for bidding      Edital (tender documents)    1 5 days following (A);       FUNAI Bidding
documents                                                                             simultaneously send to        Commission
World Bank for review
(C) Publication of tender   Collect bids                 Advertisements in several    7 days following (B)          Selected publications               4
publications
(D) Presentation of bids    Bidding                      Portfolio of bids tendered   30 days following (C)         Private firms
(E) Opening of bids         Assure all bids are                                       1 day following (D)           FUNAI Bidding
prepared correctly                                                                      Commission
(F) Evaluation of bids      Select the most                                           1 5 days following (E);       FUNAI Bidding
competitive firm                                         simultaneously reviewed by    Commission
BIRD. May need 15
additional days if firms
l__________________________  challenge   decision
(G) Contract signing                                     Signed contract with the     At the end of the evaluation   FUNAI Bidding
chosen demarcation firm      period                        Commission
(D
Demarcation could proceed in several ways: (a) competitive bidding to firms, lb) contracts with local entities under the supervision of FUNAI, (c) execution by Indians
and/or NGOs, and (d) by convenio with other governmental entities, such as the army. This table assumes demarcation by competitive bidding to firms.



STEP                       PURPOSE                     PRODUCT                     TIMING                       EXECUTOR
(H) Mobilization of the    Send to the field and                                   1 5 days                     Contracted firm
demarcation firm           prepare equipment and
personnel for opening of
boundary swaths
(I) Opening of boundary    Determine geodesic points   Physical demarcation        1-6 months (depending on     Contracted firm
swaths                     along boundaries and cut                                size and types of
swaths along boundaries                                boundaries)
between points
(J) Marking of boundaries    Mark boundaries with signs  Unequivocal posting of all   same as (1)               Contracted firm
and cement markers         boundaries
(K) Surveillance by local  Assure that demarcations    Demarcation satisfactory to  same as (1)                 Representatives of
indigenous people          coincide with the borders    affected indian group(s).                               affected indigenous
of the indigenous group's                                                           groups
traditional territory
co
(L) Surveillance by FUNAI    Assure demarcation work                               2 or 3 1 5-day visits during  3 FUNAI staff
proceeds properly, i.e. that                           (I) - (Must have a FUNAI
boundaries are properly                                surveyor on site to present
located, established and                               technical specification,
marked, that indigenous                                authorize work, and
monitors are satisfied, that                           determine the starting point)
environmental and all other
regulations are observed
(M) Compilation of finalized   Correct previous maps in    Finalized maps of       30 days
maps with mathematical    light of boundary           indigenous area(s)
coordinates, using satellite   alterations during
tracing technology         demarcation, digitalize
exact coordinates
(N) Compilation of         Prepare and present the     Draft demarcation decree    30 days (because FUNAI      DAF/FUNAI
information gathered during   necessary information for                            reviews the firm's
demarcation, and drafting    presidential confirmation of                          calculations)
of the demarcation decree   the area                                                                                                           >
xJ



STEP                       PURPOSE                    PRODUCT                     TIMING                       EXECUTOR
111. Regularization
(A) Compensation (see E,   Compensate good faith      Compensation                No fixed time frame. Could   FUNAI/Compensation
F and G for details)       non-Indian inhabitants                                 happen anytime after the     Commission/DAF
demarcation maps are
checked and approved.
(B) (i) Elaboration of the  Presidential decree       Confirmation                No time limit - average is 45   Average is 45 days
draft Presidential         confirming the                                         days                         FUNAI/Ministry of
Confirmation Decree based   demarcation.                                                                       Justice/President of
on reviewed calculations                                                                                       Brazil
and maps (ii) present via
the Ministry of Justice to
the President of the
Republic
(C) Local registration     Registration in the Local  Registration                30 days                     FUNAI/CRI
Property Registry;
Registration FUNAI/CRI
(D) Federal registration   Registration in the Federal   Registration             30 days (simultaneously     FUNAI/DPU
Property Registry                                     with c)
(E) Compensation:         (il Evaluate compensation    Report/process issued,     (i) 30 days                 FUNAI/Compensation
Requests for compensation   claims, determine if they  published, reviewed and   (ii) immediately after (i)   Commission/DAF
and Working Group report   are in good or bad faith   submitted to President of    (iii) and (iv) 1 5 days
received by the            according to criteria in   FUNAI
Compensation Commission   FUNAI Portaria 069/89,
and evaluate values
assigned to improvements;
(ii) list of good faith
occupants published in the
Official Gazette;
(iii) DAF submits judgments
for legal
analysis/conformity to
criteria, to the Legal                                                                                             >
Department/FUNAI
(iv) Legal submits its                                                                                             x
opinion to the President of
FUNAIl



STEP                       PURPOSE                    PRODUCT                     TIMING                       EXECUTOR
(F) Compensation:          Ratifies the administrative    Signed report/process   1 day                        President of FUNAI
Report/Process signed by   procedures
President of FUNAI
(Gi Compensation:         (i) "good faith" inhabitants   Compensation paid - area  No time limit- depends on   FUNAI/Compensation
Payment of compensation    receive compensation;      cleared of non-Indian       availability of funds        Commission
(ii) those vyith titles must    population
renounce titles to receive
compensation, or
(iii) disputing landholders
(w/ titles) may litigate  I_                         I
(tD



31                                           Annex 2
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ANNEX 2: PRIORITIZATION AND PROPOSED LIST OF INDIGENOUS
AREAS
I. Current Status of Indigenous Areas in the Legal Amazon
1.      The current status of indigenous areas by state in the Legal Amazon is as
follows:
Table 1:
State         Number              Number Identified     Number To be           Total      Total Under
Demarcated'         and Delimited2       Identified and                     Proposed
Delimited3                        Project
Amazonas                  44                   54                     60              158            89
Acre                      12                   10                      6               28            14
Amapa                      3                    1                     --                4            --
Maranhao                  14                    2                     --               16             3
Mato Grosso               40                    7                     10               57            --
Para                      20                   12                      5               37            11
Rond6nia                  10                    4                     19               33            --
Roraima                   18                   10                      1               29             8
Tocantins                  5                    2                      1                8             2
TOTAL                  166                  102                    102              370           127
Source: FUNAI, October 1993
' Includes areas that have been physically demarcated regardless of whether or not they have been confirmed
by Presidential decree and/or registered.
2 Includes lands that have been studied and delimited by an official FUNAI team but which still require
demarcation.
I Includes areas and groups that require further study and delimitation by an official FUNAI team. Some of
these groups still live in isolation from Brazilian society, and the data are somewhat unreliable.



32                                       Annex 2
II. Proposed Prioritization of Areas to be Regularized Under the Proposed
Project
2.     To determine the order in which indigenous areas will be regularized, FUNAI
first classifies unregularized indigenous areas into three groups according to the
vulnerability of the physical territory and the threats faced by the communities.
Territories are considered vulnerable if they meet two or more of the following
criteria:
(a) proximity of 100 km or less to an urban center,
(b) existence of penetration by outsiders in or around the area,
(c) government projects for regional development,
(d) easy access by road or navigable river, and
(e) demarcation necessary for recovery of part of a traditional territory.
3.     Indigenous groups are considered physically or culturally threatened if they
suffer from at least one of the following:
(a) epidemics,
(b) inter-ethnic conflicts, and
(c) threat of socio-cultural disintegration stemming from external pressures.
4.     By applying these two vulnerability factors, FUNAI divides all unregularized
areas into three prioritization groups, namely:
Group I - Vulnerable territories and threatened populations,
Group II - Fither vulnerable territories with unthreatened populations, or
unthreatened territories with threatened populations.
Group III - Unthreatened territories with unthreatened populations.
5.     FUNAI then considers the existence of local support (e.g. work in progress by
NGOs or researchers), or if an area's identification studies have been completed and
an administrative decree (portaria declarat6ria) issued by the Ministry of Justice.
This criterion divides the previous three groups into two classes each. A group I area
is given priority rating " 1" if it responds positively to one or both of these last
conditions, and if it responds negatively to both it is rated "2". Group II and group
III areas are likewise classified "3" and "4", and "5" and "6", respectively. Thus,
after assessing the threats to a given territory and its communities, an indigenous area
is given a final priority rating according to whether support for the regularization



33                                        Annex 2
process exists or not: the more pre-existing support for regularization, the higher the
area's priority.
6.     Within each of the six priority classes, areas are ranked according to their
degree of vulnerability on a scale of 5 (most vulnerable in its priority class) to 0 (least
vulnerable in its priority class). See attached Tables 2a-2c.
7.     Areas with adjoining boundaries are treated as if they were one large area in
order to lower demarcation costs. Thus priority levels (5-0) for composite areas are
determnined by averaging the individual areas within their respective composite areas.
8.     Population size of the indigenous group in question is not used as a
prioritization criterion, because it would effectively discriminate against smaller
groups. Furthermore, the Constitution guarantees the rights of indigenous groups, not
individuals, so that prioritizing according to the number of individuals could be
deemed unconstitutional. The size of the group, however, often renders it more
threatened and size is thus considered indirectly.
9.     While some areas are more costly to regularize than others, cost is not a
factor in prioritization except only as it pertains to the prioritizing described in
paragraph 4.
III. Proposed Ranking of Indigenous Areas to be Regularized Under the
Proposed Project
(See following pages.)



34                                   Annex 2
1ESPIRITU SANTO                   AM   TUKUNA                       1          3        140
2 IGARAPE ANJO                     AC   KAXINAWA                     1          3
3 TENHARIM DO IGARAPE PRETO        AM   TENHARIM                     1          3         62
......CUMNAPANEMAURUCARIANA          PA                         .......POTURU     2 
5 TROM BETA S/MAPU ERA             AM   H IXKARINA                   1          2
...    . .   .   . ........    .......    ..    .... ....... .....  _...  .. .... .....  ..... . .
6 JUMAS                            AM   MURA                         2          5
7......              ...... CASTANHA. ..... AM   MURA .2_._                     4 
8 IJAUARI                          AM   MURA                         2          4         25
9jJOSEFA                      AM    MURA                        2           4
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..............
10OLIMAO                            AM   MURA                         2          4
11 MARI NHHEIRO                     AM   MUKRA                        2          4
2IGAMIGUEL                         AM   MURA                         2          4
1 3IMURATUBA                        AM   MURA                         2          4
143TERRA PRETA                      AM   MURA                        2           4
154ROCURUMINAPANEMA,,,,ANA          PA    CURUAYA          _2                    4
. 6T|BARARI                         AM   MURA                        23
1J7PACOVAO                          AM   MURA                        2           3
1 8 .PAl RAIMUNDO                   AM   MURA                         2          3
19 ACAPORI DE CIMA                  AM   KOKAMA                       2          3
20SAMANAYE           PA  AM                  ANAYE                    2          4.
21 !XIPAYA-CURUAYA                  PA    XIPAIA-CURUAYA              2          3
22 !LRIO MANICORE                   AM   MURA                         2          2
24  IKANAMARI DO MATRINCHA          AM   KANAMARI                     2          2
25 KULINA DO MEDIO JUTAI            AM   KULINA                       2           2        30
216 UTAPAUA                         AM   APURINA                      2                   290
27i]MARIMA                          AM   ISOLATED GROUPS              3           2 .,,,60
28SOSEBASTIAO                   AM    KAYXANA                     43                   160
29,ARARA DO IGARAPE HUMAITA         AC   ARARA                        4           2       200
...........  ........ i_........ . .  _. _............ .   . . .....                  .. .  _. . __. ........... . . ... ...
3O  AAP SPTAM TRA                                                     4          2
317PACOVAO                          RR    WAPXAA                      4          232
3121BALAIO                          AM   DIVERSE                      4          4
33JACAREUBA/KATAUIXI                AM   ISOLATED GROUPS              5           1
34 2 JURUA                          AM   KULINA                       6          0        140
351 XPARINTINTIM   _A               AM    PARINTINTIM                 6          0         53
362PiRANHAS                         AM   KANAMARI                     6          0        130
37 RIOZINHO                         AM   TUKANO                       6          0
328 SAMAUMA                         AM   TUKANO                       6          0
4KIJUTAI,IGAPO ACU                  AM   MURA
41 RESTAURACAO                      AM   KANAMARI
427ARIOBAN                          AM    DJA RRUI                    3 _
31TOTALS                                  _              _         4                   147



Tbl,, 2b  I ANtS TO BE DEMARCATED
Poltaria   1992 Indiganous                    Boundaries IKml          Demarcation Cost
RANK             Name of Ind,geno.s Area        State    Indigenous Gioup    Pficrity   Vulnerability   Doctaratoria    Population  Area (hal                                    (USS)
_______                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total    Man-made  iNatugral
1 KARARAO                                 PA__ KARARAHO                    1          4            N                 42        224000      300           25     275              79011.75
2 MEDIO RIO NEGRO                         AM    DIVERSE                    1          4            N               1,033      2142000    1033          330      703             750255.10
3PAROUiE DO ARAGUAIA                      TO    KARAJA                     I          4            N               1,801      1395000      790          180     BOO             450884.60
4 BOTO VELNiO                             To    KARAJA                     1          4            N                  93       145080       190
5 TUKUNA LAURO SODRE                      AM    TUKUNA                     1          4            N                  60         9600        60          18       42             41288.46
6 TUKUNA UMARIACU                         AM    TUKtlNA                    1          4            N               1,720          1600       20           8       12             17683.76
7 VAIE DO RIO JAVARI                      AM    DIVERSE                    1          4            N               3,000      8338000      1500       1020      480            2149679.40
8 ALTO RIO NEGRO                          AM    DIVERSE                    1          3            N              17,738      8150000      1500         141    1359             426426.27
9 ALTO SEPATINI                           AM    APURINA                    I          3            Y                  70        27500       100
10 PENERI TACAQUIRI                        AM    APURINA                    1          3            Y                 700       191000       400         200      575            469594.00
11 SENUINI MAPENE                          AM _APURINA                      1          3            N                 150       144000       300
12 TUMIA                                   AM    APURINA                    1          3            V                 110       124000       350
13 IGARtAPE PATAUA                         AM    KATUKINA                   1          3            N
14 JUMA                                    AM    JUMA                       1          3            Y                   a        38700       130          30      100             71814. I0
15 MUNDURUKU                               PA    MUNDURUKU                  1          3            N               2,384       948541      688          180     508             421684.60
16 NOVA ESPERANCA                          AM    ARARA                      1          3        .   N                             6400        39           5       34             13702.35  i.I
17 PRAIA DO CARAPANA                       AM    KAXINAWA                   1          3            N                                                _           _
18 RIOZINHO DA LIBERDADE                   AC    ARARA                      1          3            N
19 AGUA PRETA/INARI                        AM    APURINA                     1         2            V                 120       150000       275
20 CAMADENI                                AM    APURINA                     I         2            V                  65       151200       320         100      690            275047.00
21 CATIPARI MtAMORIA                       AM    APURINA                     1         2            V                 115       117000       360
22 CABECEIRA DO RIO ACRE                   AC    JAMINAWA                   1          2            V                 323        76680       170          65      105            144430.55
23 INAUINI-TEUINI                          AM    APURINA                    I          2            V                 450       450000       467         115      352            272154.05
24 PAUMARI DO CUNIUA                       AM    PAUMARI                     1         2            Y                  53        35000       150           5      145             24802.35
25 PAUIMAP DO LAGO MARAt1A                 AM    PAUMARI                     1         2            V                 270        76400       t50          15      135             44407.05
26 SAO PEDRO DO SEPATINI                   AM    APURINA                     1         2            Y                  40        27800       100          13       87             35486.11
27 TUKUNA DO PJO ICA IMATINTINI            AM    TUKUNA                      1         2            N                             22000       77          13       64             33186.11
28 CUN1IA                                  AM    MURA                       2          5            N                 140        12730         9         111      169            245612.17
29 SAPUCAIA                                AM    MURA                       2          5            N                           106150       190
30 BARATA LIVRAMENTO                       RR    MAKUXI                     2          4            N                 520         13250       64          19       45             43648.93
31 BO3UEIRAO                                RR    MAKUXI                     2   1     4            N                 400         13950       47          34       13             71355.98
32 IGARAPf CAPANA                          AM    DENI                        2   1     4            Y                           127650       200         100      100            216047.00
33 JA8OTI                                    M    MAKUXI                    2          4            N                  78         13000       35          20       15             42709.40
34 JACAMIN                                 RR    WAPIXANA                   2          4            N                 212       107000       140          35      105             82616.45
35 KAMARU DO LAGO UALA                     AM    KULINA                      2         4            N                 155         77000      180          31      149             78774.57  t
36 PARANA DO PARICA                        AM    KANAMARI                    2         4            Y                  15          8220       4            7       33             17723.29
37 RAIMUNDAO                                RB    MAKUXI                    2          4            N                 150          4300       28          16       12             34167.52
38 RECANTO DA SAUDADE IMOSCOWI              RB    MAKUXI                    2          4            N                 175         13750       50          20       30             44209.4
39 FA8AIASCADA                              RB    AAPIXANA                  2          4            N                 220         8250        46          29       17             61453.63
40 BOA VISTA                               AM    LUJRA                       2         3            Y                  30           230    _9              2        7              4820.9
* Incldde.s ntural, international *nd conrtguoJus bound ries
Cost Iges reler1 to reglriawiztion only, not to protection



TaLt 2b LANAS T0 BEf HfMAHCATED
Portaria   1992 Indigenous                    Boundaries lKml          Demacation Cost
RANK             Nam, of Indigenous Area        State    Indig.nous Group    Priolity   Vulnerability   Declaretoria    Population  Area hal                                     ( USS)
_   _                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total    Man-Made   Natural.
41 KAYABI IGLEbA SULI                      PA    KAYABI                     2          3            N                            52500       145          15      130             43907.05
42 PRO APAPOflS                            AM       .     _2                           3        _N                    141       11_3200      150          35      115             83616.45
43 MARAMANDUBA                             PA    KARAJA                      2         2            N                                26        2           2 _                     4120.94
44 PAUMARID0 IAGO MANISSUA                AM    PAUMAWI                     2         2            N                 140         11700       87           7       80             22423.29
45 EU_O 81A                                AM    KATUKINA                    2         2            Y                 400      1150200       650          50      600            163023.50
46 APURINA IG. S. JOAO                     AM    APUJRINA                   3          3            N                  53         15050       60          25       35             55011.75
47 T0flA                                   AM    PARINTINTIN                 3         3            N                             24600      100          32       68             72735.04
48 JAMINAWA IG. Pf1ETO                     AC    JAMINAWA                   3          2            Y                 150         25917      170          70      100            154232.90
4  JAMINAWA.ARARfA                         AC    JAMINAWA                   3          2            V                 150         28280       89          35       54             77516.45
50 JARAWARA/JAMAM.ADI/KANAMATI             AM    JAMAMADI                   3          2            Y                 262       383757       418          26      390             92572.22
St KANAMAfl DO RIO JURUA                   AM    KANAMARI                   3          2            Y                 496       607563       700         200      500            462094.00
52 PARGUE DO TUMUCUMAOAUE                  PA    WAYANA-APALAI              3          2            Y                 344      2700000       800         592      785           1298298.20
53 RIO PARU DE LESTE                       PA    WAYANA APALAI              3          2           _                   68      1182800       690
54 PAUtAARI DO LAGO PARICA                 AM    PAUJMARU                   3          2            N                  30         15800       60          15       45             35407.05
55 PAUMAPl DO RIO ITUXI                    AM    PAUMARI                    3          2            Y                  3            70        43          16       27             35667.52
56 POYANAWA                                AC    POYANAWA                   3          2            V                 300         20081       69          10       59             26504.70   L
57 UNEIUXI                                 AM    MAKU                       3          2            y                 340       405000       410         120      290            276256.40
58 ALTO IARAUACA                           AC    KAXINAWA                   3          1           -N                1400        52000       350
59 KAMPA DO ENVlflA                        AC    KAMPA                      3          I            Y                  80        247200      102         145      455            344268.15
60 XINANE                                  AC    ISOLATED GROUPS             3         I            N                      __175000C         2 70
61 PAIiANA DO BOA BOA                      AM    KANAMAfIl                   3         I            Y                  56        243500      250          25      225             74011.75
62 IGAfiAPE GFtANIDE                       AM    KAMIEIIA                   4          2            N                  65           551 _ __6                       S             12862.83
63 KOKAMA ISAFiriElRA DAS MISSOESI         AM    KOKAMA                     4          2            N                 480          1772       16          12        4             25125.64
64 lAMEIRAO                                AM    MOYORUNA                   4          2            N                  80        49500       160          45      115            10422t;11
65 MARA-A URUBAXI                          AM    KANAMARI                   4          2                               B 88       80000      156          66       90            144991.02
68 WAI WAI                                 Rfi P  WAI-WAI                   4          1            N                 350        330000      260          75      185            1 73035.25
67 ACItAA                                  AM    APUtRINA                   5          1            Y                  70        40800       130          15      115             42407.0
68 NUKINI DO RECREIO                       AC    ARARA                      5___N_
69 KAXINAWA DO RIO BfEU                    AC    KAXINAWA                   5          0            N                 175         23840      350          55      295            142825.85
70 BANAWA YAFI                             AM    JAMAMADI                   6          1            Y                 200        79680       200          15      185             49407.05
71 IGARAfP JOARI                           AM    APUlRINA                   6          0            N                  20         18700       97           5       92             19502.35
72 KULINA DO IGARAPE DO PAU                AC    KULINA                     6          0            V                  76        40050       130          25      105             62011.75
73 KUI INA DO RUO AKlIRAWA                 AM    KULINA                     6          0            N
74 t       _UTU_CUTU                       AM                                                       N                 400         36310      112           5      107             21002.35
75 NARAITA                                 AM                                                       N                            46941       110          42       68             93339.74
76 PORTO PRAIA                             AM                                                       N                 120         22000       80           4       76             15841.88   >
77 RIO JANDIATUBA                          AM                                                       N       _
78 P"O TEA                                 AM                                                       N                           414300       580         120      460            293256.40   XD
79 SAO JOSE 00 CIPO                        AM                                                       N
80 SERINGAL INDEPENDENCIA                  AC                                                       N                                                      __
el ITUPA SUPIE                              AM                                                      N                  27          5039       38          18       20             39088.46
. _ TOTAL                                                                                         ___           39,039    32.179,33E   18,631       4.815   13.041          $11,225,263
' Includes natural, international and contiguous boundaries
Cost Igures rfero to tgularizanion only, not to protection



37                                            Annex 2
Tubi 2o AiEAS TOEf  X   -                          -       8      *-;       
1 SORORO           PA    SURUI                   1             4         119       26257
2 BACURIZINHO    MA    GUAJAJARA                 2             3        1396       82132             5
3 KANELA           MA    KANELA                  3             3         822      125212
4 PORQULINHOS    MA    KANELA                    3             3         309       79520             3
= TOTALS               =.2646 __13121                                                                 E
'Little or no data on illegal occupants, perimeters or costs are included because
this information is not all known. Portaries declarstorias are not issued until
demarcation.



38                              Annex 3
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ANNEX 3: LEGAL ASPECTS OF NATURAL RESOURCE USE IN
INDIGENOUS AREAS, AND CONFLICTS BETWEEN CONSERVATION
UNITS AND INDIGENOUS RESERVES'
1.    Article 231 of the Brazilian Constitution asserts both the rights of the
indigenous populations to the land and resources they need for their cultural and
physical well-being, and the responsibility of the State to defend this right. Article
225 stipulates that it is the duty of the State to ensure that all Brazilian citizens have a
safe environment. Taken together, these principles create the impetus for
regularization and protection of indigenous areas, as well as any other area whose
environmental integrity is necessary to the well-being of the indigenous populations
and the ecological viability of the indigenous areas. This is because regularization and
protection not only ensures indigenous rights, it also strengthens the protection of the
rain forest.
1. Natural Resource Use in Indigenous Areas: Legal Aspects
2.     The legal rights of indigenous populations to the natural resources of their
lands are governed by a body of rules and opinions, mainly found in and/or based
upon the Brazilian Constitution of 1988, the Forest Code of 1965 and the Indian Law
(Estatuto do Indio, 6001) of 1973. It is expected that legal aspects of natural resource
use in indigenous areas will be further clarified with the proposed revision of the
Indian Law.
3.     According to the Constitution (Article 231, para. 1), indigenous populations
have primary and inherent rights to the lands which they (i) permanently inhabit, and
(ii) use for productive activity, and which are necessary for (iii) the preservation of
the natural resources on which they depend, and (iv) their cultural as well as physical
well-being. Such lands are inalienable, and the rights of indigenous populations to the
lands are primary, inherent and unalterable, preempting all legislation, proclamations
and decrees. They are explicit in the Constitution. Regularization of indigenous
lands is the official recognition and demarcation of the areas where preexisting rights
of indigenous people pertain. These rights are not dependent upon land regularization
for their legitimacy.
This annex is based largely on a November 1993 preinvestment study on indigenous populations' rights to
their land and resources, conducted by the NDI (Nz4cleo de Direiaos Indigenas), an indigenist non-governmental
organization specializing in applied research of indigenous legal issues. The Bank's Legal Department was also
consulted.



39                              Annex 3
4.    In their traditional lands, indigenous populations have "exclusive usufruct of
the riches of the soils, rivers and lakes" (Constitution, Article 231, para. 2), which
has been interpreted to mean rights to all above-ground, aquatic and soil resources.
All legal acts by non-indigenous parties that aim to claim or transfer possession,
dominion, occupation or usufruct rights of these resources and areas are null and void
(ibid., Article 231, para. 6). Actions giving third parties rights to indigenous lands or
resources are not grounds for compensation for improvements, except when such
improvements are made "in good faith," by which is meant improvements are made in
ignorance of indigenous presence and rights. (In one case where a parcel in an
indigenous area was "sold" to a third party, the court held that such acts are null and
void, and the parcel still belonged to the indigenous community and the third party
was not eligible for compensation.) The Constitution in many respects reflects the
earlier Indian Law, and gave the above definitions and rights constitutional status.
5.    Indigenous lands are property of the State (ibid., Article 20, XI), but only in
the case of "the interest of the Union" can the State use the resources located in
indigenous areas (ibid., Article 231, para. 6). To date, neither law nor precedent
exists regulating what constitutes "the interest of the Union," although specific
proposals have been made for the current reforms. Proposal 260 of 1990, which was
ratified by the Federal Senate but not by the House of Deputies, would have defined
the interest of the Union as consisting of "imminent danger or external aggression,
threat of grave and imminent catastrophe or epidemics, or the need to exploit natural
resources that are crucial to national sovereignty or development, and are nonexistent
or impossible to extract, given current technology, in other parts of the country."
6.     Due to inconsistencies in the Constitution of 1988, the Indian Law of 1973,
the Forest Code of 1965 and other laws, the legality of indigenous populations
transferring usufruct to third parties is often not clear. There are also considerable
legal ambiguities pertaining to the extraction or harnessing of timber and legal
uncertainties about indigenous people practicing non-traditional activities and using
non-traditional technology.
7.     The question of timber harvesting, whether by indigenous people themselves
or by contracting to third parties, is undetermined and under debate. According to the
Forest Code (Article 3, para. 2), forests in indigenous areas are to be "permanently
preserved," and can be appropriated by the State and cut only to realize works and
projects in the public interest, but not for the purpose of extracting timber (Forest
Code, Article 3, para. 1). This code should not apply to indigenous lands, however,
because these can never be appropriated. The purpose of "permanent preservation" is
to "maintain the necessary environment for indigenous populations." However,
Brazilian laws pertaining to environmental protection apply equally to indigenous and
all other territory in the Union. Thus, any activity that harms the physical
environment permanently or to the point of making it unsafe for its inhabitants is
explicitly unconstitutional (e.g. Article 225) regardless of who carries it out. The
State has the duty to intervene in such circumstances.
8.     Unlike the Forest Code, the Indian Law does allow the harvesting of wood on
indigenous lands (Article 46), but does not specify the authority responsible for



40                                 Annex 3
approving such projects or the conditions for their admissibility. To date, in the
absence of any laws regulating timber extraction from indigenous areas, all tree felling
is, strictly speaking, illegal.
9.     No legal precedent exists concerning what constitutes legal indigenous
usufruct of tree resources, but only concerning cases of clearly illegal harvesting.
The Federal Public Ministry stated in an opinion (no date provided) that indigenous
populations are allowed only traditional forms of use of their lands, effectively
prohibiting them from exporting timber, whether directly or through third parties.
One proposal for revising the Indian Law would allow indigenous populations to cut
forest themselves but not transfer such rights to third parties. Another proposal would
let third parties extract wood, provided all income reverts to the appropriate
indigenous group(s).
10.    In order for any party to make use of the subsoil mineral and hydrological
(e.g. hydropower potential) resources in indigenous areas, congressional authorization
is needed. In addition, the affected indigenous communities must be heard and
participate in the benefits of the production, as stipulated bv law (Constitution, Article
231, para. 3). No law regulating such activity has been passed, although several have
been proposed for the current revisions. To be constitutional. such a law must
prohibit activity that threatens either the environment or the physical and cultural
survival of indigenous people.
11.    The Constitution (Article 231, para. 7) and all proposed revisions to the
Indian Law clearly and unequivocally prohibit third-party garimpagem (placer mining)
on indigenous lands. The State may exploit or authorize the exploitation by third-
parties of the mineral and hydrological resources in indigenous areas. Expulsion of
non-indigenous garimpeiros (placer miners) would do much to protect indigenous
areas since garimpagem is the single most important cause of environmental and social
degradation in indigenous areas. FUNAI is responsible for protecting the exclusive
use of natural resources by indigenous people while IBAMA is responsible for
environmental protection in all Brazil, including indigenous areas Both agencies.
however, have encountered difficulties in fulfilling these duties. The National
Department of Mineral Production should keep all mineral extraction under
surveillance, but has been unable to do so.
12.    The Indian Law (Article 44) asserts that garimpagem is a permitted activity of
indigenous people, and the Constitution indirectly grants this right by distinguishing it
from mining, which is regulated by Article 231, paragraph 3. Therefore, garimpagem
by indigenous people does not need specific congressional authorization. It extracts
minerals from the soil, not the subsoil. Mining, which extracts minerals from the
subsoil, is prohibited to indigenous populations because the subsoil and soil resources
are specifically distinguished in the Indian Law (arts. 44-45) and the Constitution
(arts. 20 and 176). Indigenous people have usufruct rights to soil resources, while
subsoil resources are the property of the State.



41                                 Annex 3
13.    Questions which must be addressed in the revised Indian Law and in
subsequent laws include (i) which public bureaus will be responsible for the
regulation, authorization and surveillance of forests and forest cutting, mining and
hydrological resources development? (ii) what percentage of the proceeds of State or
third-party resource use would go to the affected indigenous populations? and (iii)
which economically productive activities may indigenous people engage in which are
sufficiently "traditional" yet ensure their survival? Some specific issues needing to be
resolved are (i) what will be the precise requirements and protection mechanisms for
timber harvesting from the points of view of environmental protection and species
preservation? (ii) whether and which third parties may be authorized to fell timber in
indigenous areas; and (iii) under what circumstances and according to what
regulations could subsoil mineral and hydrological resources be exploited by third
parties'?
II. Conflicts Between Conservation Units and Indigenous Reserves
14.    In certain cases, environmental conservation units overlap with indigenous
areas, raising the question of how to resolve possible conflicts between indigenous use
and conservation principles. Under Brazilian law, indigenous people's exclusive
usufruct rights to their traditional resources are primary and unalterable, preempting
legislation, decrees and acts that claim or transfer rights to these resources. In the
case of overlapping indigenous areas and conservation units, no matter what the
nature of the conservation unit, the legal status of "indigenous area" should take
precedence over that of "conservation unit" because conservation units proceed merely
from legislative or executive action. Allowing conservation units to overlap with
indigenous areas is in no way inconsistent with indigenous populations' exclusive and
inalienable rights to their lands, but only if the relevant indigenous population agrees
explicitly to the establishment of a conservation unit, receives just compensation, and
is permitted restricted use of the territory according to the nature of the conservation
unit.2
15.    In light of the recent pressures on indigenous people to exploit their resources
in a predatory and unsustainable fashion, compensation for creating conservation units
in indigenous areas gives their inhabitants an incentive to reduce exploitation of their
natural resources. IBAMA is responsible for environmental protection in and around
indigenous areas in coordination with FUNAI. To date, this coordination has been
largely lacking. Strengthening incentives for environmental protection in indigenous
areas is currently the subject of policy debate in Brazil.
16.    The following are the indigenous areas with overlapping lands with
conservation units affected by this project. The status of each area and proposed
resolution is described briefly. During negotiations, it was agreed that the project
2 The conservation unit types incompatible with indigenous populations' rights include biological reserves, which
prohibit all access and resource use, national parks, which are designed for public enjoyment, and extractive
reserves, which grant non-indigenous people usufruct rights, are impermissible.



42                              Annex 3
would not finance regularization activities in areas in which conservation units are
superimposed on indigenous areas unless the resolution of these conflicts are
previously and mutually agreed upon by the responsible institutions.
(a) The Inauini-Teuini Indigenous Area (Amazonas) has 50,000 hectares in
common with the Purus National Forest. FUNAI requested IBAMA/MMA to
alter the boundaries of the national forest, but IBAMA has not yet responded.
(b) In 1992, FUNAI delimited the Upper Rio Negro Indigenous Area
(Amazonas) as a single contiguous indigenous area, according to a 1984/86
proposal that it be one large area. The demarcations carried out in 1987-89
divided it into 14 indigenous areas and 1 1 national forests. The national
forests exist only on paper, but no action was taken to establish them on the
ground. Indigenous communities continue to use the national forests as they
traditionally have without interference from IBAMA because of the latter's
total absence. FUNAI has requested the declaration of the Upper Rio Negro
Indigenous Area from the Ministry of Justice, and the revocation of the 11
national forests by the President of the Republic. No action has yet been
taken.
(c) In Para, two indigenous areas relevant to this project overlap with forest
reserves: (i) the Munduruku Indigenous Area with the Mundurukania Forest
Reserve, and (ii) the Tumucumaque Park Indigenous Area with the
Tumucumaque Forest Reserve. These forest reserves were created on paper
in 1961 but were never established on the ground. IBAMA informed FUNAI
that they are under the jurisdiction of the state of Para, not the federal
government, and that a solution must be found with the state of Para. No
further action has been taken.
(d) The Araguaia National Park (Tocantins) would be entirely inside the Boto
Velho Indigenous Area, and FUNAI and IBAMA have not been able to agree
on how to resolve the issue. Furthermore, a small uncontacted indigenous
group lives wholly inside the borders of the proposed park.



43                             Annex 4
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRANI TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ANNEX 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.    The Indigenous Lands Project would be coordinated by the Special Projects
Coordination Unit (SPCU) of the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI), which would
function as the project's Technical Secretariat. It would report directly to the
President of FUNAI and the Executive Secretariat of the Pilot Program to Conserve
the Brazilian Rain Forest in the Ministry of Environment and the Legal Amazon (see
the organizational charts of this project and of FUNAI in Diagrams 1 and 2,
respectively). The SPCU/Technical Secretariat would be responsible for project
administration and the coordination of all project activities. It would be wholly
responsible for implementing the studies by contracting consultants, and would
cooperate with the Directorate of Administration to implement the training activities.
It was decided at appraisal that the SPCU would also: (i) prepare Annual Operating
Plans with the appropriate directorates and transmit it to the Pilot Program Executive
Secretariat for submission to the Bank and the KfW by November 30 of the preceding
year; (ii) receive quarterly reports on physical and financial indicators within one
month of the end of each period from the implementing departments of FUNAI; (iii)
prepare biannual, monitoring summaries and evaluation reports, based upon the
aforementioned quarterly reports, and transmit it to the Pilot Program Executive
Secretariat for submission to the Bank and the KfW within two months of the end of
each semester; and (iv) contract an independent consultancy, such as a university or a
non-governmental organization (NGO). to present mid-term and final evaluations of
the project by September 30, 1997 and six months after conclusion of the project,
respectively.
2.    The SPCU/Technical Secretariat would be assisted by a Project Technical
Coordination Unit (TC) comprised initially of an Adjunct Secretary, an Administrative
Support unit and three, temporary Technical Support Units: (i) Administration, (ii)
Land Issues and (iii) Capacity-Building, Training and Studies. Each technical unit
would consist of an expert, hired for a six-month period, who would train and assist
FUNAI staff in the appropriate Directorates as project activities begin. During the
life of the project, the Project Technical Coordination Unit (TC) would coordinate and
monitor the proposed project activities pertaining to the regional offices and the three
main directorates of FUNAI: Directorate of Land Tenure Issues, Directorate of
Administration, and Directorate of Social Services. Funds have been designated to
hire up to 84 months of additional consultancies to assist the Project Technical
Coordination Unit (TC) and the Directorates as necessary over the life of the project.
3.    To ensure continued input of indigenous people during project
implementation, a Project Consultative Commission (PCC) reporting to the SPCU
would be created to evaluate project implementation and make recommendations to the
SPCU/Technical Secretariat. It would be comprised of four representatives of
indigenous groups and NGOs and four representatives of government. Specifically, it



44                             Annex 4
would review and give formal evaluations of the annual project operating plans, the
recommendations of the studies funded under the project, the surveillance and
protection plans for areas affected by the project, the semi-annual project reports, and
the mid-term and final project evaluation reports.
4.     Project management would be supported during the first year by a technical
assistance consultant to be provided by the GTZ under terms acceptable to the
Government of Brazil, the Bank and the German donors. The consultant would work
directly with the SPCU to: (i) assist the SPCU to develop and implement a project
management system; (ii) assist the SPCU in developing model Annual Operating Plans
and model monitoring and evaluation guidelines; (iii) identify training and other
institutional strengthening needs in the implementation of the project and organize
management training and other activities as appropriate; (iv) assist the SPCU to design
and implement a sustainable development pilot project; (v) coordinate bilateral GTZ-
SPCU/FUNAI activities underway independently of this project; and (vi) provide
oversight for disbursement of KfW funds.
5.    The SPCU and the Project Technical Coordination Unit (TC) would
coordinate project implementation, by component, with the following entities:
Component 1: Directorate of Land Tenure Issues, and the Indigenous Property
Registry (within the Directorate of Assistance), Project Consultative
Commission (PCC); National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform (INCRA), NGOs, universities and contracted firms.
Component 2: Indigenous Property Registry (within the Directorate of Assistance),
FUNAI Regional Offices, NGOs and the PCC.
Component 3: Directorate of Administration, Department of Information (within the
Directorate of Administration), NGOs, universities and private firms.
Component 4: Project Consultative Commission (PCC), FUNAI Regional Offices,
GTZ, NGOs and universities.
6.     Because many entities outside of FUNAI would be participating in activities
funded by the project, FUNAI has developed basic requirements for both
governmental and non-governmental organizations. Governmental agencies must: (i)
be composed of people with established knowledge, expertise and dedication to
environmental conservation and rural or indigenous issues in the Amazon; and (ii)
have experience in implementing plans for self-sufficient, sustainable rural
development and environmental recuperation in the Amazon. Non-governmental
agencies must: (i) be composed of people with established knowledge, expertise and
dedication to preservation of indigenous cultures in the Amazon; (ii) be devoted
specitically to indigenous issues; (iii) represent and have experience working with
indigenous groups affected by the project; (iv) contain members with proven
experience and dedication to the conservation of biodiversity and natural resource
management in moist tropical forests; (v) be able to work with FUNAI; and (vi) be
officially registered.



Diagram 1:
Organizational Chart for the Pilot                                                                                                                                              Presidency of FUNAI
Program Indigenouis Lands Project
(shaded unitis specific to the Indigenous Lands Project)
Ps.v iCiltiv
Co.s..     . . 
.. .'.;,," ' "'"'':'" .. .  .  ...  ...   :.Se.
-Evaluation:.
....- ........
...      :: -:.,.,.,.-..;-:---:
~~~~~~~..... -... -.-...:.::{.. , -
. .;: . :-.-.,::: :,:,:,:: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ........ --  ..  ..; ..;::'B  ...  ..;:...  .:..
:.  ,,-.     i ................................................:'" '
--Support Unit :-
Technt6al Support Unit:                   ., '            dn,TehialSjxr   nt
-*   n   ,    ;   |  ;  i   ~ ~~~~~. .........  .....  .F  .... ...........
-...-.-.....
i                                       ~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I
noult~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                  I
)                                       ~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I
.....   .....  
Directorate of                  _                           Diretorat of                                                                                            Directorate of 
Land Tenure Issues  |                                   Administration             |                ||Regional Offices                                              Soia Sevie
IField Posts/
___________________________I_igenou   A r
...........~~IdlenusAra



DiaLpram 2:
O)rgani7ational Chart for
FUNAI's Central Administration
Council                                President of                         Cbnto
Fiscal                        F~~~~liUNI A||  FUNAI |
Council 
Directorate of                                                    Directorate of                                             Directorate of
Land Tenure Issues:                                               Administration:                                           Assistance:
Land Tenure Issues,                                              Record-Keeping,                                            Education,Health,
Identification and                                               Planning,                                                  Indigenous Property Registry,
Delimitation,                                              Information Systems,                                       Community Development,
Denaication.                                                    Administration.                                            Isolated Groups,
Craft Production.
(D
D
(DS



47                             Annex
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ANNEX 5: PARTICIPATION BY INDIGENOUS PEOPLE AND CRITERIA
FOR DEVELOPING SURVEILLANCE AND PROTECTION PLANS FOR
INDIGENOUS AREAS
1.     The Indigenous Lands Project would constitute an Indigenous People's
Development Plan as stipulated in World Bank Operational Directive 4.20. The
Directive emphasizes the importance of informed participation of indigenous people in
all phases of the project cycle by identifying local preferences through direct
consultation, incorporation of indigenous knowledge into project approaches, and
appropriate early use of experienced specialists. The Indigenous Lands Project fully
meets these guidelines. Indigenous participation in the design of this project included
meetings and preinvestment studies involving indigenous organizations and indigenist
organizations. Indigenous participation is an integral aspect of all proposed project
activities. Participation will also be considered one ot the indicators of project
success (see Annex 7).
2.    To strengthen the participation of indigenous communities, all indigenous
organizations in the areas covered under the project will be recognized and
encouraged by FUNAI to communicate directly with the FUNAI Special Projects
Coordination Unit (SPCU), the Executive Secretariat of the Pilot Program, the Pilot
Program International Advisory Group (IAG), and the independent evaluation team.
Non-governmental organizations that support indigenous people in the areas covered
under this project will also be recognized and encouraged by FUNAI to function as
communication channels, especially for indigenous people without their own
organizations or those who live in situations of extreme isolation. NGOs which
support indigenous people will be encouraged to work as partners with FUNAI in the
preliminary socio-economic and environmental surveys of indigenous areas covered
under the project.
Component 1: Regularization of Indigenous Lands
3.     Brazilian law requires consultation and participation of indigenous
communities in regularization and other activities affecting their lands. The proposed
project takes as a central premise that the success of demarcation and protection of an
indigenous area depends upon direct involvement and participation of the indigenous
population.
4.    Identification and Delimitation. During the identification and delimitation of
indigenous areas, a multidisciplinary working group is assembled to carry out the
work. This group is headed by an anthropologist, selected for his or her extensive
previous experience with the target group(s). Under this project, the working group
will also include an environmental specialist. The anthropologist and the
environmental specialist consult extensively with the local indigenous population. By



48                               Annex 5
investigating present activities and oral history, the anthropologist determines the
traditional and required areas needed for the indigenous population's physical and
cultural survival and well-being. The environmental specialist conducts participatory
research and detailed consultations with the indigenous population to integrate
indigenous resource-use patterns and local ecological knowledge into an environmental
diagnostic. The aim is to ensure that the indigenous area constitutes an ecologically
viable system. The environmental specialist will also discuss boundary maintenance
alternatives with the indigenous population (such as planting perennials), and
investigate zones in neighboring areas critical to the viability of the indigenous area.
The environmental diagnostic will provide preliminary recommendations about
boundary maintenance and protection, and sustainable natural resource use and
income-generating alternatives. About seven percent of the funds for identification
and delimitation is budgeted for support to indigenous participants (approximately
US$1000 per area).
5.     Demarcation. Local FUNAI staff first discuss the proposed timetable and
methods of demarcation with local indigenous organizations or leaders, and local
preferences are communicated to the Special Projects Coordination Unit. The form
and extent of indigenous participation in demarcation activities are clarified with the
local population and these agreements are then included in the contracts or agreements
(contratos/convenios) which FUNAI concludes with the executing firms or institutions
carrying out the demarcations. During the execution of physical demarcation,
representatives of the local indigenous populations participate to supervise the work.
Indigenous representatives check that the surveyed boundaries are consistent with the
local understanding of the population's territory. Indigenous people, if they prefer,
can also participate more actively in the demarcation activities, and sometimes may
choose to carry out a significant portion of the work themselves; sometimes they
select another agency or non-governmental organization with which to work.
6.     Prioritization of Areas. The prioritization of indigenous areas to be further
regularized under the project is described in Annex 2. FUNAI's evaluation of the
factors used to calculate the degree of urgency is based upon multiple sources of
information, including consultation with indigenous organizations, anthropological
reports, identification mission consultations, indigenous participation in demarcation
arrangements and supervision, FUNAI regional offices and posts, and non-
governmental organizations that work directly with indigenous people.
Component 2: Surveillance and Protection Plans for Indigenous Areas
7.     Introduction. The objective of the Surveillance and Protection Plans for
Indigenous Areas Component is to assist indigenous people in developing activities
designed to protect their areas while securing their subsistence and conserving the
natural resource base. Therefore, the plans will be developed and implemented
largely by the affected indigenous population. As needed, logistical, technical and
scientific support for the design and implementation of the plan will be provided by
FUNAI regional administrative offices, FUNAI identification teams and/or pertinent
governmental and non-governmental organizations. To ensure the effectiveness and
sustainability of the protection plans during and after the proposed project, the plans



49                               Annex 5
should help create the conditions for their own maintenance by means of economically
and ecologically sustainable income-generating activities, as well as rudimentary
infrastructure. Examples of the types of activities to be supported would be
encouraging voluntary patrolling by establishing control bases (consisting of
agricultural fields or fishing or hunting camps to be visited periodically by the
indigenous people); intensification of the use of traditional areas for hunting or
collecting forest products; and possible decrease in visiting or travel to populated
border areas to diminish exposure to diseases and other threats. An example of
infrastructure would be establishing radio systems to report illegal incursions.
8.     Physical Threats and Cultural Readiness. In cases of invasions of indigenous
areas which threaten the physical integrity of an area, FUNAI will request the help of
pertinent government agencies (IBAMA, the Federal Police and others) capable of
clearing the area. In situations in which indigenous groups are relatively incapable of
protecting themselves, for example, because of cultural characteristics, newness of the
contact situation, or absence of sufficient numbers of adults, FUNAI will assume
responsibility for the design and implementation of the protection plan, but with
substantial participation of the indigenous community.
9.     Criteria of Eligibility for Protection Plans. The Project Consultative
Commission (PCC) will review and provide recommendations on each proposed
Surveillance and Protection Plan according to the following criteria of eligibility:
(A)    Relevance of the plan to the general objectives of the Pilot Program
and the Indigenous Lands Project;
(B)    Effective participation of the affected indigenous people in the
planning, implementation and evaluation of the plan and its results;
(C)    Potential for the ecological sustainability of the plan;
(D)    Adequacy and plans to further develop indigenous subsistence
activities and intensified land uses in the parts of the indigenous area
most susceptible to penetration by invaders;
(E)    Social viability of proposed activities in terms of the needs assessment
as perceived by the affected population, in accordance with type and
degree of threats and pressures on the indigenous areas;
(F)    Long-term economic sustainability of the proposed protection
activities;
(G)    Inclusion of plans to train the indigenous people to use and maintain
any required equipment;
(H)    Proposed costs within cost allocations of the project; and
(I)    Inclusion of a radio-communication system.



50                              Annex 5
Component 3: Capacity-Building and Studies
10.    The series of courses on indigenous issues to be supported under the project is
intended primarily to strengthen the capacity of FUNAI and civil society to work
more effectively on indigenous issues. However, representatives of indigenous
populations or indigenous organizations will also be invited to participate in these
courses, generally as course monitors. It is also expected that researchers on
indigenous legal issues will consult with indigenous people and that workshops or
conferences held on indigenous legal rights and environmental law would include
indigenous representatives. Lastly, the surveillance and protection plans would
include specific training, such as in the use and maintenance of equipment, for the
sustainability of protection activities.
Component 4: Support to Project Management
11.    Representatives of indigenous people will also be included on the Project
Consultative Commission (PCC). The PCC will work directly with the Special
Projects Coordination Unit (SPCU) in FUNAI. It will consist of four representatives
of indigenous people or non-governmental organizations to be selected in consultation
with indigenous people, and four representatives of government. The functions and
responsibilities of the PCC would include formal evaluations of: (i) the project annual
operating plan; (ii) the recommendations of studies funded under the project; (iii) the
surveillance and protection plans for indigenous areas; (iv) the semi-annual project
reports; and (v) the mid-term and final project evaluation reports. The process for
selecting indigenous representatives for the Consultative Commission was discussed
during appraisal and was finalized at negotiations.



51                              Annex 6
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAMv TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ANNEX 6: CAPACITY-BUILDING AND STUDIES
1.     The main institutional weaknesses that the first two subcomponents address
are: (i) FUNAI's lack of a Geographic Information System (GIS), and (ii) the lack of
adequate training in indigenous issues of a large portion of FUNAI's field staff.
Subcomponent 1: Computer/GIS Training
2.     To meet FUNAI's cartographic and satellite-image processing needs, which
are essential for delimitation, demarcation and monitoring of indigenous areas, the
project would finance a geographic information system (GIS) and remote sensing data
analysis laboratory. Presently, only four people working in or with FUNAI are
experienced in these fields. Training would therefore be provided to increase both the
number of people with expertise in GIS and satellite image processing to eleven, as
well as the overall cartographic and remote-sensing capabilities of FUNAI. As early
as possible after acquiring the hardware and software, three courses would be given to
all eleven technicians: (i) an intense, one-week course on the operating system
UNIX; (ii) a two-month course on GIS; and (iii) a one-month course on digital image
interpretation and processing.
Subcomponent 2: Indigenous Issues Training
3.     Objectives. The objectives are to: (i) train FUNAI field staff to deliver a
higher quality of assistance to indigenous communities; (ii) inform and collaborate
with relevant representatives of civil society, including local, state and federal
agencies and NGOs. with respect to indigenous issues and services; and (iii)
encourage consensus and disseminate information on best practices for how to work
with indigenous people. The specific objectives are to prepare FUNAI field staff and
selected representatives of civil society in: (a) administration and planning for working
with indigenous communities; (b) cultural knowledge of diverse indigenous groups;
(c) methods of keeping abreast of current legal issues and regulations pertaining to
indigenous populations and the environment; and (d) technical aspects of conservation
and natural resource management in indigenous areas.
4.     Target Group and Selection Process. The target group to be trained will
include the following types of FUNAI field staff: heads of Indian posts, regional
administrators, agronomists, educational coordinators and other technicians.
Representatives of civil society would target government agencies and NGOs that
work with or provide services to indigenous people. Representatives of indigenous
groups will also be invited, as appropriate, to participate as monitors in training
courses. Nominations of persons to be trained will be submitted by: (i) FUNAI
regional offices; (ii) NGOs; (iii) indigenous organizations; and (iv) other interested



52                              Annex 6
parties. FUNAI's Special Projects Coordination Unit (SPCU) together with the
Project Consultative Commission (PCC) will make the final selection of trainees.
5.     Timing and Location. There will be one course in the first year, two in the
second, and two in the third year. Courses are planned for the following locations
which for trainees working with the indigenous people indicated in parentheses: (i)
Redencao, Para (Xicrin, Gaviao, Kayapa, Arara, Parakana); (ii) Sao Luis, Maranhao
(Apinaye, Amanaye, Canela, Guajajara, Krah6, Krikati, Tembe, Urubu-Kaapor,
Xerente); (iii) Boa Vista, Roraima (Yanomami, Maiongong, Taurepang, Macuxi,
Wapixana); (iv) Manaus, Amazonas (Tikuna, Kokama, Sater&NMawe, Munduruku,
Kayabi, Hixkariana, Mura); and (v) Rio Branco, Acre (Kaxarari, Katukina, Kulina,
Paumari, Kanamari, Apurina, Jamarnadi, Jarawara).
6.     The Course. The anthropological section will cover the following topics:
history of contact, inter-ethnic relations, culture change, acculturation, spatial
concepts, history of indigenous policies, political dimensions, health and education.
The section on environment and subsistence will focus on the following concepts:
ecosystems, biomass biodiversity, agroeconomic and economic zoning, conservation
units, traditional and modified management regimes, sustainable development,
recovery of degraded areas, and hunting and fishing calendars. Major topics include
management of natural resources, agrosilviculture, agriculture, marketing, and
environmental legislation and regulations. The section on law and legislation will
treat indigenous rights, problems of protecting indigenous lands (e.g. mining and
logging), inter-institutional relations (e.g. FUNAI and INCRA, and FUNAI and the
Federal Police), relations between indigenous populations and the state, and
indigenous organizations. The section on administration will cover the administrative
structure of FUNAI, preparation of work plans and operating agreements, presentation
of proposals and record keeping. The training will be delivered by experts in the
above-mentioned specialty areas.
7.     Course Evaluations. The course will be evaluated in two stages. First,
questionnaires covering expectations, needs and the resolution of specific cases will be
administered at the beginning and end of the month-long course. Second, a follow-up
questionnaire will be sent to participants six months after the completion of the course
to assess the applicability of the training to their work.
Subcomponent 3: Studies
(i) Environmental Diagnostic Methodology
8.     The overall objective of the study would be to develop the methodology by
which ecological considerations are incorporated into the identification and
delimitation of indigenous areas to assure their ecological viability and the self-
sufficiency of the indigenous groups living in them. The study will generate
guidelines for the specific information needed, which would include data on: (i) the
local and regional ecosystems; (ii) indigenous use of all types of natural resources;
(iii) the resources themselves; (iv) actual and potential impacts of human activity on
the local ecosystem; (v) local economies and needs; (vi) high-risk sites and resources;



53                             Annex 6
and (vii) mitigation measures and relevant environmental agencies and groups. The
study would specify how this information is to be collected and applied to
regularization activities; it would also define qualifications for the environmental
specialist to be included in the Identification Working Groups. Activities would
include: (i) an inter-institutional seminar in late 1995 at which the needed information,
the methodology and qualifications of the specialist would be agreed upon; and (ii) the
compilation of the results of the seminar. The testing of the methodology in two
identification field trips in late 1995 would be covered under Subcomponent 3 of
Component 1, Regularization of Indigenous Lands. Upon completion of this study,
environmental diagnostics would be incorporated into all identification missions
undertaken during the project.
(ii) Demarcation Alternatives
9.    Current demarcation procedures require cutting a six-meter strip through the
forest along the boundaries of the indigenous area and returning at about five-year
intervals to re-open the swath. The money, time and environmental damage involved
in maintaining borders could be greatly reduced by the planting of marker species
along the area's borders after the initial demarcation. This study would develop and
test, in the Tukuna Indigenous Area (Amazonas), a pilot alternative demarcation
method, with a view to learning lessons applicable to other indigenous areas.
Activities would include: (i) a seminar at which pertinent information on the Tukuna
Indigenous Area would be discussed, test species would be selected for planting along
borders, and seedling collection and planting activities with indigenous participation
would be planned; (ii) the actual collection and planting of seedlings with participation
of the indigenous people; and (iii) preparation, presentation and review of a report
analyzing the operation and relating lessons learned, distinguishing between lessons
particular to the Tukuna Area and general lessons. The study and test will be
executed in 1995 by FUNAI and two non-governmental organizations with significant
experience in the Tukuna Area: the Magiita Center (Amazonas) and the Research and
Extension Group for Agroforestry Systems, or PESACRE (Acre).
(iii) Legal Policy and Resettlement Studies
10.   The legal and policy framework for indigenous issues in Brazil could be
altered over the coming years due to: (i) proposed revision of the national Indian Law
(6001); (ii) debate about the reassignment (Decree 1,141 of May 1994) of some
indigenous services to other line agencies; (iii) policy debate about the use and
management of natural resources in indigenous areas (see Annex 3); and (iv) a
proposed law to require all projects within 150 km of international boundaries to be
approved by the National Security Council. Preinvestment studies on legal aspects of
indigenous rights and environmental law were completed in November 1993 and
September 1994 during project preparation. This preinvestment report could not
complete the analysis of pending revisions. The proposed subcomponent in the
project would finance further analysis of the changing legal and policy framework for
indigenous issues in Brazil, provide policy recommendations, encourage indigenous
participation by holding meetings to disseminate and discuss policy issues, and
provide the basis for the development of training materials on legal aspects of



54                             Annex 6
indigenous rights and environmental law in Brazil. This subcomponent will also
finance specific studies of resettlement recommendations for good faith non-Indian
inhabitants of indigenous areas when and if these studies become necessary.



55                             Annex 7
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ANNEX 7: MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN
I. Objective
1.    The principal objective of monitoring and evaluation of the Indigenous Lands
Project is to generate useful information for all project participants which will allow
for the measurement of project objectives and improve project performance.
II. Concepts
2.    Monitoring and evaluation are distinct but complementary tasks. Monitoring
concentrates on the control and supervision of project activities and seeks to increase
the efficiency and effectiveness of project implementation. Evaluation should measure
the progress made toward fulfilling the general and specific project objectives as they
have been defined and agreed for the Indigenous Lands Project.
3.    Monitoring, a continuous process, should collect information about the
execution of activities programmed in the Annual Operating Plan and compare what is
being accomplished with what has been programmed. Monitoring is under the direct
responsibility of the Special Projects Coordination Unit (SPCU/Technical Secretariat)
and will be carried out by a consultant specifically contracted for this task.
4.    Evaluation, which is a puriodic activity, should measure the effectiveness of
project activities for achieving project objectives. The baseline for evaluation will be
established by a baseline study to be carried out under the project, and will facilitate
the evaluation of the impact of the project on the target indigenous populations. The
evaluation activities will be carried out by external evaluators contracted by the
SPCU/Technical Secretariat of the Indigenous Lands Project and approved by the
Bank.
5.    The process of monitoring and evaluation will not only involve the
administration and management of the project but also involve all those participating
and affected by project components. These activities will be essential to the functions
of the Project Consultative Commission.
III. Responsibilities
6.    The SPCU/Technical Secretariat is responsible for the system of project
monitoring and evaluation. The SPCU will be assisted in the tasks of designing and
initial implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system by a short-term
technical expert to be provided to the project by GTZ.



56                                 Annex 7
7.     The responsibilities of the SPCU/Technical Secretariat are to:
(a)    Define and implement the monitoring and evaluation system for the
project, with the support provided by technical cooperation;
(b)    Process, analyze and consolidate quarterly data on the execution of
project activities furnished by FUNAI Directorates and Regional
Offices and by NGOs and indigenous communities involved in the
project;
(c)    Contract the consultancy for project monitoring;
(d)    Contract external evaluators for project evaluation;
(e)    Analyze and disseminate the results of the quarterly monitoring reports
compiled by the monitoring consultant among project participants;
(f)    Periodically and systematically transmit information from monitoring
activities and reports to the Project Consultative Commission and the
Executive Secretariat of the Pilot Program;
(g)    Establish and distribute standard reporting instruments for recording
the execution of project activities to serve as a source of verification
for project outputs and as indicators;
(h)    Collect and synthesize project monitoring information every six
months;
(i)    Carry out randomly selected official site visits of project indigenous
areas to verify actual activities being carried out, as well as reporting.
8.     The responsibilities of the Project Consultative Commission are to:
(a)    Review and analyze the information generated by the project
monitoring and evaluation system; and
(b)    Suggest changes in the implementation of project activities.
9.     The responsibilities of the evaluation consultancy will be detailed in the Terms
of Reference which will be prepared during the first three months of the project.
IV. Sources
10.    Data on the execution of the Indigenous Lands Project will be collected and
processed by means of standard reporting instruments appropriate for each project
subcomponent (or activity) and designed to minimize reporting time and cost. The
participants and beneficiaries of the project will be involved in the tasks of data
collection. The data will be processed, maintained and updated in a Data Bank which



57                                 Annex 7
will be the responsibility of the SPCU/Technical Secretariat of the Indigenous Lands
Project and which will constitute the principal source of data for monitoring and
evaluation activities.
11.    Other sources of monitoring and evaluation information will come from
documents relevant to the regularization of indigenous lands, satellite images, the geo-
environmental data base, site visit reports from the SPCU/Technical Secretariat, and
site visits carried out by the monitoring consultant and the external evaluators.
V. Key Evaluation Criteria and Monitoring Indicators
12.    Prior to proceeding to list the project's monitoring and evaluation indicators,
the importance of preparing the analysis of indigenous areas (Baseline Study) should
be stressed. This study is the project's starting point. Part of this analysis stems
from the formulation of the project's design, specifically with regard to the list of
areas and the definition of priority criteria for their identification and demarcation.
The other part of this analysis (the survey of environmental conditions in indigenous
areas) will be carried out during the performance of identification and demarcation
activities.
13.    Monitoring indicators will consider how to gauge the goals defined in the
Annual Operating Plan.
14.    Kev Evaluation Criteria. A more detailed design of project evaluation will be
provided in the Terms of Reference for the project evaluation to be submitted to the
Bank by July 15, 1995. Project evaluation will be based on information from the
project monitoring indicators and other sources. Key criteria for project evaluation
include the following:
(a)    Maintenance of the structures and functions of the tropical forest
habitat of the indigenous peoples, at least within the parameters
established by the baseline study for the project.
(b)    Completion of the regularization activities programmed under the
project.
(c)    Satisfactory indices of removal of illegitimate occupants from
indigenous areas.
(d)    Satisfactory indices of site-specific compensation and/or resettlement
plans for good faith non-Indian inhabitants of indigenous areas.
(e)    Adherence to the proposed priority list for areas to be regularized.
(f)    Degree of indigenous participation in the processes of identification
and demarcation of indigenous areas; and/or



58                              Annex 7
(i)    Number of indigenous areas demarcated directly by the
indigenous peoples; and/or
(ii)    Number of indigenous areas demarcated with the participation
of indigenous or indigenist NGOs.
(g)    Degree of participation of the indigenous population in the formulation
and successful implementation of surveillance and protection plans.
(h)    The number of innovative environmental surveys carried out and
establishment and maintenance of a multifunctional environmental data
base for indigenous areas.
(i)    Improved deployment and coordination of FUNAI field personnel and
other institutions that provide direct assistance to indigenous
populations.
15.    Monitoring Indicators. The Annual Operating Plan (AOP) will include the
timetable for project activities and financial and operational information (targets and
actual). The monitoring indicators below refer exclusively to the operational aspects
of the project.
A.    REGULARIZATION OF INDIGENOUS LANDS
1.    Identification: Number of areas to be identified.
a.     Number of areas for which Technical Working Groups
have been established.
b.     Number of anthropological field studies completed.
c.     Number of cartographic studies completed.
d.     Number of land tenure surveys completed.
e.     Number of final reports presented.
f.     Number of official opinions elaborated.
g.     Number of official opinions published.
h.     Number of portarias declaratc5rias issued.
2.     Demarcation: Number of areas to be demarcated.
2.1    Number of areas to be demarcated by bidding.
a.     Number of operational plans prepared.
b.     Number of bidding invitations published.
c.     Number of contracts signed.
d.     Number of demarcations concluded and received.
e.     Number of areas for which final calculations have
been submitted.
f.     Number of areas approved.



59                             Annex 7
2.2    Number of areas to be demarcated by indigenous
communities.
a.     Number of agreements signed with NGOs.
b.    Number of operating plans prepared.
c.    Amount of field work begun.
d.    Amount of field work completed.
e.    Number of areas for which final calculations have
been completed.
f.    Number of areas approved.
3.    Occupants in Areas to be Demarcated: Number to be relocated.
3.1    Number of good faith occupants to be removed, with
compensation.
a.    Number of good faith occupants reviewed by the
Inquiry Commission.
b.    Number of good faith occupants for whom
compensation calculations have been made.
c.    Number of good faith occupants compensated.
d.    Number of good faith occupants removed from
indigenous areas.
3.2    Number of good faith occupants to be removed and resettled.
a.    Number of good faith occupants included in prepared
plans for resettlement.
b.    Number of resettled good faith occupants.
4.    Presidential Confirmation.
4.1    Number of areas confirmed by Presidential Confirmation
Decree.
5.    Registration: Number of areas to be registered.
5.1   Number of areas registered in respective local land registries.
5.2    Number of areas registered in the Federal Property Registry.
6.     Environmental Survey: Number of areas to be studied.
a.    Number of areas in which Technical Groups have been
created.
b.    Amount of field research performed.
C.    Number of reports submitted.



60                              Annex 7
B.    SURVEILLANCE AND PROTECTION OF INDIGENOUS AREAS
1.     Border protection plans: Number of plans to be implemented.
a.     Number of plans prepared.
b.     Number of plans approved by the PCC.
c.     Number of plans started.
C.    STUDIES AND TRAINING
1.     Studies.
1.1    Definition of profile for environmental technicians.
a.     Signing of contract.
b.     Conclusion of studies.
c.     Execution of methodology testing.
d.     FUNAI directive incorporating conclusions.
1.2    Study on the use of marker species along area boundaries.
a.     Signing of contract.
b.     Conclusion of studies.
C.     Execution of methodology testing.
d.     FUNAI directive incorporating conclusions.
1.3    Legal and Policy Studies.
a.     Legal Study.
(i) Preparation of Terms of Reference.
(ii) Signing of contract.
(iii) Conclusion of studies.
b.     Resettlement Study.
(i) Preparation of Terms of Reference.
(ii) Signing of contract.
(iii) Conclusion of studies.
2.     Training in Indigenous Subjects: Number of courses to be given and
trainees to be trained.
a.     Preparation of Terms of Reference.
b.     Number of instructors selected.
c.     Number of trainees selected.
d.     Number of courses given, and number of participants.
e.     Number of trainees approved at course(s).



61                              Annex 7
3.    Geoprocessing Laboratory.
3.1    GIS establishment.
a.    Preparation of bidding documents.
b.    No-objection by World Bank.
c.    Publication of bidding documents.
d.    Signing of contract with successful bidder.
e.    Equipment installed.
f.    Training in Geoprocessing
(i)    Preparation of Terms of Reference for
training.
(ii)   Selection of firm to provide training.
(iii)   Signing of contract.
(iv)   Provision of training.
e.    Laboratory operating satisfactorily.
D.    MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
1.    Management and Monitoring.
a.    Hiring of short-term consultants. Number of months.
b.    Hiring of administrative support.
c.    Procurement of equipment.
d.    Consultative Commission created and operating.
Number of meetings held.
2.     Evaluation
a.    Preparation of Terms of Reference.
b.    Selection of consultant(s).
c.    Signing of contract.
d.    Evaluation carried out and report delivered.



BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAtAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ANNEX 8: FUNAI EXTERNALLY FUNDED SPECIAL PRCJECTS IN TIIE LEGAL AMAZON'
| Project                    Financing      Description of Indigenous Component                 Project Period and Stage        Amount Committed
Source                                                                                             (US$)
Comim,unilies affecied by    Vale Rio     Assist iidigenious groups wiih land regularization,  Activities begun in 1982 and    $13.6 million total.
the Carajis Iron Project    Doce          health, sanitation, educationi, productive activities,    will continue until the end of  $924,000 remaininig in
(I'ara, M1aranhiAo, GoiAs)   Company      construction of infrastructure, acquisition of      funds.                           1994.
Xikriii do Cate(&         Vale Rio       Assist the Xikrin do Calete iitdigenous people in the   Activities begun in 1989.   $650,000/year
Program                    Doce           areas ol hela;lthi, edlucatlion, econlomiiic production,  Termination date open.
Company        surveillance of botund(laries andl environment.
Gaviio Paikaltcj           Vale Rio       Assist the Gaviao-Parkateje indcigenious people in  Activities begun in 1990.       $240,000/year
Program                    Doce           the areas of liealih, education, econiomic          Termination date open.
Company        production, boundary protection and enviroiiinent.
Parakana Plrogram          ELECTRO-    Compensate tlie Parakand Indligenous people tor the   1987-2013                        1987-88: $594,000
NORTrE        loss of part of their traditional land and adverse                                   1989-93: $1.4 million
social impacts from the creation of the Tucur-nii                                   1994-2013:
llydroelectric Reservoir by assisting the tribe in the                                    $330,000/year
areas of health, education, surveillance of
boundaries, productive activities, administration,
public works and infrastticture.
'It is important to note that several other entities also liave projects and programiis with indigenous peoples in the Amazon Basin,, including: Conservation international; World  co
Wildlife Fund; Raiiilorest Altiance; Body Shop; ltier-Aniericaii Founidationi; Ford Foundation; Envir-onienital Defenise Fund; and Government of France.



Project                   Financing      Description of Indigenou1s Component              Project Period and Stage        Amount Committed
Sou[ce                                                          l It S$)
Waimiri-Atroari Program    ELECTRO-    Compensate the Waitiri-Atroari Indigenous People   1987-2013                         1987-93: $3.2 million
NORTE          for the loss of parl of their traditional land and                                1994-2013:
adverse social impacts from ihe crealion of the                                         $750,000/year
Balbina Hydroelectric Reservoir by assisting the
tribe in ihe areas of healilt, eutication, surveillaniicc
of boundaries, docuinentation/ record-keepinig,
productive activilies, administration, public works
and infrastructure.
Deinarcation,             German         Demarcale the Waiapi Indigenous Area, maintain     1994 until complete (1995-6)   $380,000
Maintenance and           Government/  its borders and develop surveillance plans relying                                  (DM 600,000)
Surveillance of the       GTZ            principally on local planning and labor.
Waiapi Indigenotis Area,
Amapi                                                                                                                    _
Project to Protect the    Inter-         Proposed activities: restoration of degraded lands;    Activities began in 1985.  Proposed 1994 budget:
Environment and           Americani      development of alternalive economic activities for    Ternination date open.              $2.3 million
Indigenous Communities    Development  target indigenous communities; location and
(PMACI) along BR-364,   Bank and         protection of isolated groups in two muniicipalities.
Acre, northeast Rondonia   Government
and soutiheast Amazonas    of Brazil
Mato Grosso Natural       World Bank    Demarcation and boundary renewal of indigenous     Activities begun in 1993.       $7.8 million
Resource Management                      areas; assistance to isolated grotips; monitorinig and
Pw-oject (PRODEAGRO)                     enforcement of indigenous ar-eas; health care and
disease control; emergency assistance to the Sarere;
managerial assistance. Activities limited to Mato
Grosso.
Rond6nia Natural          World Bank    Demarcation and boundary renewal of indigenous     Activities begun in 1993.       $3.9 million
Resource Management                      areas; locating and protection of isolated groups;
Project (PLANAFLORO)                     monitoring and enforcement of indigenous areas;
health care and disease control. Activities limited
to Rondonia.                                                                                                    > 
x



64                                  Annex 9
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT
ANNEX 9: REPORT AND DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.     Report on Indigenous Populations' Legal Rights to their Traditional Lands and
Natural Resources. Nucleo de Direitos Indigenas: Part I - November 1993; Part II
- September 1994.
2.     Proposal on Computer Technology Needs of FUNAI for a Remote Sensing and
Geographical Information Systems Laboratory. Paulo Roberto Meneses, July 1993.
3.     Package of Supporting Documents to the Final Project Proposal. FUNAI, November
1993.
4.     Considerations on the Participation of Indigenous Populations in the Regularization
of their Lands. Maria Elisa Ladeira, Centro de Trabalhos Indigenistas, August
1993.
5.     Final Project Proposal for the Protection of Indigenous Lands and Populations in the
Legal Amazon. FUNAI, April 1994.
6.     Pilot Health Subproject Proposal. FUNAI, November 1993.
7.     Pilot Natural Resource Subproject Proposal. FUNAI, April 1994.



65                                     Annex 10
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE T^E BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LAiNDS PROJECT
ANNEX 10: DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES
COMPONENT 1: REGULARIZATION OF INDIGENOUS LANDS
Costs by Unit (US$ f0001                             I 1 1995   1996   1997   1998i  19991  2000 Unit Coat
Subcompvzent A: Idantification      Areas Affectrd          2:     10       17'    17!    15j   0J             n.a.
IFieldTrios             2       8i     14j    14i       121i     Oj 03.5
Subcompoment B: Demarcabon          Areas Affected          3       9 j    12j    12!       11      ill        n.a.
llncluded Compensation) IDemarcations    i        3       5       7        9      n I  |    10i      n.a.
Subcomoonent C: Environmental    Arees Affec-ed             Cl      S;       7i      7       7!      sl        n.a.
Diagnoatice  'i-eld Tnos             a01     51       7;      71      71      SI        3.5
Note: Czits are caiculated on the oasis of field trnps and distances demarcated, not on the basis of areas affected.
Coats by Expenditure Categorf per Year (US$ '000)                                                                  i 'Financing Source
Subcomoon-nt A: Identification                         i 1995i  1996;  19971  1998   1999i  2000'    TOTAL; ' KtW....IGOB....
Consultancies         141     56      98:    98       94;      0!        350I        3SC
Services           1 15;    sOi    0OSi   1C5          90!      &         375: 1      37Si
SUBTOTAL              29i   116,   203i   203         174i      0         725S        - 725
Physical Contingenciees                                     3.     12       ZI    21       1s!      0          75;!        75!
Price Cont:ngr,ecies                                        0.      4.      13!     19      21       0          57H         57!
Total Su=comnonient Costs                                  32     132     237'   Z43       213.      a         3 571       857:        0
Subcomozoent 3: Demarc3tion and Reguiarizatvin       i                                         '  I                i i  i
C:vil/Feid .Voris    187  1738   -24S  1794.    524:  2^C5             1C094,     10694.
Comoensarinr    '    71,  1386:    3s:   2_;           41    22;         ^29.i    212'
SUBTOTAL             257.  3124   '-33;  2019         5dS;  2-2S       1-3^-:     10694;    2129
PhlysicaI zt;n;%ncees-'                                    29     2S1     5371    253       79    331         1.C4       16C41         C
Price Con!in_gencie._                                       21   107        901i   191      711   382         104-3;1     9 34,      108
Total Suocomocoient Costs                                 237   3492   5359'  2473         715S   3137       1S5-d31    13232:    2A37
|Subcomoorent C: Environmental Diagnostoe*                                     I               [                    I i        I
Corsuitanc:es          0        3      18'    13       13;    13           31t         31.a
Sdrvices               0'     30       41      41      41      3C         1831 i      1a3
'SUBTCTAL               0   43         50       50      60.     431        254! l     2541
Phvsical Cznninq-nciee-^                     .              0o      S        7       7       7i       S         3j|         31_
Price Conrtngenc:es                                         0!       1       4       S.      7       7i         :5i         25i _
Total Subcomoonent Costs                             [      01    43        70;     72      74i    54.         3191        3191        0
AGGREGA7_E CCMPONENT COSTS                           I 1995   1996   1997'  1998'  19991  2000i              TOTAL! |           _
Investment               C.w,iFeld Works       1871  1728i  4:45:  1794,   S24i  2:.CS            105941 |   10694!         0
Consuitancies         14.      s3     11-5    115i    12i    13!          431ji       431U        0
Sdrvices        i    isi      901   145    146I   131!         30    -i|a |           55sa8l 
C.;roensaronn         71   I 12a6  ' I aa    224       41!   z:20        : 191    j    1    i2129
Total Investment     236.  3233   4i535   22*3    7938   246a'          I:sI! 1    116a3      21Z9
Recurrrnt Costs                            I !    0'      0'      ol       0       0'                   !'         ol        o
Ts-ai 3ane Costs          '                1   2261  3.23    4-995s  :'31        798!  24 6a       1:311 i   11683!    2129
|,oral ihysicai Corin:nqenc:es             i    31      273     -j6-i-   297     IC4    3_8;        170| !    17101          C
-Tiai Price Cantinnenc:e6                         2'   112    2071   216    100    389:            11 :Si     10171       1ca
jGRNO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TO                       31   23 i7     -         94      c 'C '      3' '  iS    :    14'10'     233
* AIr St..n-o 31 5 1 _CC per fieid trip NdS Usdd as trid pnysical coninnenc4 y fo7r  enr;ficao C'n.
' A 1 5' phy5uial continoency rate was applied on civilfield works. A 0% rate was applied to compensanon.
*  A fla sur- of f3 10CO per field trip was usdd as :ta physical cocintn;ency race for environmencal diagnostics.
* .   K      <. .Kancalt fur Wiedarou.bau. G38   Goernment af =raz:l



66                                      Annex 10
BRAZ1IL
PELOT PROGRAiM TO CONSERVE T1E BRAZILILN RAIN FOREST
INDIGENOUS LAINDS PROJECT
A4NNEX 10: DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES
COrMPONENT 2: SURVEILLANCE AND PROTECTION OF INDIGENOUS AREAS
Numnoar of Plans to 3e Oeveloped          ||19951  19961  1997l19 lss                           1 t991  ZOCWOOTTAL
and Begin Imcaiemenrsdion   |                                     Oi  12i    1!        17!     171      a[      sa
Nota In exeeodionai circurmstances when protaction needsaere acute, and to ensure ail areas have plans,
post-portana. pre-demarelffan workc will be initiated in certain ireas. Also, plans beginning development
and impiermentation in 19983 will be funded by this project for two instead of three years.
Costs by Expenditure Category per Year (US$ '000)
|Percent of lAverage Cost  |                                                            i i  inancing Source
Investment Cost                Total Cost   por Area      |  1995   1996         7 1997:  199Si  1999   2000,TOTAL          KfN-
!C;vil/Fld Works      i        8%.           2.0Z!      0       141    .C       30'    32:    14        I1   i      111
:uionment/Suoolies  |        36?%           a.sa      o0i    6         as     129i 1933        6 5     478i '      475
Services                    41%            9.94i     o0       701    97      14a!   160       7C      545         S545
SUBTOTAL             |       85            20. 1 4L    ol    1_5:   20'   308;   332    1.I8 131                  1 31
Recurrent Coat "                      15%.           3.67        0 1    2i;    36        55:     53      25      2C1!        201
Totad Comoonent 3ase Coats           1C0S%          24.31 i      01    170    237       363    391    17        1333'1      1333
Total Phyeicai Contngencise.                              !      0      20      23'      44     47      21  1 SC            130
Total P-ice Contingencies     I                                  a       3i    1i        34!    4,    Z         1301        130
GRAND TOTAL                                                      0'   197'   29'        440    4S6:   213    16'3!          1i23
* KW  - K.:editanstait fur Wiedaraufbau
A pnysicai coninogency rate of 12S was soplied.
T- nis consists of suoolies and maintenance tor venicles.
NOT!S: Average cost per area is based upon esrtimaes suoplied by FUNAI in Ocrocer. 1993. The costs of plans for the sarHy areas to be
demarcated are act to oe above average since costs are based on suoerficie, and the hiqn pnonrty areas for protection pians tend to be
above average in size. Funding for protection plans will be provided for three years. and will decrease as indigenous communities and
local FiNAl agents aessume administrative end financial resoonsibiiities for vte plans. Speciflcaily, it the total cost of a plan - 100. then
"sar 1 cost - sa. Ymer 2 coet * 27 snd Ysar 3 lost - 19.



67                                     Annex 10
COMPONENT 3: CAPACITY-BUILDING AND STUDIES
(in US '000)
Subcornoonent A: Capacity-Building                                     j                    j              Financing Source
1. Training in Indigenous Issues'               1995   1996   19971  19981  1999i  ZOOOITOTAL   !iFT                  | KfW...
Investment   IConsultancies        |      3       51      5 i         01  0 i     O        131        131
___________________ Iservices           116'   233      233        0!      Oj    0o        5a211     582!
i____________________ jEquicment/SurIoies  31    62       62 i             O j     O       15S .   15' j
ISUBTOTAL              i  so!    a 300    3Q01      oi      o0      ci      75011 750             0
11. Comouterization of FUNAI Land Records            [ i                              F i  |                       __j___i
Investment   Consultancies         i    57        0       0 1     0       0       0;       57i                 57
Services                   4i -          i  ol     oi       oi      o         4ii          1 _   4
_Equipment/Suociies      432!    18!       is,      oi     o       ol      46911         |    469
ISUSTOTAL                493j    18        18i      ol      o       oi      529i1       o0    529
tSubcomponent Basa  Costs               643j   313      3181       0       01      Ci    1279 |    7501       529
Physical Contingencies"                 641    32,    32!         0       0 oi    o       1291       751       53
Price Contingencies                       4F    11.      201      Oi      oj      ci       35K       301        6
ITotalSubcomponentCosts                 712'   361      370        0|      0|      a1    1443i I    855i    588
One course will be given in 1995, two in 1996 and two in 1997.       j       j I _                      i        j
Subcomponent B: Studies                               I                                 _      i         i I  ___jj 
1. Environmental Diagnostic*                    1995!  1996   19971  19981  1999   20001TOTAL                     I
Investments: !Consultancies               9       0       o[      i        !     oi        s9
Services                   8;      0        01     0        01      0         a Ii      9
tSUBTOTAL                  171      C       01      0       0'      0;       17!        171       0
11. ODrsarcation Alternatives                                                                                     i
Investments:  CiviilField Works    '      4       0       0       C!      0i      O         41         41
Consuitancies              141      O       Oi      C'      0       01       14!        141
Sarvices                  14!      c       0'      C'       0'      ol       1!        141
Equitment/Succiids   I     3'      0               01       0|      o         3 1i      3i
'SUSTOTAL                 36i       0       0!      0'      Oi      01       360       361        0
111. Legal Studies                                   !                I           i       I  Ii
Investments:  Consultancies                       a O  i          6        Si              33:       33i
i Services                  0      24       0 1     0C     o0 i        O                241
::ujoment/Suscoies       0o       A.      0       C        C.      a'        2:        21
SUBTOTAL                  0C      35.      5s               6       61 691'            53j       0
Subcomoonent Base Cos"             i    i53      35'      6       6;       6i     oi      112,       112i       0
i~~                                      1
Physical Contingencies"'                  5       4       1       1        i1      1|      11,        11. 
Pric Contingencies                        0 0     1       a       ii  1i           1        41    14            0
iTotal Subcomoonent Costs                Sa1    40,        7       7!      7       a 1     1 27 [1   1 271       0
AGGREaATc COMPCNENT COSTS                        19951  1996!   1997!  1998>  1999!  20001TOTAL   I I              I
Investment   .Cinsultancies        i    8_       1 4     11 i     6        6 i     I1    1,51        65S       57
Ser/icas               I 13:   257       233       0C1      O       o I     32''      628.       4.
lE9wtoment/SugoiieY      4d66      82-     80       CI       oj     oi    i6:9 I       160;     463
*Civii/Field Worxs          4i      a'      0' ol            ol     ol        4!!        41       0
|Total Investment    i   696!    353'   32.o        6        6,      6i    13911!     8621      529
Recuirent Costs                           a 0'    0        '      0'            o!        C!         Oi       0
Total Base Csxts                       69SI    353      3Z        6         is    51    13311       8621    529
Total Phvsic3i Cantinqencies             7^   35         2'' I             1I      1      139'  9      6i  53
Total Prce Cnrtnqenc:es                   5      1        2'  2'   1       1       1 j     41         341 
aGPARIND0 77 -O-AL                                77 0       I-   37'        7        7'      Si    1572'      9821    5as
' A pn rsicai o n,:r.,nc/ ratraor 1oC%  VSs 3cc.iaC.
' 'R  ,  Rair orelt Trust Fund. KfN - Kroditanstalt fur Wiaderauftau



68                                    Aanex 10
COMPONENT 4: Support to Project Management
8ase Costs by Unit (USS  000)                                                 saginning
I                    I CQuantity! Unit  |Unit Cost 9 Cost  i Yaar
Coneultanciee      IStart-Up                   I 8lmonth,        1 .5     27   1995
Evaluation                 S i year  p       30    150  i 1996
!Technicai Assistant       5.5 -veer           I S    99r  1995
'Others                    84 4month          1 .5    126   1996
Service             Typists              |    11 year           S . 161   57'  1995
iSecretary               .5.Syear           10.981     60   1995
Airfares             '   451 tickat          0.5 S    2265   1995
IPer Diemrs              23601day          005ia  137'  1995
Training             1      2'course         0.41      1   1995
Equipment/One-tim.UrAices                      1   _          1 6.54     17'  1995
SupplieS                                      5.5 year   |       84i    46   1995
ITotal Base Casts      945
Costs by Expenditure Category per Year (USS '000)
Financing Source
Subcomoonent A: Project Management           1995'  1996        1997'  1998   19991  2000ITOTAL               RFT -
Investment        Consultancees              23      63          4s      45      36      36:      2':!       252
E;uiorment/Supplies       20        a          a       8       a       Ba       i2.        62
Services                  29      68          6a      65      53      53 i     369        369
SUBTOTAL                  72     1 1          Z.    12'    1         I2 112'   632        6S3
Physica/ Contingencies                          7'    14,         1       12      111    1'1        2a         58
Price C.:ntingencies                     I      01      5         3      11       141    17                   55
Total Subcomponent Costs                       79 1   1563       141    145      1371   141        3C,         3C6
Subeomoonent a: !nd-oendent Evaluation      1996!  1996'        1997   1998:  1999i 20001TOTAL
Investment        C3nsultancies               0 i    30i         1 S;    45      i s     45,      1 -0       150
Ser,ices                    0'    2'          22'    2   22     '      22      1-          112
SU8TOTAL                    0 1    52         37      67      37i    67        i23         252
Phywical Contingencies'                         0       5          4       7        41     7                    5
Price Contingencies                      '      0       2 2               6        -5    10i        e         25
Total Subcomoornent Costs                        0I    60         44:    SC       46      84'      314         314
AGGRE5ATE CCMP-'INE?9-t COSTS                1995   1996        1997'  1998   1 9991  2000iTOTAL
Investment        Consultancies              23i    98'          6C      90      i1      a1       4C:        402
' tuioment/Suei.joos      20' i     38         3       3 .             B s !6:              2
Services                   291    90          30      90      90      sol      4a9  '     431
Total Investment     '    72    1956          -3     139    1-i'   130        945        945
Recurrent Costs                                 0       i         o'      0'       oCi    01        01         0
Total 3ao- Costs                               72    196i        153!   139'   15Cr   180'         945         945
Total Physical Contingenei-ee                   7      20         16      19'    15 l     1 a       3s9        95
Total Pric: Contingencies                       01      7         I("     17      13'    27        30         80
GRAND TOTAL                              i    79    223          ' s5   225    *33    225         _10         1120
A ,n,sical con'tinency rate of 10%G was apoied.
F  - Rain Forss: irust Furd



MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 26184
|  _ *  '  r > *  0 5 1 7 - :: .              i V  E  N  E  Z  U   E   L A                                                    
t 2 a b       > A . .  ... ;5 LJ  Oei-                                                          )                                R I N A M                     EE  F  FRR
1  ,>   S    ; zff     -    >  i)COLOMBIA    Z               E          }        , t          <                                               U A
S 0 -     T 
=~~~ R A                                 \                                               r                                                                    ,  A PA     J.FO.
AM-'IA 
T
<  A ' jr,                              . 9                                                                                               .  '  -   - *_<g
P  E   RU U'
d.non.i,LEGAL Ao  yMAZON PAVE ROADS   /It,    b     
r OZ onk 6,WF. "pd                 UNPAVED ROADS  5>/                     
rAo WCrld RonR CrooET
B R A Z IL                                      m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPTME 9












