                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                                Report No:ICR0000338




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (MULT-21953)




                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.1 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                        FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                     FOR THE

                            INDIGENOUS LANDS PROJECT

                 (Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest)

                                     January 5, 2007




LCSEN
WB Office: Brasilia, Brazil CMU
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




                                          1

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective )
                          Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                    1 real = 0.4545 US$
                                US$ 1.00 = 2.20 reais


                GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 to December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC           State of Acre
AP           State of Amapá
ARPA         Amazon Region Protected Area Project
CEC          Commission of European Communities
COAIB        Coordination of Amazonian Indigenous Organizations
CRI          Real Estate Register (Cartório de Registro de Imóveis)
DAF          Land Department (Diretoria de Assuntos Fundiários, FUNAI)
DM           Deutsche Mark
DPU          Federal Property Register (Departamento de Patrimônio da União)
EMBRAPA      Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (Empresa Brasileira de
             Pesquisa Agropecuária)
FUNAI        National Indian Foundation (Fundação Nacional do Índio)
G-7          Group of Seven
GIS          Geographic Information System
FUNASA       National Health Foundation (Fundação Nacional de Saúde)
GOB          Government of Brazil
GTZ          German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Deutsche Gesellschaft fur
             Technische Zusammenarbeit)
IAG          International Advisory Group (Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain
             Forest)
IBAMA        Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources
             (Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renoveis)
INCRA        National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (Instituto Nacional
             de Colonização e Reforma Agrária)
KfW          Credit Institution for Reconstruction (Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau)
MA           State of Maranhão
MMA          Ministry of the Environment (Ministério do Meio Ambiente)
MT           State of Mato Grosso
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PA           State of Pará
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PLANAFLORO   Rôndonia Natural Resource Management Project (Plano Agropecuario e
             Florestal de Rondônia)
PRODEAGRO    Agribusiness Development Program (Programa de Desenvolvimento
             Agroambiental do Estado do Mato Grosso)
POLONORDESTE Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast (Programa
             Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste)



                                         2

PPG7     Pilot Program to Protect the Brazilian Rain Forest (Programa Pilotos para
         Proteger das Florestas Tropicais do Brazil)
PPTAL    Rain Forest Indigenous Lands Project (Projeto Integrado de proteção ás
         Populações e Terras Indígenas da Amazônia Legal)
RFT      Rain Forest Trust Fund
RO       State of Rondônia
RR       State of Roraima
SEAIN    Secretariat of International Affairs (Secretária de Assuntos Internacionais)
TO       State of Tocantins
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme


                     Vice President: Pamela Cox

                  Country Director: John Briscoe

                   Sector Manager: Abel Mejia

                      Team Leader: Judith Lisansky




                                    3

                                            Brazil
                                Indigenous Lands Project




                                       CONTENTS


                                                                          Page No.

1. Basic Information.                                                     5
2. Key Dates                                                              5
3. Ratings Summary                                                        5
4. Sector and Theme Codes                                                 6
5. Bank Staff                                                             6
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                     6
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                      13
8. Assessment of Outcomes                                                 18
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              24
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                           25
11. Lessons Learned                                                       27
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners  28
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis                                       29
Annex 2. Restructuring                                                    31
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing                                      32
Annex 4. Outputs by Component                                             33
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                  34
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    35
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                37
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result                                        38
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                          39
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR          40
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders        42
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents                                    43




                                               4

1. Basic Information
                                                                       Indigenous Lands
Country:                 Brazil                Project Name:
                                                                       Project
Project ID:              P006567               L/C/TF Number(s):       TF-21953
ICR Date:                01/05/2006            ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      Grant                 Borrower:               FED REP. BRAZIL
Original Total
                         US$ 2.1 Million       Disbursed Amount:       US$ 1.89 Million
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: National Indian Foundation ­ US$ 2.24 million
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: KfW and GTZ (Germany) ­ US$ 16.59 million


2. Key Dates

      Process             Date              Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:    08/13/1993         Effectiveness:     07/06/1995        12/08/1995
Appraisal:         04/16/1994         Restructuring(s):  N/A               N/A
Approval:          06/19/1995         Mid-term Review: 00/00/0000          10/16/1998
                                      Closing:           12/31/2000        12/31/2005


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      SATISFACTORY
Risk to Development Outcome:                   LOW
Bank Performance:                              SATISFACTORY
Borrower Performance:                          SATISFACTORY


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                 No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                 No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None
(Yes/No):
DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                 Satisfactory
status:




                                              5

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environment                                                                 75%                75%
Social Development                                                          25%               25%
                                                               Original Priority  Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Indigenous People                                            Primary             Primary
Land Administration                                          Secondary           Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                           Positions                               At ICR           At Approval
Vice President:                                              Pamela Cox          David de Ferranti
Country Director:                                            John Briscoe        Gobind Nankani
                                                                                 Constance Bernard
Sector Manager:                                              Abel Mejia
                                                                                 Gobind Nankani
Project Team Leader:                                         Judith Lisansky     Judith Lisansky
ICR Team Leader:                                             Judith Lisansky
ICR Primary Author:                                          Judith Lisansky

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)
.
Introduction

The Indigenous Lands Project (PPTAL) was a US$20.1 million project (US$2.1 Rain Forest Trust
(grant) administered by the World Bank, US$16.6* KfW bilateral German financing (grant), and
US$2.2 counterpart Government of Brazil) that financed one of the most successful indigenous
land regularization programs in the world. Amazonian indigenous people are highly vulnerable to
the encroaching frontier especially outsiders using, occupying or degrading their lands and natural
resources. By securing their lands the project contributed to ensuring indigenous people access to
natural resources thus enhancing livelihoods and improving well-being as well as helping to protect
the forests. Despite the relatively modest size of PPTAL, it regularized more 40 million hectares of
indigenous lands in the 400 million hectare Amazon Region, thus making a major contribution to
ensuring the rights of indigenous people to about 18 percent of the Amazon. This should be
contextualized considering that 17 percent of the Amazon has already been deforested and approxi-

____________
* The German contribution was DM30 million calculated above at the rate of exchange at the time the
project was appraised.



                                                  6

mately 20 percent slotted for other types of conservation units. In short, the PPTAL was an
innovative and pioneering effort not only to regularize indigenous lands in the Brazilian Amazon
but also to increase indigenous participation and control in the process of regularizing, protecting
and managing their lands.


Brazilian Amazon Background

The Brazilian Amazon covers about 5 million square kilometers, a vast area equal to about half of
the continental United States or greater than the combined territories of the 27 members of the
European Union. One-fifth of the world's fresh water cycles through its river system while it
contains the largest remaining tropical forest in the world. Its forests help to maintain local
climate, protect watersheds and provide raw materials for crafts and industry. By storing carbon,
the Amazon rain forest helps control global warming. The Brazilian Amazon is also home to
millions of people, including rubber tappers, nut gatherers, fishers, small farmers and indigenous
people.

During the 1980s the international community became increasingly concerned about the rapid
destruction of Brazil's biologically diverse and globally important rain forests.        People and
organizations in Brazil and around the world called for measures to slow the destruction. Because
Brazil views its rain forests both as a natural resource to be protected for humankind and as a
source of wealth for its regional population and the country as a whole, solutions must reconcile
protection and sustainable development.


Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest (PPG7)

At a 1990 summit meeting of the Group of Seven (G-7) industrial countries, Germany led the call
for a pilot program to reduce the rate of deforestation in Brazil. Representatives of the Brazilian
government, the World Bank and the European Commission worked together to outline a program.
In 1991, the G-7 and European Union approved the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain
Forest (PPG7) with initial donor pledges, together with the Netherlands, of about US$250 million.
The G-7 asked the World Bank to coordinate the program.

The goals of the Pilot Program (or PPG7 as it is commonly referred to) were to: (i) help
demonstrate that sustainable development and conservation of the environment can be
simultaneously pursued in tropical rain forests; (ii) preserve the rain forests' biological diversity;
(iii) reduce the rain forests' contribution to the world's emissions of greenhouse gases; and (iv) set
an example of international cooperation between industrial and developing countries on global
environmental issues.

The Pilot Program included five thematic areas for financing: (i) Experimentation and
Demonstration which sought to promote practical experiences by local communities and
governments in conservation, sustainable development and environmental education initiatives; (ii)
Conservation to promote improved management of a wide variety of protected areas such as parks,
national forests, extractive reserves and indigenous lands; (iii) Institutional Strengthening to
enhance the capacity of the public sector to set and enforce sound environmental policy; (iv)
Scientific Research to increase the knowledge base of conservation and the sustainable
development of rain forests; and (v) Learning and Disseminating Lessons. The Pilot Program has
supported an integrated set of an estimated eleven projects in the above thematic areas.




                                                   7

Brazilian Amazonian Indigenous People

The Indigenous Lands Project (PPTAL) addressed the second theme of the Pilot Program by
regularizing* a significant portion of indigenous lands in the Amazon region. For millennia,
indigenous people have exploited the Amazon rain forest ecosystem without causing major
environmental degradation. Satellite maps of the Amazon clearly show that existing indigenous
lands contain some of the most pristine and undisturbed forests in the region.

Brazil's indigenous people ­ estimated at about 400,000 persons of which about two-thirds live in
the Amazon** ­ have primary and inherent rights to approximately 89 million hectares or 17.5
percent of the area of the Legal Amazon*** of which nearly all is under native forest cover. In
1988, Brazil adopted a new constitution that stipulated that all indigenous lands would be
demarcated by 1993. However, this did not occur. When the PPTAL was prepared, there were 532
indigenous areas recognized by the Brazilian National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) of which 370
were located in the nine states of the Legal Amazon. At that time, only 50 percent of Brazil's
indigenous areas had been demarcated.

The indigenous people of Brazil are traditionally organized at a tribal level with no political
institutions above the village level. Thus, while two neighboring populations may be culturally and
linguistically similar, they often regard themselves as separate peoples. Most indigenous people of
the Amazon basin retain their native language and customs but are increasingly involved in the
regional economy and social system. Under traditional resource management regimes, indigenous
people have relatively low negative impact on the environment. In many areas, settlers, wildcat
miners and loggers have caused environmental damage to the rain forest areas and endangered the
health and security of the indigenous people, as well as their ability to maintain traditional
lifestyles.

Since the early part of the 20th century, Brazilian law has treated indigenous people as wards of the
state with broad rights guaranteed under the Constitution. The most basic of these rights is legal
recognition of their lands.        While indigenous lands are owned by the nation, indigenous
communities have exclusive usufruct rights to all above-ground, aquatic and soil resources in their
respective areas. Government policy limits all economic activity on indigenous lands other than
traditional subsistence pursuits.


____________
* The process of regularizing indigenous lands refers to the steps necessary to legally recognize them. Full
regularization of indigenous lands is comprised of the following three basic steps: (i) Identification and
Delimitation; (ii) Physical Demarcation; and (iii) Full Regularization which refers to land registration and a
final Presidential Decree. Based on Brazilian usage, the English terms indigenous area and indigenous lands
may be used interchangeably. In Brazil the term indigenous reserve is generally used when the indigenous
people have been relocated to a new area that is not their traditional habitat. Indigenous park is an older
infrequently used term for an indigenous area.

** The Legal Amazon is defined under Brazilian law as the area comprised of the States of Acre, Amapa,
Amazonas, Para, Rondonia, Roraima and parts of Maranhao, Mato Grosso and Tocantins.

*** In 1500 the indigenous population of Brazil may have been as large as eight million. Largely due to
colonization, warefare, disease and assimilation, at the time the project was prepared the indigenous
population of Brazil was estimated at 240,000 of which approximately 145,000 resided in the Amazon.
Today however, recent census data indicated a demographic turnaround with a significant increase in the
number of indigenous people cited above.



                                                      8

Many experts agreed that given the location of the majority of Brazil's remaining indigenous
people in the Amazon region, together with intensifying frontier expansion, an important national
priority was to guarantee indigenous peoples their lands. With respect to the Pilot Program's focus
on protecting rain forests, one of the most salient facts about indigenous people was that they had
long used the forest ecosystem without causing major environmental damage. Their specialized
knowledge and stewardship of natural resources are considered by many scientists to be exemplary
and able to provide a foundation for the development of more sustainable approaches to rain forest
use and management.


Rationale for Bank Assistance

The Bank has a substantial history of working on environmental matters in Brazil. When asked to
be the coordinator of the Pilot Program, it assembled a technical team including expertise on
indigenous issues and land regularization. Although the project did not have a poverty focus per
se, it was expected to contribute to increasing the well-being of about 44,000 indigenous people
whose rights to land and natural resources would be assured by the regularization and protection
activities funded under the project. The design of the PPTAL was consistent with the Bank's
assistance strategy for Brazil at the time of preparation and took into account the Bank's prior
experiences related to projects involving indigenous people in the Amazon region, notably
POLONOROESTE (2062-BR, 2116-BR) and Carajas Iron Ore (2196-BR), as well as learning from
two ongoing projects: the Rondônia Natural Resource Management Project (PLANAFLORO, Ln
3444-BR) and the Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management Project (PRODEAGRO, Ln 3492-
BR).

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The general objective of PPTAL was to improve the conservation of natural resources in
indigenous areas and increase the well-being of indigenous people through: (i) regularization of
indigenous lands in the Legal Amazon; and (ii) improved protection of indigenous populations and
areas.

Specific objectives included: (i) regularizing (by identifying, demarcating and legalizing) selected
indigenous areas in seven of the nine states of the Legal Amazon (at the time this operation was
prepared, Rondonia and Mato Grosso had Bank operations that addressed indigenous land
regularization); (ii) improving the protection of indigenous people and lands by developing and
implementing community-based activities designed to protect their areas while securing their
subsistence and conserving the natural resource base; and (iii) strengthening the protection of
indigenous populations and regularization and improved conditions for the management of
indigenous lands by targeted capacity building and studies.

The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Plan prepared for the project in 1995 included formally
agreed monitoring and performance indicators. Key performance indicators included:

       · Completion of the regularization activities programmed under the project.
       · Adherence to the proposed (and annually revised) project priority list for indigenous
           areas to be regularized.
       · Degree of indigenous participation in the processes of indigenous land identification and
           demarcation.
       · Degree of indigenous participation in the formulation and successful implementation of
           surveillance and protection activities.


                                                  9

Following adoption by the Bank of the Implementation Status Results and Report (ISR), the Task
Team identified in the system the PDO Indicator as (i) Completion of indigenous land
regularization activities programmed under the project, and the Intermediate Outcome Indicator as
Degree of indigenous participation in land regularization and protection activities. (See Annex 1).

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

N/A


6.4 Beneficiaries, original and revised

Primary Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of the project were indigenous peoples in the regularized areas whose
access to land and resources would be assured in perpetuity by the legal demarcation of their
traditional lands. Indigenous people and lands included under the project were also to be eligible
for a variety of activities, such as protection actions and greater involvement in identifications and
demarcations, trainings and capacity-building activities.

Secondary Beneficiaries

Secondary beneficiaries included the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) and its staff in terms of
project support for training, capacity-building and studies (under Component 3) in addition to
support for project management, M&E, and dissemination (under Component 4).

Secondary beneficiaries also included indigenous and indigenist nongovernmental organizations in
terms of project support for NGO strengthening, training, capacity-building, protection activities,
and involvement in the project advisory commission.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)


The project was comprised of four components whose associated activities are summarized below:


Component 1: Regularization of Indigenous Lands (Total Cost US$16.6 million)

This component supported the identification, demarcation, and regularization of selected
indigenous lands in seven out of nine states in the Legal Amazon (see footnote on page 8 and
Section 6.1). The design included an annual revision of the project's priority list of indigenous
lands based on (i) risk factors* and (ii) degree of local support. The project had an "open design"
in that it was agreed that its initially formulated land regularization targets would be reviewed and
revised each year on the basis of the revised priority list, and, if funds permitted, more indigenous
lands could be added to the original project targets. Subcomponents included: (i) identification of
an estimated 42 lands; (ii) demarcation and regularization of an estimated 81 lands; and (iii)
development and implementation of environmental diagnostics for to-be demarcated lands.
____________
* Risk factors for the priority list of indigenous lands included: (i) vulnerability, such as proximity to cities
and/or regional development projects; and (ii) physical or cultural threats, such as epidemics and/or
interethnic conflicts.



                                                        10

Component 2: Surveillance and Protection of Indigenous Areas (Total Cost US$1.6 million)

This component supported the development and implementation of community-based activities to
protect their lands while securing their subsistence and conserving the natural resource base.
Therefore, the plans were to be developed and implemented largely by the affected indigenous
population. As needed, logistical, technical and scientific support were provided by FUNAI and/or
NGOs. To ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of the protection activities, the activities to be
supported aimed to help create the conditions for their own maintenance by means of income-
generating activities or rudimentary infrastructure, for instance. Examples of the types of activities
that were supported included: (i) establishing strategically located control bases (agricultural fields,
fishing or hunting camps); (ii) intensifying the use of traditional areas for hunting or collecting
forest products; and (iii) decreasing travel to populated border areas to diminish exposure to
diseases and other threats.


Component 3: Capacity-Building and Studies (Total Cost US$1.6 million)

This component supported activities to strengthen the protection of indigenous populations and
regularization and improved conditions for the management of indigenous lands by means of
training and studies. Subcomponents included: (i) implementation and training for a Geographic
Information Systems (GIS) to improve the regularization and monitoring activities of indigenous
lands; (ii) training in indigenous issues for FUNAI field staff and representatives of pertinent
governmental agencies, NGOs and indigenous people; and (iii) studies, including those to: (a) test
a methodology for a rapid environmental diagnostic of the natural resources in indigenous areas;
(b) test and evaluate alternative methods of demarcation, such as the planting of marker species
along boundaries; (c) clarify legal and policy issues with respect to indigenous rights and natural
resource use and management; and (d) provide resettlement recommendations for good faith non-
indigenous people from indigenous areas.


Component 4: Support to Project Management (Total Cost US$1.1 million)

This component supported: (i) project management; (ii) monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) the
project advisory commission.

6.6 Revised Components

During the project implementation period, all adjustments of activities were widely discussed
during supervision missions and then agreed by the client and donor representatives in Aide
Memoirs, as well as follow-up review and approval of manuals, terms of reference and other
guidelines.   No adjustments altered the project's original objectives.       The components were
adjusted as follows:

Component 1: Regularization of Indigenous Lands
Due to the "open design" of the project and funding availability, the number of indigenous lands
included under the project increased annually (see Section 8.2 for details). In addition, because the
regulatory Decree for regularizing indigenous lands was changed during the first year (Decree
1775 replaced Decree 22 in January 1996), the project not only supported studies to improve
identification and demarcation procedures but also piloted the testing of new procedures and
methods in the field.




                                                 11

Component 2: Surveillance and Protection of Indigenous Areas

A manual of more detailed procedures for developing and implementing protection activities with
indigenous communities and organizations was developed and applied.              In addition, GTZ
supported special evaluation activities for assessing the impact of protection activities supported
under the project, including an evaluation workshop with representatives from 50 indigenous
lands.

Component 3: Capacity-Building and Studies

Topics for studies were further refined to include: (i) improved procedures for identification of
indigenous lands; (ii) the development of a methodology for rapid environmental surveys during
identifications; and (iii) a tracer study of the effects on non-indigenous people relocated from
indigenous lands. In 1998, after the Mid-Term Review (MTR) and by request of indigenous
stakeholders, the types and quantities of trainings available to indigenous people were expanded to
increase their participation in project implementation and the management of their lands. In
addition, an operational manual accessing training resources and training modules on selected
topics were developed for field trainings.

Component 4: Support to Project Management

At the recommendation of project stakeholders and the Government of Brazil (GOB), the project
advisory commission became a project deliberative commission. An additional subcomponent was
added to support dissemination activities including newsletters, publications and videos.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

Implementation Arrangements

Shortly after the project began, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) was added to
project implementation arrangements to provide technical assistance. This was approved by KfW
and by the Bank under an umbrella arrangement between the World Bank and UNDP.

Amendments

There were four amendments to the Grant Agreement, three extensions and one inclusion of Mato
Grosso and Rondônia in 2003 when Bank operations closed in those states. The first extension
(November 21, 2000) extended the Closing Date from December 31, 2000 to December 31, 2002.
This amendment was solicited by the GOB to complete an expanded work program of land
regularization beyond the project's original goals.        This resulted from significant project
implementation savings which arose from the packaging of multiple demarcations into single bids,
through more efficient demarcation techniques and favorable currency fluctuations. Therefore,
available resources could be used to attain a greater number of land regularizations.

The second extension (December 3, 2002) extended the Closing Date from December 31, 2002 to
December 31, 2003. This amendment was solicited by the GOB to: (i) further expand the work
program; (ii) compensate for delays in the previous two years due to factors outside the control of
the project; and (iii) improve participation on the part of indigenous peoples in all aspects of
project implementation including the project deliberative commission.



                                                 12

The third project extension (December 5, 2003) extended the Closing Date from December 31,
2003 to December 31, 2005. This amendment was solicited by the GOB to: (i) conclude and
consolidate the PPTAL expanded work program still recovering from delays outside the control of
the project during 2000-2002; and (ii) to consolidate lessons learned from this innovative project,
ensure institutional mainstreaming and prepare a follow-on operation.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project's quality at entry is considered satisfactory. There was no assessment by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG).

Today, it seems commonplace that indigenous lands were included in the Pilot Program, but there
was initially some reluctance in Brazil to accept international financing for work on indigenous
issues despite eventual agreement by the Government of Brazil. With international financing
comes what could easily be construed as international interference, especially since the World
Bank had been asked to coordinate the Pilot Program and had adopted its landmark Indigenous
Peoples Policy in 1991, Operational Directive 4.20 (OD4.20; World Bank, 1991). Under OD4.20,
the entire PPTAL Project was considered to be an Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP).
Hence, it had to adhere closely to the standards of the policy including, among others, respect for
cultural diversity and auto-determination by indigenous groups with considerable attention to land
tenure and natural resource issues, indigenous rights and participation. The Latin America and the
Caribbean (LAC) Quality Assurance Team (QAT) screened the project and found it in compliance
with OD4.20.

The project's objectives responded to very urgent concerns with respect to the large number of not
yet regularized indigenous lands in the Amazon region that left those indigenous people and
natural resources open to many threats of the expanding frontier. These included invasions, among
others, illegal users, deforestation, diseases, alteration of traditional livelihoods and dependency on
outsiders. While it was recognized that land regularization per se does not address all of the
threats, it is still a fundamental precondition to coverage of other issues involving the well-being of
the indigenous people and the sustainable management of natural resources.

Prior to the PPTAL, the World Bank had several experiences of supporting projects in Brazil's
Amazon region with special counterpart financed components designed to help protect indigenous
populations that might be affected by Bank-sponsored development projects (see Section 6.1).
These components supported the regularization of a considerable incremental area of indigenous
land, basic health services, civil works, equipment and administrative costs. Severa1 thousand
indigenous people benefited from these.          However, these activities suffered from lapses in
financing, administrative difficulties stemming from the general weakness of FUNAI and frontier
volatility where improved access, lack of surveillance, weak enforcement of protected areas and
illegal use of natural resources had led to conflicts. At the same time, these projects succeeded in
blocking and even reversing the encroachment of unsustainable colonization projects, squatting,
and ranching on indigenous land thereby preserving millions of hectares in relatively pristine state.

The primary lessons learned from these projects included: (i) the most durable benefits accrued
from demarcation and regularization of indigenous lands; and (ii) the least durable benefits were



                                                    13

those involving the introduction of exotic technologies and services without due involvement of
the indigenous population in project identification or implementation or without training and
means for the indigenous people to maintain them. The PPTAL built on these lessons by providing
stable financing and focusing mainly on demarcation and regularization of indigenous lands which
has a permanent and irreversible effect, encouraging indigenous participation and minimizing
investments in areas where FUNAI had not demonstrated a comparative advantage. A suggested
health pilot was referred to FUNASA, and a proposed sustainable development initiative later
became a separate German-government financed operation, the Indigenous People Demonstrative
Projects (PDPI), under the Pilot Program.

Risks

The major risks to project implementation were posed by the significant political sensitivity of
indigenous issues in Brazil as well as the institutional weakness of FUNAI. These risks included:
(i) the degree of commitment of the government to the regularization of indigenous lands; (ii) the
legal, bureaucratic and physical difficulties of the regularization process; (iii) government
sensitivity to externa1 funding for the proposed project activities; and (iv) possible delays or
cancellations of interna1 and/or external funding.

Specific risks included: (i) potential delays in the prompt demarcation of indigenous lands due to
possible bureaucratic obstacles within the GOB; (ii) potential changes and/or delays due to
proposed legislation or Constitutional revisions; and (iii) lack of interagency coordination and
capacity for resolving conflicts relating to non-indigenous people in indigenous areas.

Risk Mitigation

Under the project, the risk of possible delays due to changes in Brazilian policies or procedures
was addressed by providing for annual program reviews by FUNAI, indigenous representatives,
NGOs, the Bank and other donors in addition to making prompt action a major indicator of project
performance.

While delays in the timely implementation of regularization activities were to be reported to the
donors, the annual reviews aimed to provide a basis for discussions and the revision and
streamlining of procedures, when necessary. Close supervision by Bank staff and by in-country
GTZ staff was also designed to facilitate close monitoring of the project.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable).

Over the course of the ten-year implementation of the PPTAL (and after the MTR), the
components were somewhat modified as is described in Sections 6.6 and 6.7. Other issues are
described below.

In part due to the PPTAL being a component of the larger Pilot Program, the project had unique
linkages and visibility. Although FUNAI was part of the Ministry of Justice, the Pilot Program
was coordinated on the Brazilian side by the Ministry of Environment (MMA) and benefited from
monitoring and visibility from the multiple participants in the Pilot Program that included other
Brazilian government agencies such as Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN), Brazilian
Agency for International Cooperation (ABC) and the Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT)



                                                  14

in addition to NGO networks such as the Amazon Working Group (GTA) that encompassed about
300 NGOs including the largest indigenous NGO the Coordination of Amazonian Indigenous
Organizations (COAIB), representatives of bilateral donors, the European Commission and the
World Bank. Thus, the PPTAL had unprecedented national and international visibility as it was
closely monitored both in terms of criticisms of any deficiencies, such as delays, and
acknowledgement of successes, such as land regularization and participation accomplishments.
The project was also in an excellent position to seek collaboration on specific activities with NGOs
with specialized expertise. Some examples included the involvement of the Friends of the Earth
with radios­in-the-villages activities and the participation of the Socio-Environmental Institute
(ISA) in the multi-partner demarcation of the vast Rio Negro Indigenous Land.

The project also benefited from an excellent collaboration among Bank, KfW and GTZ staff in
terms of close supervision and unified actions and recommendations for addressing
implementation issues. The FUNAI counterpart project implementation team (PIU) that managed
the project was also a generally well-staffed unit with a combination of FUNAI staff and
specialized consultants.    In addition, the project had an advisory/deliberative commission
composed of four government and four indigenous representatives that met two-to-four times
annually to provide oversight on implementation issues.

Hence, while the project was never considered at risk or in peril of not achieving its DO, the
aforementioned partners supervised together regularly and systematically addressed or tried to
address all obstacles encountered during project implementation. For example, prior to the PPTAL
the identifications were largely carried out by volunteers and the quality and timeliness of work
was often in question whereas, under the project, identification teams were professionalized and
the quality and timeliness improved. Another example was the improvement of the bidding
documents for demarcations to ensure that topographical firms were obliged to have significant
indigenous involvement and not just symbolic participation. Numerous issues, such as these that
the project addressed, were later adopted and mainstreamed into FUNAI, thus increasing the
impact and sustainability of some project advances.

A number of implementation issues were beyond the control of the project, and these frequently
contributed to delays. One example was that the PPTAL depended on the Land Department (DAF)
in FUNAI to implement many of the land regularization activities. However, about 80 percent of
the DAF staff were contracted through UNESCO, so that when that contract terminated, the DAF
experienced a period of about a year when it was so understaffed that only minimal land
regularization activities could be carried out. Although the project tried creative solutions to some
so-called bureaucratic problems, these same problems contributed to an uneven project
implementation with some years far more productive in terms of accomplishments than others.

In 2003, changes in government policies prevented the continuation of contracts of long-term
consultants who had long been integrated into project teams. This affected all Brazilian federal
projects and government agencies. In most cases, temporary junior staff were recruited who often
times lacked experience and familiarity with project management nor had the requisite technical
expertise. This changeover in the PPTAL implementation unit partly contributed to further delays
in the final two years of implementation.



7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E Plan prepared for the project in 1995 included formally agreed monitoring and



                                                 15

performance indicators (see Annex 7 of the MOD). The major performance indicators included:

       · Completion of the regularization activities programmed under the project (identifying 42
           lands and demarcating 92 lands which totaled approximately 32 million hectares);
       · Adherence to the proposed (and annually revised) project priority list for indigenous
           areas to be regularized;
       · Degree of indigenous participation in the processes of indigenous land identification and
           demarcation; and
       · Degree of indigenous participation in the formulation and successful implementation of
           surveillance and protection activities.

After the project MTR, the performance indicators were revised to add: (i) indigenous
communities strengthened; (ii) key stakeholders trained and informed; and (iii) project
management carried out effectively and efficiently.

Physical and financial indicators were also agreed, and annual targets were established via the
priority list and the annual operating plan. Over time, the PPTAL developed a detailed database on
indigenous lands that greatly facilitated planning, implementation, monitoring and reporting. The
biannual project reports also proved excellent by providing precise tracking information and
concise analysis. These greatly facilitated project supervision, oversight by the project advisory
commission and dissemination to broader publics.

Baseline data on a sample of indigenous lands was collected during the first year. Independent
evaluations were carried at mid-term and prior to the Closing Date, both of which were discussed
by stakeholders with a good representation of project beneficiaries in workshops.

In the second half of the project, the database for project monitoring was further developed and
refined while FUNAI began to adopt the system more broadly for the institution. The PIU also
worked on: (i) design and implementation of evaluation workshops on impact indicators
(specifically participation in regularization and protection activities); (ii) analysis of impacts of
capacity-building activities linked to surveillance and protection plans (not fully completed); and
(iii) a tracking study to analyze the impact of project and non-project compensation and
resettlement on the non-indigenous people relocated from indigenous lands.

While the project monitoring system was excellent, evaluation was somewhat less successful.
Foremost, this resulted from the repeated discussions and revisions of the impact indicators by the
project team. In addition, the MTR and another external evaluation carried out in the context of
the Pilot Program suffered from problems due to a lack of understanding of indigenous land
regularization in Brazil. In summary, information on project performance is strong but could have
been stronger if the project had more systematically processed evaluation data rather than
continually revising and refining indicators.

Following the Bank's adoption of the Implementation Status Results and Report (ISR), the Task
Team identified the PDO Indicator in the system as Completion of indigenous land regularization
activities programmed under the project and the Intermediate Outcome Indicator as Degree of
indigenous participation in land regularization and protection activities (see Annex 1).




                                                  16

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguard and fiduciary compliance was consistently rated satisfactory during the life of the
project.

Environmental Safeguards

The project triggered OP4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and was rated "B." During preparation
it was noted that successful implementation of the project would help secure rights of indigenous
people in the Amazon basin to maintain their distinctive lifestyles, including their relatively low-
impact subsistence pursuits.      It would contribute to this by helping to prevent outsider
encroachment and by blocking illegal colonization projects, extensive ranching and mining
projects thus contributing to the protection of the natural resources in indigenous areas.

During implementation, possible adverse environmental impacts were assessed and mitigated by:
(i) adding new rapid environmental assessments during identifications; (ii) piloting lower-impact
physical demarcation techniques; and (iii) evaluating proposed protection activities in terms of
their low-impact and environmental sustainability. Possible policy changes to indigenous rights to
use or commercialize natural resources were monitored during the project but no radical changes
were adopted.

Social Safeguards

The project triggered OD4.20 (Indigenous People) and OD4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement).

In accordance with the OD4.20, the project itself was considered an Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan.

In accordance with OD4.30, the compensation and/or resettlement principles formally agreed for
the project followed the spirit of the Bank's policy. These were applied to non-indigenous people
whom Brazilian law requires must be relocated from regularized indigenous lands. The numbers
of people relocated during the project were relatively small. The project also financed a tracer
study to evaluate the impacts of relocation which found that FUNAI had complied with its
obligations in terms of compensation and assistance. The study further made specific future
recommendations in terms of improving collaboration between FUNAI and the Agrarian Reform
Institute (INCRA).

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity,
and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The Bank had originally expected to work with FUNAI to develop a follow-on project on
biodiversity conservation and indigenous lands which would be partly supported by the GEF.
However, the government decided to use UNDP as the implementing agency for the new operation
which is now under preparation.

It should also be noted that the German government has continued its financial and technical
support to the PPTAL after the World Bank Closing Date for at least two additional years.



                                                  17

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project is highly relevant to the Bank's current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil
for the period 2004-2007. The CAS prioritizes four pillars: equity, sustainability, competitiveness
and macroeconomic fundamentals. The PPTAL has mainly contributed to the environmental
dimension under the sustainability pillar with the key objective of "more sustainable management
of land, forests and biodiversity."* As established under the CAS indicators, the share of land that
is under indigenous lands was targeted to be 12 percent of the total land area of Brazil or 100
million hectares by 2007 (this figure was four percent or 33.3 million hectares in 1990).** During
the ten-year lifespan of the project, the PPTAL contributed to the regularization of almost 40
million hectares of indigenous lands in the Brazilian Amazon thus making great strides to achieve
this specific CAS target (see Section 8.2).

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The PPTAL is one of the most successful PPG7 projects and highlights that a very small project, in
terms of financing, can produce a large and significant set of outcomes. As the project's objectives
were satisfactorily achieved with highly satisfactory outcomes, the PPTAL contributed to the
regularization of almost 40 million hectares of indigenous lands in the Brazilian Amazon, an area
roughly equivalent to the combined sizes of Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland. This
compares to the targeted area of approximately 32 million hectares. The legal designation of these
lands as indigenous lands contributes to ensuring the access of indigenous people to the natural
resources that are essential for their livelihoods, thus contributing to their well-being.

Recent research and satellite images show that indigenous lands in the Amazon represent one of
the largest remaining reserves of essentially intact tropical forests and are even more pristine than
any other type of conservation unit. The territory that has been designated as indigenous lands
under this project remains more conserved and is more likely to remain so in the future. Hence,
the project has made a significant contribution to the protection of indigenous people and areas. In
terms of documentation, the ICR draws on project M&E in addition to biannual progress reports.
Considerable data and important observations were also derived from the government's final
evaluation report and the final evaluation workshop (see Annex 10 and Section 8.6).

Objective 1 ­ Regularizing selected indigenous areas in the Legal Amazon

The overall progress accomplished by the PPTAL in regularizing indigenous lands in the Amazon
region is remarkable. The project identified 60 indigenous lands (11 million hectares or an area
larger than Austria) rather than the original estimate of 42 lands, thus surpassing its original targets
by 43 percent. The project demarcated 92 lands (38 million hectares or an area of about the size of
Germany and the Netherlands combined) rather than the original target of 81 lands, hence
surpassing the original target by 14 percent. Of these 92 lands, 87 lands (37 million hectares)

____________
* The World Bank, 2003, Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 27043-BR, pg 28.
** Ibid.



                                                   18

received Presidential Decrees and 59 (32 million hectares) were fully registered in local and
federal registries.

In addition, PPTAL pioneered a level of transparency in terms of clearly specified criteria for the
selection of high priority areas each year. This was linked to a detailed database on each of the
indigenous lands and has been progressively adopted by FUNAI. The project also supported
studies that improved identification and demarcation procedures, both in technical and
participatory terms, including developing the methodology tested and adopted by FUNAI for rapid
environmental diagnostics during identifications.          The project commissioned a study on
demarcation alternatives which, after testing, created cost savings for the project budget. New
alterative demarcation procedures have also been mainstreamed into FUNAI.

The project financed pilot participatory identifications and 15 highly participatory demarcations in
collaboration with environmental, indigenist and indigenous NGOs. Two particularly outstanding
examples of highly participatory demarcations include the huge Indigenous Lands Medio Rio
Negro and the Vale do Javari in the state of Amazonas. Many technical procedures developed and
tested by the project were later mainstreamed into FUNAI as standards. While highly participatory
demarcations may not have become the norm, more rigorous requirements for indigenous
participation became standardized in FUNAI's bidding documents as a result of the project. With
respect to the third subcomponent on environmental assessments, both a rapid diagnostic and a
more detailed ethno-environmental survey (described below) were developed and implemented by
the project.

The land regularization progress has not been without problems, challenges and delays. Over the
past decade there were highly productive periods and other times when myriad problems combined
to slow the work. Some of the problems and challenges confronted include: (i) securing the right
experts to work on identifications; (ii) getting teams into the field in a timely manner; (iii) delays in
report delivery and subsequent evaluations; (iv) innumerable problems with contracting due to
complex Brazilian rules which occasionally change; and (v) the perpetual problem of organizing
work in remote locations and timing it with seasonal conditions, among others. The PPTAL works
closely with the FUNAI Land Department which, while one of the best departments in FUNAI,
still suffers from some of the institutional weaknesses of the agency; falling victim to bureaucratic,
budgetary and contracting problems and even temporarily losing 80 per cent of its staff during one
year are among these. Sometimes local regional conflicts intervene, such as was the case in an
area of Rondônia where neighbouring ranchers utilized scare tactics to stop the work of an
identification team. In addition, as more participatory methodologies have been tested, it has been
observed that these sometimes require more field time than traditional methods.

In summary, it is important to note that particularly in light of the slow pace of indigenous land
regularization in the decades prior to the project, the leap forward represented by the PPTAL was a
highly significant accomplishment that benefited from a number of converging factors including:
(i) the project itself with its additional budgetary resources; (ii) a dedicated team to push ahead;
(iii) high domestic and international visibility; (iv) a particularly receptive domestic political
climate; (v) general cooperation within FUNAI itself; and (vi) the growing voice of an indigenous
constituency with stronger indigenous organizations that can successfully represent multiple
ethnicities and dialogue with national society and government, for the first time in Brazilian
history. Because of its relative success in meeting its objectives, the PPTAL has even been
discussed periodically as a possible "model" for reorganizing FUNAI.




                                                   19

Objective 2 ­ Improving the protection of indigenous people and lands by developing and
implementing community based activities designed to protect their subsistence and
conserving the natural resource base

The community based protection activities were not only satisfactory but also trailblazing since the
project supported an approach that had never been previously used in Brazil. A "bottom-up"
approach to develop and support local initiatives so indigenous communities could monitor and
control their lands themselves was used by the project rather than an attempt to bolster the
enforcement and police powers of governmental agencies which had been largely unsuccessful in
previous other projects.     Altogether the project supported 31 protection subprojects in 60
indigenous lands with an estimated impact on 45,000 persons.             Activities included: (i) new
territorial occupation strategies; (ii) sign posting campaigns; (iii) the dissemination of information
about the land and its borders to indigenous and neighboring non-indigenous populations; (iv) map
and GPS training; and (v) radios­in-the-villages activities.

One example is that PPTAL, in collaboration with indigenous organizations and the NGO Friends
of the Earth, installed 73 radio systems in 63 villages and 10 indigenous organizations. The radios
greatly improved communication among indigenous people and also to the outside including to
FUNAI. Indigenous people have reported how the radios have helped with everything from
planning meetings to informing about illegal invaders.

Other typical protection activities supported by the PPTAL have included planning strategic
locations for agricultural plots, support houses or even new villages near boundaries or in more
vulnerable areas of the indigenous land. There is evidence that these activities have contributed to
indigenous awareness about the importance of and the need to protect their lands and natural
resources.

The sustainability of project-supported protection activities was a central focus of an evaluation
workshop on the subprojects which included indigenous representatives from 50 areas. There was
considerable consensus that many activities could be continued and maintained by the indigenous
communities. However, there was concern that governmental agencies are not fulfilling their
enforcement and police functions, which remains a future challenge.

Objective 3 ­ Strengthening the protection of indigenous populations and regularization and
improved conditions for the management of indigenous lands by targeted capacity-building
and studies

The PPTAL contributed to improved land regularization, increased protection of the areas, and
improved land management of the lands by carrying out practical studies. These were applied
operationally by supporting community-based protection initiatives (see above), developing two
types of environmental evaluations and supporting a pilot Geographic Information System (GIS).

The project supported five key studies and a sixth set of studies. The first helped to develop and
test the methodology for rapid environmental diagnostics during identifications as required by
Decree 1775 but never done before; the PPTAL tested the methodology that was later adopted by
FUNAI. Environmental diagnostics are important because they provide critical data on the natural
resource base upon which indigenous groups depend. The second study supported the revision and
testing of the identification manuals of FUNAI that significantly modernized the identification
methodology making it more rigorous, interdisciplinary and participatory. The draft manuals
developed by PPTAL were later adopted by FUNAI. The third study was on alternatives to
physical demarcation which traditionally cut a broad path on the boundaries of indigenous land


                                                   20

which was oftentimes expensive to carry out and maintain. This study generated new methods of
using GIS, critical area placement of signing and planting of perennials on borders. These new
methods were tested and adopted by FUNAI in its manuals*. In addition, the new methods
enabled cost savings that helped the project demarcate more lands.

The fourth study examined land tenure and the implications of compensation and/or resettlement of
non-indigenous populations from indigenous lands. The fifth study was a tracer study on the
impact of compensation and/or resettlement on these same populations. The recommendations of
these two studies received less attention in part because a large portion of responsibility for these
actions rests with INCRA rather than FUNAI. Nonetheless, these studies make very significant
contributions to the public debate about relocation of non-indigenous people from indigenous
lands.   Unfortunately, an interagency workshop to follow up did not occur.               However, the
information may still be useful especially if the public debate about adoption of a revised Indian
Statute is re-opened.

The sixth set of studies supported the development of a methodology for ethno-ecological
assessments of indigenous lands. The project then supported detailed studies of ten sets of lands
sampled by cultural characteristics, geography, climate and other environmental considerations.
The research was pioneering in terms of its approach to studying the environment in a highly
participatory and ethnographic way so that traditional knowledge would be combined with western
scientific information. However, the methodology is also related to ethno-mapping and other
similar tools developed and implemented by environmental NGOs such as The Amazon
Conservation Team, The Nature Conservancy and Conservation International. The objective of the
PPTAL's ethno-ecological research was to provide a practical and flexible tool for investigating
the human-environment interactions in the Amazon region and had implications for issues of the
use and management of natural resources.              Regrettably, the project did not sufficiently
operationalize the studies, and a proposed multi-institutional workshop with NGOs during the
consolidation phase did not occur. Nonetheless, the methodology and the studies are valuable if
underutilized resources.

The project also contributed to institutional and community strengthening by means of targeted
trainings. The training subcomponent, initially focused on FUNAI staff, shifted after the MTR
more to indigenous people as the target audience. Forty-five trainings were carried out in 60
indigenous lands financed by the project while GTZ supported additional trainings. Training for
indigenous people encompassed two themes: (i) Indigenous Rights and Land Regularization and
(ii) Indigenous Involvement in Demarcation, Protection and Surveillance**. Trainings were
frequently carried out in collaboration with indigenous NGOs. FUNAI staff were supposed to
benefit from trainings in similar topics which were unfortunately not completed. The project staff
committed to a careful analysis and evaluation of the training program. This, however, was not
done.
____________
* Other manuals the project helped develop that were adopted by FUNAI include the: (i) Manual of for
Anthropologist-Coordinators of Identification Teams; (ii) Manual for Monitoring, Checking and Supervising
Physical Demarcations of Indigenous Lands; (iii) Manual of Technical Norms for Physical Demarcations of
Indigenous Lands; and (vi) Manual for Digital Cartography.

** On the first theme, four modules were developed and implemented: (a) Indigenous Land Rights; (b)
Process of Land Regularization; (c) Indigenous Lands and Environmental Legislation; and (d) Protection of
Indigenous Lands, Surveillance and Territorial Control. For the second theme six modules were used: (a)
Mapping and GIS; (b) Audiovisual Recording: Photography and Video; (c) Radio; (d) Engine and Motor
Maintenance; (e) Management of Resources for the Protection of Indigenous Lands; and (f) Administrative
Project Management.


                                                   21

The project, in close collaboration with FUNAI's Land Department, supported the development of
a sophisticated geo-referenced database, GIS, on the indigenous lands in the project. The system is
already functioning as an effective monitoring and mapping tool. While very useful in terms of
regularization and surveillance, the GIS also made an important contribution to the project's ethno-
ecological research. In addition, the database was expanded to include all indigenous lands in
Brazil effectively mainstreaming the GIS throughout FUNAI. This system is an essential tool for
the improved protection of indigenous lands and for improved ethno-ecological management plans
for natural resources.

The project provided strong support for strengthening indigenous communities and organizations.
This was evidenced throughout project design and implementation: from participatory
demarcations in Component 1 to community-based protection activities in Component 2 to
appropriate studies and targeted training in Component 3 to participation on the project's advisory
commission in Component 4. These activities have contributed to indigenous knowledge and
capacities to more effectively interact with white society and have added to their awareness about
the importance of protecting their lands and natural resources.

The project also helped modernize FUNAI. The net result of the project is that it improved the
methods and standards in FUNAI's land regularization work which have been adopted and hence
are benefiting the entire country. The project also mainstreamed participatory approaches, helped
alter the way FUNAI works with indigenous people and helped gain national and international
respect for an institution that previously had very little. Indeed, the project was perceived as so
successful that periodically there have been suggestions that FUNAI be reorganized more along the
model of PPTAL. However, the project's impact on FUNAI should not be overstated since it
remains a problematic institution facing many challenges in the future.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)


N/A

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

In spite of the periodic slowdowns and delays in the implementation of some activities, the project
has not only met key performance indicators but has significantly surpassed them. The project
therefore played a vital role in legalizing and protecting nearly 20 percent of the Amazon region as
indigenous lands which significantly contributes to conserving the rain forest and improving the
well-being of Brazilian indigenous people.           In addition, the technical and participatory
methodologies tested by the project have largely been mainstreamed into FUNAI and have created
a national and long-lasting impact.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Indigenous people have been significantly empowered by activities supported under the project as



                                                  22

described above. Both indigenous communities and NGOs received targeted training and capacity-
building while participating in many project activities. Significantly, Brazilian indigenous people
participated on an advisory commission to FUNAI for the first time; this commission was later
given some oversight functions.

Given the historical situation of Brazilian indigenous people as wards of the state, the project
contributed to their organizational growth. During the final evaluation workshop for the project,
the indigenous representatives recognized the very significant impact of the project on
strengthening their local organizations as well as helping to change how indigenous people interact
with the rest of Brazilian society.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and Institutional Development)

The project made major contributions to modernizing FUNAI. The outcomes and longer-term
impacts are described in Section 8.2 under Objective 3. Additional longer-term impacts of the
project pertain to the way that it has fundamentally helped to alter the way that FUNAI works.
However, it must be noted that numerous institutional challenges remain: (i) the ongoing political
sensitivity of indigenous issues; (ii) perpetual budget problems; and (iii) a reduced mandate.

The project made major contributions to strengthening indigenous organizations. The outcomes
and longer-term impacts are described in Section 8.2 under Objective 3. Additional longer-term
impacts are likely to be more sustainable in the long-run since indigenous people have a vested
interest in having a stronger voice vis-à-vis the rest of Brazilian society. During the decade of the
project, many indigenous associations and organizations gained valuable administrative, technical,
political and other experiences and skills that have better positioned them to make informed
decisions about their cultures and livelihoods in the future.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
(positive or negative, if any)

The impact of the PPTAL was much larger than just the sum of its parts. It became nationally and
internationally known as a landmark project with multiple positive ramifications on the well-being
of indigenous people in Brazil. In addition, many other Latin American countries and indigenous
people in other countries have observed, admired and learned from the project.

Furthermore, the PPTAL PIU staff worked directly on and brought the PPTAL experiences to bear
on the development of new operations including: (i) the Pilot Program's Ecological Corridors
Project; (ii) the Indigenous Peoples Demonstration Project (PDPI); and (iii) the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF)'s Amazon Region Protected Areas Project (ARPA).

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

In December 2005, FUNAI held a high-level workshop with stakeholders (including various
indigenous organizations as well as representatives of FUNAI, the Ministry of Environment, the
Brazilian Agency for Bilateral Cooperation, the Secretária de Assuntos Internacionais, World
Bank, KfW and GTZ) to present the findings and final evaluation of the project. The workshop
also served as a forum to hear the opinions of key beneficiaries of project activities. The results of



                                                  23

the workshop are available in Chapter 7 of the Government's Final Evaluation of the PPTAL.
There was considerable consensus concerning the positive impacts of the project including: (i) the
significant number of indigenous lands regularized; (ii) the high levels of beneficiary participation;
(iii) the strengthening of indigenous organizations; (iv) and the technical assistance provided.
Beneficiaries were more critical of some sectors and regional offices of FUNAI, the bureaucracy
and the relatively limited scope of protection activities. Recommendations were made for the
additional two years to be supported by German-government funds alone (since the Bank
administered part was closing), while considerable interest was expressed for follow-on operations.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

The major risks to the project were correctly identified (see Section 7.1).         They were also
adequately mitigated, and, despite periodic delays, the project accomplished and exceeded its main
land regularization goals with the usufruct of the indigenous lands perpetually ensured and a high
degree of long-term sustainability. A summary of how key risks were mitigated follows:

     · Risk of Sensitivity of Indigenous Issues in Brazil and Degree of Political
         Commitment. Although the political context was sensitive, the main stakeholders of the
         project ­ indigenous people and FUNAI, in particular ­ worked closely with the Bank and
         donors.    Domestic and international groups concerned with indigenous rights also
         regularly observed.       As a result, both achievements and problems in project
         implementation were well documented and highly transparent.             This helped build
         consensus especially regarding new approaches. One example is that in the early years of
         the project FUNAI expressed reluctance to contract NGOs for participatory demarcations
         since this had never been previously done. However, after months of wide discussion,
         agreement was finally reached, and, after successful collaboration, partnerships with
         NGOs became more commonplace. Another example of political change was that when
         the project was being prepared the government asked that the advisory commission be only
         consultative. Nevertheless, after about 7 years of project implementation, a number of
         indigenous organizations lobbied and the government agreed that the advisory commission
         could assume some deliberative powers.           Ultimately, the strongest indication of
         government commitment over the ten-year project course is that it was successful in
         helping to legalize so many indigenous lands in the Amazon despite the many challenges.

     · Government Sensitivity to External Funding. The partnerships and transparency of the
         PPTAL helped diminish government sensitivity to issues of external funding. Although
         during the life of the project some congressional hearings were held that raised the issue of
         foreign influence in the Amazon region with regard to indigenous people in particular,
         there was never an adverse outcome with operational implications for the project. Indeed,
         given the significant accomplishments of the PPTAL, the government received a great deal
         of international praise and recognition.

     · Legal, Bureaucratic and Physical Difficulties of the Regularization Process. During
         the entire decade of project implementation neither the Constitution nor the antiquated
         Indian Stature (Estatuto do Indio) were revised. The main legal challenge to the project
         occurred in the first month of implementation when Decree 1775 substituted Decree 22.
         At the time both national and international concerns were expressed about the addition of
         the administrative grievance process which could possibly reduce the proposed size of
         indigenous lands. The Bank and German Government carefully analyzed the implications



                                                 24

         of the new decree and found it overall adequate. However, the German Congress indicated
         that no indigenous lands reduced via the new grievance process should be financed by
         German funds which resulted in the removal of two indigenous lands from the project over
         a decade. Nevertheless, Decree 1775 provided an opportunity for the project to positively
         contribute to improving land regularization. Other factors that adversely affected project
         implementation included those within control of the project, such as improving
         demarcation bidding procedures, and those beyond the control of the project as highlighted
         by the numerous changes of FUNAI Presidents and changes in national government
         human resource policies that affected government and project personnel. However, with
         each challenge FUNAI strove to find pragmatic and workable solutions which usually
         occurred even if sometimes after a delay.

     · Interagency Coordination.         Although the PPTAL benefited from being part of the
         broader Pilot Program, FUNAI remained frequently impeded by a lack of coordination
         with other agencies. This is generally the case with respect to other agencies that have
         police power (which FUNAI does not) for protection and enforcement in cases of frontier
         conflicts and with respect to the Agrarian Reform Institute (INCRA) that has resettlement
         responsibilities.   Efforts were expended during the project to improve interagency
         coordination and even included a new formal agreement between FUNAI and INCRA.
         However, these challenges still require a significant amount of additional work. During its
         consolidation phase, the project carried out studies on these topics which provided
         recommendations for the future.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory. The
project was prepared by a multi-disciplinary team headed by an anthropologist. The technical
composition of the team was consistent with project design needs.               German-government
representatives also participated in preparation and appraisal.

Quality at entry assessments and the current ISR results framework were not in place at the time of
preparation. Nevertheless, the project had an agreed M&E system and key performance indicators
(see Section 7.3). Project risks were adequately identified and mitigated over the life of the project.

Indigenous participation was identified as a key element in achieving the projects objectives even
though the institutional modalities for that participation were not well developed at that time. Over
the life of the project, indigenous participation gained strength and is considered a positive project
outcome.

The main institutional weaknesses related to FUNAI were identified. The project addressed them
by supporting a separate PIU, specialized consultants, specialized studies in addition to piloting
new methods and procedures, capacity-building and community-based protection activities. The
project used a less direct approach to institutional strengthening, as improved methods and
procedures were introduced and mainstreamed into the institution.          While many believe that



                                                  25

FUNAI needs major reform, this was not a subject deemed within the scope of the project.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in Supervision is rated Satisfactory.

Given the political sensitivities and institutional weaknesses, this project was closely supervised.
This was particularly true at the beginning when the regulatory decree changed in the first month of
project implementation and also periodically over the years when special challenges arose. The
project received 19 supervision missions over 10 years. A total of 201 staff weeks were expended
on supervision. Bank staff participation in this project remained consistent throughout the ten
years of implementation. The Task Manager at Appraisal was the same at Closing.

The project team closely monitored implementation, involved experienced staff and short-term
consultants with expertise in indigenous issues, provided necessary support and sought solutions to
problems. Aide-Memoires and supervision reports (590s/PSRs/ISRs) indicate that Bank project
staff provided a high level of technical expertise and input throughout the supervision period,
particularly in terms of incorporating indigenous participation and ensuring high quality outputs of
studies. The team's technical input also assisted the project in the further elaboration of activities
under component 2 in addition to the refining of the training guidelines in component 3. The
supervision team also played a key role in identifying and negotiating institutional changes which
occurred during the life of the project, in particular, finding operational solutions to problems such
as delays in the regularization process.

The project benefited from a thorough and highly participatory MTR (October 1998) which among
its agreements included expanding the project's work program to include additional indigenous
lands in the Legal Amazon. The MTR helped establish achievable targets for identifications and
demarcations within the context of the preparation of annual work plans.

Technical cooperation with the German Government which financed 79% of the total project costs
was a particularly important element of project supervision. Overall, project relations with the
KFW and GTZs were excellent.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Project preparation and supervision were satisfactory. See details provided in (a) and (b).

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The GOB's performance is rated satisfactory.

One of the key events during the project was the GOB's adoption in January 1996 of Decree 1775
(replacing Decree 22) which regulates indigenous land regularization. This new decree introduced
administrative procedures for contesting indigenous land allocations (in addition to already existing



                                                  26

judicial procedure) by parties (such as states, municipalities and private citizens) making counter-
claims. Decree 1775 created a great deal of concern both nationally and internationally by pro-
indigenous advocacy groups, particularly since initially it was to be applied retroactively so that
there appeared to be a possibility that existing indigenous lands could be reduced. This did not
occur. At the same time, because Decree 1775 also called for environmental diagnostics and
improved procedures, it provided the project with a unique opportunity to contribute to both the
development and testing of new methods and procedures for identification and demarcation that
were later mainstreamed into FUNAI.

Secondly, despite the political sensitivities of indigenous issues, the Cardoso government and later
the Lula government issued large numbers of Presidential Decrees needed to finalize the
regularization of many of the indigenous lands identified and/or demarcated under the project.
This showed a high level of government commitment.

Finally, the governmental decision, concurred by FUNAI, to convert the project advisory
commission into a deliberative body demonstrated increased awareness of the importance of
having indigenous representation in project oversight and within FUNAI itself.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Despite numerous turnovers of FUNAI Presidents, the overall weakness of the institution and
intermittent implementation delays, FUNAI is rated as having a satisfactory performance because
over the life of the project it delivered high quality results. By the project's closing date, the
original targets for identification and demarcation were exceeded, and indigenous participation had
been more mainstreamed. FUNAI also demonstrated repeatedly good will toward resolving both
internal and external problems. While the project PIU was consistently satisfactory, other
departments at FUNAI also improved during the project, most notably DAF. Not only did FUNAI
perform well on the project, but it also adopted many new and improved procedures and standards.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


Government performance in preparation and implementation were satisfactory. See (a) and (b) for
further details.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Among the main lessons reinforced from this operation is that while land regularization does not
resolve multiple threats and challenges for indigenous people in Latin America, security of land
tenure is a necessary precondition if indigenous people are to make their own decisions about their
lifestyles and possible future changes based on their ability to maintain their culture via traditional
livelihoods and cultures.

A second lesson is that while there are many pressing issues that face indigenous people in Latin
America, a project to benefit indigenous people stands a better chance of success and lasting
impact if it:




                                                   27

    · focuses on one or two sets of critical activities ­ in this case improved access and control
         over land and natural resources via land regularization ­ rather than trying to do
         everything;
    · incorporates a strong commitment to grassroots empowerment and social accountability
         through participatory processes that are essential both because of the weak government
         agencies responsible for indigenous issues and the need to counterbalance paternalistic
         treatment of traditionally excluded populations;
    · ensures that indigenous beneficiaries are actively involved in project implementation so
         that they assume ownership which contributes to sustainability;
    · compensates for the government agency capacity limitations by actively encouraging a
         diversity of partnerships with governmental and civil society organizations including
         indigenist and indigenous NGOs; and
    · ensures social accountability and transparency by establishing active and empowered
         advisory and oversight commissions.

A third lesson learned is that when working with diverse indigenous groups, it is critical to work
with and strengthen indigenous organizations, respecting the culturally-defined decision-making
mechanisms of each ethnic group. This helps ensure active participation of organizations and
communities in project implementation. When working with indigenous people, project personnel
need to respect the processes of indigenous development, adapting the project to the needs and
concerns that arise from communities themselves without imposing pre-established packages,
timing or modalities of work that are foreign to the communities.

A fourth lesson learned is that great care and ingenuity need to be applied when trying to work
with and strengthen the usually weak Latin American government agencies responsible for
indigenous people. A great deal can be accomplished toward modernizing these institutions by
focusing on pragmatic and operational improvements, specifically by developing, testing and
helping incorporate and mainstream new technical and participatory standards.         The PPTAL
profoundly influenced the way FUNAI plans, carries out, monitors and manages land
regularizations. The project developed new approaches to annual planning, transparent criteria for
targeting, tracking and monitoring systems, and numerous models for organizing work teams.
Most of these innovations have been progressively adopted by FUNAI.

A final lesson deals with future operations, especially once basic land tenure issues have been
resolved. The next challenge in Brazil and many LAC countries involves ethnodevelopment, the
basic elements for which include: (i) adequate protection of indigenous lands and resources; (ii)
sufficient and culturally appropriate basic services such as health and education without creating
dependencies; (iii) support for indigenous organizational strengthening vis-à-vis the national
society; (iv) continued sustainable management of natural resources in light of acculturation, new
needs and adoption of new technologies and possible relationships to the cash economy; and (v)
facilitation of culturally appropriate models of development to help ensure indigenous people make
free informed choices about their futures.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


(b) Cofinanciers (KfW)


The PPTAL is not only a core component of the PPG7 but one of its most successful projects -



                                                  28

despite all the difficulties. Under this project 94 indigenous lands have already been legally
secured. It is still being supported by Germany and has been instrumental in contributing to the
realisation of the right to territorial integrity which the Brazilian Constitution guarantees the
indigenous peoples of Amazonia. Legal recognition, however, does not automatically mean
effective protection, but it is a crucial pre-requisite. Yet many indigenous lands are still under great
pressure, particularly those that border on the expanding agricultural frontier. Over the coming
years the development and implementation of conservation and management strategies that involve
the population of the indigenous lands and their organisations will be a central challenge for
Brazil's indigenous policies.

From our point of view, the World Bank's final report renders a true and accurate account of the
results. We thank the World Bank and, in particular, all those who have applied themselves to the
project with competence and commitment for the outstanding cooperation.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)


Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

The M&E Plan prepared for the project in 1995 included formally agreed monitoring and
performance indicators (see Section 7.3). Following adoption by the Bank of the Implementation
Status Results and Report (ISR), the Task Team identified in the system the PDO Indicator as (i)
Completion of indigenous land regularization activities programmed under the project, and the
Intermediate Outcome Indicator as Degree of indigenous participation in land regularization and
protection activities.

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The general objective of PPTAL was to improve the conservation of natural resources in
indigenous areas and increase the well-being of indigenous people through: (i) regularization* of
indigenous lands in the Legal Amazon; and (ii) improved protection of indigenous populations and
areas.

Specific objectives included: (i) regularizing (by identifying, demarcating and legalizing) selected
indigenous areas in seven of the nine states of the Legal Amazon; (ii) improving the protection of
indigenous people and lands by developing and implementing community based activities designed
to protect their areas while securing their subsistence and conserving the natural resource base; and
(iii) strengthening the protection of indigenous populations and regularization and improved
conditions for the management of indigenous lands by targeted capacity-building and studies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)




                                                    29

                                           Original Target      Formally           Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                           Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised          Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values       Target Years
              Completion of indigenous land regularization activities programmed under the
Indicator 1 :
              project
Value         Zero since none of the     42 identified and 81 Various.        60 identified and 92
(quantitative lands scheduled had yet of the highest          Revised         demarcated
or            been identified or         priority demarcated annually
qualitative)  demarcated
Date achieved 06/06/1995                 06/06/1995                           12/31/05
              In terms of identification, the project identified 60 indigenous lands (11 million
              hectares) rather than the originally estimated 42 lands which was 43 percent higher
              than originally estimated. The project demarcated 92 indigenous lands (38 million

Comments      hectares) rather than original target of 81 lands which is 14 percent more than

(incl. %      originally estimated. Importantly, the original targets included the completion of

achievement)  only one stage or another, whereas the project was later able to demarcate and
              further regularize many lands identified under the project. Of the 92 indigenous
              demarcated, 87 lands or 37 million hectares were finalized by Presidential Decree,
              an event over which the project had no control, but which was also a highly positive
              outcome.
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                  Original Target      Formally

  Indicator Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised      Actual Value Achieved at
                                      approval          Target     Completion or Target Years
                                     documents)         Values
              Degree of indigenous participation in (a) land regularization, and (b) protection
Indicator 1 :
             activities
              At project start, Improved levels of    Targets    Project has introduced innovative
              little or no      participation in (a)  revised    participation in both (a) including
              participation in (under component 1), annually     15 special pilot projects involving
Value         (a) and none in in (b) (under                      indigenous people in
(quantitative (b)               component 2) and                 demarcations of their lands. For
or                              related capacity-                (b) the project supported 31
qualitative)                    building (under                  protection projects involving 60
                                component 3)                     indigenous lands, and support
                                                                 trainings were also carried out in
                                                                 60 indigenous lands
Date
achieved      12/05/1995                                         12/31/2005

              The original targets included five trainings. There were no a priori targets for other
              participatory activities since the methods had to be developed and subprojects

Comments      developed on a case by case basis. In the end, the project carried out innovative

(incl. %      participatory demarcations in 16 percent of the indigenous lands under the project,

achievement)  supported highly participatory protection activities as well as trainings in 65 percent
              of the lands demarcated under the project.         Considering the challenges and
              complexities of the participatory approach involving multiple ethnicities, languages
              and remote locations, the project accomplishments are significant.



                                                  30

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


N/A




                                   31

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)


           Components             Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                      (US$ M)       Estimate (US$ M)       Appraisal
1. Regularization of Indigenous
Lands
2. Surveillance and Protection of
Indigenous Areas
3. Capacity-Building and Studies        0.85               0.65              76%
4. Support to Project
Management                              0.90               1.24             138%

              Total Baseline Cost       1.75               1.89             108%
Unallocated                             0.35               0.21              60%


              Total Project Costs       2.10               2.10             100%
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)

      Total Financing Required

(b) Co-financing



        Source of Funds             Type of      Appraisal    Actual/LatestPercentage of
                                  Cofinancing   Estimate (US$ Estimate (US$
                                                    M)             M)       Appraisal

Government of Brazil                             2.24           4.50        201%
IBRD-Rain Forest Trust Fund                      2.10           1.89         90%
KfW                                 [Parallel   16.59           11.0         66%
                                   financing]

(c) Disbursement Profile (system generated graph)




                                             32

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Objective             Output (see Section 8.2 for greater details)
1. Regularizing      · Identified 60 indigenous lands (11 million hectares)
selected indigenous  · Demarcated 92 lands (38 million hectares)
areas in the Legal   · Promoted transparency through linkage to a detailed database on
Amazon                 each of the indigenous lands
                     · Supported studies that improved identification and demarcation
                       procedures
                     · Commissioned study on demarcation alternatives which improved
                       methodology and created cost savings for the project budget
                     · Financed pilot participatory identifications and 15 highly
                       participatory demarcations in collaboration with NGOs
                     · Developed and implemented a rapid diagnostic and a more detailed
                       ethno-environmental survey
2. Developing and    · Supported 31 "bottom-up" approach protection subprojects in 60
implementing           indigenous lands
community based      · Activities included (i) new territorial occupation strategies; (ii) sign
activities             posting campaigns; (iii) the dissemination of information about the
                       land and its borders to indigenous and neighboring non-indigenous
                       populations; (iv) map and GPS training; and (v) radios-in-the-
                       villages
                     · Impacted approximately 45,000 persons
3. Carrying out      · Conducted six practical studies and applied them operationally to
capacity-building and  support community-based protection initiatives
studies              · Carried out 45 trainings in 60 indigenous lands targeting for both
                       FUNAI staff and indigenous people
                     · Supported the development of a sophisticated geo-referenced
                       database
                     · Helped modernize FUNAI by improving the methods and standards
                       of its land regularization work




                                            33

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)


N/A




                                           34

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
        Names                       Title                     Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Judith Lisansky        Anthropologist                  LA1RF              Team Leader
Graciela Lituma        Rural Development Specialist    LA1EA
Jamison Suter          Land and Forest Specialist      LA1EA
Christoph Diewald      Senior Operations Officer       LA1-LAC
Hans Schutz (KfW)
Eberhart Goll (GTZ)


Supervision/ICR
Judith Lisansky        Senior Anthropologist           LCSSO              Task Manager
Loretta Sprissler      Social Development Sp           LCSES
Virginia Valadáo       Anthropologist                  Consultant
Neila Soares           Indigenist Specialist           LC5RF
Graciela Lituma        Operations Officer              LCSAR
Luciano Wuerzius       Procurement Analyst             LCSPT
Irani Escolano         Procurement Specialist          LCSPT
Susana Amaral          FM Specialist                   LCSFM
Alberto Ninio          Lead Counsel                    LEGEN



(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs (all fields are entered by the system)
 No.        Date ISR Archived          DO IP             Actual Disbursements (US$ M)
1     12/17/1999                     S      S   0.89
2     12/22/1999                     S      S   0.89
3     11/14/2000                     S      S   0.99
4     12/19/2000                     S      S   0.99
5     12/03/2001                     S      S   1.15
6     12/14/2001                     S      S   1.15
7     05/28/2002                     S      S   1.30
8     11/04/2002                     S      S   1.34
9     12/15/2003                     S      S   1.44
10    06/21/2004                     S      S   1.59
11    01/04/2005                     S      S   1.59
12    05/04/2005                     S      S   1.60
13    11/16/2005                     S      S   1.60




                                              35

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                  US$ Thousands
                                              No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY 93                 45.2                  97.3
                     FY94                  54.6                  126.3
                     FY95                  28.2                  54.9
                                     Total:128                   278.5


Supervision/ICR
                     FY96                  24.2                  40.2
                     FY97                  52.0                  69.9
                     FY98                  24.60                 52.4
                     FY99                  21.0                  56.4
                     FY00                  12.91                 52,213.66
                     FY01                  15.28                 58,752.89
                     FY02                  11.85                 62,746.89
                     FY03                  7.42                  27,604.88
                     FY04                  13.73                 64,050.81
                     FY05                  8.72                  54,283.47
                     FY06                  9.32                  44,037.89
                     FY07                                        20,935.36
                                     Total:201.03                603,525.85




                                       36

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance


         Bank                 Ratings             Borrower     Ratings
Quality at Entry:              N/A         Government:          N/A

Quality of Supervision:         S          Implementation
                                           Agency/Agencies:      S

Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
Performance:                    S          Performance:          S




                                          37

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)


N/A




                                            38

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)


See Section 8.6 and Chapter 7 of the Government's Final Evaluation Report




                                             39

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Executive Summary [An Unofficial Translation]


Introduction
         This report marks the end of the World Bank's participation in the Pilot Program to
Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest's Indigenous Lands Project (PPTAL). This is an external
evaluation of the Project based on interviews, review of documents and project produced studies,
and visits to three Indigenous Lands.

         The PPTAL was part of the Pilot Program to Protect the Brazilian Rain Forest (PPG7), a
G-7 program partially administered through the World Bank with the objective of promoting the
sustainable development and conservation of the Legal Amazon. The general aim of the PPTAL is
to improve the conservation of natural resources in indigenous lands and to increase the well-being
of indigenous populations through regularizing indigenous lands in the Legal Amazon and
improving the protection of indigenous peoples and lands. The PPTAL is divided into four
components: (i) regularizing indigenous lands; (ii) surveillance and protection of indigenous lands;
(iii) carrying out capacity-building activities and studies; and (iv) support to project
implementation. The project is being carried out through FUNAI and is supported by the KfW,
through GTZ, and the RFT. The budget was estimated to be US$ 20.9 million with DM 30 million
from the KfW, US$2.1 million from the RFT and US$ 2.2 million from the Government of Brazil.

Results
         By mid-2005, the project had identified 60 lands (11 million hectares) and demarcated 92
indigenous lands (38 million hectares) of which 87 received Presidential Decrees and 59 were fully
registered in local and federal registries.       The project supported four groups of studies
(environmental diagnostics, identification procedures for indigenous lands, a socioeconomic tenure
study, and alternative demarcation methods) and developed a methodology to carry out ethno-
environmental studies which is being applied in ten "land complexes" and includes 43 Indigenous
Lands. Under the protection component, the project supported 31 protection sub-projects, seven
radios-in-the-villages activities and three pilot sub-projects which benefited approximately 60
Indigenous Lands. The project also benefited approximately 60 Indigenous Lands by training
indigenous community members and organizations to participate in the demarcation of their lands.

Impacts
         With respect to conservation, the project can be considered as one of the more successful
of the PPG7. An indirect impact of the project is that today Indigenous Lands are considered
protected areas in protection strategies for the Legal Amazon. In terms of indigenous policies, the
project has also had great success as it resolved a significant gap in the regularization of Indigenous
Lands in the Legal Amazon.

         As of now, the PPTAL has identified and demarcated more indigenous lands than were
initially established in the MOD.        In addition, the project supported the development and
institutionalization of more transparent norms and procedures in FUNAI.              The project also
strengthened the indigenous movement through the participation of indigenous representatives
within the Deliberative Commission and through supporting indigenous communities in
accompanying the demarcation of their lands and in and implementing their own community
protection plans. These activities have directly led to a decrease in invasions. Better indigenous
community awareness in regards to their lands, their management and their protection is also
contributing to the improved efficiency and effectiveness of FUNAI's supervision capabilities.



                                                  40

Although the methodological impact of ethno-environmental surveys is still limited, there is
potential to promote a more systematic and integrated vision with respect to the protection and
management of Indigenous Lands.

Challenges
         Despite the project's success, there have been some challenges. The first is that the project
needed nearly twice the planned time to achieve these results. The principal reasons for the delays
included the passage of Decree 1775/96 and Internal Decree 14/96 which changed, at the beginning
of the project, the procedures for identifying Indigenous Lands; bureaucratic and administrative
complexities for the land regularization process together with the limited capacity of FUNAI. As
the project primarily focused on land regularization, the institutional capacity of FUNAI and the
internalization of project actions through FUNAI were considered secondary issues. This, apart
from having created some tensions between partners during implementation, subjected the Project
to a need to prioritize the internalization process during the current phase of implementation.

        A second challenge relates to the sustainability of Indigenous Lands and the protection
actions supported by the project. The PPTAL challenged the traditional framework of protecting
Indigenous Lands and it promoted territorial consciousness. However, still lacking is an analysis
of the internal management of Indigenous Lands and the relation of lands with their local and
regional surroundings.       The project-supported ethno-environmental studies produced a very
interesting basis for this analysis, but these studies have been underutilized within the scope of the
PPTAL.

         The recommendations based on this evaluation in large part refer to these two issues: the
process of internalizing the PPTAL lessons within FUNAI and how to guarantee land integrity..
With respect to internalization, the report asserts that this should not occur through
"contamination" whereby persons and institutional units unconsciously absorb the project
approaches and lessons.       In this phase of the project, the process should be proactive and
transparent following an agreed strategy that includes staff training and the transfer of
responsibilities to FUNAI's departments.       With respect to land sustainability, the project argues
that there is both an internal and an external dimension.           The internal issue involves the
management and generation of income. To address these, the Project could in these last years
promote better coordination with the PDPI and other government and NGO projects and programs.
The external issue involves better integration of Indigenous Lands with territorial planning and,
environmental management of the surrounding areas both locally and regionally. The Project
could better coordinate its activities with other government agencies, and state and municipal
governments.

         Finally, there are some issues relating to the participation and capacity-building of
community members, the strengthening of indigenous associations and the impact that these
activities had on the relations within and between communities.




                                                   41

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                         42

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Memorandum of the Director (MOD), Washington, DC: World Bank, June 6 1995.
Project 590s, PSRs and ISRs - 1996-2006.
Fostering Change for Brazilian Indigenous People during the Past Decade: The Pilot Program's
Indigenous Lands Project, IN Lessons of Indigenous Development in Latin America, edited by
Shelton H. Davis, Jorge E. Uquillas and M. Eltz, Washington, DC: World Bank, September 2004.
Final Evaluation of the Indigenous Lands Project (Government's Final Evaluation Report)
/Estudo de Avaliacao-Projeto Integrado de Protecao as Populacoes e Terras Indigenas de Amazonia
Legal (PPTAL). Brasilia: FUNAI, December 2005.




                                               43

