Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14713
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2409/SPECIAL FUND 017)
JUNE 28, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency:   Kenya Shilling (Ksh)
Year                          Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average                   US$1 = Ksh 14.4
1985 - 1988 Average                     US$1 = Ksh 16.7
1989- 1991 Average                      US$1 = Ksh 23.7
Completion Year Average (1992 - 3)       US$1 = Ksh 32.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MOW          Ministry of Works
MOTC         Ministry of Transport and Communications
PCR          Project Completion Report
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 28, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Kenya
Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2409-KE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on Kenya: Second Highway Sector Project
(Loan 2409-KE, approved in FY84) prepared by the Eastern Africa Regional Office, with Part II
prepared by the Borrower.
The project, the second in highway sector, overlapped the first one for three years. Its objectives
were: (i) to reduce transport costs in Kenya; and (ii) to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of
Transportation and Communications in highway administration, planning, and implementation with
highest priority given to maintenance of the existing road network.
The project's main components were: paving and strengthening of roads, spare parts for road
maintenance equipment, road building materials, equipment for maintenance workshops and technical
assistance.
Project implementation fell behind schedule immediately with virtually no implementation
during the first 36 months, owing to inadequate organization within the Ministry of Transport and
Communications and a lack of counterpart financing. After three years the project was restructured:
90 percent of the Bank loan was canceled, the scope of works assisted by the project was cut
dramatically, and the disbursement percentage was increased to ease the problem of counterpart funding.
The remaining sub-projects were delayed but, in general, completed satisfactorily. There was, however,
a substantial cost increase due to faulty design and cost estimates. Compliance with covenants was
satisfactory.
The restructured project made a contribution to maintenance and upgrading of several sub-
projects with a high economic rate of return (approximately 40 percent) but failed to change the
emphasis of the borrower's efforts from development to maintenance. Similarly maintenance
management and equipment management systems were developed but not used and their practical
benefit is negligible.
The project outcome is rated as highly unsatisfactory. Institutional development impact is rated
as negligible and sustainability as unlikely. The PCR was thoughtfully written.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
|their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2409-KE/Special Fund 017-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                            ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                 1
1. Project Identity                 1..........................1
2. Project Background ..........................1
3. Project Objectives and Description .........................2
4. Project Design and Organization ..........................3
5. Project Implementation ..........       .................5
6. Project Results ..........................  10
7. Project Sustainability ..........     ................ 13
8. Bank Performance .......................... .                       13
9. Borrower's Performance ..........       ................ 14
10. Project Relationship .......... ..                                 15
1 1. Lessons ........................... 15
Tis docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   16
Introduction .............................................................  ............ 16
Procurement Problem           .     .     .       16
Lessons                  ...  16
Future                   ...  17
Conclusion                ...  17
PART HI: STATISTICAL AND OTHER PROJECT INFORMIATION  18
Related Bank Group Loans and/or Credits  ............ 18
Project Timetable ............  19
Project Financing ............  20
Loan and Special Fund Disbursements ............ 21
Schedule of IBRD Disbursement ............      22
Status of Compliance with Major Covenants ......... ... 23
Use of the Associated Resources ............    24
Staff Inputs               ...  24
Mission Data               ...  25
Project Implementation        .     .     .         26
Economnic Analysis           . . .    27
(a) SAR Estimate ............  27
(b) Project Outcome        .     .    .        27
(i) Component ERR: ............ 27
(ii) Overall Project ERR: ............   27



KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2409-KE/Special Fund 017-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Highways Sector
Project in Kenya, for which Loan 2409 in the initial amount of US$50 million, and IDA
Special Fund Credit in the amount of SDR 37.8 million (approximately US$40) were
approved on May 8, 1984, and made effective on September 19, 1984. The Project
underwent restructuring in October 1987 and the Loan was reduced to US$5.0 million.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1993, compared with the original December 31,
1990 closing date. Final disbursement took place on April 4, 1990 and the unspent
balance of US$3,305,089 was canceled on October 30, 1993. The Special Fund Credit
was closed on June 30, 1993, the closing date having been extended by two and a half
years. Final disbursement took place on December 23, 1993, at which time a balance of
SDR 2,022,967.95 was canceled.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure
Operations Division of the Eastern Africa Department. During the final supervision
mission in December 1992, the Borrower was requested to prepare Part II. As of January
1995, IBRD has not received the Borrower's contribution.
This PCR is based, inter alia, on information available in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR); the Loan, Special Fund Credit, and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between IBRD and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2409-KE/Special Fund 017-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
A. Introduction
1.    The Second Highway Sector Project (Highways II) was the Bank's twelfth lending
operation to assist in the development of Kenya's road sector. The Project was prepared
during implementation of the First Highway Sector Project (Highways I) which had been
approved in 1979. While Highways I had encountered some problems in terms of
insufficient maintenance funding and implementation, it was felt that sufficient progress
had been achieved that a second sector operation was justified to support the
implementation of the Fifth Highway Plan, a part of the Fifth Development Plan.
Highways II was designed to minimize the risks of problems similar to those faced by
Highways I, and to increase the focus on the support of road maintenance.
2.    At the time of project appraisal, Kenya had a classified road network totaling
53,800 km, of which 6,400 km were paved and 18,400 km gravel surfaced. During the
1970's and early 1980s priority had been given to the expansion and upgrading of the
network and less attention had been paid to the routine and periodic maintenance of the
existing network. Overall road conditions were deteriorating and high costs were being
incurred in terms of both vehicle operations and road rehabilitation.
B. Objectives
3.    The project was designed to finance a slice of Kenya's Fifth Highway Plan during
the period FY84 - FY88. The objectives of the Highway Plan, which had been agreed
with the Bank staff, were broadly to reduce transport costs and strengthen the capacity of
the Ministry of Transport and Communication in the areas of road administration, planning
and implementation. In terms of practical objectives, the Plan placed great emphasis on
the maintenance of the existing network and 40 percent of total planned road expenditure
was allocated to road rehabilitation and maintenance. Within the Plan, routine
maintenance received the highest expenditure priority and new upgrading projects the



- iii -
lowest. It was hoped that Bank support would ensure that Government focused on the
plan as a whole, especially on the level of funds allocated to maintenance.
C. Project Implementation and Results
4.    In terms of its main stated objective, assistance for the implementation of the Fifth
Highway Plan, the Project failed almost entirely. By the end of period covered by the Plan
(1988), disbursements totaled only US$2.5 million and the project had already been
restructured. The project was declared effective in September, 1984, and implementation
immediately fell behind schedule. Despite 9 supervision missions, there was almost no
physical progress during the first 36 months and only two contracts, for consultancy
services, were signed. The lack of progress was partly the result of inadequate
organization within the implementing agency; the senior officials were pre-occupied with
the implementation of decentralization under the District Focus Policy. The lack of
counterpart funding was probably, however, the major factor in delaying the
implementation of the civil works. The Project was costly in terms of the size of the
IBRD loan component (US$50 million out of total funding of US$90 million) but, more
particularly, in the counterpart funding required (40 - 50 percent). With the financial
constraints imposed by Kenya's economic performance, the Government tried to find
alternative funding which was less expensive and required little counterpart funding,
ideally 100 percent grant financing.
5.    In August 1987, GOK was informed that the Project was facing suspension as the
Bank could no longer justify keeping the US$90 million reserved. The Government
proposed a major restructuring of the project: (i) reducing the scope of works; (ii)
canceling US$45 million from the IBRD loan; and, (iii) increasing the Bank's minimum
disbursement to 80 percent. In view of Kenya's changed economic and financial situation,
and the desirability of "softening" Bank lending, the proposed restructuring was approved
in September, 1987. Despite the increased disbursement percentage, the Project
continued to suffer from counterpart funding problems. Project implementation was
further delayed by the very slow progress in completing a strengthening subproject which
eventually was completed in January 1993, almost two years behind schedule. The project
was expected to close on December 31, 1990, but due to the implementation delays the
Bank approved successive extensions to the closing date until June 30, 1993.
6.    The cancellation of 90 percent of the IBRD loan and increased disbursement
percentage combined to reduce very substantially the physical works implemented by the
project. Bank financing assisted with the resealing of 537 km (SAR: 2,800 km), the
regravelling of 558 km (SAR: 1,500 km), the strengthening of 29 km (SAR: 220 km), and
the upgrading of 56 km (SAR: 245 km). In addition to the civil works, the project
financed maintenance equipment and spares, the import of 24,000 tonnes of bitumen,
equipment for the Materials Branch, technical support for the Ministry of Public Works
and Housing (the implementing agency from 1988), and the development of the domestic
road construction industry through the training of small contractors. Some small
subprojects were taken over by other donors.



- iv -
7.    The subprojects were delayed but were, in general, completed satisfactorily. The
actual economic returns from the civil works were high, ERR estimated at 40%, despite
the very substantial cost increases in some of the subprojects; the cost of Sotik - Amala
upgrading subproject increased fourfold over the SAR estimate. It is much more difficult
to assess the benefits of the technical assistance components. In most instances the
assignments were completed successfully; several small contractors were trained and
useful tools were developed for both equipment management and maintenance planning.
It is questionable, however, whether the benefits of these assignments were sustainable in
the light of the acute financial constraints faced by MOPWH.
D. Conclusions
8.    This sector Project was designed to support a Highway Plan which placed highest
priority on the maintenance of the existing road network. Neither the Plan nor the Project
succeeded in significantly changing the direction of Government's priorities from
development to maintenance. Over the Project, the backlog in resealing was not reduced
significantly, periodic maintenance of gravel roads almost ceased, routine maintenance was
seriously underfunded with a high proportion of available funds supporting a large and
unproductive labor force, and the overall condition of the road network deteriorated
significantly. The overall size of the classified road network increased, however, and the
paved road network rose by about 35 percent to 8,600 km.
9.    Regular supervision missions were made by Bank staff and the problems faced by
the project and sector were regularly reported. The underfunding of road maintenance,
both routine and periodic, was highlighted as a major issue in every mission aide-memoire
until the restructuring of the project. Unfortunately, the Bank achieved no effective shift
in overall Government policy. While the implementing agency was aware of the needs
and priorities of the sector, this awareness was not translated into Government priority
and funding. Government continued to give priority to new construction using both its
own funds and funds from other donors. When the Project was restructured, the Bank
failed to take the opportunity to address the continued inadequacy of maintenance through
a change in direction of its funding. Despite the well documented backlog in periodic
maintenance, a high priority under the Plan, the Project continued to allocate substantial
funding to lower priorities, particularly the upgrading of the Sotik - Amala Road.
E. Lessons Learned
10.   The overriding problem of the project, and of the road sector as a whole, stemmed
from inadequate local funding for road maintenance, both routine and periodic. The issue
is so fundamental, that it must be resolved before further Bank lending is committed to the
sector.
11.   Clearly, the Bank has no control over the allocation and disbursement of local
resources but projects should be structured in such a way that the Borrower is encouraged
to meet agreed objectives for expenditure in the sector and the Bank has effective



- v -
remedies if the objectives are not met. This project was subject to intensive supervision,
the problems were identified and reported but sufficient action was not taken to effect the
changes needed. The deteriorating condition of the road network is no longer simply a
sectoral issue but is becoming a critical constraint to the development of Kenya. Road
maintenance and its funding must, in the future, be an issue within the mainstream macro-
economic dialogue between the Bank and GOK.
12.   Overall, the project's executing agency appeared to have a strong commitment to
the project, but the commitment of GOK to its Highway Plan and the objectives of the
Project was weak and diminished as the economic situation deteriorated. GOK was able
to obtain more attractive financing for road development, which diminished GOK's need
for the Project. Coordination among Donors and with GOK, to ensure that economically
justified policies are generated and implemented, is a major priority if a sustainable road
sector is to be developed. Commitment must be demonstrated by GOK as well as the
sector implementing agency and the Bank must be more ready to apply remedies if policies
deviated significantly from those underpinning the lending operation. Finally, the
economic analysis of components should be redone when large cost increases become
apparent after tendering.



- 1 -
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S
PERSPECTIVE
1.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Name                 Highways Sector II
Loan Number          2409-KE
Credit Number    :   SF 017-KE
RVP Unit              East Africa Region, Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country              Kenya
Sector               Transportation
Subsector       :   Highways
2.    PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.01   At the time of project appraisal, Kenya had a total network of 53,800 km of classified
roads: 6,400 km paved, 18,400 km gravel, and 29,000 km earth. The classified road network
was, and still remains, the country's largest single investment. In addition to the classified
road network, there is also an extensive network of urban streets and rural roads and tracks
under the nominal responsibility of the local authorities. The failure of the local authorities to
maintain adequately the classified network had led to the transfer of maintenance responsibility
to the central government in the mid-1970's. The road network was expanding during the
1970's and early 1980s. Priority was given to expansion and upgrading rather than to the
routine and periodic maintenance of the existing network. Overall road conditions were
deteriorating and high costs were being incurred in terms of both vehicle operations and road
rehabilitation/reconstruction.
2.02   Land transport in Kenya is centered on the road and railway corridor which links
Mombasa, Nairobi, and the Ugandan border. The area directly served by this corridor is the
most densely populated in Kenya, with over half of the country's population, and is also the
location of much of the country's agricultural, commercial, and industrial activity. The
corridor also plays a vital regional role, providing access to the sea for Uganda, Rwanda,
Burundi, and parts of eastern Zaire. The transport network, outside the corridor, has
gradually been improved, but in the sparsely populated, arid and semi-arid areas in the north
and east, which account for about half the land area of Kenya, there are still few all-weather
road links.
2.03   At the outset of the project, overall responsibility for the development, utilization, and
maintenance of the transport infrastructure, including the classified road network, was vested
in the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC). The Roads Department was
directly responsible for the maintenance and development of the classified road network. In
1988, the Roads Department was transferred to the Ministry of Public Works and Housing
(MOPWH). Responsibility for the road transport industry largely remained with MOTC,
although the enforcement of axle-load and vehicle weight regulations became the responsibility
of MOPWH. Both MOTC and MOPWH have thus been executing agencies of the Project.



-2-
2.04   While the Government of Kenya (GOK) had been allocating substantial funds to the
road sector, the primary emphasis was on development rather maintenance of existing roads;
maintenance funding was at a level well below that required to protect the asset base.
Recognizing the potential crisis, the Bank began negotiations with the GOK on a Second
Highway Sector Project (Highways 11), which was to support the Fifth Highway Sector Plan, a
component of the Fifth National Development Plan.
2.05   The Bank Group (both IBRD and IDA) had long been very active in support of the
road sector, having assisted in financing 11 projects since 1960. The First Highway Sector
Project (Highways I), developed to support Kenya's Fourth Development Plan, was on-going
at the time of project preparation for Highways II, and overlapped for three years with
Highways II. Highways II had many of the same objectives as Highways I but the failure to
achieve the maintenance objectives in Highways I, increased the focus of maintenance in the
subsequent project. The Fifth Highway Plan anticipated allocating 40% of total funding to
road rehabilitation and maintenance, compared with 25 % in the previous plan.
2.06   The Project was prepared by the Ministry of Transport and Communications with Bank
assistance. It was presented to the Bank for financing in November 1982, and appraised in
August/September 1983. A post-appraisal mission visited Kenya in December 1983 to assist
the Ministry in reconciling the size and composition of its Fifth Highway Sector Plan
(FY1984-1988) with sector priorities and forward budget ceilings; reducing the overall size of
the Plan and adjusting the balance between investment and maintenance. The Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) was issued on 9 April, 1984. The project received Board approval on 8 May,
1994 and became effective on 19 September, 1984.
3.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01   Project Objectives: The Project was intended to finance a slice of the Borrower's
Fifth Highway Sector Development Plan (FY1984 to 1988). The objectives of the Project and
the Plan were congruent. The overall objectives of the Highway Sector Development Plan
were twofold:
•   reduce transport costs in Kenya
*   strengthen the capacity of MOTC in the areas of Highway administration,
planning and implementation
To achieve the reduction in transport costs in a sustainable manner, the Plan established the
following expenditure priorities for the road network:
(a)    Routine maintenance
(b)    Completion of on-going projects
(c)    Periodic maintenance



(d)    Strengthening/rehabilitation/reconstruction
(e)    Upgrading
Bank support for the Plan, through Highways II, was based on agreement with this
prioritization of activities for the classified road network. It was thought that Bank
participation would help in achieving the successful implementation of the Plan by:
"ensuring that during implementation, the focus will remain on the Plan as a whole, in
particular on the level of funds allocated to maintenance and the balance between the
various components."
3.02   Project Description: The Project, with total funding of US$90 million (based on the
1984 SDR:US$ exchange rate), was expected to cover about 12 percent of the total costs of the
Highway Plan (Ksh 8.68 billion). Existing and new commitments from other donors were
expected to cover an additional 17 percent of the Plan, and the Government was expected to
contribute the remaining 71 percent. The project included the following components:
e   improving maintenance of the existing road network
a   strengthening and upgrading of priority roads
i   improving highway planning and administration
*   enforcing appropriate vehicle axle load regulations
*   developing the domestic road construction industry
•   instituting appropriate user charges for various vehicle categories
*   improving the modal distribution of traffic along Kenya's main transport
corridor
Sub-projects, for civil works, were to be agreed upon annually between the Borrower and the
Bank (4.02).
4.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01   Project Preparation: Much of the effort by the Bank and the Borrower's staff was
devoted to the preparation of the overall Highway Plan and ensuring that it met the needs of
the highway sector within the constraints of overall funding. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) was very thorough in outlining the approach and priorities of the Plan and the support
to be provided under the project. In both the preparatory work and within the SAR, the Bank
stressed the need to avoid the under-funding of maintenance experienced under Highways 1,
and to ensure that road maintenance took precedence over non-maintenance activities and was
adequate for the needs of the network.



-4-
4.02   Project Design: Highways II was designed to continue the sector funding approach
initiated under Highways I. Although difficulties and delays were experienced under
Highways I, it was accepted that the Fifth Highway Plan was appropriate and that the
executing agency had the capacity to implement the sector approach. A number of possible
risks to the successful implementation of the project were identified and the Project was
designed with these in view:
Risk: Deteriorating economic situation, cutbacks in highway sector funding
Design: Annual review of expenditure priorities in the sector
Risk: Shortage of foreign exchange, restricting import of critical materials
Design: Project financing of some imported materials
Risk: Maintenance planning, supervision, implementation might not improve
Design: Specific project support for maintenance planning and supervision
The subprojects to be financed during the first year, FY85, were agreed at negotiations.
Subsequent components, over the Plan period, were to be reviewed and agreed annually with
the Bank by April 1, prior to the fiscal year. This approach was adopted after the funding
difficulties experienced in Highways I, when GOK reacted to financial difficulties by reducing
highway maintenance funding. The annual review was intended to ensure that maintenance
funding was protected, if necessary through transfers from the development budget.
4.03   The Bank required economic justification for each subproject. The SAR indicates that
the economic evaluation of individual projects in the program were prepared jointly by the
Bank and GOK, with rates ranging from 12 percent to 100 percent. However, no details of the
economic analyses are shown in the SAR or in the project files. Benchmark economic analysis
was undertaken for resealing and regravelling activities, based on the level of traffic.
Individual economic analyses were undertaken for the strengthening and upgrading subprojects.
It does not appear, however, that subprojects were re-evaluated during the implementation of
the project when the results of detailed design indicated very substantial costs increases.
4.04   The Project was designed to finance subprojects with a minimum Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of 12%. Once the ERR was established, the program was further evaluated and
ranked. It was anticipated that should GOK develop fiscal difficulties, the priorities outlined in
Para. 3.01 would play a key role in deciding which sub-projects' implementation would be
scaled back or postponed.
4.05   Project Restructuring: After almost no progress had been achieved in
implementation, the project was substantially restructured in 1987. The Loan component of
the Project was reduced to US$5 million, and the disbursement level was increased from 50
percent to 80 percent. The scope of works to be assisted by the project was, as a consequence,
cut dramatically:



- 5 -
Highways II: Physical Targets
Component         Original Project    Restructured Project
Resealing                2800 km              1100 km
Regravelling             1500 kmn              500 km
Strengthening             220 km                29 km
Upgrading                 245 km                56 km
Most of the physical targets of the restructured project were implemented.
4.06   Project Organization: The Borrower was the Republic of Kenya and, initially, MOTC
was the implementing agency on behalf of the Borrower and responsible for liaison with, and
reporting to the Bank. When the Roads Department was transferred, MOPWH became the
implementing agency.
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.01   Loan/Credit Effectiveness and Implementation: The Board approved the project on
May 8, 1984, and the Project became effective four months later on September 19, 1984. The
original Closing date of the Project was December 31, 1990, but as a consequence of
implementation delays the Bank approved extension of the closing date until December 31,
1992. It was subsequently agreed that IDA would accept claims for the supply of bitumen and
for two major civil works contracts until April 30, 1993. Finally, the closing date was
extended, by a telex dated April 28, 1993, to June 30, 1993.
5.02  Implementation of the Project immediately fell behind schedule. Despite 9 supervision
missions, there was almost no physical implementation during the 36 months following Project
Effectiveness and less than US$1 million (1 %) of the project funds were disbursed, compared
with the SAR forecast of US$59 million. The implementation delays were first attributed to a
lack of proper organization in MOTC to follow-up, coordinate, review and finalize proposals
and procurement documents. According to an early supervision mission there was a lack of
clearly defined responsibilities. The situation was exacerbated by the introduction of the
District Focus policy which was designed to decentralize Government activities. This new
policy initiative pre-occupied the higher level staff in MOTC as well as leading to uncertainty
regarding responsibility for planning and implementing the regravelling sub-project. Even
when procurement documents were prepared, MOTC had great difficulty in meeting Bank
standards. Eventually, MOTC at the Bank's behest designated a Project Coordinator and the
situation improved. To an extent the design of the Project recognized staffing constraints
within MOTC and required the appointment of additional economists in the Planning Division.
Unfortunately they had left by October 1985, to join the private sector, and were not replaced.
5.03   More fundamental was the lack of counterpart funding for the Bank assisted sub-
projects. Even before the Project was made effective, the Bank was notified that MOTC's
budget was being reduced and funding for maintenance would be less than anticipated.
Throughout the Project, budgetary constraints, resulting from the slower than anticipated
growth in the economy, were a major problem. The Project required 40 - 50 percent
counterpart for the civil works component and the Government attempted to find alternative



- 6 -
sources of funding which were less expensive and required little counterpart funding. The
March 1987 supervision report summarized the situation:
"One has the impression that Government is delaying implementation of the Second
Highway Sector Project as long as possible in the hope of finding 100 percent grant
financing for its highway program."
5.04  In August 1987, the GOK was informed that the Project was facing suspension as the
Bank could no longer justify keeping US$90 million reserved for possible use. The GOK's
proposed: (i) reducing the Project's scope of works; (ii) increasing the Bank's disbursement
percentages to a minimum 80%; and, (iii) cancellation of US$45 million of the IBRD Loan.
This compromise to total cancellation of the project was recommended to Bank management in
view of the changed economic and financial situation since the project was approved, and the
desirability of "softening" Bank lending. The Bank approved the restructuring and
amendments to the legal documents were agreed by letter dated September 30, 1987.
5.05   Despite the increased disbursement percentage, the Project continued to suffer from
counterpart funding problems with extensive delays in contractual payments - one contractor
had to suspend operations until outstanding payments were made. The final delay to the
project was caused by the slow progress of the contractor undertaking the strengthening of the
Machakos Turn-Off to Ulu section of the Nairobi - Mombasa Road. The contract was finally
completed at the end of January, 1993, almost two years behind schedule.
5.06   Project Costs. Total project cost (at January 1984 exchange rates) was US$152.4
million, of which US$98.7 million, or about 65%, represented foreign exchange costs. The
Bank/Special Fund contribution of US$90.0 million equivalent (US$50 million IBRD Loan and
SDR 37.8 million, Special Fund Credit) was expected to finance 59 % of the total cost, or 91 %
of the foreign costs. The GOK contribution to the Project was estimated at US$62.5 million,
or about 41 % of project costs.
5.07   When the project closed only US$1.7 million of the Loan had been utilized: the loan
was reduced in 1987 to US$5 million, and the remaining US$3.3 million was canceled. The
Project's activities were almost entirely financed by the proceeds of the Special Credit and
95 % of the available SDR funds were used. Over the life of the Project the SDR appreciated
against the US$ and overall expenditure totaled US$50.27 million.
5.08   The actual costs of the strengthening and upgrading sub-projects financed under
Highways II were substantially higher than those estimated in the SAR. On the basis of
preliminary engineering both the Machakos TO - Ulu strengthening project and the Sotik -
Amala upgrading project were expected to cost Ksh 60 million (US$4.4 million). When
tendered, the cost of the Machakos TO - Ulu project had risen to Ksh 165 million (US$9.9
million) and the Sotik-Amala project to Ksh 296 million (US$17.9 million). The Sotik -
Amala project cost was subsequently increased by a further Ksh 30 million to compensate for a
major increase in earthworks which had not been included in the tender documents. Neither
project was subjected to re-appraisal when detailed design revealed the extent of the likely cost
increases. The costs of other sub-projects were much closer to those estimated in the SAR.
5.09   Disbursements: Disbursements lagged significantly behind the SAR schedule and the
schedule prepared at the time of project restructuring in 1987. The final disbursement was



made December 23, 1993. The delay was caused by the arbitration and settlement of claims
with the contractor of the Sotik - Amala sub-project.
5.10   Loan and Credit Allocations. The original, revised, and actual allocations by project
component are shown in Table 3.
5.11   Physical Results: Performance and results of the individual parts and sub-projects are
described in the following sections:
Categorv (1) Civil Works
The civil works component accounted for 68 percent of expenditures under the project, very
close to the SAR estimate (71 percent).
(a)    Part A.(i): Resealing of Paved Roads
5.12   Under the original project design, the Bank was expected to assist with the resealing of
2,800 km of the paved road network. The acute constraints on counterpart funding resulted in
the project only financing 537 km, Phase I of the planned project. Draft bidding documents
for the resealing works were first submitted to the Bank for approval in June, 1985, but the
tender documents were not finally issued until August, 1987. The delay was caused partly by
the need for revisions to the documents and partly by the lack of GOK counterpart funding.
Four contracts were awarded in late 1987, totally Ksh 217 million (US$13.5 million). The
average unit cost/kin of the contracts, US$25,100, was approximately 90 percent higher than
the SAR estimate. The work was generally completed satisfactorily although the quantities of
shoulder material were underestimated on one contract, and the contractors failed to complete
the works satisfactorily on the Sagana - Kutus and Eldoret - Kitale roads. The works were
completed by MOPWH's force account units, and the retention money was not released to the
contractors.
5.13   Part of the shortfall in resealing works under the project, was made up by other
donors. The Bank assisted MOPWH with two donor meetings in 1987, specifically designed
to generate funding for periodic maintenance. In the three years, following the donor meetings
a total of 2,800 km of road were resealed, approximately 40 percent of the paved network.
Despite this achievement a backlog in resealing continued and, in June 1990, MOPWH
requested donors to assist in eliminating a further 2000 km backlog. It is almost inevitable that
the delays in resealing eventually resulted in the need for more road rehabilitation. The Bank
was requested to finance a second phase of resealing (515 km) in June 1990 but, after
discussions with MOPWH, it was agreed that it would be more cost-effective to finance the
purchase of 24,000 tonnes of bitumen.
(b)    Part A.(ii): Regravelling of Gravel Roads
5.14   At the outset of the project it appeared as if the regravelling component would be
delayed by the introduction of the District Focus Policy, under which preparation and
implementation of regravelling was decentralized to the districts. In May 1985, it was decided,
however, that the component would be carried out under the control of MOTC's central
administration. Bidding documents for the first package of regravelling contracts were



- 8 -
submitted to the Bank in September 1985 but tendering was delayed by the counterpart funding
issue. The Project restructuring reduced the regravelling subproject from 1,500 km to 500 km.
5.15   There was also a shift in the focus of the regravelling component with contracts let to
the small/medium sized domestic contractors being trained under the project. By the end of the
Project, 558 km were regravelled. The slow rate of disbursement from local funds seriously
affected the financial position of the contractors and jeopardized sustainability. The average
unit cost/km of the regravelling was broadly equivalent to the SAR estimate.
(c)    Part B: Upgrading and Strengthening
5.16   Strengthening (B.1): Under the restructuring, it was agreed that the Machakos Turn-
off - Ulu section of the Nairobi-Mombasa road would be the only strengthening subproject and
the overall component was thus reduced from 220 km to 29 km. The contract was let in May,
1989 for Ksh 165.5 million and completed, 22 months behind schedule, in January, 1993. The
original design provided for 21 km of reconstruction and 8 km of overlay, During the
contract, it was agreed that the entire 29 km should be reconstructed. The precise causes of
the major time over-run were not satisfactorily resolved although the contractor complained,
throughout the contract, of the domestic shortage of bitumen and the Government's refusal to
provide an import license for the import of bitumen. The contractor presented large claims at
the completion of the contract. The Bank was unable to agree to these claims and GOK paid
from its own resources.
5.17   While the overall standard of construction there is surface rutting on the up-gradients
in the Nairobi direction, cracks have appeared in the shoulders, and there is little evidence of
remedial action or maintenance. Surface rutting on roads, with thick bitumen macadam
pavements, has occurred elsewhere in Kenya and the European Union has agreed to finance a
study to determine the causes and identify solutions.
5.18   Upgrading (B.2): The Sotik - Amala Road (56 km) was the only upgrading
subproject; a substantial reduction from the 245 km originally expected. The link from Amala
to Narok has still not been upgraded although KfW has now agreed to finance the project.
Delays in completing the design of the project, combined with the counterpart funding
problem, significantly delayed the sub-project and, at one time, the Sagana - Marua road was
proposed as a substitute. The contract was awarded in February, 1989 for Ksh 298.6 million;
the contract sum was subsequently reduced by Ksh 3.0 million to offset the provision of a 10
percent advance payment which had not been included in the tender documents.
5.19   After the contract work commenced, it was discovered that the 'cut to spoil' bill of
quantity was underestimated by a factor of 10 i.e. 1.2 million cu. meter, and not 0.1 million
cu. meter. The Bank agreed to increase the contract sum by Ksh 30 million for the additional
earthwork. The road was fully opened to traffic by July, 1991, although the slurry seal was
not completed until early 1992. An inspection of the road in January 1993 revealed signs of
sub-grade heave in three locations, poor quality of road markings and, perhaps most worrying,
no sign of any routine maintenance being undertaken. The road safety problems caused by
development and encroachment on the road reserve at the Sotik junction was mentioned in
several supervision mission reports but MOPWH was either unable or unwilling to clear the
market stalls. After completion of the work, the contractor submitted a number of claims
which were eventually settled after outside mediation for the equivalent of US$0.974 million.



Category (2): Eguipment (Support to the MOTC/MOPWH)
A total of SDR 8.000 million and US$0.228 million was used to provide equipment, tools and
materials to support road sector activities:
5.20   Strengthening of highway construction and maintenance operations (C.1): The
procurement of Ksh 11 million of spare parts for the mechanical department were approved in
early 1987. The procurement of equipment was initial'y delayed until the recommendations of
the Highway Maintenance Management System (HMMS). Eventually, however, the delays in
finalizing the HMMS resulted in Ministry submitting a proposal foe 100 pieces of maintenance
equipment in FY89 prior to the completion of HMMS. The procurement of the maintenance
equipment had to be re-tendered in 1990 as a result of confusion regarding eligibility under the
Special Credit. In 1991, contracts, for US$4.1 million, were awarded and the equipment
delivered. A consignment of Tata trucks were rejected on delivery, but were subsequently
accepted after repair and modification to comply with the technical specifications.
5.21   No action was taken, under the project, on the provision of additional district
workshops and stores.
5.22   In 1990, it was agreed that IDA would finance, from the Special Credit, the import of
24,000 tonnes of bitumen, sufficient to reseal approximately 2,000 km. The bidding
documents had excluded the costs of inland transport but the Bank later agreed, on an
exceptional basis, to fund 80 percent of the costs of inland transport. The contract was
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder but the Ministry of Finance then decided to cancel the
tender and retender on the grounds that the inland transport costs were too high. The Bank
informed GOK that such action would constitute misprocurement. The decision was reversed
and the contract, for approximately US$7 million, was satisfactorily completed.
5.23   Support for the Materials Branch (C.2): This component was very delayed but was
completed satisfactorily with equipment valued at Ksh 5.9 million arriving by September 1991.
A further tender for equipment, valued at Ksh 2.6 million, was then agreed to compensate for
the effects of the withdrawal of NORAD. Overall, equipment costing US$0.386 million was
procured to assist the Materials Branch.
5.24   Road Safety and Traffic Enforcement Equipment (C.4): There were no
procurements under the Project for this component. The Ministry did, however, procure a
number of mobile weighbridges.
Category (3): Consultants Services
A total of SDR 2.392 million and US$1.342 million were expended on the provision of
consultant services, including the construction supervision of the Sotik - Amala and Machakos
TO - Ulu major road construction projects.
5.25   Support for Highway Planning and Maintenance (C.3): Two contracts were
successfully completed to develop a Highway Maintenance Management System (HMMS) and
an Equipment Cost Accounting System (ECAS) which was extended to a full Equipment
Management System (EMS). The TOR were agreed for the HMMS and ECAS in June 1984



- 10 -
but the contract was not signed until mid-1986. The initial contract expired in March, 1989
but was extended progressively until June 30, 1992, to allow the development of the full EMS.
The HMMS and EMS potentially provide MOPWH with powerful tools to improve the
programming and cost-effectiveness of maintenance. Unfortunately, under the present
circumstances, the practical benefit of the systems fall well below their potential.
5.26   Support for the Domestic Road Construction Industry (Part D): the TOR for the
contract to assist in the development of small/medium sized domestic contractors were agreed
in June, 1984. The contract was signed in November 1986, and the work completed in
November, 1989. The contractors trained by the project were used to undertake the
regravelling component of the project. The project files indicate that the classroom training
component was not considered successful and the real benefits came from the practical on-the-
job training. It was expected that out of the 13 contractors trained, four or five would become
viable. The lack of work continuity, slow payment of invoices and the financing of equipment
purchases were major problems. The Government was unable to continue the training program
once the initial contract expired.
6.    PROJECT RESULTS
6.01   Project Objectives: The primary intention of the project, as stated in the SAR, was to
finance a time slice of the Government's Fifth Highway Plan. The project clearly failed in this
respect as almost no disbursements (US$2.5 million) had been made by 1988, the end of the
Plan period. Several sub-projects were successfully implemented, but, in terms of its overall
objectives, the proj ct was not successful. The project did not achieve the shift in emphasis in
sector activity from the expansion and upgrading of the network to maintenance and
preservation of the existing network. During the period of the project, road maintenance
continued to be inadequately funded and the overall condition of the network deteriorated.
Over the same period, however, the paved road network increased by almost 35 percent, from
6,400 km to 8,600 km, even though upgrading was accorded the lowest priority in the
Highway Plan. The average condition of Kenya's classified road network certainly did not
improve over the period covered by Highway II.
6.02   A major contributing factor to the delays in the implementation of the Project and its
inadequate performance was the failure of the Government to provide the necessary and agreed
local funding. Frequent reference is made to this problem throughout the 9-year period of
project implementation. The general shortage of counterpart funding reflected the more
pervasive problem of inadequate maintenance funding for the sector. Throughout the project
files, the continuing inadequacy of road maintenance, both routine and periodic, is discussed.
An Emergency Plan was developed in 1986, and Donors were mobilized to clear the back-log
of resealing, but this provided only a temporary solution; MOPWH requested the Donors to
clear a similarly sized backlog in 1990. Over the life of the Project, the actions of the Bank
and Government broadly managed to prevent the backlog of resealing from increasing
substantially. The gravel road network suffered considerably, however, with very little
regravelling being undertaken throughout the period. As a consequence of this lack of periodic
maintenance much of the gravel network has probably reverted to an earth standard.



- 11 -
6.03   While periodic and routine maintenance was inadequate, development projects
continued unabated. In February, 1989 a supervision mission commented that Kenya had a
very ambitious development program with a total of 34 projects either completed or under
construction. Fifteen of the projects were being financed fully by GOK and the remainder
were partly or fully donor funded. The next mission (October, 1989) reported:
"The Roads Department seems to be overloaded with new development projects,
largely new construction and rehabilitation work. At present, 26 projects are being
prepared in-house".
The priorities, reflected in actual expenditures, indicate the extent to which the Highway Plan
was followed:
Highway Expenditure 1988: Ksh million
(1984 prices)
Expenditure Category          Plan           Actual         Actual/Planned
1988           1988/89
Recurrent                         686              318              0.46
Development                      1044             1031              0.99
Total                            1730             1349              0.78
While the Development expenditures in FY89 were almost exactly equal, in real terms, to the
Plan, expenditure on maintenance fell to less than 50 percent of the Plan requirement. During
the subsequent period of the Project, the real level of average recurrent expenditure fell by a
further 5 percent but there was a much more significant reduction in the real level of
development expenditure, with an average reduction of 24 percent. Clearly the project did not
achieve its objective of changing priorities within the sector and ensuring adequate
maintenance.
6.04   The overloading of vehicles remains a serious problem in Kenya and the enforcement
of axle load regulations was a key policy component of the Project. In 1986, the Government
procured a number of mobile weighbridges to enforce the regulations. Unfortunately
enforcement was suspended after only one month, in September, 1986. Another attempt to
introduce the system was made in November, 1988, but again operations were quickly
suspended. The system was finally introduced in August, 1989, and a monitoring committee
was established under the Office of the President with representatives of the police, the
Attorney General's Office, MOTC and MOPWH. The initial reports suggested a dramatic
reduction in overloading but no comprehensive surveys have been undertaken to check whether
there has been a sustained decline in the extent of overloading; the results of ad hoc axle load
surveys, undertaken for road design, are not encouraging. Regulations were gazetted, toward
the end of the Project, to control tanker axle loads through limitations on the permissible size
of tanks. After discussions with the road transport industry and the Governments of the
landlocked countries, the tanker regulations were never implemented.
6.05   Physical Results: The physical targets of the Project, as initially envisaged in the
SAR, were clearly not achieved. The revised targets, under the restructured project, were
broadly met and the standard of the civil works was satisfactory. The Project also assisted



- 12 -
MOPWH in the procurement of a substantial quantity of bitumen which would facilitate
additional resealing works. Spare parts and new road maintenance equipment were procured
successfully for the Mechanical Branch and equipment procured for the Materials Branch. The
consultancies for assistance to the Domestic Road Construction Sector and for the improvement
of planning, programming and operations of the road maintenance and the Mechanical
Department were implemented. Other elements of the initial project, such as staff training and
road safety, were implemented by other donors.
6.06   Project Benefits: In terms of fundamental change to road sector priorities and overall
conditions on the road network, the benefits of the project were extremely limited. Over the
period of the project, the average condition of the road network has probably fallen and the
condition of the network is becoming an important constraint to economic development. It
could be argued, however, that without the Project the network would have deteriorated even
further. Many of the sub-projects generated high economic rates of return.
6.07   The SAR estimated an overall project economic rate of return (ERR) of 61 %, based on
the following ERRs for sub-projects:
Strengthening/upgrading/reconstruction      29%
Resealing                                 > 100%
Regravelling                                61%
The estimated ERRs for resealing and regravelling appear well above those now normally
expected from such activities, although the economic benefits are still substantial. The SAR
contains little specific information on the underlying assumptions used in the detailed economic
analysis and, in order to estimate an actual ERR for the completed physical accomplishments of
the project, a broad approach has been adopted. The Project ERR of the SAR was adjusted by:
(a)    The change in the distribution of project funds between resealing, regravelling,
and strengthening/upgrading; and
(b)    The change in the unit ERRs for each sub-project, based on the relative change
in construction and vehicle operating costs.
During the period of the project, construction costs escalated dramatically. Compared with the
SAR estimates, the Ksh costs of the Sotik - Amala road increased fivefold, resealing costs
increased almost fourfold, and those of the Machakos TO - Ulu road increased threefold.
Regravelling costs doubled, broadly equivalent to the increase in vehicle operating costs. On
the basis of these adjustments, the actual economic rate of return of completed physical works,
financed by the Project, is estimated at 40%. This is a significant reduction compared with the
SAR estimate, but is still high and justifies the project expenditures.
6.08   The benefits of the other components of the project are more difficult to evaluate. The
Project trained a numboer of small domestic road contractors and provided contracts through the
regravelling component. A number of participants in the training program were thought to be
potentially viable but, unless the underlying financial conditions in the sector are improved, the
long-term financial viability of small road contractors is open to considerable doubt.



- 13 -
6.09   The HMMS and EMS systems provide valuable tools for MOPWH but the immediate
benefits of both system have been limited. The inventory/condition data underlying the
HMMS system have not been updated since the mid-1980's, and the approach to the
maintenance of unpaved roads has changed since HMMS was developed. It is also
questionable whether HMMS is useful when maintenance funding is such a small proportion of
maintenance needs. HMMS provides a rational means to allocate funds between districts and
to prioritize maintenance activities but the actual decisions on maintenance work are largely
made at the District level and may deviate significantly from those recommended by HMMS.
It is not clear whether the EMS is actively used by the Mechanical Department. In a situation
where the availability of equipment is so low and the shortage of spare parts so great, the
applicability of any complex equipment management system is questionable.
7.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.01   The main objective of the Second Highway Sector Project, the development of a
sustainable road network, remains to be achieved. During the period of project implementation
there was little evidence of any progress toward achieving sustainability through adequate
funding for routine and periodic maintenance. A system of toll stations was established and
road tolls generated substantial funds for road maintenance, Ksh 328 million in FY92. The toll
funds provided few additional resources, however, as they substituted for the decline in the
real level of funding through the regular budget. Throughout the period, Government
maintained the priority given to the expansion and nominal improvement of the network, using
both its own and donor funding. MOPWH understood the importance of adequate road
maintenance, unfortunately Government's priorities and resources were directed elsewhere.
7.02   The major issue of road maintenance remains to be resolved. There have been some
encouraging developments; Kenya is actively participating in the Road Maintenance Initiative,
a Road Maintenance Levy Fund has been introduced, and a new maintenance strategy has been
adopted for unpaved roads which responds to Kenya's resource endowment and financial
constraints. There may also be increasing reluctance among donors to finance road investment
when there is inadequate maintenance of the existing network and increased willingness to
support maintenance activities. The Government's macroeconomic policy framework,
presented to the Consultative Group Meeting in December 1995, includes the undertaking to
raise maintenance funding progressively to full funding by the year 2000. Further Bank
support for the road sector must be conditional on the implementation of this funding policy.
8.    BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01   The Bank's overall performance on Highways II project was mixed. The project was
well designed to support a coherent strategy for the sector. The project was, however,
designed on the basis of an economic scenario for Kenya which failed to materialize.
Economic growth was very much lower than was expected and the Bank support was expensive
in terms of both the IBRD loan and the counterpart funding required. Successive supervision
missions in the early years of the Project reported on the Government's failure to meet the
requirements of the plan and attempted to persuade Government to alter its expenditure



- 14 -
priorities but, in view of the Government's reluctance to use the project's funds and the
availability of other donor funding, the Bank's leverage was limited.
8.02   Restructuring of the Project was probably inevitable in the circumstances and the
cancellation of most of the IBRD loan was appropriate to Kenya's economic situation. The
logic of the restructuring is, however, difficult to comprehend. The Fifth Highway Plan had
developed rational expenditure priorities (Para. 3.01); there was a crisis developing with
respect to periodic maintenance, both regravelling and resealing; but under the restructured
project there was no re-allocation of the funds among the components of the project, almost 50
percent of the funds were still allocated to the lowest priorities established under the Highway
Plan i.e. upgrading and reconstruction. The decision to maintain the initial funding priorities
within the Project becomes even more inexplicable when the detailed design of the Sotik -
Amala indicated the magnitude of the increase in the cost estimate. Much higher returns, and a
greater contribution to the road network would have been achieved by eliminating the
upgrading component and re-allocating the funds to reduce the backlog of periodic
maintenance. The Bank was helpful in mobilizing other donors nations to come to the
assistance of the Government for the resealing of roads, but regravelling during the project was
negligible compared to the need.
8.03   The Bank sent 18 missions to Kenya during project implementation which included
three special visits; the first mission was in October, 1984 and the last mission was eight years
later, December/January 1992-3. While regular supervision missions were made and close
contact maintained with the Government and the implementing agency, the regular annual
meetings to agree overall priorities within the sector and exchange views on major transport
investments failed to materialize. The missions occurred more frequently before and
immediately following the Project's restructuring in August 1987; they were roughly held
every four to six months. After restructuring, missions were typically held every six to eight
months. Supervision missions always contained a highway engineer; prior to the project
restructuring, the engineer was accompanied by economists and once a financial analyst.
Following the restructuring, supervision missions become more technically focused on
implementing the individual sub-projects and increasing the effective use of resources available
to MOPWH and less concerned with the broader policy issues of overall funding and
expenditure priorities. The details of Bank supervision missions during the Project are
provided in Table 6.
9.     BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
9.01   The provision of counterpart funding was a constant problem throughout the Project
and a major factor in the implementation delays. It is also possible that the uncertainty with
respect to the payment of local invoices was a significant contributory factor to the escalation
of construction costs and had a serious adverse impact on the sustainability of the domestic
road contractor component.
9.02   Performance by the implementing agency was, at the start of the project, inadequate
with long delays in the preparation of acceptable procurement documents. It has to be
recognized, however, the senior officials of the Ministry were also having to implement far-
reaching changes in the organization of maintenance activities as a consequence of the District



- 15 -
Focus Policy. The appointment of a project coordinator appeared to improve implementation
within the Ministry. There was, however, a marked failure to fulf'ill the reporting
requirements of the Project. Regular reporting, in the form agreed at negotiations, was not
achieved until 1990, six years after the start of the project, despite requests in the Aide-
Memoires of almost every supervision mission. Audit reports for the project were also subject
to very long delays and no audit report was submitted within the agreed time-frame; the audit
report for FY88 was, for example, not forwarded to the Bank until early 1991 and the final
audit is still outstanding. Most of the conditions detailed in the legal documents were met but,
in several instances, the commitment to the conditions were not sustained over the project.
10.   PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
10.01 The Bank's relationship with the implementing agency, the Ministry of Transport and
Communications and subsequently the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, remained good
throughout the project. The relationship with the Ministry of Finance was also cordial, but the
extent of contact appears rather limited after the project restructuring.
i1.   LESSONS
11.01 The overriding problem of the project, and of the road sector as a whole, stemmed
from inadequate local funding for road maintenance, both routine and periodic. The issue is so
fundamental, that it must be resolved before further Bank lending is committed to the sector.
11.02 Clearly, the Bank has no control over the allocation and disbursement of local
resources but projects should be framed, if possible, in such a way that GOK is encouraged to
meet agreed objectives for expenditure in the sector and the Bank has effective remedies if the
objectives are not met. This project was subject to intensive supervision of the project, the
problems were identified and reported but there was not sufficient leverage to effect the
changes needed. The deteriorating condition of the road network is no longer simply a sectoral
issue but is becoming a critical constraint to the development of Kenya. Road maintenance and
its funding must, in the future, be an issue within the mainstream macro-economic dialogue
between the Bank and GOK.
11.03 Overall, the project's executing agency appeared to have a strong commitment to the
project, but the commitment of GOK to its Highway Plan and the objectives of the Project was
weak and diminished as the economic situation deteriorated. GOK was able to obtain more
attractive financing for road development, which diminished GOK's need for the Project.
Coordination among Donors and with GOK, to ensure that economically justified policies are
generated and implemented, is a major priority if a sustainable road sector is to be developed.
Commitment must be demonstrated by GOK as well as the sector implementing agency and the
Bank must be more ready to apply remedies if policies deviated significantly from those
underpinning the lending operation.






- 16 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
1.    The Project Completion Report Part I and III as submitted by the Bank is fairly
factual and indeed represents the situation as it was during the entire implementation of
the HSL II.
2.    The main problem as pointed out in the report was lack of sufficient counterpart
funds which indeed culminated to the restructuring of the original agreement. This
problem was compounded by the general global economic trends and in particular in
Kenya which depends basically on agricultural products for export. The agricultural
sector experienced a lot of problem due to falling prices. This compounded with the
drought which affected the country in the mid-eighties worsened the economic situation in
the country.
3.    These factors contributed substantially to the Government experiencing difficulties
in raising counterpart funds for the projects. Furthermore, this created an environment for
the Government seeking for alternative sources of grant funds.
Procurement Problem
4.    It is true there were delays in preparation of procurement documents in respect of
the project. This was as rightly mentioned the pre-occupation of the senior staff of the
Ministry with the new rural development strategy. Indeed the situation improved with the
appointment of a Co-ordinator for the project. For the delays experienced in the
procurement of bitumen for the strengthening of the Machakos Turn Off-Ulu, this is noted
was beyond our control as none was available. Similarly, this inevitably is linked to the
economic situation prevailing in the country.
Lessons
5.    The HSL II project demonstrated to us that there is need for proper planning of
our resources and accurate source of resources. There is also necessity in timely decision
and taking corrective measures. This is particularly in relating to various
recommendations made by the World Bank Missions to Kenya
6.    There is need for realistic feasibility and technical studies to avoid extreme changes
in project costs and hence diminish project benefits.



- 17 -
Future
7.    The Government has since strengthened the roads department with senior
Engineers and has accepted the need for a project Co-ordinator at senior level. The
Government has also initiated studies on formulation of an appropriate institution to
manage the entire road network on commercial basis. This is in recognition of the lack of
a proper road maintenance policy.
8.    The Kenyan economy has since 1993 been liberalised and hence the foreign
exchange control has been removed and importation of items necessary for the input of
projects has now improved. This will eliminate problems of procurement of imported
goods.
9.    The implementation of axle loads controls were faced with management problems
but have since become solved and have restarted operations. Volumetric controls will
soon be enforced. These measures will go along way in ensuring that our roads are not
damaged by heavily overloaded trucks.
10.   The introduction of the Road Maintenance Levy fund dedicated to road
maintenance and the commercialisation of the road concept will go a long way in ensuring
that our road network is maintained to an acceptable standard.
Conclusion
11.   Although the Bank has expressed the feelings that the HSL II did not achieve set
objectives of moving the inclination of the Kenyan Government towards upgrading of
roads to maintenance a critical look at achievement shows that the trend did not deviate
excessively from the set objective. From the original target of 2,800 km to be regravelled,
558 km were regravelled which is 37.2% achievement. This is not a mean achievement
considering the hard economic times of the eighties and the limited capacity of our local
contractors.
12.   It is therefore the feeling of the Government that despite the economic hardships
experienced, the road sector benefited greatly and indeed lessons learned in the
implementation of the Highway Sector II project will go a long way in improving
management capabilities of our officers and the country at large. We look forward to the
Third Sector Project and assure you of our commitment to the success of this Project.



- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL AND OTHER PROJECT
INFORMATION
RELATED BANK GROUP LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
LoanICredit    Amount                     Purpose                      Board      Status
Title        US$ m                                                Approval
Loan 265-KE         5.6     Construction of 910 km of agric. feeder roads  1960     Closed
Credit 70-KE        4.5     Engineering improvement, and construction    1964       Closed
of approximately 315 km of trunk roads
Credit 77-KE        3       Improvement of approximately 1,400 tea        1965      Closed
roads
Loan 428-EA        38       Railway and Harbor Development                1965      Closed
Credit 104-KE       5.3     Engineering and construction of about 820     1967      Closed
km of sugar roads
Credit 120-KE      10.7     Construction of approximately 460 km of       1968      Closed
_________  trunk roads
Loan 639-KE        23.5     Construction, reconstruction and              1969      Closed
strengthening of trunk, main, and feeder
roads. Improvement to gravel standard of
settlement roads; consultancy services; study
____=________              of MOPW
Loan 638-EA        50       Mombassa Port Works                           1969      Closed
Loan 674-EA        42.4     Railxway rehab and implementation             1970      Closed
Credit 224-KE      12.6    Implementation of the reorganization of        1970      Closed
MOW; purchase of road maintenance and
workshop equipment; construction and
improvement of regional workshops, offices,
and road maintenance camps; training of
maintenance personnel; and construction of
training center facilities
Credit 276-KE      22       Construction, restoration and improvement    1972       Closed
of trunk, feeder, tea collection, and
settlement roads
Loan 865-EA        26.5     Mombasa Port works                            1972      Closed
Loan 826-KE                 Airport Master Plan, Nairobi                 1972       Closed
Loan 932-KE        29       Improvement of airport road; construction     1973      Closed
and improvement of agricultural roads,
technical assistance
Loan 1305-KE/       8       Assistance in the implementation of Rural    1976       Closed
Credit 651-KE               Access Road Program
Loan 1684          90       Strengthening and construction of pave        1979      Closed
roads; upgrading of existing roads; extension
of the RARP maintenance program; traffic
law enforcement and road safety program;
and miscellaneous studies. Support and
implementation of road sector



- 19 -
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Project Event             Planned Date              Actual Date
Identification                                       April 1981
Preparation                                          April 1983
Appraisal Mission                                    August 1983
Post Appraisal                                       December 1983
Ln./Cr. Negotiation                                 March 1984
Board Approval                                       May 1984
Ln./Cr. Signing                                      June 28, 1994
Ln./Cr. Effectiveness                                September 26, 1984
Project Completion        June 30, 1990              December 30, 1992
Loan Closing              December 30, 1990          June 30, 1993
Credit Closing            December 30, 1990         June 30, 1993



- 20 -
PROJECT FINANCING
LOAN 2409                             US$           US$           US$
Category                            Appraisal      Revised      Actual
(1) Civil Works:
(a) Under Part A. 1. of the Project  7,500,000      100,000           0
(b) Under Part A.2 of the Project   17,800,000      100,000           0
(c) Under Part B of the Project      2,200,000      100,000           0
(2) Equipment, tools, spare parts,  10,800,000      100,000     227,741
materials, and supplies
(3) Consultants Services             3,000,000    3,000,000    1,342,481
(4) Fee                               124,689       124,689     124,689
(5) Unallocated                      8,575,000    1,475,311          0
TOTAL                  49,999,689     5,000,000    1,694,911
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT'               SDR            SDR           US$
Category                         Appraisal       Actual       Equivalent
(1) Civil Works:
(a) Under Part A.1 of the Project  7,080,000    7,741,157     10,194,046
(b) Under Part A. 2 of the Project  2,830,000   2,350,514     3,237,252
(c) Under Part B of the Project  14,340,000    15,269,933    20,879,494
(2) Equipment, tools, spare parts,  4,720,000   8,003,003     11,023,666
materials, and supplies
(3) Co. sultants Services        2,360,000      2,391,745     3,240,335
(4) Unallocated                  6,470,000         0              0
TOTAL                            37,800,000    35,756,352    48,574,793
Assuming SDR value 1.265



- 21 -
LOAN AND SPECIAL FUND DISBURSEMENTS
Appraisal    RestructuredP         Actual          Actual as
IDA Fiscal      Estimate         roject         Disbursement         % of
Year Ending       US$             US$                US$           Appraisal
1985        6,000,000                          124,689.00          2%
1986       24,000,000                            7,847.13          0%
1987       24,000,000                          563,655.11          2%
1988       20,000,000      15,000,000        1,806,535.36          9%
1989       14,000,000      16,500,000        7,758,464.38         55%
1990        2,000,000      12,500,000        7,686,393.29        384%
1991                                        10,893,679.00
1992                                        10,320,555.90
1993                                        10,095,575.52
1994                                         1,009,335.08



- 22 -
SCHEDULE OF IBRD DISBURSEMENT
Cumulative US$ Million
SAR Projections    1987 Restructured   Actual
1985      June             6.0                                 0.1
Dec           18.0                                 0.1
1986      June           30.0                                  0.1
Dec           42.0                                 0.1
1987      June           54.0                                  0.7
Dec           64.0                 7.5             1.0
1988      June           74.0                16.0              2.5
Dec           83.0                25.0             5.2
1989      June           88.0                32.5             10.3
Dec           90.0                40.0            13.6
1990       June                              45.0             17.9
Dec                                               23.9
1991      June                                               28.8
Dec                                               35.5
1992      June                                               39.2
Dec                                               45.1
1993      June                                               49.3
Dec                                               50.3



- 23 -
STATUS OF COMIPLIANCE WITH MAJOR COVENANTS
Description of Covenants                        Section            Status of
Compliance
1. Borrower shall submit to the administration, not later than  3.01 (b) (i)   (a) in compliance
April I in each of the years 1985/7 its proposals for (a) the
updating of the Fifth Highway plan for the following fiscal year,               (b) in compliance
and (b) the work program
2. Borrower shall finalize: (a) the updating of the plan for each    3.01 (b) (ii)  (a) in compliance
such fiscal year; and (b) the annual work program                               (b) in compliance
3. Borrower shall employ engineering and management         3.02               in compliance
consultants
4. No later than July 1, 1985, Borrower shall: (a) employ two  3.03 (a)         in compliance
engineers, for positions of senior supertendering engineer in
MOTC's Mechanical and Transport Department; (b) employ      3.03 (b)            in compliance
three additional qualified Economists in Planning and
Coordination Division
5. Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but    4.01 (b) (Credit)    not in compliance
not later than six months after the end of Fiscal Year, required
certified audits                                            4.02(b) (Loan)
6. Borrower shall no later than June 30, 1985 prepare       4.03 (a) (Credit)    in compliance
expansion of the maintenance programming and costing scheme
to all districts (H-IMMS)                                   4.04 (a) (Loan)
7. Borrower shall undertake all future hiring of personnel for  4.03 (c) (Credit)    in compliance
MOPW and/or MOTC for the program only in accordance with
the staffing requirements set forth in said scheme          4.04 (c) (Loan)
8. Borrower shall adopt, not later than December 31, 1986, the    4.04 (Credit)  in compliance
Highway Design Model for purposes of evaluating road
maintenance and rehabilitation strategies                   4.05 (Loan)
9. Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Administrator for  4.05 (Credit)   in compliance
approval, not later than June 30, 1986, cost effective program
covering inter alia equipment repair and replacement, workshop    4.06 (Loan)
development, spares inventory control, and arrangements for
equipment funding and management
10. Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure proper   4.06 (Credit)  in compliance
coordination between the various departments and units for
carrying out activities in the Highway Sector               4.07 (Loan)
11. Borrower shall implement a 10% increase in license in fees    4.08 (a) (Credit)    in compliance
for heavy commercial vehicles by September 1984             4.09 (a) (Loan)
12. Borrower shall implement further increases in the license  4.08 (b) (Credit)    in compliance
fees and road use charges gradually for heavy commercial
vehicles so as to ensure, by September 30, 1987, that the total  4.09 (b) (Loan)
charges levied on these vehicles cover not less than a short run
marginal costs which they impose on the road network
13. Borrower shall adjust thereafter periodically taxation on  4.08 (c) (Credit)  not in compliance
heavy commercial vehicles as required to maintain said coverage
of short run MC                                             4.09 (c) (Loan)
14. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to enforce  4.09 (Credit)   not in compliance
its vehicle load regulation; the Borrower shall install, not later
than December 31, 1987, two additional weighbridges         4.10 (Loan)
15. Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to  4.10 (Credit)   compliance
formalize appropriate arrangement with the Republic of Uganda
concerning the interchange of rolling stock                 4._1_1 (Loan)



- 24 -
USE OF THE ASSOCIATED RESOURCES
STAFF INPUTS
Task              Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Preparation               87.5
Appraisal                 39.3
Negotiations               6.8
Supervision              104.3



- 25 -
MISSION DATA
Stage of Project    Date    Specialization    OveraU Project               Types of Problems
Cycle                                   Performance
Through Appraisal:
Identification   Apr-81
Appraisal        Aug-83
Post Appraisal    Dec-83
Jun-84
Supervision:      Oct-84        HE                           Special Visit to discuss budget
Mar-85         HE               2          Delay in implementation due to poor handing of sub-
project proposals and handling of Bank procurement
documents
Sep-85    SE-HE-D.C.            3          Inadequate budgetary funds; delays program
implementation; confusion with Dist. Focus Policy
within Ministrv
Apr-86      HE-SHE              3          Project coordination + quality of proposed subprojects
poor
Oct-86      HE-SHE              3          Project implementation 2 years behind SAR schedule;
there have been no Project disbursement
Dec-86      HE-SFA              3          GOK not providing counterpart funds; Bank
proposing to scale back Project
Mar-87       HE-SE                         Special Donor Meeting
Aug-87      HE-D.C.             3          Project delays due to GOK's inability to provide
counterpart funds; Bank contemplating Project
suspension
Dcc-87      HE-D.C.             2          Project scaled back; District Focus Policy is
hampering efficiency of MOTC: DOT not releasing
funds
July-88       HE                2          District maintenance units unable to purchase needed
materials + equipment since salaries consuming bulk
of budget
Jan-89        HE                2          Project audits overdue; Resealing sub-project
I requiring variation orders
Sep-89        HI                2          Provision of counterpart funds inadequate; support for
local contracting industry neglected
May-90         HE               2          Counterpart funds not adequately allocated in annual
budget; country wide shortage of bitumen; Audit
reports overdue
Feb-91    SHE-HEC-SFO           2          Design error noted in Sotik-Amala River Road;
Routine road maintenance funding inadequate
Sep-91        SHE               2          Bitumen procurement near finalization; Delay on
Machakos - Ulu Rd. being addressed
Mar-92        SHE               2          Audit reports overdue; supply of bitumen awarded
but canceled bv Treasury; serious non-payment of
contractors
Dec-92        SIHE              2          Audit Reports overdue; IDA reviewing claim on
I___ __ __ __ _  __ __ _   I_________________Sotik-Amala  Road
Notes:  Overall Performance Rating. I = Problem free or minor problems: 2  M.toderate Problems; 3 = Afajor problems
Specialization: D. C. = Division Chief: HE = Hlighway Engineer: SIE = Senior Highway Engineer;
HEC= Highzway Economist;



- 26 -
PROJECT IPLEMENTATION
Project Component         S4R Estimate       Restructured            Actual
Project
Resealing of paved roads           2.800 km          1 100 m               537 km
Regravelling of unpaved roads      1,500 km            500 km              558 km
Strengthening of paved roads       220 km               29 km               29 km
Paving of unpaved roads            245 km               56 km               56 km
Road maintenance                US$8.4 million    US$0. 1 million      US$4. 16 million
equipment/spares                SDR 4.4 million    SDR 4.4 million
Workshops and stores            US$2.7 million   Subproject dropped       No action
Road Building materials         US$4.7 million        US$0 0            US$7.0 million
Bitumen for resealing
Consultants services for           HMIMS              HIMMS                HMMS
improving highway maintenance       ECAS              ECAS                  ECAS
planning and costing                                                        EMS
Laboratory equipment            USS0.85 million    US$0.45 million     US$0.39 million
Road safety and traffic         US$1.21 million   Subproject dropped    Other donor support
enforcement equipment
Domestic road construction      90 manmonths       90 manmonths         90 manmonths
industry: TA support                                                     Successfully
l    l                  l    ~~~~~~~~implemente"d l



- 27 -
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(a)    SAR Estimate
Activity            Funds Allocated       ERR
Resealing                       $30 million        129%
Regravelling                    $19 million         61%
Strengthening/Upgrading         $55 million         29%
All Civil Works                 $95 million         61%
(b)    Project Outcome
The overall magnitude of actual civil works, and the distribution of expenditure between the
categories of activity changed considerably to the SAR estimates. During the implementation of
the project, vehicle operating costs in Kenya doubled but the costs of the construction increased, in
most cases much more substantially. An overall estimate of the ERR for the implemented project
has been calculated by:
(i)    Estimating a revised ERR for each component; and then
(ii)    Weighting these ERR by the distribution of total expenditure.
(i)    Component ERR:
Construction Activity   SAR - ERR    Benefit      Construction Cost   Actual - ERR
Escalation       Escalation
Resealing                129%         + 2.00           + 3.76             69%
Regravelling              61%         + 2.00           + 2.00             61%
Sotik- Amala              62%         + 2.00           + 4.92             25%
Machakos TO - Ulu         29%         + 2.00           + 2.75             21%
(ii)    Overall Project ERR:
Construction Activity    Proportion of Construction  ERR
Expenditure
Resealing                         0.288               69%
Regravelling                      0.092               61%
Sotik - Amala                     0.396               25%
MachakosTO -Ulu                   0.224               21%
Total                             1.000               40%












i -                l -          l_:              j
....    .... .  ..  i   -         :I   -
:-      mj          I   -l| 



