Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                         -
Report No. 492 0-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
April 9, 1984
Transportation Division 1
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling (KSh)
1 K£ = 20 K Sh 1/
US$ per Kenya Shilling    Kenya Shilling per US$
End of                      End of
Period                      Period
1970             .140                        7.143
1975             .121                        8.260
1980             .132                        7.569
1981             .097                       10.286
1982             .079                       12.725
1983             .073                       13.700 2/
ABBREVIATIONS
GBCP = Gravelling, Bridging and Culverting Program
IIDM = Highway Design Model
KR = Kenya Railway Corporation
KPA = Kenya Ports Authority
KPC = Kenya Pipeline Company
MOTC = Ministry of Transport and Communications
MRIP = Minor Roads Improvement Program
RARP = Rural Access Roads Program
VOC = Vehicle Operating Costs
GOVERNMENT OF KENYA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
1/   While the official currency unit in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling (KSh)
it is the practice of the Government and large organizations to
express revenues and expenditures in Kenya Pounds (K£) at the rate of
KE = 20 KSh.
1/   Exchange rate used for this Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan/SpEcial Fund Credit and Project Summar
Borrower:                Republic of Kenya
Amount:                  A Loan of US$50.0 million equivalent and a Special
Fund Credit of SDR 37.8 million (US$40.0 million
equivalent)
Ternms:                  The Loan would be for a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The Special Fund Credit would be on standard
IDA terms.
Project Description:    The proposed project would help finance the last
four years of the Government's Fifth Highway Sector
Plan (FYs 1984-1988). The main objectives of the
project are to assist the Government to reduce
transport costs and to strengthen the Ministry of
Transport and Communications in the areas of
highway administration and plan implementation.
These objectives would be achieved through: (a)
improving the maintenance of the existing road
network; (b) strengthening and upgrading priority
roads; (c) improving highway sector planning,
administration and coordination; (d) enforcing
appropriate vehicle axle load regulations; (e)
developing the domestic road construction industry;
(f) instituting appropriate user charges for
various vehicle categories; and (g) improving the
modal distribution of traffic along Kenya's
main transport corridor.
Risks:                   The proposed project faces two principal risks,
both related to the economic environment. First,
should the economic situation deteriorate, the
highway sector could suffer budgetary reductions.
Reviews of the annual plans would ensure that
priority programs and projects would not be
affected by budget reductions. Second, shortage of
foreign exchange could restrict critical imported
materials. By providing financing for some
imported materials, the project would alleviate
shortages of these materials. A third risk is that
maintenance operations may not improve measurably
as a result of (i) slow progress in work
programming and supervision of operations; and (ii)
inadequate coordination among the various units of
the Ministry. The project includes measures to
reduce the likelihood of this occurrence.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
Local   Foreign       Total
------US$ millions-------
Road Works by Contract
Resealing and Regravelling                     21.7         18.3        40.0
Strengthening/Upgrading                        14.9        40.1        55.0
Support to the Ministry
Equipment, Tools, Spare Parts                   0.5         10.2        10.7
Workshops and Stores                             1.1         2.6         3.7
Materials                                       0.8          3.9         4.7
Laboratory Equipment                                         0.7         0.7
Road Safety and Traffic Enforcement             0.1          1.0         1.1
Consultants' Services                              1.4         5.5         6.9
Base Cost                                        40.5         82.3       122.8
Price Contingencies                            13.2         16.4        29.6
Total Project Cost a/                            53.7         98.7       152.4
Front-End Fee                                                  0.1         0.1
Total Financing Required                 53.7        98.8       152.5
Financing Plan:
-- US$ Million Equivalent --        % of Total
Local       Foreign      Total       Financing
Sources
IBRD                                       50.0        50.0         33
Special Fund                   -           40.0        40.0         26
Government of Kenya           53.7          8.8        62.5         41
Total a!                        53.7         98.8       152.5         100
Estimated Disbursement           FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
(US$ million)
Annual                      6.0    24.0    24.0    20.0    14.0          2.0
Cumulative                  6.0    30.0    54.0    74.0    88.0    90.0
Economic Rate of Return:   64%
7 Including taxes and duties of US$13.5 million equivalent.



- 111. -
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .   .........................................   1
A.  Role, Organization and Performance of the Sector  1o .... ......  I
B.  Government's Overall Objectives and Policies in Transport         2
C.  Transport Planning and Investments ...................            2
D.  Roads and Road Transport ............        3..................**  3
E.  Other Modes .      ..............................                4
Railway Transport . ............................ ...... 4
Pipeline Transport .......... . ........... . ...... .   ..... 5
Ports   ............................... .  .. . . . . .    5
Civil Aviation ........................  5
F.  Intermodal Coordination *...*......... ........e*..*****   5
G.  Highway Administration ....................... ...... ......  6
Organizational Structure, Staffing, Training  ......... 6
Equipment Management ..* ...... . ......... .   .............  7
Maintenance  . ..        ..........................................  7
Design, Materials Research and Construction  8o ........   8
H.  Past Bank Group Involvement in the Highway Sector        ..........  8
I.  The First Highway Sector Project ...........                     9
II.  THE FIFTH RIGHWAY SECTOR PLAN (FYs 1984-1988) ................. 11
A.  General . ..............*.......*....9.............*...............* 11
B. Plan Components . .................... ..* .............. ..* ....... 0. 12
(i)  Road Maintenance Program .............................. 12
(ii)  Road Construction Program ............................... 13
(iii)  Support Programs and Activities ....................... 14
(iv)  Institutional and Sector Policy Measures .............. 16
C.  Cost and Financing of the Highway Sector Plan o .......     ..18
III. BANK GROUP PARTICIPATION ........      ..    .................. . 20
A.  Project Objectives and Description ............... ............ 20
B.  Project Cost and Financing .                                     21
C.  Criteria and Procedures for Eligibility of Subprojects  ..so 23
D.  Implementation and Procurement of Bank Group Financed
Subprojects   .............    0.......       ...24
E.  Disbursement .9..................... . .. s ........... O-  27
F.  Accounting and Reporting Requirements ..................... e    28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Kenya in August 1983. The members of the mission were Messrs. J. Van der
Ven, Economist (Mission Leader), S. Demissie, Engineer, H. Kaden,
Construction Industry Adviser, I. Coodine, Educator and S. Hayden,
Consultant.



- iv -
Table of Contents Cont'd                                            Page No.
][V.  ASSESSMENT  .................... . .................. . . 30
A.  Size and Composition of the Plan  ...... .........         ... 30
B.  Implementation Feasibility........   ....  31
C.  Benefits and Beneficiaries ............................... 31
D. Economic Evaluation        .....                ............. 32
E. Risks           .      .................. .                     34
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOWMENDATION .......................... 35
ANNEXES
1.1  Past Bank Group Financed Transport Projects in Kenya
1.2  Organization Chart of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications
1.3  Classified and Special Purpose Road Network
1.4  Vehicle Fleet
1.5  Traffic Growth by Class of Road and Vehicle Category
1.6  Road Usage by Class of Road and Vehicle Category
1.7  Central Government Revenue from Road Vehicles
1.8  Railway Traffic
1.9  Road User Charge/Cost Ratios
1.10 Prices of Petroleum Products
2.1  The Fifth Highway Sector Plan - Forward Budget and Physical
Targets
2.2  The Highway Maintenance Program - Performance Standards and
Program Targets
2.3  Program of New Construction FYs 1984-1988
2.4  Staffing and Manpower Development
2.5  The Domestic Contracting Industry
2.6  Extension of the Highway Maintenance Programming and Costing
Scheme
3.1  Bank Group Supported Subprojects
3.2  Implementation Schedule of Bank Group Supported Subprojects
3.3  Reporting Requirements
4.1  Economic Analysis of Maintenance Activities
4.2  Economic Analysis of New Construction Program
MA
IBRD 17748



THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Role, Organization and Performance of the Sector
1.01      Kenya's agriculturally productive areas are located in the Center
and South West of the country; they also contain the important urban
centers where most industrial and commercial activity takes place. As a
result, the transport system is characterized by: (i) numerous radial
patterns representing the urban/rural interchange; and (ii) a corridor
running from West to East, where rail, road and pipeline (in the eastern
half) run parallel, linking the urban centers to each other and to the port
of Mombasa. This corridor also provides access to the sea for the
landlocked countries of Central Africa. Inland and coastal water transport
and domestic air transport are of little significance. For external
transport, shipping is predominant for freight and civil aviation for
passengers.
1.02       Overall responsibility for the development, utilization and
maintenance of the transport infrastructure is vested with the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MOTC). The MOTC has six major subdivisions
covering the various modes and its administrative and planning functions.
Each is headed either by a Chief Engineer or a Deputy Secretary (Chart,
Annex 1.2). Public sector corporations are predominant in Transport, the
largest being Kenya Railways Corporation followed by Kenya Ports Authority,
Kenya Pipelines, Kenya Airways, and KENATCO for road transport. The
private sector is involved only in road transport and in air chartering.
1.03      Transport has performed relatively well in its two essential
tasks of collection/distribution of goods throughout the rural areas and of
large volume movement along the main transport arteries and through Mombasa
port. Also, quality of service and flexibility in supply as well as costs
compare favourably with those obtained in other African countries.
Transport services, however, are not being provided at the lowest possible
cost to the economy mainly because: (i) road transport system costs are
still too high as a result of inadequate road maintenance (Para. 1.20) and
vehicle overloading (Para 1.11); and (ii) a suboptimal inter-modal traffic
distribution in the main transport corridor (Para. 1.16). While the
generally adequate performance of transport from the point of view of the
user is the result of the pragmatic objectives and policies Government has
pursued (Paras. 1.04-1.05), the lack of cost effectiveness in these two
important areas, arises primarily from weak implementation of key policies
rather than from inappropriate policies.
B. Government's Overall Objectives and Policies in Transport
1.04      With the creation in 1980 of a Ministry responsible for all
transport modes, Government gave due recognition to the importance of
intermodal planning, policy formulation and coordination in transport. The
organizational structure of the Ministry and the respective
responsibilities of the six subdivisions and of some of their units,



-2-
however, could possibly be better streamlined. In particular, effective
coordination between the units involved in the Highway Sector has been
hampered by the fact that they come under two different subdivisions (the
Roads and Aerodromes Department and the Technical Division). This problem,
however, has been recognized and is being remedied by the creation of the
position of Program Coordinator for the Highway Sector (Para. 2.22).
1.05      Government's general policy to promote interaction and
competition between the public and private sectors also applies to
transport. The public sector organizations in transport are by statute
autonomous and expected to be financially self-sufficient. While financial
autonomy has not been fully achieved in the case of Kenya Railways and
Kenya Airways, Government's general stance on the subject has encouraged
financial discipline and deterred unprofitable investments. With regard to
the sector's overall role and that of the individual modes, Government's
objectives and policies are based on the principles that: (i) transport is
a service sector which should be developed in line with the needs of the
productive sectors; (ii) modal split should be based on the comparative
advantage of carriers; and (iii) this modal split should be achieved
through the market mechanism.
C.  Transport Planning and Investments
1.06      MOTC's Transport Planning and Coordination Division which was set
up in late 1980 absorbed the Highway Planning Section and planning units
existing under the previous ministerial set-up. It has three Branches:
(i) Advance Planning and Programming; (ii) Policy review, Research and
Statistics; and; (ii) Project Implementation and Monitoring. While some
units are adequately staffed, most have not been fully operational, mainly
because of lack of sufficient numbers of qualified staff. As a result the
Division has been unable to carry out all its functions. Recently,
however, six additional economists have taken up duties in the Division
(Para. 2.22).
1.07      Kenya's National Plans cover five years and are prepared and
implemented on the basis of a forward budget mechanism encompassing both
recurrent and development expenditures. The procedures for plan
preparation provide for the submission of proposals by the operating
ministries within given budgetary ceilings and following broad guidelines
issued by the Ministry of Finance and Planning, and for subsequent review
and finalization under the responsibility of this Ministry. The first
three National Plans allocated about a quarter of total investments to
transport. While the emphasis was on main road construction, considerable
funds were devoted to the parallel development of feeder and rural roads.
During the Fourth Plan, in line with the changing sectoral emphasis of
Government's development strategy, the share of transport decreased
somewhat to 21%. In real terms, however, the allocations did not
decrease. Within transport, the highway sector accounted for two thirds of
total planned investments. In the initial stages of preparation of the



-3-
Fifth Transport Plan (FYs 1984-1988), coordination with the Ministries of
Finance and Economic Development and Planning was weak and the draft Plan
was over-ambitious. Also, MOTC was ill-prepared to reduce its proposals to
comply with the budgetary ceilings which had been set. In the course of
1983, however, a realistic and feasible Transport Plan was firmed up. At
KE 385 million, total investments in transport during the Fifth Plan will
remain at about the same level as during the Fourth Plan, but more emphasis
is given correctly to replacement and rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure and facilities. The highway sector will continue to account
for about two-thirds of total transport investments. The Highway Sector
Plan is discussed in Paras. 2.01-2.26.
D. Roads and Road Transport
1.08      Roads have been assigned primary role for short distance
transport and for improving access to rural areas. Kenya's road network
totals some 53,800 km of which 6,400 km are bitumen, 18,400 km are gravel
and 29,000 km are earth (Annex 1.3). However, much in line with population
density, roads are unevenly distributed over the country. The Roads and
Aerodromes Department is responsible for maintaining the entire classified
network. Owing to lack of adequate maintenance, overloading and inadequacy
of existing roads to withstand the present day traffic, the roads are in
poor condition. As a result, road transport system costs are significantly
increased, first on account of higher vehicle operating costs and secondly
because of the need for costly strengthening/reconstruction. The proposed
project puts emphasis on helping Government to bring maintenance up to
adequate standards (Para. 3.04).
1.09      The vehicle fleet, estimated at 258,000 units (45% passenger
cars), has been growing at some 4% p.a. in the past (Annex 1.4). While
overall traffic grew at a rapid pace in the early and mid 1970s (7.5% p.a.)
traffic levels have stabilized since 1979 (Annex 1.5). Trunk roads account
for only 12% of the network but carry 64% of all traffic. The most common
vehicle on these roads is the light commercial vehicle (40% of total
traffic). The road transport industry is characterized by a few large
trucking companies operating 50 or more trucks and a much higher number of
medium to small sized (owner) operators. Except for safety and vehicle
dimension restrictions, road transport is practically completely
deregulated (entry, rate setting and route operation); by African
standards, the industry is efficient and has displayed great vitality and
flexibility in adjusting to transport demand.
1.10      In recent years, total revenues from taxation of road users have
significantly exceeded total expenditures on roads (Annex 1.7).  Road user
taxation, however, has been based more on considerations of revenue
collection, balance of payment protection and income redistribution than on
strict transport policy objectives.  This has led to disparities in the
treatment of different categories of road users in two areas.  First,
diesel powered vehicles enjoy a more favorable tax regime (in terms of fuel
taxes and import duties and sales taxes on the vehicles) than gasoline
powered vehicles which is not economically justified for all operating



- 4 -
conditions. Second, vehicle taxation does not reflect the costs imposed on
the road system by various categories of road users as was brought out by a
study on road user charges carried out during the previous plan (Annex
1.9). Under the Fifth Plan Government intends to remedy the latter problem
through a number of measures (Para. 2.23). With regard to the prices of
fuel products used in transport, Government has followed a pricing policy
(primarily through taxation) under which the pump price covers
significantly more than the resource costs of each product (Annex 1.10,
Page 1). This pricing policy, however, was also characterized by a marked
price differentiation between gasoline and diesel. After some realignment
of relative prices since the early 1980's, the price of diesel remains at a
low 69% of that of premium gasoline (Annex 1.10, Page 2). Government is
aware of the possible distortions on resource use of such pronounced price
differentiation and will review its fuel pricing policy during the Fifth
Plan within the broader context of its aim of achieving a better match
between supply and demand for fuel products (Para. 2.24).
1.11      Enforcement of the vehicle axle load regulations has not been
effective. Extensive overloading has resulted in significant pavement
damage causing higher vehicle operating costs and road repair and
rehabilitation costs. Government has been slow in reviewing and
reformulating its policy but recently significant progress was achieved
when amendments to the Traffic Act increasing the axle load limit to 10
tons and introducing stricter enforcement: were adopted. The new
regulations, which are adequate, will be implemented under the FYs
1984-1988 Plan (Para. 2.21).
E. Other Modes
Rai_lay Transport
1.12      Government considers the railway as the main carrier of staple
agricultural products and bulk goods and of all long distance transport but
this objective has not been achieved. In 1982 Kenya Railways carried 4.1
million tons or about 35% of total tons transported (Annex 1.8).
Government has assisted Kenya Railways financially with its modernization
and replacement investments, but also expects improvements in efficiency
for the railway to fulfill its role. While during the 1970's the railways'
traffic was unfavourably affected by events beyond its control, such as the
gradual desintegration of the East African Community and the building of
the Mombasa-Nairobi pipeline, weaknesses in operational efficiency and lack
of a commercial approach both in marketing and tariff setting largely
explain the loss of traffic to roads. The Government, however, by
unjustifiably exercising its power of approval of tariff increases is
seriously hampering the development of a commercial management approach.
These management and rail tariff questions are being addressed under the
ongoing Bank financed Railway Project which provides, inter alia, for a
study to recommend organizational and managerial reforms and agreements
aimed at furthering the application of Government's policy of financial
self-sufficiency for the railway. Finally, to increase the railways
invo:Lvement in transit transport Kenya Railways and Uganda railways have
recently concluded an operating agreement (Para. 2.23).



-5-
Pipeline Transport
1.13      A 452 km pipeline completed in 1977 transports white oil products
from Mombasa to Nairobi. Its facilities are well maintained and Kenya
Pipeline company has a good operating performance. While the pipeline has
helped to lower the transport cost for petroleum products in the eastern
half of the main transport corridor, transport of petroleum in the western
half is largely by road which is the highest cost alternative. For some
time Government has considered extending the pipeline to the west and a
feasibility study for an extension was recently initiated. Building of the
pipeline would have major implications for road and rail transport. At
negotiations it was agreed that, when considering investing in major
transport sector projects, the Government will afford the Bank the
opportunity for consultations as regards the viability and timing of such
investments.
Ports
1.14      For the ports subsector, Government's main objective is to ensure
that capacity is adequate to handle import and export traffic. Mombasa
port which handles more than 90% of imports and exports is well equipped.
To meet the changing traffic demand, a modern container terminal at the
port and a large inland container depot at Nairobi have been built but
some essential elements of the container transport chain, such as a
container depot at Mombasa, will not be ready for some time.
Implementation of these investments has suffered numerous delays which
have hampered container operations. These delays are caused in part by
weak coordination between the principal parties involved in the development
of containerization, i.e. the port, the railways, the customs
administration, the private sector and MOTC. This underlines the need for
better coordination between the concerned parties.
Civil Aviation
1.15      In air transport, Government's objective of providing reliable
air connections with the tourist generating centers has largely been
achieved. The objective of making Kenya Airways a financially viable
enterprise, however, has not been met. Moreover, major decisions regarding
fleet modernization will have to be taken during this Plan and in view of
the size of the investments involved a cautious approach is indicated.   At
negotiations it was agreed that, when considering investing in major
transport sector projects, the Government will afford the Bank the
opportunity for consultations as regards the viability and timing of such
investments.
F. Intermodal Coordination
1.16      Government policy is to rely basically on the market mechanism to
bring about a distribution of traffic whereby each mode carries the traffic
for which it has a comparative advantage and the necessary conditions for
the market to achieve this desired distribution of traffic are largely
satisfied. Shippers have freedom of choice (except in a few cases where



- 6 -
railway transport is imposed), entry into the road transport industry is
open, road tariffs are not regulated and are closely related to carrier's
operating costs, and finally, for most products rail tariffs show a broad
correspondance to railway operating costs. The only major factor which is
responsible for some distortion in the allocation of traffic is that road
and rail are treated differently with respect to their respective
infrastructure costs. The Railway is expected to pay for its long term
infrastructure costs while for competing road transport (heavy commercial
vehicles), coverage of even short term marginal infrastructure costs is not
achieved through road user charges (Annex 1.9).  As a result,some long
distance road transport rates do not reflect economic costs and fail to
give the correct price signals to shippers. Government's policies should
l:herefore aim at eliminating the major remaining cause of some distortion
iin the distribution of traffic by instituting a regime of appropriate road
user charges. When this is combined with strict enforcement of the axle
load limits, and a more commercial regime for the railways, the market
mechanism can be expected to produce a significantly improved road/rail
modal split in the main transport corridor. Relevant measures are included
in the FYs 1984-1988 Transport Plan (Para. 2.23).
C. Highway Administration
Organizational Structure, Staffing and Training
1.17      MOTC administers the highway infrastructure through several of
its Branches and Department.l/ In line with the national policy of
decentralization initiated in FY 1983, MOTC's routine activities in the
field rely on the 41 maintenance districts headed by District Engineers. A
total of some 5,600 permanent and 12,650 work-paid staff are employed by
the five Departments (Branches) involved in the Highway Subsector including
325 engineers. Given the lack of expansion in MOTC's force account
activities certain categories of road maintenance personnel will be in
surplus and this can only be eliminated through attrition. The personnel
requirements corresponding to MOTC's future force account activities will
be specified in the program for extension to the entire country of the
maintenance programming and costing scheme (Para. 2.22). At negotiations
Government gave the undertaking that any future hiring of road maintenance
personnel shall be in accordance with the staffing requirements as defined
under this scheme. In regard to staff qualifications, strengthening at the
professional level and staff upgrading at the sub-professional level remain
important as many staff have been recruited in recent years. The most
critical need for trained staff (requiring outside expert assistance) is at
the level of senior posts in particular for equipment management (Para.
2.22).
1/   The Roads and Aerodromes Department (which includes, inter alia, the
Maintenance Branch and the Construction Branch), The Mechanical and
Transport Department, the Staff Training Department and the Materials
and Research Branch (Annex 1.2).



- 7 -
1.18      MOTC has a sound training program for young engineers which
includes rotational assignments, secondment to consulting firms and
overseas fellowships. In 1983 some 30 engineers were in training under
this program. A noteworthy achievement is that in the Roads and Aerodromes
Department alone, the number of Kenyan engineers increased from 14 in 1970
to 281 in 1983. At the sub-professional level extensive training has been
provided covering nearly 9,000 employee courses during 1971-1982. In the
coming years the main thrust of staff development will be toward in-service
retraining and upgrading of skills. The Training Department's 73 Kenyan
instructors are assisted by 10 expatriates provided under bilateral
assistance programs. On the whole, the facilities of the Department are
adequate but it is short of some equipment, plant, vehicles and tools.
These needs will be satisfied under the Fifth Plan.
Equipment Management
1.19      The Mechanical and Transport Department is responsible for
procurement, repair and upkeep of most of the equipment owned by MOTC. The
Department has a central workshop, 7 provincial and 25 district workshops
but many of these are in temporary structures and lack adequate
facilities. Ten districts have no workshop at all. As a result of more
in-house repair work, the Department's parts supply function has faced a
several fold increase in its workload which it has been unable to cope
with. Poor performance in the workshops and in spare parts control were
the main factors contributing to the low availability of equipment and
vehicles (about 50% in recent years). These weaknesses were compounded by
inadequate funds and the attempt to maintain a fleet too large for the
Ministry's work program.  The primary cause of low utilization of the
available equipment has been lack of funds.  Until FY 1983 the activities
of the Mechanical and Transport Department were funded through an equipment
rental scheme.  Failure to establish and maintain rental rates adequate to
cover amortization, repairs and maintenance, combined with low utilization
led to temporary suspension of the scheme. Pending the establishment of
appropriate funding arrangements, the activities of the Department are
financed through direct budgetary allocations. To remedy the various
problems it is facing, the Department has carried out a detailed equipment
condition survey, to be followed by the preparation and subsequent
implementation of cost effective programs covering: (i) equipment repair
and replacement; (ii) arrangements for equipment management and funding;
and (iii) workshop development and spares inventory control (Para. 2.16).
Maintenance
1.20      The Maintenance Branch of the Roads and Aerodromes Department is
responsible for maintenance of classified and special purpose roads (53,800
km). For routine maintenance, the overall programming of activities in the
41 districts is carried out at Headquarters but implementation is the
responsibility of the Ministry's organization in the field. Work
performance has remained well below the Ministry's standards and the causes
of this unsatisfactory performance, mainly insufficient funds and poor
workprogramming and supervision, are being addressed under the Fifth Plan.
In particular, the road maintenance programming and costing scheme, which
was introduced under the First Highway Sector Project on a pilot basis in



- 8 -
one district, will gradually be extended to other districts during the
Fifth Plan (FYs 1984-1988) (Para. 2.22). Periodic maintenance (resealing
and regravelling) programs are formulated at Headquarters and executed
under its control. Output, particularly resealing, has been much below
target in the past. Resealing has so far been carried out almost entirely
by the Branch's own forces but in FY 1984 a start was made with contracting
out some of these works to medium sized contractors and this approach will
be expanded during the Fifth Plan. For regravelling works, there has been
extensive involvement of small domestic contractors for a number of years.
Tlis category of contractors, composed entirely of Kenyan nationals, has
been hampered in its development by the irregular flow of work put to
contract (peaking in FY 1980 with more than 1,000 km against some 400 km in
FY 1983) as a result of budgetary constraints. Moreover contracts have
been awarded under protected conditions, e.g. fixed rates with contractors
assigned to specific districts which provided little incentive for risk
taking. The Fifth Plan includes a component to strengthen domestic
contractors (Para. 2.19) which would be supported by the proposed project.
Design, Materials Research and Construction
1.21      MOTC's Design Branch carries out in house design work and
supervises the work done by consultants. Due to an insufficient number of
experienced, permanently assigned engineers it has been unable in the past
to carry out its large workprogram on a timely basis. In the future,
however, the situation will be more manageable owing to improved staffing
and a stabilization of the workload. The Materials and Research Branch is
adequately staffed. During the coming years, the Branch will focus its
act,ivities on gravel substitutes and asphaltic pavement analysis.
Highway construction (reconstruction, strengthening, upgrading, new roads)
is the responsibility of the Construction Branch of the Roads Department.
Construction is mostly carried out by contract with major works awarded to
large local firms or subsidiaries of foreign contractors. These works are
of the unit price type, awarded on the basis of international competitive
biclding and are supervised by consultants. Force account construction is
carried out under three programs: (i) the main road construction program
which is building/upgrading roads primarily in remote areas. Performance
of its three units has been rather poor with an average annual production
of only about 70 km; (ii) the Gravelling, Bridging and Culverting program
under which lower class roads are upgraded to all-weather gravel standard.
Output has averaged some 580 km/year; and, (iii) the Rural Access Roads
Program using labor intensive techniques to construct low-cost rural
roads. During the previous plan period on average some 1,300 km were built
per year and about 560 km were gravelled. During the FYs 1984-1988 Plan
the gravelling backlog under this program will be cleared, and thereafter
the program will be redeployed towards improvement of the lower categories
of classified roads.
H. Past Bank Group Involvement in the Highway Sector
1.22      Since 1960 the Bank Group has undertaken a total of 11 projects
benefitting the Highway Sector (Annex 1.1). Some projects supported
Government's efforts to create a well-integrated network of national and



- 9 -
regional roads (First and Second Highway Project).   Parallel projects for
agricultural roads have supported specific programs in the agricultural
sector (Agricultural Development, Tea Roads, Sugar Roads and Rural Access
Roads Projects). Other projects have combined main road construction with
agricultural roads (Third, Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects). The Highway
Maintenance Project was designed to strengthen the maintenance organization
and help finance the implementation of a large maintenance program.
1.23      These projects have on the whole been completed satisfactorily
and the principal objectives - reduction in vechicle operating costs and
improvement of accessibility in rural areas - have been achieved. The
projects, however, experienced delays and cost overruns and the ERR's were
on average below appraisal estimates. PPAR's have been prepared for five
of these projects and the following main points emerge from these audits.
Issues relating to road design surfaced in many projects and the problems
encountered contributed to premature pavement failures. Since then, both
the Government and the Bank have learnt from these experiences and have
taken steps to avoid recurrence of these problems. In particular, uniform
road design standards have been developed. A second point is that project
implementation schedules were often overly optimistic. Finally, only one
project, the Highway Maintenance Project (1970) included a major
institutional development component. However, since Government had been
following a policy of gradual Kenyanization of key positions, the need for
such components did not manifest itself except at the time of
centralization of road maintenance when the responsibilities of the Roads
and Aerodromes Department were increased several-fold.
I. The First Highway Sector Project
1.24      The eleventh project, named the First Highway Sector Project (Ln
1684-KE of 4/30/79) provided US$ 90 million to support the Government's
Fourth Highway Sector Plan (FYs 1979-1983). During the 1970's the
Departments and Branches in the Highway Sector, in particular the Staff
Training Department, were considerably strengthened. Also, the Roads and
Aerodromes Department had demonstrated its ability to establish and carry
out effectively programs which required innovative approaches such as the
Rural Access Roads Program and the Gravelling, Bridging and Culverting
Program. Moreover, the Ministry was pursuing appropriate objectives and
policies under its Fourth Transport Plan (FYs 1979-1983). Finally policies
and measures aimed at improving the performance of the sector were being
initiated. The Bank therefore agreed to a first Highway Sector Project to
support the Highway Sector Plan which consisted of strengthening and
reconstruction of trunk roads, upgrading to bitumen and gravel standard and
construction of rural access roads. The institutional and sector measures
included traffic law enforcement and road safety programs, a pilot
maintenance programming and costing scheme, improved intermodal
coordination and studies on road user charges and axle load limits.
1.25      Owing to slower economic growth under the Plan than projected,
the budgetary allocations for maintenance and construction could not be
maintained at the target which had been agreed upon at negotiations. For



- 10 -
recurrent expenditures the shortfall was 13% while for development
expenditures it was 18%. Physical implementation, however, was much lower
than the financial shortfalls would suggest. For the construction
activities the following factors contributed to the under achievement in
physical terms: (i) underestimation of unit costs at the time of Plan
preparation; (ii) implementation of certain works to higher specifications
than envisaged under the Plan; and, (iii) implementation delays which
resulted in cost increases. Actual achievements, however, are also
somewhat underestimated on account of projects which were not completed at
the end of the Plan but for which substantial expenditures had been
incurred. Under the maintenance program, routine maintenance, resealing
and grading were much below target. The discrepancy between physical and
financial shortfall in this case was caused by: (i) poor availability of
equipment; (ii) inadequate work programming and work supervision; and,
(iii) the high fixed costs which even under conditions of adequate
equipment availability and with efficient management mean that a given
financial shortfall will cause more than proportionate reductions in
output.
1.26      These financial and physical shortfalls under the Fourth Highway
Sector Plan, however, do not provide ground for discontinuing the sector
lending approach in Kenya. Government's sector policies and objectives are
sound, but their implementation requires improvement. The fifth Plan (FYs
1984-1988) includes measures to avoid or correct the above problems. In
particular, more emphasis is placed on maintenance and on arrangements for
ensuring that it continues to receive priority during implementation. The
sector lending approach provides a suitable vehicle for helping Government
to improve implementation (Paras. 3.01 - 3.02).



- 11 -
II. THE FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PLAN (FYs 1984-1988)
A. General
2.01      During past plans, the major development aim for the highway
subsector has been to institute a balanced highway system which caters for
the transport requirements of the entire country. The road network and the
responsibilities of the Roads Department expanded rapidly. In contrast,
the Fifth Highway Sector Plan (FYs 1984-1988) places greater emphasis on
the conservation of existing assets and devotes more resources to
maintenance, in particular periodic maintenance. Moreover, Government's
generally sound sector policies will be continued and the Plan includes
specific measures in the fields of vehicle axle load control, road safety
and road/rail coordination which will contribute to reduce overall
transport system costs.
2.02      The draft proposals for the Fifth Highway Sector Plan were
completed by MOTC in November 1982, but were financially not feasible. In
early 1983, the overall size of the Plan (both development and recurrent
expenditures) was reduced to some K£435 million (US$635 million) to comply
with the forward budget ceilings established for the Highway Sector. The
resulting scaled-down plan, however, still had two major deficiencies,
namely an imbalance in the size of the components, in particular
insufficient emphasis on maintenance and, lack of internal consistency in
the elements of the maintenance program. These deficiencies were
subsequently corrected during 1983 in a series of adjustments and
revisions. The Plan thus revised gives appropriate emphasis to road
maintenance, inter alia, by providing support to periodic maintenance
(regravelling and resealing) under the Development Budget (Table 2.1).
2.03     Formulation of the composition of the Plan was based on economic
criteria, first by ranking the various programs and activities according to
their Economic Rate of Return (ERR)and second by appropriate sizing of the
programs. The main programs were ranked in the following order: routine
maintenance; completion of projects under execution; periodic maintenance;
strengthening/reconstruction and upgrading. Moreover, the minimum ERR for
any element of the Plan was set at 12%. It follows that in case
Government's revenues evolve less favorably than assumed in the forward
budget projections, the plan can be reduced by scaling down or postponing
the start of construction projects which have the lowest priority. Also,
to assist in evaluating alternative road maintenance, rehabilitation
and construction strategies, the Bank's Highway Design Model will be
introduced.
2.04      The major components of the Plan (Paras. 2.05-2.24) are defined
in terms of annual volume of expenditures (in FY 1984 prices) and physical
targets (Annex 2.1). Other elements are defined in terms of the actions
and measures to be undertaken and their related costs. The Plan
encompasses all activities financed both under the recurrent and the
development budgets.



- 12 -
B. Plan Components
(i) Road Maintenance Program
2.05      The road maintenance program comprises four main subprograms.
Program of Routine Maintenance. This program covers the 53,800
km of classified and special purpose roads and includes the following main
activities:
grading: based on MOTC's grading cycles some 95,000 km in total are
to be graded each year (including the grading of shoulders of
bitumen roads);
- culvert clearing and replacement: an average of 80,000 culverts are to be
cleaned twice per year and 4,000 have to be repaired per annum;
-- spot regravelling: an average of 0.7 million m3 of gravel is to be
used per annum;
- patching of bitumen surfaced roads: an average of 1.7 million m2 per
annum;
- bush clearing: 54,000 km per annum (5 m wide strip) (Annex 2.2).
The maintenance programming and costing scheme (maintenance programming,
budgeting, costing and monitoring) which was satisfactorily introduced on a
pilot basis during the previous Plan will be gradually extended to all
districts during the FYs 1984-1988 Plan (Para. 2.22).
2.06       Resealing Program.  Based on MOTC's resealing cycles which are
governed by traffic density, the program provides for the resealing of
about 1,100 km of paved road per annum at an annual cost of KE 7.7
million (US$11.2 million). About a third of this total will be financed
under the development budget. Since a backlog of resealing has built up
over the past years and some roads require resealing more urgently than
others, the formulation of the annual workprogram is to be based primarily
on the condition of the road network and current and projected traffic
levels. The proposed project would help finance the resealing carried out
by contract.
2.07      Regravelling Program.  The program provides for the regravelling
of some 1,950 km in 1985 increasing to 2,600 km in 1988.  Of this target,
about 70% would be carried out by contract and 30% by force account. The
average annual cost of this program is KE 10.5 million (US$15.3 million).
About two thirds of the cost would be financed under the Development
Budget. The domestic contracting industry component under the plan (Para.
2.19) would in particular aim at strengthening the contractors engaged on
regravelling works. During the latter years of the plan, when the
Gravelling, Bridging and Culverting Program is being redeployed to
regravelling works, the backlog which has accumulated will be gradually
eliminated. The proposed project would help finance the regravelling
carried out by contract.



- 13 -
2.08      Other Operations.  In addition to the above subprograms on the
classified network the MOTC is responsible for maintenance operations on
450 km of service roads, some 7,000 km of rural access roads, 420 km of
municipal roads and 3 ferries. Its activities also include the maintenance
of road markings and signs and extraordinary maintenance operations. The
average annual budget for these activities is K£2.7 million (US$3.9
million) per annum.
(ii) Road Construction Program
2.09      Completion of Construction Projects under Execution.  Under the
construction program, first priority has been assigned to complete projects
under execution for which KE82 million (US$119.7 million) have been
budgeted. Annex 2.1 shows this program by type of activity (strengthening,
reconstruction, upgrading to bitumenous standard).
2.10      Gravelling, Bridging and Culverting Program.  Upon completion of
its targets, the program will not be continued in its present form (Para.
1.21). One of the three units of this program will be converted from
upgrading of earth roads to regravelling in FY 1985. The two remaining
units would likewise be deployed on regravelling activities in FYs 1986 and
1987 respectively. K£ 10 million (US$14.6 million) have been budgeted to
complete the road upgrading works programmed till FY 1987. When the
resources under this program are redeployed to regravelling, they will form
part of the regravelling program.
2.11      Rural Access Roads Program and Minor Roads Improvement Program.
The target under the Rural Access Roads Program (Para. 1.Z1) has been
reduced from 15,000 km to 8,000 km and construction of new rural access
roads is being phased out. From FY 1985 onwards construction of rural
access roads will be discontinued except under well defined agricultural
projects. The program will continue, however, with the gravelling of those
roads already built where passability needs to be ensured. Furthermore,
starting in FY 1985 the labor intensive approach and the resources
developed for the Rural Access Roads Program will be redeployed for the
improvement of the lower categories of the classified earth and gravel
roads under a new program, the Minor Roads Improvement Program (MRIP). The
techniques and procedures for this program are still being developed
through three pilot construction units. A total of KE 24.8 million
(US$36.2 million) has been budgeted for these programs.
2.12      New Projects.  The program of new road construction
(strengthening, reconstruction, upgrading) which has been selected for
inclusion in the plan from among a large list, comprises projects which
have a very high rate of return or which have an international character
and for which substantial donor support is available. Projects totalling
1,050 km would be started under the Plan and KE97.0 million (US$141.6
million) have been budgeted for implementation of these projects during the
period FYs 1984-1988. A large part of this program is composed of road
strengthening. Detailed engineering is either completed or nearing
completion for the projects proposed to be started during FYs 1985 and
1986. For projects to be started in subsequent years detailed engineering
is well advanced. The proposed project would finance new projects
totalling about 465 km (Annex 2.3).



- 14 -
2.13      Other Road Works.  This component of the construction program
includes bridge replacement works, flood damage works and the construction
of strategic road sections. A total of K£4.3 million (US$6.3 million) has
been budgeted for this component.
(iii) Support Programs and Activities
2.1]4     The maintenance and construction programs are complemented by
support programs and activities which either are essential for the
implementation of these programs or help to improve the overall performance
of the Highway Sector.
2.15      Planning, Design and Studies.  This component includes road
planning and feasibility studies, traffic surveys, highway design, the
ongoing rural access road impact study and consultancy assignments. Design
work by consultants is underway on some 30 road projects. The budget for
this component under the plan is K£8.7 million (US$12.7 million).
2.16      Equipment and Vehicles.  The update of the equipment inventory
carried out by MOTC during August/September 1983 established that equipment
holding in terms of number of pieces of equipment exceeds equipment
requirements during the plan period. Based on the equipment needs of
MOTC's force account workprogram and the findings of the equipment
condition survey which was completed in early 1984, a detailed program of
equipment scrapping, overhaul, repair and replacement is being prepared.
Requirements for workshops, tools and stores as well as the initial stock
and the recurrent needs for spare parts remain to be determined. Adequate
arrangements for equipment management and funding and a program for parts
control are also to be developed. Pending the completion of these tasks
KE9.2 million (US$13.4 million) have been budgeted for equipment, tools,
wor]kshops, stores and spare parts under the forward development budget.
This budget will be updated/revised when the determination of needs has
been firmed up. At negotiations Government undertook to prepare by June
30, 1986, with the help of consultants, cost effective programs covering:
(i) equipment repair and replacement; (ii) workshop development and spares
inventory control; and (iii) arrangements for equipment management and
funding. It was also agreed that prior to their completion, equipment,
tools, spare parts, workshops and stores will be eligible for financing
under the project on a selective basis subject to appropriate justification
(Para. 3.08 (iii)).
2.17      Staff Training.  Staff training during the plan will emphasize
traiining witWh theview of the redeployment of the Ministry's Rural Access
Roads and Gravelling, Bridging and Culverting Programs and the upgrading of
staff skills in general. The Staff Training Program provides for about
3,600 staff courses of pre-service training, 7,400 staff courses of
in-service training and 6,000 staff courses of new programs (driver
training in particular). The needs of the STD to carry out this program
are mainly in respect of road maintenance and workshop equipment valued at



- 15 -
K£3.4 million (US$5 million) (Annex 2.4). These needs are expected to be
largely met from the existing fleet, following completion of the equipment
holding review by the MTD. The proposed project would provide financing
for items which can not be met from the existing fleet.
2.18      Research Program of the Materials Branch.  During the FYs
1984-1988 Plan the workprogram of the Materials Branch will concentrate on
monitoring the performance of roads under various climatic and traffic
conditions and on carrying out research to optimize the design,
construction and maintenance of various types of roads. Extensive testing
in the laboratory and in the field of road building materials to determine
their characteristics and performance will be carried out. The results of
this analysis will be of direct relevance to the formulation of the
maintenance and construction programs in future years and will benefit the
introduction of the Highway Design Model. To support this continuing
research effort, various types of equipment in the different laboratories
will be replaced while some new additional equipment would also be
procured. The total budget for this procurement is KE2.8 million (US$4.1
million). The proposed project would help finance some of these needs.
2.19      Domestic Contracting Industry. This component of the Plan
provides for upgrading the competence (managerial, financial, technical) of
small domestic contractors with the aim of gradually preparing them to
operate in an open competitive environment as opposed to the system
prevailing so far under which rates are fixed by MOTC and contractors can
only be awarded work in their assigned districts. The component is
targetted at those contractors currently engaged on regravelling works who
are lacking in certain competence to compete successfully for this type of
civil engineering work, but have the ability to absorb training and advice
and have potential for improvement as evidenced by past performance and
general business attitude. Training, in the form of brief siminars,
on-the-job follow-up and periodic monitoring, would be provided to the
managers of these companies by an experienced company of international
repute selected for this assignment. Other personnel would be offered
access (at a fee covering costs) to MOTC's existing training facilities,
preferably in joint courses for MOTC and contractor's personnel of the same
level. Payment terms will be designed to meet the contractor's working
capital requirements. Contractors will also be given the opportunity to
rent equipment items from MOTC on a selective basis (to balance their
equipment fleet). Competitive bidding will be introduced in stages in
accordance with the training provided, ending with unrestricted local
competitive bidding on unit price basis in FY 1988 the last year of the
Plan (Annex 2.5). K£1.2 million (US$1.8 million) have been budgetted for
the training to be provided under this component which would be supported
by the proposed project. Road works valued at K£21.8 million (US$31.8
million) would be carried out by domestic contractors.
2.20      Road Markings and Road Safety.  During the previous Plan a road
safety program was launched to complement and reinforce the traditional
activities in the field of road markings and signalization. The road
safety program for FYs 1984-1988 provides for the further strengthening of



- 16 -
the Road Safety Unit in MOTC and of the National Road Safety Council
through the provision of technical assistance, the continuation of research
in the area of long distance traffic through provincial towns and the start
of a program of improvement of hazardous road sections on main roads. The
Government of Finland has agreed to finance technical assistance for the
road safety component. Furthermore, the program of construction of vehicle
inspection centers initiated under the previous plan will be
completed, including the equipping and staffing of these centers. The
total budget for this component is KE3.8 million (US$5.5 million). The
Proposed project would help finance some of these needs.
(iv) Institutional and Sector Policy Measures
2.21      Enforcement of Traffic Regulations.  This program to be carried
out jointly with the Kenya Traffic Police, provides for the introduction of
the new axle weight limit of 10 tons which was approved by Parliament in
early December 1983. It includes a public relations campaign to raise the
level of awareness of the road hauliers as to the new regulations, and
actual enforcement of the new regulations using the existing two static
weighbridges, three portable weighbridges to be acquired early during the
plan and four additional permanent weighbridges to be installed later at
the entry points to the Highway System. The portable weighbridges will be
deployed on a number of locations on the main roads on which overloading is
being observed. Vehicles which are found in breach with the regulations
will not be authorized on the road until excess weight has been unloaded.
The budget for this component over the FYs 1984-1988 period is K£0.4
million (US$0.6 million). Government has requested the Federal Republic of
Germany to finance the additional weighbridges but actual enforcement will
be started with the existing two weighbridges. During negotiations
agreement was reached that the start of enforcement of the new regulations
shall be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan/Credit. Furthermore,
Government undertook to strengthen its enforcement capacity through
acquisition and deployment of two additional permanent weighbridges by
December 31, 1987.
2.22      Strengthening of MOTC.  Measures to strengthen MOTC's operations
include the provision of technical assistance; the introduction of improved
maintenance planning and programming procedures with the help of
consultants; the creation of the function of coordinator for the Highway
Sector to improve overall coordination between the various units involved
in highways; and, the recruitment of three additional economists (over and
above the six recently appointed) to enable the Planning and Coordination
Division to carry out its various planning tasks. Even though the
Ministry's training and staff development programs have been successful in
producing large numbers of trained staff, a number of key senior positions
can not yet be filled by Kenyan nationals. Continuation of the services of
expatriate personnel is needed in particular in road maintenance, equipment
and stores management, staff training and the road safety program.
Bilateral sources will continue to finance the technical assistance already
in place. In the Mechanical and Transport Department, two positions of



- 17 -
Senior Superintending Engineer which have become vacant will need to be
filled from outside. Moreover, MOTC will need assistance to extend the
highway maintenance programming and costing scheme to all 41 districts
(Annex 2.6 and Annex 3.2, Page 9) and to introduce the Highway Design Model
(HDM) for purposes of evaluating alternative road maintenance,
rehabilitation and construction strategies (Annex 3.2, Page 11).
Consultants assistance (some 95 man-months) will be required to help carry
out these tasks and has been included under the proposed project. In all
cases where expatriate personnel are employed, MOTC will ensure that
qualified counterpart personnel are assigned on a permanent basis so that
outside assistance may be discontinued as soon as possible. At
negotiations it was agreed that MOTC will: (i) by June 30, 1985, fill the
two vacant positions in the Mechanical and Transport Department and the
three vacant positions in the Planning and Coordination Division; and,
prepare with the help of consultants, whose terms of reference shall be
acceptable to the Bank, a program for the extension of the maintenance
programming and costing scheme to all districts; (ii) by December 31, 1986,
introduce the HDM for planning purposes; and (iii) take all measures
required to ensure proper coordination between the various units involved
in the highway sector.
2.23      Intermodal Coordination.  To improve the distribution of traffic
between rail and road (Para 1.16), the Plan includes measures in three
areas: road user charges, the transport of petroleum products and transit
transport. The Government is committed to increase taxation on heavy
commercial vehicles so as to ensure that the total charges levied on these
vehicles will cover not less than the short run marginal cost which they
impose on the road network. The Government intends to achieve this
objective by raising the licence fee and other charges on heavy commercial
vehicles over a period of three years. Thereafter, the road user
charge/cost ratios will be updated periodically and adjustments in the
charges will be introduced as required. A review of the transport of
petroleum products West of Nairobi indicated that there is justification
and scope for a greater involvement of the railways in this transport and
Kenya Railways is taking steps (e.g. allocation of motive power) to carry a
higher volume of petroleum products to the West. Moreover, Government has
decided to re-examine the question of extending the pipeline West of
Nairobi and a feasibility study has been commissioned by the Ministry of
Energy. In view of the intermodal aspects involved, MOTC will liaise
closely on this matter with the Ministry of Energy. Finally, Kenya
Railways and Uganda Railways have concluded an operating agreement which
provides, inter alia, for wagon interchange and through tariffs. At
negotiations it was agreed that the Government will: (i) increase the
licence fee for heavy commercial vehicles by 10% by September 30, 1984;
(ii) effect further increases in licence fees and other road user charges
levied on heavy commercial vehicles so as to ensure that, by September 30,
1987, the total charges cover not less than the short run marginal costs
imposed by such vehicles on the road network; and (iii) adjust thereafter
periodically taxation on such vehicles so as to maintain the coverage of
short run marginal costs. Moreover, Government undertook to take all
measures necessary on its part to formalize appropriate arrangements with
the Republic of Uganda concerning the interchange of railway rolling stock.



- 18 -
2.24      Fuel Prices and Fuel Conservation in Transport.  The Government
is increasingly conscious of the impact on the balance of payments of fuel
consumption in transport. To reduce the growth of fuel consumption in
transport the Government relies primarily on a pricing policy which calls
for prices which cover no less than the resource cost of the various
products (Annex 1.10, Page 1). To achieve more significant results,
however, this needs to be complemented by other measures. In 1982-1983
MOTC collaborated with the Road Transport Research Laboratory of the U.K.
in carrying out a study on fuel conservation in transport. Based on the
findings of the study, expected to be published in early 1984, and other
relevant studies, Government will prepare appropriate fuel conservation
measures on a sound basis. Moreover, to minimize the cost of supplying the
market with fuel products, Government intends to install a secondary
refinery capacity at the Mombasa refinery. A Bank engineering project to
prepare this investment includes a study to recommend appropriate prices
for fuel products. At negotiations, it was agreed that Government, through
its MOTC, will exchange views with the Bank at regular intervals, on
appropriate measures for fuel conservation and on appropriate pricing of
fuel products used in transport.
C., Cost and Financing of the Highway Sector Plan
2.25      The cost estimates of the Plan (Table 2.1 and Annex 2.1) are
given in FY 1984 prices (January 1984). They have been prepared by MOTC as
follows: (i) for the various components of the maintenance program and for
road construction by force account, estimates are based on actual costs
during FY 1983 adjusted for inflation to FY 1984; (ii) for road
construction by contract estimates are based on recent bids for similar
works adjusted to FY84; (iii) for equipment, vehicles and tools, estimates
are based on recent actual CIF costs (Mombasa) for imported items plus a
local component for handling and transport; (iv) for technical assistance
and consultants average man-month costs are estimated at K£7,800
(US$11,400) which includes KE6,000 for salaries, firms overheads (home
office expenses, expatriate allowances, social costs etc.) and profit, and
K£ 1,800 for reimbursable expenses (international travel, communications,
subsistance and other miscellaneous items).
2.26      The total cost in FY 1984 prices of the Five-Year Highway Sector
Plan amounts to K£434 million (US$634 million). KE143 million (US$209
million) would be financed under the recurrent budget and KE291 million
(US$425 million) under the development budget. The foreign cost of the
Plan is estimated at K£230 million (US$336 million) or 53% of total costs.
The proposed Bank/Special Fund contribution of K£51.2 million (US$74.5
mi:Llion, without price contingencies) would finance 12% of the total cost
or 22% of the foreign cost. Donor commitments (AfDB, CIDA, DANIDA, EEC,
KFlW, FINLAND, NETHERLANDS, NORAD, ODA, SWITZERLAND, USAID) for projects
under execution are estimated at some KE36 million (US$53 million) and
would finance 8% of the Plan. Fresh commitments from these and other
donors (BADEA, SAUDI FUND) are expected in the amount of K£40 million
(US$58.4 million) representing 9% of the Plan's cost. External financing
at KE127.2 million (US$183 million) would cover 29% of total costs and 55%



- 19 -
of the foreign costs. Since under Kenya's forward budget mechanism,
external financing is included in the budgetary ceiling, the direct
budgetary contribution of the Government would be some KE 307 million
(US$448 million) or 71% of the total cost of the Highway Sector Plan. This
is feasible given that the Highway Sector Plan forms an integral part of
Government's overall Plan, which is based on realistic domestic and
external funding assumptions (Para. 4.01). Government, however, is
continuing its efforts to seek additional external financing, particularly
on concessionary terms.
Table 2.1 THE FIFTh HIGIAY SECCXR PLAN (EYs 1984-1988)
FORWARD BtlDET
(Kf  million, EY 1984 Prices)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    Total
A. Recurrent udget
1. Roatine Maintenance                                  9.9    10.1    11.0    11.3    11.6    53.9
2. Periodic Maintenance (Resealing & Regravelling)      4.7      7.3     7.8     8.3      9.8    37.9
3. Other Operations                                     3.2     4.3      4.7     5.0      5.4    22.6
4. Support: Mechanical                                  2.5      3.1     4.4     5.1      5.8    20.9
Staff Training                              0.7     0.8      0.8     0.9      0.9     4.1
Materials                                   0.5     0.6      0.7     0.8      0.8     3.4
Subtotal                                           21.5    26.2    29.4    31.4    34.3   142.8
B. Development Budget
1. Bitumnen and Chippings (Resealing)                   4.4     2.5      2.8     3.0      3.0    15.7
2. Corpletion of Construction Projects under Erecution   57.1    16,7    4,8     2.1      1.3    82.0
3. Force Account Road IhQrovemsnt Programs              8.4     8.4      9.0     9.0      8.6    43.4
4. Donestic Contractors (Regravelling) 1/                -       5.7     5.7     5.8      5.8    23.0
5. New Projects                                         3.4    13.4    25.0    27.0    28.0    96.8
6. Other Road Works                                     1.0     0.8      0.8     0.8      0.9     4.3
7. Planning, Design, Studies                            1.8      1.7     1.7     1.7      1.8     8.6
8. Support: Mchanical                                  2.9      2.0     1.6     1.6      1.6     9.7
Staff Training                              0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.1      0.9
Materials                                   0.7     0.6      0.6     0.5      0.4     2.8
8. Other Programs                                       0.9      1.2     0.8     0.7      0.7     4.3
Subtotal                                           80.8    53.2    53.0    52.4    52.2   291.6
Total                                              102.3    79.4    82.4    83.8    86.5   434.4
1/ Progran starts in EY 1985



- 20 -
III. BANK GROUP PARTICIPATION
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.01      Accomplishments under the First Highway Sector Project which
supported the Fourth Plan (FYs 1979-1983) fell short of the objectives
which had been set.  The poor performance was mainly caused by weaknesses
in implementation. Government, however, was pursuing sound sectoral
objectives and policies. These policies are being continued under the
Fifth Plan (FYs 1984-1988). Moreover, this Plan forms an integral part of
Government's overall Plan which is based on realistic domestic and external
funding projections. In its composition, the Plan correctly places greater
emphasis on maintenance. Finally, the Plan includes measures to remedy the
poor implementation performance of the past and to improve annual
workprogram formulation. These features, provide the basis for
continuation of sector lending.
3.02      Bank Group participation in the Plan on the basis of the sector
approach would help improve implementation in the following important
areas: (i) successful completion of the actions and policy measures
initiated under the previous Plan (Para. 1.24) which would contribute
significantly to reducing transport costs and improving the overall
performance of the sector; (ii) ensuring that during implementation, the
focus will remain on the Plan as a whole, in particular on the level of
funds allocated to maintenance and the balance between the various
components; (iii) ensuring that the measures to remedy the three main
causes for the unsatisfactory achievements under the previous Plan, namely:
the lack of an adequate planning mechanism to deal with budget reductions;
poor coordination between the various units of MOTC; and weaknesses in
workprogramming, monitoring and supervision, will be implemented; and (iv)
reduce the risk that high priority components will face implementation
difficulties on account of scarce imported materials.
3.03      The main objectives of the proposed project are therefore to help
the Government to lower transport costs (Para. 1.03) and to strengthen
MOTC, in particular its Plan implementation capabilities. To achieve these
objectives, the project aims at:
(i)  improving the maintenance of the existing road network;
(ii)  strengthening and upgrading priority roads;
(iii)  improving highway sector planning, administration and
coordination,including the adoption of sound criteria for project
selection;
(iv)  enforcing appropriate vehicle axle load regulations;
(v)  developing the domestic road construction industry;
(vi)  instituting appropriate user-charges for various vehicle
categories; and
(vii)  improving the modal distribution of traffic along the central
transport corridor.



- 21 -
3.04      The proposed project would help finance a slice (FYs 1985-1988)
of the Five-Year Highway Sector Plan (FYs 1984-1988). For purposes of
implementation of the Highway Sector Project any part or element of the
Plan is referred to as a subproject. The Plan and the subprojects to be
financed under the Loan/Credit during FY 1985 were agreed upon at
negotiations. Any updating/revisions of the Plan would be based on the
same criteria as used for initial Plan formulation (Para. 2.03). MOTC's
proposals for such updating/revisions would be submitted to the Bank by
April 1 of each fiscal year taking into account the draft budgetary ceiling
for the Ministry and would be finalized in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank upon determination of the final budgetary ceiling. Agreement to
finance any subprojects under the updated/revised Plan would be contingent
upon a satisfactory allocation of funds for maintenance within the total
budget available to the Ministry. Eligibility for financing would be
confirmed subject to submission of subproject documentation in satisfactory
form (Para. 3.08). These principles and procedures were agreed at
negotiations.
3.05      Bank Group participation in the Highway Sector Plan would consist
of:
(i)  Road works by contract:
(a) resealing of about 2,800 km of paved roads;
(b) regravelling of about 1,500 km of gravel roads;
(c) strengthening of about 220 km of paved roads;
(d) upgrading of about 245 km of gravel roads to paved standard;
(ii)  Support to MOTC's highway operations through the provision of:
(a) road maintenance equipment, tools and spare parts;
(b) workshops and stores;
(c) road building materials;
(d) consultants' services for improving highway maintenance
programming and costing, highway planning and highway
administration;
(e) laboratory equipment for the Materials Branch; and
(f) equipment for the road safety and traffic enforcement
programs.
(iii) Development of the domestic road construction industry through
the provision of consultants' services.
B. Project Cost and Financing
3.06      The total project cost including contingencies is estimated at
KE104.2 million (US$152.4 million). Excluding taxes and duties, the total
cost is KE95.0 million (US$138.9 million) with a foreign component of
KE67.9 million (US$98.7 million). The cost estimates in January 1984
prices are shown in Table 3.1.



- 22 -
Table 3.1
Estimated Project Costs:
Local    Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign    Total
------K£ milio       n        -US$ millions --
1. Road Wbrks by Contract
Resealing                         10.0      10.5      20.5       14.7       15.3       30.0
Regravelling                       4.7       2.1       6.8       7.0         3.0       10.0
Strengthening/Upgrading           10.2      27.6      37.8      14.9       40.1       55.0
2. Support to MDTC
Equipment, Tools, Spare Parts      0.3       7.0       7.3       0.5        10.2       10.7
Workshops and Stores               0.7       1.8       2.5       1.1         2.6        3.7
Materials                          0.5       2.7       3.2       0.8         3.9        4.7
laboratory Equipmnt                 -        0.5       0.5        -          0.7        0.7
Road Safety & Traffic Equiprxent    0.1      0.7       0.8       0.1         1.0        1.1
3. Consultants' Services for
supervision of road works,
support to MYTC's operations
and development of domstic
contractors (605 man/mnths)        0.9       3.8       4.7       1.4        5.5         6.9
Base Cost                         27.4      56.7      84.1      40.5       82.3       122.8
Price Contingencies 1/             8.9      11.2      20.1      13.2        16.4       29.6
Total Project Cost                36.3      67.9     104.2      53.7        98.7      152.4
Front end Fee on Bank Loan          -        0.1       0.1        -         0.1        0.1
Total Financing Required          36.3      68.0     104.3      53.7        98.8      152.5
(Total Project Cost
Net of Taxes)                   (27.1)    (67.9)    (95.0)    (40.2)      (98.7)    (138.9)
1/ Expected price increases %
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Local     13.0    11.0    11.0    10.0    10.0
Foreign    7.5     7.0     6.0     6.0     6.0
As physical targets under the Sector Project are defined
in broad terms and most cost estinates are not yet based
on detailed design, physical contingency is not shown separately.



- 23 -
3.07      The total financing requirement of US$152.5 million will be
covered as follows:
Local    Foreign    Total
US$ million------
IBRD                50.0      50.0
Special Fund                40.0       40.0
Government of Kenya      53.7        8.8      62.5
53.7      98.8      152.5
C. Criteria for Eligibility of Subprojects
3.08      Every year, the financing of specific subprojects will be
contingent upon adoption of a satisfactory annual workprogram given the
total budget available to the Ministry; and, the submission of subproject
proposals providing satisfactory justification and documentation as
follows:
(i) For resealing and regravelling by contract, MOTC will submit a
list of proposed road sections, with supporting documentation
which will describe the scope of the works, the selection
procedure adopted, economic rate of return and relative priority
within the overall program, the estimated cost and proposed
technical specifications, supervision arrangements, lot
packaging, requirements for contractors' prequalification and
procurement and execution schedule;
(ii) For construction (strengthening, upgrading) the submission will
include a fully documented feasibility study (summarized on a
data sheet) providing justification for the investment, the
proposed engineering specifications, requirements for contractors'
prequalification, and procurement and implementation schedules.
Submission of detailed engineering and proposals for supervision
of the works satisfactory to the Bank will also be required;
(iii) For highway maintenance equipment, workshop tools and spare parts
the submission will provide a description of the type of goods
and their specifications, the estimated cost, proposed lot
packaging and procurement schedule and procedures. Prior to the
completion of the equipment management programs (Para. 2.16),
subprojects will be eligible on a selective basis subject to
appropriate justification for the proposed type of goods and
quantities. Such justification should be in terms of critical
requirements, availability and utilization ratios and all other
pertinent factors. After completion of the equipment management
programs, the justification will be based on the recommendations
of these programs.



- 24 -
(iv) For civil works for workshops and stores the submission will
provide details on the specifications of the structures, their
estimated cost, the proposed requirements for contractors'
prequalification, and proposed procurement and construction
schedules. Prior to the completion of the equipment management
programs (Para. 2.16), subprojects will be eligible on a
selective basis subject to appropriate justification for the
specifications and location of the structures. Such
justification should be in terms of critical requirements to
service existing operations. After completion of the equipment
management programs, the justification will be based on the
recommendations of these programs;
(v) For purchases of road building materials MOTC will submit a
detailed proposal specifying the materials and their intended
use, providing justification for the proposed quantities on the
basis of the agreed workprogram and details on lot sizes, phasing
of deliveries, distribution and storage arrangements and proposed
procurement schedule. Requests for repeat purchases would be
subject to satisfactory utilization of the materials procured
previously;
(vi) For training, laboratory, road safety and traffic enforcement
equipment, MOTC will submit a detailed proposal giving the
specifications, estimated cost, justification in terms of
requirements in the context of the overall component and proposed
procurement schedule and procedures;
(vii) For consultants, studies and technical assistance, MOTC will
submit a proposal giving detailed terms of reference, man-months
estimates and budget, total cost and procurement and
implementation schedules.
3.09      The Bank would in each case review the above specified
documentation, request additional information as required and assess
eligibility. Rejected subprojects may be resubmitted at a later stage for
reconsideration in the light of additional information, or if the scope or
standards of the subproject have been revised. These principles and
procedures were agreed at negotiations. The road construction subprojects
which would be submitted during the first year of the project (FY 1985) are
shown in Annex 3.2, Page 3.
D. Implementation and Procurement of Bank Group Financed Subprojects
3.10      MOTC through its various Branches and Departments will be
responsible for implementation of the subprojects financed by the Bank
Group. Maintenance Branch will assist in the preparation, implementation
and supervision of the subprojects under the resealing program. Mechanical
and Transport Department will assist in the procurement of maintenance



- 25 -
equipment, vehicles, workshop tools and spare parts including the equipment
for training, the laboratory, road safety and traffic enforcement. The
Construction Department will assist in the procurement of the road
construction subprojects and the related supervision contracts. It will
also implement the component for developing domestic contractors and will
assist in the preparation, implementation and supervision of the
subprojects under the program of regravelling by contract. Technical
assistance and studies would be handled by the beneficiary department or
branch. Overall coordination of the implementation of the project would be
assured by the coordinator for the Highway Sector appointed recently in the
MOTC.
3.11      All civil works, equipment, tools and spare parts, materials and
supplies, except as noted in subsequent paragraphs, (US$123.0 million
equivalent) will be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits". For purposes of bid comparison, domestic
manufacturers would be accorded a preference of 15% or the existing
applicable rate of import duties, which ever is lower, over the c.i.f.
price of competing foreign suppliers. Contracts valued at US$56.4 million
will be procured under the special eligibility criteria of the Special Fund
(Table 3.2).
3.12      Regravelling works are widely dispersed and costs would range
between US$300,000 and US$750,000 each (US$12.8 million total). Given the
limited scope for lot grouping, foreign contractors are unlikely to show
interest in these works. Lot packaging would take into consideration the
contracting capacity available within each region. The works will be
awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally according to
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The category of domestic contractors
which is being strengthened under the project (Para. 2.19) would be
considered for participating in the bidding for these works during the
third and fourth year of the project. Financing would be from the Special
Fund.
3.13      The civil works for construction of workshops and stores are
widely dispersed and costs would not exceed US$400,000 each (US$4.8 million
total). Foreign contractors are unlikely to show interest in these works.
They will be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally
according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.14      Small quantities of construction materials such as cement and
reinforcing steel, and items such as tools and spare parts, in lots with an
estimated cost of less than US$50,000 equivalent and with an aggregate
limit of US$300,000 equivalent may be procured through local procurement
procedures to be agreed with the Bank. Spare parts for existing
proprietary equipment, with an aggregate limit of US$700,000 may be
procured directly from suppliers.



- 26 -
3.15        Minor equipment items and instruments of a specialized nature for
training, the laboratory, road safety and traffic enforcement, which are
not generally available in Kenya will be procured though international
shopping as provided in the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits".
3.16        Consultants for the supervision of civil works and for studies
and technical assistance (US$8.2 million) will be employed in accordance
with the Bank Group "Gulidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers". Selection will be based primarily on the technical evaluation
of the consultants' proposal and final selection will be agreed with the
Bank before entering into any contractual agreement. Consultants' services
for a total of US$3.7 million will be procured under the special
eligibility criteria of the Special Fund (Table 3.2).
3.17        These procurement procedures were agreed at negotiations.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2
Procurement  td
Procreent Method
ICB             CIB              Other                   TOTAL COST
Subprojects             BANK    Spec.  BAN    Spec.    BANK        Spec.   Total       BANK       Spec.
Fund           Furd               F\nI                          F.nd
Resealing                18.7    18.5                                        37.2       18.7       18.5
(9.1)   (9.0)                                      (18.1)     (9.1)      (9.0)
Regrame1ling                                      12.8                       12.8                  12.8
(3.6)                      (3.6)                (3.6)
Strengtheningj           36.9    31.5                                        68.4       36.9       31.5
LUpgrading             (21.5)   (18.4)                                     (39.9)    (21.5)    (18.4)
EquipjTent, Tools, Parts   6.8     6.4                      2.1              15.3        8.9        6.4
(6.4)   (6.0)                    (2.0)             (14.4)     (8.4)      (6.0)
Wkrks]-ops & Stores                       4.8                                 4.8        4.8
(2.7)                              (2.7)      (2.7)
Materials                 4.2             1.4               0.2               5.8        5.8
(3.6)           (0.9)            (0.2)              (4.7)     (4.7)
Services                                                    4.5      3.7      8.2        4.5        3.7
_________   _______   ________   ________  (3.6)  (3.0)  (6.6)  (3.6)      (3.0)
66.6    56.4    6.2    12.8       6.8       3.7   152.5       79.6       72.9
(40.6)  (33.4)  (3.6)   (3.6)   (5.8)    (3.0)   (90.0)    (50.0)    (40).0)
123.0            19.0             10.5
(74.0)           (7.2)            (8.8)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amnts financed  yr the loan/Special Fund Credit.
1/ Includes consultants for oonstruction supervision (350 man-mrnths), strengthening of M'IT  (165
mai-mronths) and domestic contractors couponents (90) mwn-nnths).



- 27 -
E. Disbursement
3.18      Based on a detailed cost breakdown the foreign exchange component
(direct plus indirect) has been estimated at 51% for the resealing works by
contract, at 30% for the regravelling works by contract, at 73% for road
construction works by contract and at 69% for civil works (buildings). The
foreign exchange component of imported goods procured locally is estimated
at 65%.
3.19      The proposed Loan/Special Fund Credit will be disbursed on the
following basis:
(i) 50% of total expenditures for resealing works by contract;
(ii)  30% of total expenditures for regravelling works by contract;
(iii) 60% of total expenditures for road construction works and
buildings;
(iv)  for equipment, tools, spare parts, materials and supplies, 100%
of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost), and 65% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally;
(v) 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for
consulting services.
All disbursement requests will be fully documented.
3.20      The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 3.1.
It is based on the schedule of implementation of the subprojects likely to
be supported by the Loan/Credit, the disbursement percentages outlined
above, the disbursement profile for the First Highway Sector Project, and
takes into consideration that in the course of 1983 MOTC has adopted
procedure III (where applicable), for the withdrawal of proceeds under the
First Highway Sector Project (Loan 1684-KE).



- 28 -
Table 3.3 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Fiscal year        Disbursements          Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter         US$ million           US$ million        %
1985
March 31                 2.0                  2.0           2
June 30                  4.0                  6.0           7
1986
September 30            6.0                  12.0          13
December 31              6.0                 18.0          20
March 31                 6.0                 24.0          27
June 30                  6.0                 30.0          33
1987
September 30            6.0                  36.0          40
December 31              6.0                 42.0          47
March 31                 6.0                 48.0          53
June 30                  6.0                 54.0          60
1988
September 30            5.0                  59.0          66
December 31              5.0                 64.0          71
March 31                 5.0                 69.0          77
June 30                  5.0                 74.0          82
1989
September 30            5.0                  79.0          88
December 31              4.0                 83.0          92
March 31                 3.0                 86.0          96
June 30                  2.0                 88.0          98
1990
September 30             1.0                 89.0          99
December 31              1.0                 90.0         100
F., Accounting and Reporting Requirements
3.21      The accounts for the programs and components financed under the
project will be maintained by the Accounts Section of the Administrative
Division of MOTC. MOTC's accounting procedures and its capability to carry



- 29 -
out this task were reviewed and found satisfactory. The accounts will be
available for inspection by the Bank during project implementation. They
will be audited by the Auditor General or other independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank and his audit report will be submitted to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. These
requirements were agreed at negotiations.
3.22      MOTC would prepare monthly and quarterly reports to the Bank
providing: (i) information in the form of indices on the progress of
implementation of the Highway Sector Plan in general; (ii) details on the
progress of Bank Group financed subprojects; and (iii) details on the
status of preparation for subprojects proposed for Bank Group financing
(Annex 3.3). The third quarter report will be more extensive and will in
particular cover the budget proposals for the following year and any
proposals for updating of the Sector Plan. Submission of a project
completion report in a form satisfactory to the Bank, not later than six
months after the Closing Date of the Loan/Credit will also be required.
These reporting requirements were agreed at negotiations.



- 30 -
IV. ASSESSMENT
A. Size and Composition of the Highway Sector Plan
4.01      The Fifth Highway Sector Plan forms an integral part of
Government's overall National Plan which is based on domestic and external
funding projections which have been reviewed by the Bank and found
realistic. Under the Plan, the share of the Highway Sector in total
Government expenditures would be 8.0%. Moreover, in real terms the outlays
to the sector will hardly increase compared to actual expenditures under
the previous Plan. The overall size of the Plan is therefore financially
realistic and feasible.
4.02      In the early years, however, a considerable financial effort will
be required since the proposed allocations are higher than the average of
the Plan while for the last two years they are below the average. This is
the result of the high level of committments on new construction projects
entered into in FYs 1981 and 1982 which can not be sustained during FYs
1984-1988 given the overall ceiling adopted for the sector. Under the
development budget, outlays would decrease from KE80.8 million (US$118
million) in FY 1984 (including KE12 million carried over from FY 1983) to
Kf52.2 million (US$76 million) in FY 1988. Outlays under the recurrent
budget on the other hand will increase from K£21.5 million (US$31.4
million) in FY 1984 to KE34e3 million (US$50.1 million) in FY 1988. In
line with the trends in absolute terms, the Highway Sector's share under
the recurrent budget increases from 3.25% in FY 1984 to 4.10% in FY 1988,
while under the development budget, the share decreases from 22% in FY 1984
to 15% in FY 1988.
4.03      The Plan gives adequate emphasis to routine maintenance and to
regravelling of gravel roads and resealing of paved roads. The funds which
have been allocated to routine and periodic maintenance under the various
budgetary headings represent 43% of the total Highway Sector budget
(compared to about 25% under the previous Plan), and will permit MOTC to
reach its maintenance standards for practically all activities by the end
of the Plan Period. To increase the effectiveness of these allocations the
maintenance strategy will be further improved upon during implementation of
the Plan, through introduction of the Highway Design Model. Two ongoing
programs aimed at expanding the road network are being phased out and
redeployed towards periodic maintenance and/or upgrading of the existing
network. New construction is aimed to a large extent at strengthening of
existing paved roads. The various programs have been formulated primarily
on the basis the Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The minimum ERR for
inclusion of any element in the Plan was set at 12%. In terms of
composition, the Plan addresses itself, therefore, to the priority needs.
Moreover, the supporting measures and policies included in the Plan will
help reduce the cost of transport and make the sector more responsive to
the transport requirements of the economy.



- 31 -
B. Tmplementation Feasibility
4.04      The components of the Plan to be carried out by force account, in
particular the routine maintenance and to a lesser extent the resealing and
regravelling, deserve attention from the point of view of physical
feasibility since the targets which have been set will require an increase
in output compared to the past. Even though past output shortfalls in
these activities have mainly been caused by inadequate budgets, weaknesses
in workprogramming, budgetting and supervision have contributed
significantly to the poor performance. The measures under the Plan to
improve upon these aspects of implementation, inter alia, the extension of
the maintenance programming and costing scheme and the improvements in the
availability of equipment will need careful follow-up.
4.05      Except for the regravelling by contract, works to be carried out
by contract during the Plan do not increase in volume compared to the past
and the contracting industry, which has performed satisfactorily in the
past, is fully capable of carrying out the proposed works. The
regravelling by contract will largely be carried out by small domestic
contractors under tendering procedures which will gradually become more
competitive (Para. 2.19). The targets set for these works represent an
increase compared to the past. Since this segment of the contracting
industry would benefit from special assistance under the Plan (Para. 2.19)
the expansion in output is feasible.
C. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.06      The maintenance program covers the entire network of classified
and special purpose roads which link centers of activity to each other and
to their agricultural hinterland. The distribution and density of this
network closely matches population settlements and economic activity. The
construction projects,- strengthening, reconstruction and upgrading, are
mostly located on the highly trafficked sections of the network which are
in the central East-West transport corridor. The direct benefits of these
physical components of the Plan will arise primarily in the form of VOC
savings. In addition, the greater emphasis on maintenance will reduce road
repair and reconstruction costs and also freight damage, travel time and
other social costs associated with the existing condition of parts of the
network. Furthermore, as a result of improved maintenance and the Minor
Roads Improvement Program, reliability of road transport should be restored
on those sections of the network where the condition had deteriorated and
was affecting all year passability. The savings in VOC will accrue in the
first instance to the truckers and traders. In view of the competitive
conditions in road transport the benefits will be passed on to consumers
and producers, and should also translate in a marginal improvement in
export prices.
4.07      From among the policy measures under the Plan, the most
significant benefits will result from strict enforcement of the vehicle
axle load regulations. While in the short term, the enforcement is
expected to lead to increases in transport rates by between 5 to 15% for



- 32 -
certain types of transport, rates should come down over time as road damage
by overloaded vehicles is reduced. Moreover, enforcement of the axle load
limit will substantially reduce future road repair and reconstruction
costs. Additional funds will thereby become available for road maintenance
and gradual extension of the road network. The economy in general will
benefit from these cost savings.  The improved modal distribution of
traffic in the main transport corridor resulting from more appropriate road
user charges and a commercial orientation in railway operations will reduce
transport system costs in general. These cost reductions will also be
passed on to consumers and producers and will benefit the economy in
general.
D. Economic Evaluation
4.08      While the various activities and programs are closely
interrelated with each other and have to be viewed as part of a multi-year
strategy to maximize overall benefits from available funds, no formal
comprehensive optimization approach was adopted to formulate and evaluate
the Highway Sector Plan (this will become possible after the introduction
of the HMD). The Highway Sector Plan, however, was formulated on the basis
of sound general principles (Paras. 2.03 and 4.03). The economic
justification for the major components and projects which was carried out
separately is reviewed below.
(i) Maintenance Program
4.09      Under the maintenance program three activities, grading,
regravelling and resealing account for 62% of total expenditures. The
balance is allocated to various routine maintenance activities, maintenance
of special purpose roads and overheads. For each, the economic analysis is
based on a comparison of VOC with and without the activity. Grading has a
direct impact on road condition and hence on vehicle operating costs. The
economic cost of a grading cycle is estimated at KE 60/km and would on
average reduce vehicle operating costs by 8%. The ERR of this activity is
estimated at more than 100% (Annex 4.1). Regravelling is expected to lower
VOC not only in the year in which the activity is carried out but also
during a number of subsequent years varying between three and six depending
on climatic conditions and traffic flow. The economic cost of regravelling
is estimated at KE 3,950/km and would yield an average reduction in VOC of
K£ 0.06/km. The ERR is estimated at 61% (Annex 4.1). Resealing of paved
roads will improve the riding surface and protect the base course and hence
will have a favorable impact on future VOC and on road maintenance and
repair costs. The economic cost of resealing is estimated at KE 6,500/km.
The life of the investment is determined primarily by traffic flow and 3
cases have been examined: (a) 1,000 veh/day requiring a 5-year cycle; (b)
600 veh/day requiring a 6-year cycle; and (c) 300 veh/day requiring a
7-year cycle. Without the investment VOC would increase rapidly; the
reduction in VOC would be KE 0.04 in the first year increasing to K£ 0.09
for the last year of the cycle. The estimated ERR exceeds 100%.
4.10      For the equipment, tools and spare parts used in the force
account operations, the ERR has not been quantified as procurement under
the Plan remains to be determined as part of the various preparatory tasks
under equipment management (Para 2.16). Since the main objective of these



- 33 -
tasks is to formulate proposals for equipment/spares holding and for
workshop tools which are fully consistent with the size and composition of
the maintenance program, the items which will eventually be procured will
have a significant impact not only on the maintenance output but also on
the cost effectiveness of the services of the Mechanical and Transport
Department by reducing equipment holding and operating costs and increasing
the availability of equipment.
(ii) Road Construction Program
4.11      Just over 50% of the total outlays for the road construction
program consist of new projects; the balance is allocated for projects and
programs under execution. While the ongoing Rural Access Roads Program
will be phased out, its resources will be redeployed under a new program
for improvement of the lower categories of the classified network using
labor intensive techniques. Three pilot construction units were started in
mid-1983 to develop the implementation techniques and procedures and
establish costs and productivity levels. While the results of these pilot
schemes are not available, indications are that the cost per km would be on
the order of K£7.500 and the life of the investment 8 years. The estimated
saving in VOC would be KE 0.10 km and the ERR is estimated at 16.0% (Annex
4.2).
4.12      The actual new projects come under three categories:
strengthening/overlaying, reconstruction and upgrading to bitumen
standard. Feasibility studies have been completed for all projects
proposed to be included in the Plan (Annex 2.3) and cost estimates based on
preliminary or detailed engineering are available for most of these
projects. Estimates of traffic and of traffic compostion are based on
MOTC's countrywide system of traffic counts and additional counts or
origin-destination surveys carried out for specific cases. The average ERR
for the road strengthening projects is 44%. For the reconstruction
projects the average ERR is 32% while for the category of upgrading to
bitumen standard the average ERR is 20%. The overall ERR is 29% (Annex
4.2).
(iii)   Other Components
4.13      The economic evaluation of other components of the Plan such as
road safety, training, domestic contractors is more complex, since benefits
are difficult to quantify. The road safety component, however, draws on
previous experience in Kenya and other countries and is expected over time
to achieve a significant reduction in traffic accidents and fatalities.
The training program is expected to yield higher efficiency in MOTC's
overall operations while the domestic contractors component would increase
the efficiency of small domestic contractors. The other items to be
carried out with consultants assistance, are aimed at improved operations
within the Ministry and as such would be very worthwhile.



- 34 -
(iv) Bank Group Financed Subprojects
4.14      The larger part (77%) of the subprojects proposed to be financed
by the Bank Group, i.e. regravelling, resealing, road strengthening and
upgrading lend themselves to quantification of economic benefits. Based on
the new construction projects which will probably be presented for Bank
Group financing the overall ERR of Bank Group financed subprojects would be
64%. As discussed above Bank Group participation with the remaining funds
(23%) in the other components of the Plan is very worthwhile.
E., Risks
4.15      While the Highway Sector Plan is physically and economically
feasible, there are a number of factors which could frustrate the
achievement of the main aim of the project, the reduction of road transport
system costs. Firstly, the economic situation of the country could evolve
less favorably than projected. In that eventuality it is expected that the
Highway Sector would suffer a budgetary reduction which is proportional to
the overall budgetary shortfall. The annual Highway Sector Plan reviews
would provide the vehicle for revising the Plan and ensuring that the
budget reduction will not affect the projects and programs with the highest
priority. Secondly, foreign exchange difficulties at the national level
could create shortages of imported materials critical for the
implementation of the maintenance program. The project, however, can
alleviate these difficulties by financing some imported materials. Third,
the efficiency of road maintenance might not improve much as a result of
slow progress in workprogramming and supervision of maintenance activities
(inter alia, following the decentralizaton measures introduced in 1983 for
the entire Government) and in coordination between the Units of MOTC
involved in the Highway Sector. The risk of the first factor occurring
will be considerably reduced by the gradual introduction of the maintenance
programming and costing scheme (Para 2.05) and the institution of increased
accountability at the district level. As for the second factor, the
appointment in December 1983 of a coordinator for the Highway Sector
indicates that MOTC is determined to streamline coordination between the
various units concerned. If required, further measures aimed at improving
coordination could be introduced on the occasion of the annual reviews
(Para. 2.22).



- 35 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      The following major items were discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations and are included as special covenants in the Loan/Credit
Agreements:
(a) when investing in major transport sector projects, the
Government will afford the Bank the opportunity for
consultations as regards the viability and timing of such
investments (Paras. 1.13 and 1.15);
(b) any future hiring of road maintenance personnel shall be
in accordance with the staffing requirements as defined
under the program for extension of the maintenance
programming and costing scheme to the entire country (Para.
1.17);
(c) by June 30, 1986, MOTC will prepare, with the help of
consultants, cost effective programs covering: (i) equipment
repair and replacement; (ii) workshop development and spares
inventory control; and (iii) arrangements for equipment
management and funding (Para. 2.16);
(d) by December 31, 1987, Government will strengthen its
capacity to enforce the vehicle axle load regulations
through acquisition and deployment of two additional
permanent weighbridges (Para. 2.21);
(e) MOTC will: (i) by June 30, 1985, fill the two vacant
positions in the Mechanical and Transport Department and the
three vacant positions in the Planning and Coordination;
and, prepare with the help of consultants, whose terms of
reference shall be acceptable to the Bank, a program for
extension of the maintenance programming and costing scheme
to all districts; (ii) by December 31, 1986, introduce the
HDM for planning purposes; and (iii) take all measures
required to ensure proper coordination between the various
units involved in the Highway Sector (Para. 2.22);
(f) the Government will: (i) by September 30, 1984, increase the
licence fee for heavy commercial vehicles by 10%; (ii)
effect further increases in licence fees and other road user
charges levied on heavy commercial vehicles so as to ensure
that by September 30, 1987, the total charges cover not less
than the short run marginal costs imposed by such vehicles
on the road network; and, (iii) thereafter adjust
periodically taxation on such vehicles so as to maintain the
coverage of short run marginal costs (Para. 2.23);



- 36 -
(g) the Government will take all measures necessary on its part
to formalize appropriate arrangements with the Republic of
Uganda concerning the interchange of railway rolling stock
(Para. 2.23);
(h) the Government, through its MOTC, will exchange views with
the Bank at regular intervals on appropriate measures for
fuel conservation and on appropriate pricing of fuel
products used in transport (Para. 2.24);
(i) (i) the composition of the FYs 1984-1988 Highway Sector
Plan; (ii) the subprojects to be financed under the
Loan/Credit during FY 1985; (iii) the criteria and
procedures for the Plan's updating, and for approval and
eligibility of subprojects to be financed under the
Loan/Credit (Paras. 3.04, 3.08, 3.09);
(j) the procurement procedures and arrangements for goods and
services financed under the Loan/Credit (Paras. 3.11 -
3.17); and,
(k) progress reporting requirements, including indices for
measuring implementation progress, and submission of a
project completion report in a form satisfactory to the
Bank, not later than six months after the Closing Date of
the Loan/Credit (Para. 3.22).
5.02      A condition of effectiveness of the Loan/Credit will be that all
measures required for actual enforcement of the 10 ton axle load limit have
been taken.
5.03      Agreement having been reached on the items listed in Para. 5.01,
the proposed project is suitable for an IBRD Loan of US$50.0 million and a
Special Fund Credit of SDR 37.8 million (US$40.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1. 1
Page 1 of S
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Past Bank Group-Financed Transport Projects in Kenya
Loan/        Amount                                                               Present
Year   Credit      (US$ million)          Project Components                      Status
1955   Loan 1/         24.0        Made to the East African High Commission   Completed
110-EX                     to partially cover 1954-57 development        in 1957
plan for the East African Railways and
Harbours Administration.
1960   Loan            5.6         Agricultural project which included           Completed
256-KE                     construction of approximately 910 km          in 1964
of feeder roads (Loan guaranteed by the
United Kingdom).
1965   Credit          4.5         Engineering, improvement, and construc-    Completed
70-KE                      tion of approximately 315 km of trunk         in 1969
roads.
1965   Credit          3.0         Improvement of approximately 1,400 km         Completed
77-KE                      of tea roads.                                 in 1970
1965   Loan 1/         38.0        Made to the East African Common Services   Completed
428-EA                     Authority to finance a portion of the         in 1971
foreign exchange costs of the 1965-68
development program of the East African
Railways and Harbours Administration
(of the US$38 million, 5.6 million
were for minor port development and
the remainder for railways).
1967   Credit          5.3         Engineering and construction of about         Completed
104-KE                     820 km of sugar roads.                        in 1971
1968   Credit         10.7         Construction of approximately 460 km         Completed
120-KE                     of trunk roads.                               in 1972
PPAR#846
issued
1/     Made to all three members of the East African Community, therefore, loan amount
includes funds for Kenya and the other two countries.



-38-
ANNEX 1I. 
Page 2 of 5
Loan/         Amount                                                       Present
Year   Credit       (US$ million)          Project Components                       Status
1969   Loan             23.5       (C)  Reconstruction of about 460 km of           Completed
639-XE                           feeder roads;                              in 1975
PPAR#2062
issued
(ii) reconstruction and strengthening of
about 136 km of trunk roads;
(iii)  construction of 36 km of main roads
and 350 km of feeder field access
roads for the Phase II sugar roads
program;
(iv) improvement to gravel standard
about 650 km settlement roads;
(v) consultant services for supervision
of construction and detailed
engineering; and
(vi) a study of the organization of MOW.
1969   Loan 1/          35.0        Made to the East African Rarbours Corpo-   Completed i
638-EA                      ration.  The project elements for the          1979 PPAR#4
Mombasa Port were two general cargo           issued
berths, a bulk cement wharf and port
operating equipment.
1970   Credit           12.6        Highway Maintenance Project including:
224-RE
ci)  Implementation of the reorganiza-        Completed
tion of MOW through a staffing           in 1979
and training program;                    PPAR#3659
issued
(ii) purchase of road maintenance and
workshop equipment including spare
parts;
(iii) construction and improvement of
regional workshops, offices and
road maintenance camps;
(iv) training of maintenance personnel;
and
(v) construction of additional train-
ing center facilities and purchase
of training equipment; and con-
sultant services.
Made to all three members of the East African Community, therefore, loan amount
includes funds for Kenya and the other two countries.



-39-
ANNEX 1. 1
Page 3 of 5
Loan/         Amount                                                      Present
Year   Credit      (US$ million)           Project Components                      Status
1970   Loan I/         42.4         Railway Project with the East                 Conipleted
674-EA                               African Railways Corporation,                  in 1977
including:                                    PPAR under
preparation
(i)  improvement of crack, signal-
ling and telecom=unications;
(ii)  construction of one marshalling
yard; additional crossing
stations, one diesel locomotive
shed, one wagon ferry terminal
and staff housing;
(iii) replacement and rehabilitation
of lake vessels;
(iv)  acquisition of freight wagons,
spare parts, workshop equipment
and road vehicles; and
(v)  studies of the economic feasibi-
lity of certain railway lines
and services.
1972   Credit          22.0          (i)  Construction, restoration and            Completed in
276-KE                            improvement of about 71 km of             1979 PPAR
trunk roads, 158 km of feeder            under
roads, 995 km of tea collection          preparation
roads, and 429 km of settlement
access roads; and
(ii)  engineering services and super-
vision of construction of above.
1972   Loan 1/         26.5         Made to the East African Harbours               Comoleted
865-EX                       Corporation.  The main project                  in 1979 PPAR
elements for the Mombasa Port were:            #4029 issued
(i)  back-of-port works on the two
berths financed under Loan
638-EA, a tug berth, cold
storage facilities; and
(ii)  rehabilitation of older facilities.
Made to all three members of the East African Community, therefore, loan amount
includes funds for Kenya and the other two countries.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1. 1
Page 4 of 5
Loan/         Amount                                                          Present
Year   Credit      (USS million)           Project Components                    Status
1972   Loan            29.0        (i)  Development of first phase of a          Completed in
826-KE                           master plan for new passenger and        1978 PPAR
freight terminal area, related          3712 issued
aircraft operational areas and
auxiliary buildings for Nairobi
International Airport; and
(ii)  technical assistance and train-
ing to develop modern management
and accounting methods for Kenya
Government's Aerodrome Department.
1973   Loan            29.0        (i)  Improvement of Nairobi Airport            Completed in
932-KR                           road to dual carriage-way                 1981 PPAR
standards;                               under
preparation
(ii)  construction of approximately
315 km of roads serving agri-
cultural areas;
(-ii)  construction or improvement of
about 288 km of sugar collec-
tion or access tracks; and
(iv)  technical assistance.
1975   Loan            20.0        Provision of a 14-inch 452 km long            Completed in
1133-KE                    oil pipeline with a 2 km lateral line          1978 PPAR
to the Embakasi Airport, four pumping         13483 issued
stations with staff quarters, two
mintenance depots, product receiving,
storage and transfer depots, staff
training, tele-control and telemetry
systems and other miscellaneous
ancillaries.
.1976   Loan           8.0         Assistance in the implementation of           In progress
1305-K!                    Rural Access Road Program consisting of:
Credit
651-KE                      (i)  equipping and operating 8 con-
struction units for 3 years each;
(ii)  implementing an expansion of the highways training
programs;
(iii) evaluating and monitoring the
RARP and
(iv)  maintenance of roads constructed
under .the RARP.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 5 of 5
Loan/                 Amount              Project Components                      Present
Year   Credit      (USS million)        Highway Sector Project                    Status
1979   Loan            90.0        (i)  strengthening and construction           In progress
of paved roads;
(ii) upgrading of existing earth
gravel roads to paved standard
and all-weather standard;
(iii) extension of the RARP;
(iv) maintenance program;
(v) traffic law enforcement and
road safety program; and
(vi)  miscellaneous studies.



ORGANISATION CHART OF
THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T INISTE N
MIUNISTER                   M  INISTER 
PERMANENT SECRETARY
FAQU INISTRATIVE E3             -                                      1          ROADS AD  AVATONM   OOLRANRSPOAT PNNING
lVIS         DIISIONT               AIRODROMES                                    AND NPIGCMUIAIN           .A  CODNATIO
(Co EMON  RGCES)           IGEPU1Y SECRETARY)        (CAIEF ENGINEER)          ( OEFUTY SECRETARY       DEPUTY SECRETARY      ICHIEF ENGINEER)
(ROARS AN   EA                                                                    A ING
_ 1 _ _ _ I , , | I _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AOSANCED PLANNNC                                                                                     P01. CR REVIEW         I       PROJECT RETIRE-
AEMORRNRES       DESIGN       CONSTROCTAN    M HAINTENRCE             POSTS A        I       ERTERNAL                            ANO PROGRRING                    RESEARCR AY                      NYRTIUN AND RON-
[¶INFERINGJ        SNANCO          SNARER      E     RANCN            EI L!f ECCR ICAD)RS|  TELEGONIUNJCATIANS                          OVUNCE  STATIN'CS RAUNCY
_  C TNE F   C.SNE .) D.)   CTW E ( C )        C 5 r z H )                                                                             s s E                       PRINC IF-AL                         IS 'RE
AERODROMES                                           5.0GME
ENGINF ElI _I
|   FINANCE AND       TRANSPORT     I IROAD TRANSPOR1 ? ]
ISTASLIS  NCNT    1 1 RTSION            I        RNCVI
u           o  ) oREGISTRAR  OF MI)                                                                                                                                             P _    I  _                        .I      . .T
C '   I                                                                                      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUPETV   ENGINEERING   |ROADS ERALUATI.  PLA"Nk RU |   STUORY  PROJECTS 
E.PIM                        TIET RE RP| "    AGL   E                                                                                                                                                  VGLRV                           TRR=AOR
cN.E rN       .                                              1),IRIWT                                                                                                                                                         ARNIOARSII   RNP1111
r                    I 
IPROVINCIAL    I      ATERIALS&           STAFF         M  ECHANICAL    I IASTODADMES              |            IAIR TRANSPORT        DIRECTORATE CF      METEOROLOGICAL          M  ARINE AND 
EGIERS   S I      ESEANRCR            T. RANING       TR ATSPOR     |    DEPART.ENT                           PSERICES                 CIAT| DEPARTMENT                       SAIPPING PDLICT
ORGANSATIORS  NRANCN        DEARATNEST       DEPARTMENT    IDPRM.
P E.              N. E            P.S T O          CR ,T E             IT R                                                                             (TRY.)
RISTNATIDN    SEAIV               IE          OPERATIONS       ACCOUJNTSSRIE                                   CMOIAS  ROEATOS                  IWOTINS              O          DACONING               ESECA           ERCE
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .. ..~ ..SA IE
1*
FG   1- 



- 43 -
ANNEX 1.3
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Classified and Special Purpose Road Network
As of 31st January 1983
(kmn)
ROAD CLASSIFICATION    BITUMEN   GRAVEL    EARTH    TOTAL   PERCENTAGE
International Trunk    2338.8    1129.0        129.4   3595.21       7        l
National Trunk          1149.6    1089.0       547.5   2786.11       5
Primary                 1823.9    4070.1    1923.1   7817.1         15
Secondary                689.7    5978.4    4390.6  11058.7         21
Minor                    272.6    4606.1   20896.9  25775.6         47
Sub-Total Classified   6274.6   16372.6   28385.5  51032.7          95
Special purpose           34.4    1743.1       531.4   2308.9        4
Other                    100.7      261.4       85.0    447.1        1
Sub-Total                131.1    2004.5       616.4   2756.0        5
GRAND TOTAL             6409.7   18377.1   29001.9 153788.74    100           I
PERCENTAGE                12         34         54      100
Source: MOTC



KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet
(units)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Motor Cars                               75,834  81,117  90,935  98,285  99,947 104,272 109,121 110,431 113,629  117,940  L
lltilitIes, panel van, pick-ups, etc.   33,735  35,828  40,004  43,740  44,543  48,264  50,203  52,249  55,524   62,123  14-
Trucks and heavy vans                     17,405  17,943  19,635  20,875  20,732  21,007  22,185  23,115  23,594   25,685
ltises and mini-buses                     3,424   3,523   4,196   4,605   4,706   4,772   4,825   4,985   5,075    5,756
Motor and auto cycles                     10,681   8,966  10,332  11,312  11,870  12,763  13,746  14,573  15,343   17,288
Other motor vehicles                      11,716   9,486  10,984  12,297  12,842  14,121  15,491  16,316  16,703   18,323
Trailers                                  5,078   7,359   8,000   8,607   8,806   9,152   9,876  10,360  10,567   11,435
Total                    159,969 164,222 184,086 199,715 203,446 214,351 225,447 232,029 240,435  258,550
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.
>q



KENYA
SECOND HIGIWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Traffic Growth by Class of Road and Vehicle Category
(% annual rate)
1970-1979
Class of Road        Car      Light Goods        Medium Goods         lleavy Goods        Buses
Vehicles            Vehicles           Vehicles
Trunk Roads            5             7                    5                 12               4
Primary Roads          5             2                    5                  7               4
Secondary Roads        5            10                    4                  4               5
Minor Roads             4           11                    4                  3               5
Source: MOTC.



KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road Usage by Class of Road and Vehicle Category 1982
CLASS OF        % OF                                    VEHlICLE KILOMETRES (VEHl/KM/DAY)
ROADS           TOTAL
NETWORK
Light      Medium       Heavy
Cars       Goods       Goods       Goods        Buses       TOTAL           x
Vehicles   Vehicles    Vehicles
TRUNK             12        1,192,885   1,862,469    809,340    299,719    265,832    4,430,245           64
PRIMARY           15          350,266      852,876    310,516      12,402      60,102    1,586,162        23
SECONDARY        21            69,018      306,356    177,422       3,306      39,672       595,774        9
MINOR            47            18,045      209,322     86,616         0           0         313,983        4
SPECIAL*
PURPOSE            5
ALL ROADS        100        1,630,214   3,231,023  1,383,894    315,427    365,606    6,926,164    (100)
% OF VEH/KM                     23           47          20           5           5   I      (100)
*Special purpose roads form 5% of the road network; traffic flows on them are
yet to be determined.
Sotirce: MOTC.



ANNX 1.7
47  -                                                       Page 1 of 2
IYA
SECIOD EIGHWAY SE ?altJRCT
Central Goverineot Revenue fro load Vehicles, 1972-1981*
xi ' 000
1972     1973      1974      1975      1976     1977      1978      1979     1980       1981**
Licence Fees
(a) Licences under
traffic ordinance           2,432.2  2,559.6  2,715.7  2,766.5  2,560.8  3,222.8  3,503.9  4,488.3  5,238.4   5,663.6
(b) motor-car
Drivers' Licences             190.0    241.4    226.7    222.3    256.2    539.6    608.2    728.4    803.6            903.5
Total                      2,622.2  2,801.0  2,942.4  2,988.8  3,116.9  3,762.4  4,112.1  5,216.7  6,042.0   6,572.1
Gasoline & Diesel Oil Taxes
(a) Consumption Tax***          2,373.2  1,178.0  5,036.0  6,957.0  7,819.0 11,010.0 17,313.2 21,031.7 29,976.2  41,710.0
(b) liport Duty
(i) Gasoline                3,626.9  5,497.4  5,696.5  7,755.9  8,338.8    118.9 11,897.4  9,960.8    762.1           426.3
(ii) Diesel Oil              2,366.0  3,782.5  3,858.0  4,511.4  6,816.1    122.7  7,232.5  6,127.9    490.7           436.4
Total                      8,388.6 10,439.9 14,590.5 19,224.3 22,973.9 11,251.6 36,443.1 37,120.4 31,229.0  42,572.7
Other Import Duties
(a) Motor Vehicles
(i) Passenger Cars         2,500.0  2,292.6  4,087.8  3,321.2  4,332.3  6,862.6  9,192.3  5,919.4  9,074.5   3,887.4
(ii) Buses, Lorries
and Trucks              702.7    915.3  1,656.5  2,191.7  2,607.9  3,689.8  4,279.9  5,253.7  9,074.5  10,208.8
Total                      3,202.7  3,207.9  5,744.3  5,512.9  6,940.2 10,552.4 13,472.1 11,173.1 17,916.4  14,096.2
(b) Chassis vith Engines
(i) Passenger Motor Cars       -        -          3.3       2.9     -         -        185.7    432.2    271.8       217.2
(ii) Buses, Lorries, etc.    495.7    833.3  1,102.4  1,121.9    968.5  1,044.4    304.2             -       -          86.7
Total                        495.7    833.3  1,105.7  1,124.8    968.5  1,044.4    489.9    432.2    271.8           303.9
(c) Bodies and parts for
Motor Vehicles               493.3    596.3  1,292.2  1,584.1  1,328.3  1,177.1  1,847.2  1,350.9  1,140.7   2,484.8
(d) Motor Vehicles, Tyres
and Tubes                     91.7    108.2    584.6    141.6    159.6    154.1    824.7    405.8  1,140.7           329.1
Total Other Import        4,283.4  4,745.7  8,827.8  8,363.4  9,396.6 12,927.9 16,633.9 13,362.0 20,469.6  17,214.0
Duties
TOTAL                   15,272.4 17,986.6 26,360.7 30,576.5 35,487.4 27,941.9 57,189.1 55,699.1 57.740.6  66.358.8
Source:  MOTC
*     Excluding Sales tax on Vehicles, Chassis, Engines, Bodies, Parts, Tyres and Tubes
5*    Provisional
***   From 1974 figures relate to Sales Tax



Ctml ovenuet Revm  f  n           UEser
axi w oliture  an Rnds FYs 1978-1983
(KE Lmf11)
1978   1979   1980   1981    1982    1983'
Revenues
Total from Annex 1.7 Page 1        57.2   55.7   57.7   66.4      n.al/   n.a
Estirrated Revenues f m
Sales tax on Vehicles, Chassis,
Engines, Bodies, Parts,
Tyres and Tubes                    11.0    8.8   13.5   11.4      n.a      n.a
Total                         68.2   64.5   71.2   77.8
[Fti;ate of total revemies by]                                                                                        I
[Corsultants Kanpsax       1          (80.2)        (103.9)
Expenditures
Recurrent Budget                   10.0   11.0   14.4   17.2    18.9    15.4
Developmnt Budget                  23.9   30.1   34.8   39.0    52.5    38.7
Total                         33.9   41.1   49.2   56.2    71.4    54.1
[Total Expenditures In FY 1964 prices]    60.3   70.3   77.7   80.9    91.4    61.7
1/ Not available
Source:  MOTC and Mission Estimates
0r



KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Kenya Railways Corporation
Railway Freight Traffic
('000 tonnes)
1971  1972  1973  1974  1975        1976      1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
Kenya Internal          2569  2599  3164  3235  2753 1/  3382 1/  3470  3508  3634  4185  4054  3835
Transit
Up                     883   738   625   597   487         244       252   161    86    58   116   127
Down                   461   470   504   368   300         173       128    76    63    44    79   103
Total                 3913  3807  4293  4200  3540        3799      3850  3745  3783  4287  4249  4065
Total Traffic (in million net-tonne km)
3004  2859  3150  2835  2156        2270      2211  1987  2009  2277  2277  2097
Railway Passenger Traffic
(million passenger RM)
1st Class                 15    15    17    21        9        16        19    23    30    37    32  38
2nd Class                 29    26    28    32    14           30        32    38    55    65    59  39
3rd Class                229   223   235   340    84         263       293   336   414   600   621 651               m x
Total                    273   264   280   393   107          309       344   397   499   702   712 748              I
0 :
1/ Includes Tanzania Traffic
Source: KR



_ sn _                           ANNEX 1.8
rage 2 of 2
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Kenya Railways Corporation
Freight Traffic by Commodity
'000 tonnes                   million  tonne-kml
1979  1980  1981 j  1982    1979    1980    1981    1982
COMMODITY                                                                            i
Bitumen                       20    24    32       28       12.4    14.8    18.81    17.91
Canned Fruit                  40    36    47       42       23.2j   20.6    27.41       29.71
Cement                       416   429   416    385        222.61  229.3   217.81   173.31
Coffee                       119   168   239    256         51.3    92.9   138.0    16;2.1
Cotton                         4      5      1      2        3.5      4.4      1.3       2.6
Flourspar                     86    89    95       77       75.7    78.2    82.9        76.9
Grains                       711   928   897    981        374.7   498.1   441.11   486.01
Iron & Steel                  97   135   105    111         46.9    67.6    57.61       63.31
Lime & Limestone             218   161   132    113         27.31   21.61   19.21    22.71
Machinery, Agriculture          8    12    12        8       5.2      7.3      8.01      ';531
Manures & Fertilizer          99   235   286    196         5421   139.8   171.7         7.5
Molasses                      62    65    74       43       59.1    61.8    71.21    42.11
Oils Excluding Vegetable   502   518   510    517          235.9j  254.21  249.3j   268.71
Paper                          70    82    67      75       44.8    54.9    39.5        45.61
Salt & Compounds              64    78    99       75       37.1    51.0|   78.81    58.21
Sisal & Waste                 20    28    22       26       11.8    17.81   12.9        16.21
Sugar & Cane                 270   387   374    298        153.9   187.01  171.6    116.3
Soda Products                209   220   162    171        123.3   129.1   94.61   10]L.01
Tea                           30    23    33       34       25.2    19.2    27.11    28.7
Timber                        73    75    83       70       29.2l   31.0    34.2        29.2l
Total                      3,118 3,698 3,666  3,508   1,617.2 1,980.6 1,963.01 1,801.3
Others                       665   589   563    557        319.8   296.0   278.21   295.7
Grand Total                3,783 4,28714,2491 4,065  12,009.012,276.612,241.21 2,097.01
Source: KR



- 51 -
ANNEX 1. 9
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road User Charges and Costs
User Charge/Cost Ratios - 1980
Vehicle Category                 Unpaved Roads           Paved Roads
Passenger Car                         1.59                   4.03
Light Commercial                      1.54                   4.09
Light Passenger Vehicle               1.13                   2.88
Buses                                 0.94                   0.94
Heavy Commercial    2-axle            1.11                   1.22
3-axle           0.95                  1.04
4-axle           1.04                  0.75
5-axle           0.96                  0.69
6-axle           0.89                  0.82
Source: Consultants Kampsax, Study of Road User Charges and
Axle Load Limits, November 1981.
N.B. Road user charges are defined to comprise only that part of total
taxes levied on road users which exceeds the average level of taxes
(import duties and sales taxes) paid on similar goods in the market.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1.10
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Prices of Petroleum Products
1980     1981      1982     1983
A., CIF MOMBASA (End-November)
US$/Metric Ton
Crude                               244.23   261.74   244.70   211.13
Gasoline                            382.20   407.43   383.22   345.38
Diesel                              329.50   351.31   338.66   276.54
US$/Gallon
Gasoline                              1.06      1.13     1.06      0.96
Diesel                                1.06     1.13      1.09      0.89
-  US$/Liter
Gasoline                              0.28     0.30      0.28      0.25
Diesel                                0.28     0.30      0.29      0.24
-  KSh/Liter
(at end-year exchange rates)
Gasoline                              2.12     3.08      3.56      3.43
Diesel                                2.12     3.08      3.69      3.29
B.  RETAIL PRICE NAIROBI
KSh/Liter
Gasoline (Regular)                    4.70     7.02      7.02      7.52
Diesel                                3.23     5.18      5.18      5.48



ANNEX 1.10
53) -                            Page 2 of 2
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Gasoline and Diesel Retail Prices
(K Sh/l)
DATE                    GASOLINE - --                              DIESEL- - - - -
(As % of
Premium                 Regular                         Gasoline Prem.)
Jan. 1970        1.13                    1.03                0.87              77
Mar. 1 71        1.19                    1.09                0.82              69
Jan. 1973        1.24                    1.14                0.84              68
Aug. 1973        1.28                    1.18                0.88              69
Nov. 1973        1.40                    1.28                0.96              69
Feb. 1974        1.62                    1.50                1.16              72
Aug. 1974        1.72                    1.60                1.26              73
June 1975        1.92                    1.80                1.26              66
Feb. 1975        2.03                    1.91                1.36              67
June 1975        2.27                    2.15                1.47              65
Dec. 1975        2.47                    2.35                1.67              68
Mar. 1976        2.57                    2.45                1.77              69
Apr. 1977        2.64                    2.52                1.84              70
June 1977        2.84                    2.72                1.94              68
Sept.1977       2.89                     2.77                2.01              70
June 1978        3.03                    2.91                2.11              70
Apr. 1979        3.38                    3.16                2.31              68
June 1979        3.68                    3.36                2.31              63
Sept.1979       4.17                     3.75                2.60              62
Mar. 1980        4.82                    4.30                3.05              63
June 1980        5.35                    4.70                3.23              60
Feb. 1981        6.15                    5.71                3.93              64
June 1981        6.35                    5.91                4.13              65
July 1981        6.75                    6.31                4.53              67
Nov. 1981        7.50                    7.02                5.18              69
Dec. 1982        8.00                    7.52                5.48              69



SECOND HIGBbAY SuTti  PROJU:T
The fifth Highway Sector Plan (flu 1984-1988)
Forward Budget and Physical Targets
1984                     1985                     1986                      1987                     1988                     TOTAL
KAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES           _     _                                                                                                                          _  .-_
Budget      Physical    Budget         Physical   Buidget       Physical   Budget        Physical    Budget    Physical   Budget             Physical
K£t'000      Target       KO000         Target    Ki'000         Target    Kt'000         Target       KFf00Q       Target    KtO000          Target
km                        km                       km                        km                       km                        km
1. Routite Maintenance                   6,500      54,584         6,700       55,000       7,300       55,300        7,500       55,300        7,700      56,000       35,700        56,000
2. Regravelling
From Recurrent Vote                2,100          502        2, 520         667        2,850          734       3,446           927        4,288       1,127      15,204         3,957
Under Domestic Contractors           -              -       (5,460)       1,223       (5,460)       1,223      (5,460)        1,223       (5,460)      1,223     (21,840)        4,892
Under GBC Program                   (150)          27          (450)         82         (900)         164      (1.200)          218       (1,2?0)        218      (3,900)           709
3, Resealing
From Recurrent Vote                2,600          298        4,749          690        4,900          700       4,875           639        5,500         664      27,624         2,991
Under Bitumen & Chippings         (1,000)         114       (2,500)          364      (2,800)         400      (3,000)          480       (3,000)        486     (12,300)         1,844
Extraordinary Allocatton          (3,400)         388                                                                                                              3,400            388
4. Grading                               3,440      91,000         3,500       92,000        3,700      93,000        3,800        94,000        3,912     95,000       18,252        95,000
5. Other Operations
Servtce Roads                        640                      1,260                    1,480                    1,600                      1,700                   6,700
Rural Access Roads                   550                        650                      750                       800                       900                   3,h50
Municipal Grants                     244                        300                      330                       360                       400                    1,634                                    1
Ferries                              300                        315                      330                       340                       350                   1,635                                    Ul
Road Markings & Signs                                                                                                                                                                                       4-
From Recurrent Vote              100                       137                       148                      158                        172                     715
From Development Vote           (369)                     (299)                    (314)                     (337)                     (155)                  (1,674)
Extraordinary Maintenance
From Recurrent Vote              300                       350                       380                      400                       420                    1,850
From Development Vote           (330)                     (330)                    (330)                     (330)                     (330)                 (1,65")
Maintenance of Road Camps              60                        82                       88                        95                        103                     428
H.Q. Roads Department                928                        999                    1,054                    1,105                      1,162                   5,248
Toll Collection                        60                        82                       89                        95                       103                      429
Axle Load Control                    _                           70                       70                        70                         70                     28()
6. Support Activities
Mechanical and Transport           2,500                      3,100                    4,400                    5,100                      5,R00                  20,91)0
Staff Training                       685                        780                      828                      874                        930                   4,097
MateriAls & Research                  515                       651                      693                       774                       784                   3,417
7. Total Btudget Maintenance
Activities                        26,771                    35,284                    39,194                   41,721                     44,639                 187,527
Of which from: Recurrent Vote  21,522                         26,245                   29,390                   31,393                     14,294                 142,763
Dev. Vote          5,249                     9,039                     9,804                   10,327                     10,345                  44,764
8. Forward Recurrent Budget
Ceiling Highway Sector             21,015                     27,237                   29,360                   31,224                     31,981                 142,P17
9. Forward Recurrent Budget                                                                                                                                                                                       P 
MOTC                                 38,046                    4 4 ,537                 48,682                   50,412                     54,126                 236,003                                    aW   Z
10. 8 as I of 9                              55                         61                       60                       62                         63                      60
_ _ _ _    _ _    _    _   _      ..  _      _  _       _    _    _    _     _    _    _    _  _  _   _ _    _    _      _  _     _                 _  _    _ _    _  _      O  _                           0 .



-55-
A65N8 2.1
P.ge 2 of 2
KmA
SECOND hIGHAT SECMR PRIIECT
Tbe fifth ighbv S-ector Pl1 (1T'. 1984-1988)
Forwsrd budget *nd Phy.ial T-rget.
1984                    1985                      1986                       1987                     1988                      TOTAL
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES                                                                                                      _
Budget      Phy.ic-l    Budget       Fhy it.I    Budget         Phy.i-l   3udget          Phy.ic-l    BSdget        Phyolcol   Budget        PhysItcl
X£'000       Taret    X1 000           T-gt         WOOD         Target       KE 000        Target       Kf '000      Target g      '000       Target
k.                       ha                         km ka k                                                                            _.
1.  Copletion of Project.
under Execution
Strengthenitg                  16,904                      5,166                     1,462                        201                        202                   23,935
Reconatruction                  5,400                      3,604                       570                        106                         40                    9,727
upgr ding to Bitu.en           28,212                      5,078                       678                        738                        453                   35,159
Upgrading to G-rsel             6 596                      2 892                     2,110                      1,055                        605                   13,25a
Subtotal                        57,112         330         16 740       5            4,820         11          2,100          4            ,300          3         8272         43
2.  Gravlling, Bridging &                                                                                                                                           i
Culverting                      3,450        731           2,750       536           2,250        466           1,600       349              900       200     1   10,950     2,28?
3.   oral A-ce.a Road.                4,800                     4,760                       360                                                                          9,920
4,  Minor Roads I provtninot                                       360                    5,540                      6,170                      4,455                    18,525
5.  D-otsti  Contro-tors
(Te.hnioal Aaaistan.-)                                       300                       300                       300                        300                     1,200
6.   Sew Con-troction
Stre-gtheniog                   2,455          22         10,000        91          17,585        147         13,685        113           7,967         75         51 ,692      448
Saconotroction                    900           3          3,400      10               700          3      j                 -            3,500         30          0 ,500  j     4
Upgr ding to Bitonen             _              _           _             -          6,715         40          13,315       170          16,533        332         06,563       562
Sobtotul                         3,350         25          13,400       101OI       25,000      1  2102     1  27,000    1 283            26,000    j 4i7 3         96,755    1 I,758    1
7.  Other Roadworks
Stratogi  Roads                    150        1.0           10        1.5             150        1.5             150       1.5              150   1  1.5             75i       7.5
Bridges Replacement                475          16 No         300         10 No.        330    | 11 No             360       21 No            400       813 No| ,865  |           6No..
8.  Planning, Desig. & Studios                                                                                   i
Pl-nning and Feusibility           60                         60                        60                         70                         70                      320
Traffic Soney1 150                                           150                       150                        10                         1500                     750
Consultants and Deaign          1,000                        900                       900                        900                       900                     4,600
Consultants 6 Tech. Aast.         500                        550                       550                        550                        550                    2,700
I.psct Study                       76                         55                        37                         60                        65                       313
9.  Support ActinSties
M. haica I & Tran.port       j  2,960                      1,890                     1,560                      1,590                     1,620                     9,72C
Stsff Training                    200                        200 j                     225                        225                       -                         800
Materials & Rsea-rch              688                        626                       627                        521                        379                    2,841
(highway 5ector only)
10.  Other Progr-aj
Road Safety                       250                        320                       240                        275                       300                     1,285
T'sffic Enforce,-ent               -                         200                       130                         50                         s0                      400
Vehicle Inspection Center-        273                         000                      120                          -                          -                      890
11.  Total Funding D-selop-ent    75,496                        44,211                    43,339                     42,071                     41,589                  246,706
Support tn Maintenance           5,249                      9,039                    9,804                     10,345                     13,345                    44,764
12.  Total De.e.oPotene 8udget        80,745                    53,550                    53,143                     52,398                     51,934                  291,470
13.  Foward Develop-ent Budget |
Ceiling high-ay Sector         57,833                     59,704                    58,770                    57,46?                     57.700                   291,470
14.  Forward Developtent Budget
Ceiling MOTC                   76,383                     78,869                   77,635                     75,909                     76,222                 1385,01
13  s I of 14                       76                         76                        76                         76                        76               j        76



Annex 2.2
Page 1
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
The Highway Maintenance Program
Performance Standards and Program Targets
1.        Overall country-wide performance standards for periodic and rou-
tine maintenance are determined by MOTC by dividing the road network into
ranges of traffic volume. For program formulation, terrain, climate and
weather conditions are also taken into consideration, mostly based on expe-
rience and judgment. The targets set for periodic maintenance assume cy-
cles which are slightly extended for roads which have recently been
strengthened, reconstructed, upgraded and for newly constructed roads. The
periodic and routine maintenance targets are significantly higher than past
performance. However, since the expansion in maintenance operations is to
be achieved through greater involvement of contractors, these targets
appear feasible. Morever, below average targets in the early years of the
plan are compensated by higher targets in the second half using an achieva-
ble annual rate of increase for the annual targets.
2.        There is a need for refinement of the method used to develop per-
formance standards and consultants services will be provided under the
Second Highway Sector project to that effect. The consultants study will
be coordinated with the road condition survey and the introduction of the
Highway Design Model.



- 57 -                                                  ANNEX 2.2
Page 2
KENyA
Second ilighwav Sector Project
The Highvay Maintenance Proeram
Performance Standards and Proqran Targets
Resealing
Length                Cycle               Target
ADT - Category                 km                  Years                 Ikm
More than 2,000                   732                4                    183
1,001 - 2,000                1,328                 5                    266
501 - 1,000                1,456                 6                    243
Under 500                2,893                 8                    363
Subtotal                    6,410                                    1,055
RegravellIng
Length                Cycle               Target
ADT - Category                 kcm                 Years                  km
More than 500                    213                 4                     53
250 - 500                    674                 6                    112
150 - 250                  3,403                 8                   425
65 - 150                  9,430                10                    943
15 - 65                   2,365                15                   153
Subtotal 16,085                                                     1,691
Shoulder equivalent           16,052                                      252
Total                                                                1 ,943
Grading
Length             Frequency              Target
ADT- Category                  km                 per year                ks
More than 300                   1,010                5                  5,050
201 - 300                  3,604                 4                14,416
101- 200                 10,365                 3                31,095
0 - 100                  3,885                 2                 7,770
Earth Roads                   28,000                 1                 28,000
Shoulders                      4,273                 2                  8,546
Subtotal                   51,130                           |      94,878
Routine %aintenance
T   Length            Percent                Target
km             Length kcm
Light patching                 5,330                31                    160 km
Heavy patching                 5,330                22                    107 k1m
Subtotal                    5,330                                      267 km
Spot repair                   18,846                6%CIO m)          693,000 m3
Culvert cleaninj              81,000 No.            2/yr.             162,000 io
Culvert repair                81,000 No.            52                  4,050 No
Bush clearing                 54,000 km             1/yr.              54,000 km
Source: MOTC and Mission



<.1     |                   8SStERo>ES                ffiffiSwS           tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~i a  am>S         g N        --
_ ji                      .,~SS .S S .   , . _ 
W~~ ~     ~~~~  ig l   2R &;    s fX A   RIQ                                        sk XR~ z -r      ;M2i
;        __
d e       Pi
S~                3  .Ii1i   III      
un      |S        X                    | |M - -am       o g      -|m             U  i R|gg|Sl    ggko           



ANNEX 2.4
59 -                         Page I of 3
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Staffing and Manpower Development
General
1.        The MOTC's staffing situation is reasonably satisfactory as a
result of sound staff development programs operated in recent years but
there is still need for strengthening at the professional level and for
upgrading at the sub-professional level. There are now about 5,600 people
employed by the Ministry in the highways sector. The Roads Department
currently has 281 professional engineers; 6 economists; 239 administrators;
535 technicians; 522 clerical and 568 other workers. The Mechanical and
Transport Branch has 34 engineers; 250 administrators; 1,508 technicians;
117 clerical; and 845 other workers (Table 1).
2.        At the professional level 3 remaining vacancies for economists
are expected to be filled by locally recruited staff by December 31, 1984.
There are also a number of key positions for which the Government is
discussing continuation of technical assistance from bilateral agencies.
Technical experts are particularly needed in the areas of road maintenance,
equipment and stores management, safety, staff training and the Materials
Branch. Additional experts are needed to assist the Mechanical and
Transport Branch to manage the sizable equipment fleet and related Stores
and the Traffic Department needs short-term assistance in training vehicle
inspection personnel together with some Overseas training for senior staff,
while the Planning and Coordination Department needs a computer specialist;
all of which will be requested from donor agencies. In recent years
progress toward Kenyanization has been slowed by the periodic closures of
the University of Nairobi due to student unrest particularly in the last 3
years. However the MOTC will ensure that qualified counterpart personnel
are assigned on a permanent basis so that the outside assistance may be
discontinued as soon as possible.
3.        At the sub-professional level the Ministry's own staff training
Department (STD) has provided effective staff development programs of
training and up-grading, including repeater courses, covering nearly 9,000
employee - courses during the period from 1971 to 1982 in the following
categories: Supervisory Staff (1,900 employees); Plant Operators (2,750
employees); Technicians/Technical Assistants (1,020 employees);
Tradesmen/Artisans (3,200 employees) (Table 2). As a result the Ministry
has a reasonably well trained staff, adequate in numbers in relation to the
work load in road maintenance to be carried out by force account. Since
there will in fact be surplus staff in some categories many will be
retrained and redeployed in the following directions: (i) extension of
labour - intensive methods for rehabilitation and maintenance of minor
classified roads; (ii) retraining of tradesmen such as mechanics and
technical storemen in specialized fields to improve their capabilities to
repair equipment components to prolong its working life; (iii) expansion of
the driver training program in support of road safety in view of Kenya's
very high road accident rate.



ANNEX 2.4
-60 -                          Page 2 of 3
4.        A limited number of new entrants would continue to enter the
pre-technician and apprenticeship programs but the main thrust of staff
development would be toward in-service retraining and up-grading. It is
planned to provide staff development programs covering tradesmen (4,025
staff - courses); technicians (1,870 staff courses); Supervisors/Overseers
(2,400 staff courses); Specialists (1,750 staff courses); and drivers
(5,700 staff courses) (Table 3).
Training of Engineers
5.        The Government has a sound training program for engineers who are
recruited as graduates from the University of Nairobi. In the context of
the Kenyanization Plan the Ministry provides for staff development through
a system of rotation of all Kenyan engineers through the various
departments of the Ministry; secondment to consulting firms for practical
experience; and overseas fellowships mainly to Canada and Great Britain.
The Ministry is currently negotiating with the Department of Personnel
Management (DPM), Office of the President, to secure a share of available
fellowships. It is expected that overall about 500 fellowships will be
available from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and
about 500 from the British Council to cover the Government's Kenyanization
program in the next 3 years. Overseas fellowships would therefore not be
financed under the proposed project.
Training of Sub-Professional Staff
6.        The training for all sub-professional staff of the MOTC will
continue to be handled by the Staff Training Department whose facilities
are barely adequate to carry out those tasks. The STD also carries out
training for the Ministry of Works and Housing and to a lesser extent for
other Ministries. Because of the existing structure as well as economics
of scale for training programs it is not feasible to single out any
particular section of the STD for assistance. STD as a whole should be
assisted, particularly by refurbishing of equipment and by replacement of
obsolete and worn-out items.
7.        The STD is adequately staffed by 10 expatriates and 73 full-time
Kenyan instructors who are also augmented by seconded staff when needed.
This staff is capable of maintaining an efficient training program. All
Kenya Instructors participate in the Instructor Training and/or Training
Officers' courses offered by the Kenya Technical Teachers College (KTTC).
A total of 118 have attended KTTC courses between 1977 and 1982. Another
100 are scheduled for KTTC course between 1983 and 1985. This is a very
efficient program and would continue to be financed by the Government
without financial assistance under the proposed project. Of the expatriate
staff 4 are provided by the Government of Great Britain; 5 are provided by
the Government of Switzerland; and 1 is provided by the Government of
Japan. Each is playing a key role in STD and will be involved in revising
syllabi for the new directions in training. The present level of technical
assistance for training is adequate and is expected to be continued by the
respective donors making it unnecessary to provide technical assistance
fort the STD under the project. There is a need for overseas fellowships
for Kenyan Training staff and the Government has secured 6 fellowships (2
per year from 1983 through 1985) from the Canadian International
Development Agency and 2 from the British Council for 1983 with prospects



- 61 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 3 of 3
for others in the following years. This would effectively upgrade the
Kenyan staff so there is no need to provide for overseas fellowships under
the proposed project.
Training Facilities
8.        The facilities of STD are adequate although barely so as the
buildings are old and in need of renovation. Some renovation is on-going
but there will be little upgrading of existing buildings in the next 5
years due to overall financial constraints. The one aspect in urgent need
of rectification is the food services for the hostel which requires new
kitchen equipment. The required equipment would cost about US$120,000.
Training Aids and Equipment
9.        The needs for the STD over the plan period are estimated at KE
3.4 million (about US$5.0 million) all of which would be allocated for
equipment, plant and vehicles to refurbish the STD. This includes a scheme
to overcome the present critical shortage of tools by purchasing a stock of
tool kits to be sold to trainees at completion of training with the
proceeds to be used to replenish stocks. The initial investment, to be
financed by the project, would be about US$720,000. The other main items
would include: road construction equipment and vehicles for the plant
operators School (about US$2,000,000) if suitable equipment cannot be made
available from the MTD fleet; Workshop equipment for mechanical training
(US$1,225,000); various audio visual and class room aids for specialists
and driver training (US$ 285,000); and roads laboratory and diesel testing
equipment for specialist training (US$550,000) for a total estimate cost of
about US$4.9 million (Table 4).



- 62 -
ANNEX 2.4
Table 1
sm mxna& seam wRm
KW Pmnfes1ma1 mu Ot0  Staff In EY's
BRAC           q(f                                                                     I/           2/        3/
SJRVEiCRS
R)ADS LEPARIfW          _           2S1          6             239             -           522         535        568
lfiKES  EE'r.           5            16          -              25              5          337         400       1959
DIRDE  OF
CIV1I ATI(llN          -            57         _              62              4          23)          422        223
If:FlR.ICAL     .       _             1          _              93              2         255          616        214
CNVI DI7ICN
BOW                    _            _           _              11             _            7            2          3
EL.IESIF1              _            _          _               2              -            3            -          3
MED CFFICE (HES)        _             1          _              56            24          622           22       1231
R>D DlANStZ
3AN                                  - _                        8              1         216            -         42
!A9LS BRANH                           9          _              16             -           47          202        163
SrAF  SRAIN z    _T                   -         _              54              _           53           31        136
HECfANICAL &
TAqSKET                             34            _           250                        117         1508        845
1/ Clercal Staff in lus Typists, Executive, Supplies Assistarts arl Storemn.
2/ Tedmiciars inchx- Drivers, Plant Operators asl Draighjtsen.
3/ -0tber" incbl  Subodinate StaEf, Arizart   ard Codes.



- 63 -
K9A
ANNEX 2.4
9MX HIGi5A   SEi    PRK                                     Table 2
SM Training (jtue 1971 - 1982 1/
(Calesder Years)
cArsxwax!/aEP         1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Tom
IN;PW S                              20     40      23                                                 11       94
ClEF,SEERS            82      102    85     66      79     61     55      88     112      58    136   130     1054
E5XlEl                18       30    32     31      29     30     32      20      17      14     24    23      300
SJIERS                               15     110   132       9     70              26     30      29    24      445
PEACERTCRS                     68    73      59   172    175    196   203        269    375    255   114      1959
MUMDRA1VER                                           4             12     91     261    240      84   100       792
TD SICIANS            20       10    5B      50   101      75     98    114      120     76    154   145      1021
VEEaE 1fHACS
(twPGADmi)                    50    64      48    76      78     90    150      177    278    240   235      1486
PLAT }%2WICS
(SPECL1ES)                                                                       30    174    266   284       754
MX2ANICS                                                                  10              10     10    22       52
EllICAL
(APPEIrCEs)                   10    19      35     35    18      13     29       48    132    182   190       711
BDllfN
SEJ 5IALISS                                          15    10     19      16      96     29     35             220
1TOL                 120      270   366     439    666   456    585    721    1156   1416   1415  1278        8888
KrI (MJM ATIENM BY SM fEnLMf~1
1980        1981      1982        T=
PEE SERVJICE                 8           4         -          12
.C" ..CERnICE  2/            4          17        20          41
"B" CERFICATE               7           13        22          42
"A  C MFI1QTE                4           3         10         17
1RAINIM  CFFICERS            I           3          1          5
T1L               24           40        53         117
1/  Numbers of trainees attending organized  training  including  repeater and
up grading course.
2/  Certificate  courses are progressive with  levels  advancing  from  "C'
(Basic) to "A" (Advanced)



- 64 -
KFNYA                                  ANNEX 2.4
Table 3
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STD Training Program 1983-87
(Calendar Years)
1.  PRE-SERVICE                     1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   TOTAL
BUILDING INSPECTORS              25      30      30      30     35      150
RAR MAINTENANCE INSPECTORS    60         45      45      -       -      150
LABOUR INTENSIVE MRIP
INSPECTORS                        -       -       -     45      45       90
MAINTENANCE FOREMEN              30      30      30     30      30      150
MAINTENANCE OVERSEERS            60      80      80      80     80      380
RAR OVERSEERS                    10    160    160        -       -      330
LABOUR INTENSIVE MRIP
OVERSEERS                         -       -       -    160    160       320
RAR OFFICERS-IN-CHARGE           16      16      16       -      -       48
MRIP OFFICERS-IN-CHARGE           -       -       -      16      16      32
RAR MAINTENANCE OVERSEERS        50      50      50       -      -      150
TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS             64      64      86      86     90      391
ROAD TECHNICIANS                 59      59      59     59      59      295
BUILDING TRADESMEN              100    100    100    125    125         550
RAR TRACTOR DRIVERS              60      60      60       -      -      180
AUTO ELECTRICIANS                20      20      20      20     10       90
SUB-TOTAL PRE-SERVICE           554    714    736    651    650    3305
20  IN-SERVICE
BUILDING SUPERVISORS             15      15      20     20      20       90
MECHANICAL SUPERVISORS           15      15      15      15     15       75
OVERSEERS                        60      75      60       -     12      207
RAR MAINTENANCE INSPECTORS    11         22      22       -      -       55
H.N.D. (BUILDINGS)               10      10      10      15     15       60
H.N.D. (MECHAYNICAL)             10      10      10      20     20       70
H.N.D. (ELECTRICAL)              10      10      10      20     20       70
H.N.D. (CIVIL)                   27      27      27      27     27      135
TECHNICIAN II&III (CONST)        15      15      20     20      20       90
(MECHA,NICAL)     70      80      70      80      90     390
(ELECTRICAL)      50      60      70      80     90      350
"(FABRICATION)       10      10      -       -       -       20
PLANT MECAHNICS SPECIALISTS  150    150    150    150    150            750
BITUMEN SPECIALISTS
(PATCHING)                     150    210    210    210    210         990
PLANT AND ROLLER OPERATORS   355    340    340    340    340    1715
MECHANIC UPGRADING              130    130    140    160    170         730
SMALL PLANT MECHANICS            40      40      40     40      40      200
POWER PLANT MECHANICS            20      25      25     30      30      130
MECHANICAL SPECIALISTS           70      90      90     80      80      410
ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONICS           65      90    105    115    130        505
FITTERS/PLUMBERS/AIR COND.    39         41      56     56      76      268
DRAUGHTSMEN                      10      10      15      15     20       70
SUB-TOTAL IN-SERVICE           1332   1475   1505   1493   1575    7380
3.  NEW PROGRAMS
DRIVERS                        1100   1100   1100   1100   1100    5500
FIRE OFFICERS                    15      15      20     20      30      100
TECHNICAL STOREMEN               65      65      60      60     60      310
SUB-TOTAL NEW PROGRAMS         1180  {1180   1180   1180   1190    5910
TOTAL                     3125  13428   3480   3383   3474  |16890



- 65 -
ANNEX 2.4
Table 4
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimate of Equipment Needed to
Refurbish STD
(US$ '000's)
CATEGORY                      FY 1985     FY 1986      FY 1987      TOTAL
1.  ROAD CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES         399         1,270        477        2,000
2.  TOOL KITS FOR
REPLACEMENT SCHEME 1/          720             -           -         720
3.  WORKSHOP EQUIPMENT
AND TOOLS                      476           476         271       1,225
4.  AUDIO VISUAL AND
SPECIALIST TRAINING AIDS        60            52          -          112
5.  DIESEL TEST EQUIPMENT          200             -           -          200
6.  DRIVER TRAINING AIDS           163             -           -          163
7.  ROADS LABORATORY
EQUIPMENT                      104           245           -         350
8.  CLASSROOM EQUIPMENT             10             -           -           10
9.  HOSTEL KITCHEN
EQUIPMENT                      120             _           -         120
4,900
Source: MOTC
1/ Includes all Tools Kits for STD and Mechanical Branch



- 66 -                         ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 7
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Strengthening of the Domestic Contracting Industry
1.0         Introduction
The proposed project would include a component related to the
strengthening of the domestic construction/contracting industry executing
civil engineering works.
2.0         Objective
The objective would be to improve the efficiency (i.e. cost
effectiveness) and capability (i.e. capacity and competence) of domestic
contractors.
3.0         Phased Approach
This project component would constitute the first phase of a
long-term effort. This phase would include domestic contractors currently
engaged in (re)gravelling of roads which is considered to be a basic road
work activity and, thus would provide a suitable launching platform for
this effort.
4.0         Contractor's Eligibility Criteria
About 17 local contractors have recently carried out
(re)gravelling work or are being considered for such contracts. Among
them, those domestic contractors will be eligible for special assistance
who lack qualified human, financial and physical resources to compete
successfully in bidding for this type of civil engineering work and to meet
MOTC contractural requirements.
5.0         Selection of Contractors
MOTC will provide the Bank with a list of all (re)gravelling
contractors referred to in Para. 4 and an assessment of each, related to
his eligibility for assistance, together with an indication, related to the
proposed contractors to be finally selected for special attention. The
latter should be listed according to their need, ability to absorb training
or advice, and potential for improvement based on past performance and
general business attitude.
6.0         Selection of Road Sections
MOTC will also make available to the Bank a list of road
sections (including terminal points, length, width and estimated cost)
earmarked for award to eligible contractors in 1985 and 1986. Further work
to be executed during the implementation of the proposed project will be
determined at the annual review meetings.



- 67 -                          ANNEX 2.5
Page 2 of 7
7.0         Introduction of Competitive Bidding
7.1         Competitive bidding will be introduced in stages according to
the level of training provided to the selected contractors. Progress will
largely depend on the receptivity of the selected contractors and whether
or not a business environment will be established which is conducive to
competitive bidding such as an incentive by adequate demand, normal
availability of resources (e.g. spare parts), and prompt payment of
amounts due to contractors.
7.2         The stages planned for introducing competitive bidding are:
(a)         First year (1985) -
(i)     Present procurement procedure, i.e. contracts based on MOTC
fixed unit prices are being awarded to contractors designated
to execute (re)gravelling work in particular districts, will
be basically maintained.   However, contractors will be
requested to express their own cost assessment by altering the
unit prices up to + 10 percent without changing the total
price.
(ii)     Trainers will review the revised unit prices with the
contractor on the basis of his estimating system and suggest
improvements.
(iii)     Bidding and contract documents will be updated to meet modern
requirements for this type of work.
(b)         Second year (1986) -
As under (i) above but total price can vary up to + 10
percent; competition among contractors within an area, e.g. a
province.
(c)         Third year (1987) -
MOTC will still provide estimated unit prices but bids will
not be limited to + 10 percent of MOTC price; competition
among all (re)gravelling contractors.
(d)         Fourth year (1988) -
Unrestricted local competitive bidding on unit price basis
without any MOTC price guidance.
8.0          Change of Prevailing Procurement Procedure
MOTC will announce the change of the prevailing procedure
(Para. 7(a)(i) about two years in advance to enable all local contractors
an adequate preparation for the challenge.



- 68 -                          ANNEX 2.5
Page 3 of 7
9.0         Provision of Trainers/Advisers
9.1.        The trainers cum advisers will be provided by a company which
has, inter alia,
(a)         special experience in carrying out contract work associated
with risks inherent in this type of business,
(b)         a fair knowledge of the current conditions in Kenya, and
(c)         an international range of activities including a high level of
technical achievements in all types of road work.
9.2         A preliminary list of proposed companies of international
repute will be prepared by MOTC together with an outline of a proposed
contract and draft terms of reference for Bank comments.
10.0        Training Arrangements
10,.1       Training of their managers is an important assistance to these
domestic contractors to meet the challenge of competition successfully.
This will be provided by brief seminars, followed by on-the-job training,
and periodically monitoring of the progress achieved.
10.2        For training of other personnel, existing training facilities
will be utilized as much as feasible and practical, preferably in joint
courses for MOTC and contractors' personnel of the same level of technical
requirements. MOTC will, therefore, admit contractors' staff to its
training courses related to road works against a fee covering its own cost.
11.0        Contractors' Financial Aspects
The need for significant working capital will be almost
completely eliminated by offering payment terms which respond to
arrangements made and work performed by a contractor. This will
essentially meet a contractor's liquidity requirements. These payment
terms shall not impose any considerable, additional risk on MOTC, but would
provide a significant incentive for a contractor to perform reasonably
well.
12.0        Equipment Needs
Under the phase of the proposed project, only a small number of
domestic contractors will receive special assistance which may have to
include the provision of some complementary plant to work with one complete
spread of equipment efficiently. While in future phases other arrangements
for the provision of equipment on a larger scale would be required, to
start with, however, MOTC will, if requested by a selected contractor,
provide (e.g. rent) these pieces of equipment at reasonable rates.



- 69 -                         ANNEX 2.5
Page 4 of 7
13.0        Risks of Project Component
Considering the time schedule (Page 6) and the budgetary
allocation (Page 7), the risks to be considered in implementing this
project component are likely to be the following:
(a)         Funds are not sufficient -
To start as early as possible to gain experience on how to
improve the situation, appears to be better than to wait with
the first step for ideal conditions in a long-term effort.
(b)         Some contractors may oppose a change of the prevailing system -
The fixed rate system is based on an assumed weakness of
certain domestic contractors; GOK does not wish to perpetuate
such incompetence.
(c)         No continuity of adequate demand -
Due to the condition and length of the road network, a
considerable demand of (re)gravelling will exist every year and
have a high priority in budgetary considerations.
14.0        Sensitivity of Implementation
The implementation of this project component will be very
sensitive to:
(a)         The resolve of GOK to changing the prevailing procurement
procedure i.e. to discontinue with fixed rate contracting in
(re)gravelling of roads at a certain date.
(b)         The willingness of the selected contractors to be trained and
accept advice.
(c)         MOTC strictness in enforcing (e.g. in supervision), and
complying with (e.g. prompt payments), the conditions of the
work contract.
(d)         Normal access for contractors to essential inputs into their
operations (e.g. purchase of spare parts).
(e)         The ability of the trainers (cum advisers) to bring the
selected contractors up in their level of performance instead
of frustrating them by talking down to their trainees.
The latter can easily be solved since such shortcomings are associated with
the behaviour of individuals. The contract will be with a company,
requiring that an unsuitable person would be replaced.



ANNEX 2.5
- 70 -                           Page 5 of 7
15.        Benefits for Not-Selected but Eligible Contractors
Domestic contractors who are eligible for assistance (Para. 2)
but cannot receive special attention (Para. 5) during the initial phase
included in the proposed project, can however participate in the training
seminars and, if crucial, be also provided with complementary equipment
(Para. 9). They may also seek the trainers' advice on matters related to
the assistance, the selected contractors will receive. Time permitting,
the trainers/advisers may visit the offices and sites of the not-selected
contractors. The arrangement proposed will be reviewed periodically,
starting six months after the first trainer has arrived in Kenya.



ANNEX 2.5
- 71 -                          Page 6 of 7
THE DOMESTIC CONTRACTING INDUSTRY
(Trainer/Advisor Team)
Cost Estimate
Foreign Exchange Component
(US $ 000)
1.   Team Leader (Resident in Nairobi)
36 man months at $ 12,000                                432
2.   Construction Engineer/Deputy Team
Leader (Resident in Kisumu)
24 man month at $ 10,000                                240
3.   Equipment Manager and Administration
Manager each 3 months four times
24 man month at $ 10,000                                240
4.   Experts on short visits four times
with one man month each
4mm at $ 15,000                                           60
5.   Air fares about 35 return trips
at $ 2,000                                                70
6.   Vehicles purchase of three
landrovers or equivalent                                 60
7.   Transport of personal effects
for Resident Staff
two times at $ 10,000                                     20
8.   Per diem for short visits                                 28
9.   External Communications                                   20
Sub-Total                                             1,170
Add 10% price contingencies                              117
Total                                                 1,287



ANNEX 2.5
- 72 -                          Page 7 of 7
K£ Component
10.    Allowances for field work
(i)   Expatriates                                             90
(ii)  Local Staff                                             18
11.    Local personnel (Clerical Staff and drivers)                  45
12.    Vehicle operation                                             25
13.    Office supplies and operation                                 30
14.    Seminar facilities (fee for use)                              27
Sub-Total                                                    235
Add 10% price contingencies                                   23
Total                                                        258
Summary
Foreign exchange component of US$ 1,287,000 equals about
KX 858,000
KE Component                                             258,000
Total                                                  1,116,000
Add 10% quantity contingencies                           112,000
Grand Total                                        K£ 1,228,000



Annex 2.6
73 -           ~Page I of 2
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Extension of the Highway Maintenance Programming and Costing Scheme
(Highway Maintenance Management System)
Draft Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants Assignment
Objectives
The objective of a Highway Maintenance Management System is to
develop a sound basis for: (i) annual and long-term highway maintenance
programming and planning (ii) determination and allocation of required
equipment, labor and material resources; (iii) scheduling of annual mainte-
nance; (iv) costing of maintenance operations; and (v) monthly, quarterly
and annual performance reporting for review and decision making by differ-
ent levels of management.
Scope of the Assignment
The study should include, but would not be limited to, the fol-
lowing:
a)   determine cost effective maintenance standards for all activities
for sections of roads classified by type, terrain, climate, wea-
ther, age, ADT and condition;
b)   establish procedures for undertaking and updating the road condi-
tion survey of the existing road network system;
c)   classify maintenance activities into manual and equipment inten-
sive, taking into account factors such as cost and availability
of labor in the vicinity of the work; quality of work, supervi-
sion and administration; and foreign exchange cost of equipment
use;
d)   develop for each maintenance unit a standard composition in terms
of equipment, labor, hand tools, and materials;
e)   determine productivity rates for each standard maintenance unit
by type of activity and determine standard costs by maintenance
activities;
f)   establish the seasonal pattern of occurence of the different
types of distress and develop an annual work load level to permit
effective and continuous use of the maintenance force to be pro-
vided;
g)   determine, inter alia, based on the above, the total annual work
load and the manpower and budget to attain the recommended road
maintenance standards, taking into account the possibility of as-



Annex 2.6
Page 2 of-2
signing road sections to standard maintenance units and minimiz-
ing daily mobilization cost and working hours loss to and from
work site;
h)   develop a monthly, quarterly and annual work accomplishment and
cost reporting system, including a summary for different levels
of management for evaluation of performance and decision making
to improve performance;
i)   computerize all required data and develop a computer retrieval
program for: seasonal work program for all activities; mainte-
nance equipment, labor and material requirements for standard
sections of roads; seasonal and annual budget requirements for
equipment, labor, materials and overhead.
Review of Available Information
The highway maintenance management system to be developed should
take into account all relevant studies, surveys and investigations either
completed or in progress such as:
-    the road inventory;
-    the maintenance programming and costing scheme introduced on a
pilot basis under the First Highway Sector Project;
-    the Highway Design Model;
-    the equipment inventory and condition survey and equipment fund-
ing scheme;
-    the standards developed by MOTC's Materials and Research Branch;
-    the ongoing research by the Materials and Research Branch on the
availability and quality of the road building materials;
-    the study will review the organizational structure and staffing
of MOTC to determine its adequacy and recommend changes required
to achieve the objectives of the recommended highway maintenance
management system.



- 75 -
Annex 3.1
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Bank Group Supported Subprojects
------In millions-----------------
Subproject Categories                    Total Cost        Bank Group Financing
KE     US$             KE      US$
Road Works by Contract
Resealing                              20.5        30.0        10.3        15.0
Regravelling                            6.8        10.0         2.1        3.0
Strengthening/Upgrading                37.8       55.0        22.6        33.0
Support to MOTC
Equipment, Tools, Spare Parts           7.3        10.7         7.0        10.2
Workshop and Stores                     2.5         3.7         1.5         2.2
Materials                               3.2         4.7         2.7         3.9
Laboratory Equipment                    0.5         0.7         0.5         0.7
Road Safety and Traffic
Enforcement Equipment                  0.8         1.1         0.7         1.0
Consultants' Services                      4.7         6.9         3.8         5.5
Base Cost                         84.1       122.8        51.2        74.5
Contingencies                     20.1        29.6        10.6        15.4
Total Project Cost               104.2       152.4        61.8        89.9
Front end fee on Bank Loan         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1
Total Financing Required         104.3       152.5        61.9        90.0



- 76 -           ANNEX 3.2
Page 1 of 12
W -1   - r~  a-r-- I-d
E  t 0 : 0S H t 
G- ---  T - - _
$ _ e 1  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ v! '-~~~~~~~
.. ..4 ...



KM
mm XND   E        SE=W E
b,plementation Schedule of Bank Graop Supported Subprojects
Rerinlig
BY        1984               1985                  1986        b        1987                1988
Activity                             Wy    A   J   0    J    A    J   0    J   A   J    0              J                    J             0
1. Select Road Sectiom and Form lot Packagea   _ 41                     _       _
2. Prlpare Speclfications of 1orks, Bidding,                 _ 
IDmernts, Oxntractors' Prequalifications etc   tDIJ
3. SeM  Subproject PrBp1oa for Approval            mm          ,
4. Review of Subproject Ioraentation               B__ 
5.  ruk AruvalofPrmposal                           Bfrk          *               *              *                     *
6. Advertisemesnt under ICB                        MJI      _   *                *               *    _
7. Prqualification of Omtractors
8. Bfddirg Period
9. Ewluation of Bids & Proposal for kard           mm
1O.B*k Approval Awrd Propal                                 _    _         *    _                         *                    *
lI.Artd of Omtract                                _m_                      *    _                         *           _
12.Emewtion Period                              Co t_ractor
OQ.
0F



- 78 -ANE3.
Page 3 of 12
g0 __ ____   ___
_ O =- __ ___ _ _  =-
_  --_ _--4_-_---_
§    =     _  __ _K  _T    _~   __ ___X
<- =___   _ __    ;St
g   SW          WMWi        }W}i
0                }   i   !   i! i
(N  -St  ~~    ~   9~-   ~  -  -  -  -lv411-



KEN'A
SD  HIQIA  SP RW Cr
ilientation Schedule of Bank Grvop Supported Subprojects
Road Equimt and Spare Parts
By     __1984         _      1985                  1986                 1987                1988
Activity                             mm    A   98            J A    J   )         J   A    3J  0    J                               P
1. IJeteroine Critical Needs & Prepare Jlisttfica-   MIC1
tion w/ Reference to Inception Report  1MS   Corsxultant     _
2. Deteraine Needs & Justification as Pnrt of   Conultant  _   _    _            _    _          _     _ -  - _ -    -   -           _    _ - 
3. Prepare Specifications, Bidding Dounts in-
cluding evaluation criteria                                     - -- -  -_      -                   ---- _
4. Send Subproject Proposal for Approval           tSJI2                         *                            ,
5. Review of Subproject Proposal                    aink
6. Bank Approval of Prpoaal                        Barik*                                                           *
7. Advertiaeue.t under ITC  or Other Methnd    M     llt      _ _
8. Bidding Period                                  MYC_
9. Evaluation of Bids & Propoal for Award                   _                                    _                         = 
10.Bark Approval of &mrd Prposal                   B_k                    _ _
11.Awrd of (Cotract                                  I                                        *                              *
12.D3elivery                                     Suppliera
13.Distribution                                    M_                                                                I_
(IQ
(D tI
0~



KMYA
oaD IlQm          SECiR ERaI r
biplelrentation Schedule of Bark Gnp Si2ported Sub2MJects
Workshp Equip t -id To3s
Bfy       1984               1985                  1986                 1987                1988
Artivity                             Whm                     J   A     J    O     J         TJ                       0 J    J   A    J   O
1. Deterairn Critical Neds & Prepare AJstifica-    _iI           .          _
ti. wI Refeenrre to lTeption Report H+S   Coxnrltant         . ... _
2. Deterrwne Needr & Justificaticn <v; Part of   Cexaltant
3. Prepare Specifications, Bddinrg lbcinents in-
cludingt evaluation criteria                    M1                 _    w     _        
4. Sed Subproject Proposal for Apprmval                     _   _           _   *    _
0)
5. Reviee of Subproject Proposal      _       _      r_
6. Bark Npprol of Propsal                          Bank
7. Adverttisesaat under TCB or Other *thod         m m
8. Biddirg Period
9. Evaluation of Bids & Proposal for Awad   _ = C
1O.Bark Aipprval of hiard Pnposal         _                    _ _
l1.terd of (bntract                                M4IT1l                                    *                                       _
12.Delivegry                                     Suppliers
13.Irutallation                                             _    _                              _=
fD M
0QI
-IX



ANNEX 3. 2
-81-                     Page 6 of 12
0     __________
1971
_~~~~~. I I I =- __ _I _  __*  
-,.    l  =- _   -    _    - -   T -  _  _  __
S  __ j2__1  j _ _                _ _____
. 1 ; , : 0 0 i~~~~~~4.   t4. I
-NX  X  MX_                   X       M



ANNEX 2.3
-82-                                    Page 7 of 12
t1a  TX  +-                                        I_
- lI  ___  ___    __
i9 i.    ,   i  W, i:  0  
tg±CD



KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of dank Group Supported Subprojects
Axle Load Control and Weishbridge Installation
By          1984                  1985                      1986                    1987   O               1988
Activity                                   Whom                                                                              A J  .7    A    J  J          .
1. Complete Establishment of A.le-Load Control
Unit
2. Testing of Entsting Weighbridges
3. Fin,al Trial Run of Nev Procedures
4. Start Enforcement IOTor Limit w/ Pxisting
Eq.ip-ot
5. Ftnalise Speriftcotior,sNe. Welghbr,!g,es_
6. Site Selertlon b Design of Site b 9Soilding_
7. Deci7ton on Financing Source                                                *
8. Send  ;ubpro-e-t Proposal for Appr,__l                                       *
7. R-oi- of Sobproject Propo.al _
1O.Ap-ro.a1 of Subproject                                             _
II.7.and Acquisition
12.Ad-ert1.e.eot under LCR for Workso                                                        *
13.Preualificotion of Contractora
15.Eo,a-1,tion of  iida b Proposal for Award
16.A-ori of C,oLn-rt for Works                                                                           *
17.C-ntcuctioO Sites b Bulding
l5lrvltatton Pr-posals for Equip.nt                                   _
| .9i-1 t7(g Period
?O.Fval-ution of Bids b Proposal fur bward
2i.Awar-  of CoLtraut for Equipmuent
22.Dvelivry of Equipoent
23.1nstallation of Equipment
1QZ
CD 
0x
1-1



ANNEX 3 .2
- 84 -                     ~~~~~~Page 9 of 12
- i L t- 84 
C ,f l                                  t



FYA
SF.ND HIGlWr SW= PRIJECr
3 Inplmnentation Schedule of Bark Goup Supported 2k.1v ects
Extension of Highway Maintenance Pro_amming and Costing Scheme
Qiiphay Maintenmance Maneut System (n4E))
'BY       1984        __ 1985                      1986                1987                1988
Arttvtty             B      y                A              J                                                             J   A 8        0
B. E-cittion of Study                          Cltant
15.Revie of Available 1D.a                        MY_.
16.ITwnption Report                            Consultant
17.Revi w of Inoeption Report                  NrfrC/Bark
18.Specify Rft  Pequirmnts fran Road Condition Consultant
Survey                                         M7T.
19.SpecIfy Cwputer Requirements                Consultant
2O.Exectition of Road Condition Survey            MC
Cosultant
21.Developuent of H1tM                         Consultant                            _    .    _   _   _
22.PrOoremant of Caqmuter(s)                      Mc
23.Fnmpare IM  based Maintenance prtgraz for   C      t
Pilot District                                   M                                                    _
24.Co-nuter Trial Runs of TM                   CoMsultant                                                       tn
25.Review Draft TMf                            yt-rrc/aic_
26.lnIleaentation of Pilot Program npc
Consultant
27.Review Pilot Progm                            MIC
rcnqnldtarit
28.FiraUlize iMS                               C,onsultant
29.Start Catrwdde Ioplemntation                C,Inant
30.Assessemnt Report                             aJkC/ aT                                                                 -
O bW
OL.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



KENYA
SECOND IIHIWAY SFLIR IQWECr
lnplemetation Sd*dule of Bark GCnup Supported Subprojects
Intrnduction of Bigefly Deslgn ibiel (ff81
BY        1984               1985                 1986                 1987                198
Atlvity                              F=      A                                       A         r     J         .7J   0         A   J
1. E,sute and Conplete IDad Feattires Survey       C            _
2. Define Unit within MFC to be responsible for
IM and Draw up its &idet
3. Identify   rltant to Aaaist with Inttm.        Bank
4. fippoint Counterartas for HIM Project
5. krival of Owputer Pmgraning and Systeos
Specialist
6. Trairdng of (oputer Staff
7. Spefy  1tH Requtiremnts of Road Corkition
Sarvey In Coordination with Requireents HTM_
8. Sxecify Omputer Requfreints
9. Emction of Road Condition Suirvey and
R1ihreaa *nAwutve
10.Procuremnt of Cmpnter
11.notall mM and Trial Runs with Assistance
0Omdtant
12.Training of Qixnterparts
13.Review of TrLil Runs and Adjistrnets_
14.Utilization of hil for PIgran Fonilation on                                                      -   -           _         _      -
Baais of Road Condition and Roughrs Data
d-D
0 r
(D 
F-h



*                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~KFNSA
SECOD HTIHAY S1lCIt POMEC`
hpleientation Scheoule of Bank Group Supportel 91bpr,ects
Strengthening of the Dwestic Contracting Industry
By        1984               1985                 1986       _        1987                1988
Activity                            gmIJ  A          0J    J                        A                                   J )   J  P  l
A. Preparation Work
1. List of Gontractors, List of Road Sections,
Draft TOR Outline of Contract, List of (bn-
panies to be bnvited                          M=C   *
2. Peview of AbDve                                             -    - /   _  _           --    -
3. (bcpanies Prepare Pnposl                   C-panies
4. Evaluation of Prposals                        MIf
5. Peview of Evaluation                          Bank
6. Atard of Contract                             MNC
_________________                     _ _ __                                       _ _  rpany...                        _    _ _
B. Prevision of Traini!E and Advice             O (pany
7. Theam Leader                               I .                                  -    -    -   -    -    -                -
8. fTy Te.m leader               '                                                 -    -    -   -    - _         -   -   -    _
_. _._    -                       _              _ -  -               _  _ -  -                _                          o
9. r1,1iprmnt Ebuger..____
I.Ad31n. nager
,11!.Short Visiting r3iperts
I~ ~ ~ ~                                                                       - I'   .       -t- _  ____    -    -    - _   _-
C. Procureent Arrangesnts                        M=C
12.41ter Unit Price
13.kurren= nt of Future Prmarenmnt Policy                                                  *
14.Liritted Bidding an Schedule of Rates
15.Unllmited Bidding on Schedule of Rates
16.Unrestricted local Cmpetitive Bidding
1/ Gleted
(D X
*                             ~~~~~oQs



- 88 -
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Progress Reporting Requirements
1,.       Two types of progress reports would be prepared and submitted by
MOTC: (i) annual progress reports by component and (ii) detailed monthly
or quarterly subproject progress reports.
A.  Annual Progress Report
2.        For the fiscal years ending June 30, annual progress reports
would be prepared and submitted within one month of the end of the fiscal
year. These reports would indicate progress in implementation for each
component of the program. The annual progress reports would contain de-
tails as shown in Annex 3.3, Forms 1 of 8, 2 of 8, 3 of 8 and 4 of 8 and
would include the information covered below.
Component                            Information Required
I.  Road construction and       Physical and financial targets and accomp-
improvement:   Annex 3.3        lishments by category of roads as listed in
form 1 of 8.                    Annex 3.3 form 1 of 8.
II.  Road maintenance:          (i) accomplishment of physical and financial
Annex 3.3, form 1 of 8.         targets to date showing percent variance be-
tween schedule and accomplishment and pro-
posed physical and financial revised targets
for the following year;
(ii) brief narrative giving reasons for devi-
ations from schedule and corrective actions;
III.  Equipment Status          (i) for key equipment: total required, avail-
Report : Annex 3.3, Form        able and percent operational of available
3 of 8 for list of key          equipment, showing distribution by division,
equipment.                      branch, and/or type of operation;
(ii) brief narrative giving reasons for dif-
ference between (a) total required and avail-
able, and (b) available and percent opera-
tional;
(iii) list of new equipment and vehicles
under procurement process, on order and deli-
vered;
(iv) list of equipment under repair and be-
yond economic repair;



Annex 3.3
- 89 -                    Page 2 of 3
(v) status of spare part availability for un-
available equipment;
(vi) major problems in brief narrative re-
port.
IV.  Staff Training             (i) number of staff by category showing total
Status Report:  Annex           required, planned, available and giving dif-
3.3, Form 4 of 8.               ferences between (a) total required and
planned, (b) planned and existing;
(ii) brief narrative giving reasons for
differences between (a) and (b) of (i) above;
B. Monthly and Quarterly Progress Reports
3.        Monthly and quarterly progress reports would be prepared and sub-
mitted 15 days after the end of the reporting period. These reports would
indicate for each subproject progress in implementation containing details
as shown in Annex 3.3, Forms 3 of 8, 4 of 8, 5 of 8, 6 of 8, 7 of 8 and 8
of 8 including the following:
I.  Road strengthening,         (i) the reports would include:
upgrading, improvement,
reconstruction, new con-         -  activity bar chart for work schedule and
struction and periodic              accomplishment and revised work schedule;
maintenance by contract:
Annex 3.3, form 5 of 8.          -  graphical report of financial schedule,
expenditure and revised schedule;
(ii) manpower and equipment list used by the
contractor and supervising consultant;
(iii) tabulated test results, rainfall data,
materials on site, etc;
(iv) major design change and change order
showing the related effect on cost;
(v) major technical, financial, material,
manpower, security and administrative prob-
lems affecting the progress of the project.
II.  Periodic regravel-         Reporting form Annex 3.3, forms 6 of 8 and 7
ling and resealing by           of 8 would be prepared for each regravelling
force account: Annex            and resealing subproject by force account and
3.3,form 6 of 8 and 7 of        would include the following:
8.
(i) list of manpower and equipment used on
each subproject showing required, available
and shortfall and percent operational;
(ii) brief narrative report for reasons for
deviation from schedule and corrective ac-
tions taken;



Annex 3.3
-90 -                      Page 3 of 3
(iii) major technical, financial, material,
manpower, security and adminstrative problems
affecting the progress of the subproject;
III.  Routine road              Reporting form Annex 3.3, form 8 of 8, would
maintenance: Annex 3.3,         be prepared quarterly and submitted for all
form 8 of 8.                    roads under maintenance including the
following:
(i) list of manpower and equipment showing
required, available, shortfall and for avail-
able equipment percent operational;
(ii) brief narrative report giving reasons
for deviation from schedule and corrective
actions taken;
(iii) major technical, financial, material,
manpower, security and administrative prob-
lems affecting the progress of maintenance
work.



Development and Hatntena nce
Annual Progress Reports
Second Ilighwvay Sector Plan
Reporting period:                                     Reported by:                                       Signaturet         _
Program Components                   Physicael                                    Financial                              Adjustment
This Period        To-date         Vari-   This Period        To-Date      Var-       Physical        Financial
lance                                   ance X          X In-        _      In-
Target Actual   Tareet Actual   To-date  Target Actual Target Actual To-date Target crease Target crcase
_v_elope llt_
rc n nst. t r  c t I on _n!.
r al I o- _Ig                                                        =                 _
_Suls_otal                                                             _|_                          
N    (- C  (    st ruct inn
Gralvlling Ctilverting
atdl B.Idging (CCB)
Ritral Access Roads
(P~AR)
1ConsLrtiettinn
Grav(Thin                        _____ _  ______                         -                                                     _ __
n  and E Roads
lmproveement                   _       . -I|__--I                                           _
S_ lltotal
Trstal Development         -      _______                   _____                                -    _______ -_ -                       -
tialtitenlaice
Sobtortld eriodtc
Poallng                          __ -              _-                             - -   -                     -    -
Rnratvl l -{                     __-- _- ____    ___   ____   ___   -                     _    _                                        __
ost rae l                                                                                                                            ____I
i) at ,aie ". nr ture     ____                                                                                         _       _
u       C1vert _lenntng     _                                            -       -
Pu-h ClensrfrL _                            __                                   -                      -        -
lign,a and H3rk angs       =                                                     =              -                        -              -
SO,ttotal R ittine       
Total Hntntennnce   ___                _        _     _ _-
r-andI Total
Developament and
Mi ntenance
Reason for Vartancet                                                                                                                          _
1-
0*
Remark Adjusntment:
. _ _ . _ _   _   .           _                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



Manpower Status
Ann ial Progress Report
Reporting period:                              Reported by:                                      Sign:
Category                  Maintenance   Construction   Reseeling  Resiravellings  Materials  Designs              RAR          FCB            MTD        Training  Safety
F   It          F   0          F   II         F   0         F   H      _    _      F H           F   H         F   H         FMH
1.  Civil Engineer up to  A
6 years experience    0                -       -                      = -                   -      -     =_=-;
Civil Engineer above  A   __
6 years experience    0                                       -                      -      -                                                 -
2   Mechanical Engineer   A
9.  Inspectors and _                                ____                                        _I_ ____ _
i. E minstraors              A                                                                              _______
4.   Purchasers              A A
12,  Operators               A intenden=
13     riverse               A          |__==                                                                                                      -
Reason for Variance:__- 
Sf-.~~                                                                                       ..pctr  an 
Corrective Actionsr
I f).  Actmi ni st ro.t.r. .
A - Authorized; 0 - Occupied; F - Field; N - Heoadquarters                                                                                                                        fdl
01'
NJ



93 -                                    Annex 3.3
Form 3 of 8
Annual and Ouerterly Progress Status Repxrt
IPAporting period:                              Reported bys                          Sinature: _
Type of Zqutpvent              Poutina                                                                                                  R ead
Mointenance       Resealing       Regravelling        Construction        RAP        OCC     Training   Offiee   Others
1.  Graders above      a.                                                       I
so HP              b.  ___-__ _._|
Graders below      * a.
so up              b.__                         ___
D. Doterv above       A.
100 IIP            b.                                   _
Dozers             S.                                                                                     ___
below 100 UP       b._
e.
Dump trucks        a                                                                                                   _                       _
b low 5 *3         b.                    _                        __                                      _           __        __
C._
4 Rol _lers            *_ .
abeow  6 ton       b.
S.  dlers              a.
belo; 1/2 .3       b.                                                                                                              _
Loade rs           a.
above 1/2 *3       b.
C.
6. Aphlt               a
Distributors       b                                                 _
obov, 2 ,00O Its.  bC_.
d .
8. Couter Trucks       S 
above 30 qts.      b                                   | 
C.
d . 
10. Fo rm T raDc tor   a.i                                                                                        
; 11. Tr-naport           A.
vhices*            b.                                                                               =_=_
a - required; b - availa Is; c *   operational; d - f shortfall c/s X 1O0
Reason for Variance a 6 b:
tee.c  for Variance b A c5
Cotrective Action Taken:



Annex 3.3
-94 -                           Form 4 of 8
Staff Training
Annual and Ouarterly Progress Report
Reporting period:                       Reported by:                   Signature:
This period           Total to-date          Variance
Trainee Category                                                          to-date
Target   Actual        Target   Actual
A.  Civil Engineers         L. _ _        ____
2..
3.  __ _ _ _ _   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __            _ _ _ _ _
Subtotal
B.  Other professionals 1.                     .                          _   _             .
2.  l         I
: _~~  :          3.             ._                         __  _     :_ _ __
Subtotal
C.  Overseers               1.                                                             l
2.                              .                               l
3 .   ._                    _._ _I
Subtotal
D.  Mechanics               1.                                                             l
32. 
4.                      .           _                          i
Subtotal                                 .                                      |
E.  Engineering Aids        1.                                                             l
4.                        __ __._
Subtotal                                                    .
F.  Clerical Staff         1.                           .                                  l
2..
3.
Subtotal.
G.  Accounting Clerks   1.. .
32. _
Subtotal          .                                            . 
H.  Warehouse & Purchasers
3.
4..I
Subtotal
I.  Equipment Operators 1.                          l                       l
2.          ..__ _ _   I__ _ _ _   .__ _ _ _   I__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
3 .  _ _ _ _ _   .__ _   . _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
2.
Subtotal                                           l
J.  Drivers                 1.                 _
3.
4.        .          .-
Subtotal 
Total



Annex 3.3
Form S of 8
Road ConstructiOn and Periodic Maintenance
Subproject Monthly Progreas Report
Country:                                            Project Name:                                     Contract No.:
Agency:                                             Contractort                           S_ upervision:
Project Lengtht               km                    Financed by                          __     X     and                         _     X
Starting dates                                      Contract Amounts   _                               Time elapsed:       X
Completion datet                                           Revied Amount:                               Work donet         X
tReviaed dates                                             Payment this periodt                        Variance +s       ,
Date Reportings                                            Total Paymentt
j   ________.___._____
Physical                         Financial                      AdJustment
This Period   To-date       X   This Period   To-date    %    Physi- 2 Acce- Finan- 2 Acce-
Activittie            Unit                            Vari-                           Vari-  cal       lera-  cial    lera-
T     A     T      A    ance    T      A     T      A   ance  Target   tion  Target   tion
Description of Work:
Major problemt                             I__
0.
.  .  .   ..   I  I_    _             I_    _               _                  .                                       tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O



Periodic Road Resealing,Project
Monthly Progress Report
Reporting period: ___    Project name:                               _
Reported by:                        _       Signature:                   _  Total Length:
Date stared;                                Completion date: ___
Initial Cost:                               Revised Cost:
______ical_     _            Financial        Adjustment
This Period   To-date       -       To-date         _   Physi- Finan-
Activities              Unit                            Var-           Expen- Vari-   cal    cial
T     A      T     A   ance Z Budget diture ance Z                             ON
1.  Patching & Levelling      m2
2.  Base correction            2
3.  Shoulder & Side Ditches  L.M.
4.  Seat Coat                  km
5.  Others
Reason for Variance:
Adjustment Remark:    __
Key: T - Target, A - Actual



Periodic Road Regravelling Project
Monthly Progress Report
Name of Project:  . _        _                              Reporting period:          _
Length of project:                                          Reported by:_
Date of start:     ___                                      Completion date:
Financed by:                             2 and by  ___                       _
Contractor:                .                   Supervisor:
Activities                                  Physjcal                        Financial             Adjustment
Unit  This Period   To-date   Vari-    To-date        Vari-  Physi- Finan- X In-
-.   - - - ance X        Expen- ance  X cal    cial  crease
-     T     A     T      A     Budget diture ___                            P   P_
1. Shoulder & ditch shaping
2. Material production hauling,
processing and placing.
3.  Signs and markings & finishing
work
Total
Reason for variation:
Adjustment remark:
T - Target, A - Actual, P - Physical, F - Financial                                                                      0
0* I



Routine Road Maintenance
Ouarterly Progress Report
Reporting Period:                                                    Reparted byt                  _                                                    Signaturtez
TOtal Paved Road kw                                                  Gravel koad. bin                         ;                                  Earth Roads k__
Physical                                      Financial                                            Adjustment
Act ivities-
Unit      This Period          To-date         Variance               To-date                  Variance
T          A        T       A            S           Budget      Expenditure  |                         Target           Budget
1.  Patching                    a2
2.  Spot resealItng              m2
3.  Spot regravelting            m3
A. rrading surface               km
5. Shoulder & side
di tches                    km
6.  Ctulvert cleaning            No.
7.  Culvert repair               No.
8.  C.rasa  & Bush cleartng    km                                                                          __
9.  s s .g. a markings           L.S.
(1. Others
a.
a.                                _ _ _  _   ______,__  _ __|_
c.-                          _____                                         .                                               ._                                _ __ _
C.
Reason for Vartance:
Remark - Adjustment:
Key:  T- Target; A   Actual; L.S. - Lump Sun; No. - Nktber
0.(1>



- 99 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Major Maintenance Activities
Vehicle Operatin¶ Costs 1983
Road Class
Vehicle Class                Earth 1/          Gravel 2/      Bitumen 3/
Passenger Car                  0.14              0.10           0.05
Light Goods Vehicle            0.30              0.21           0.08
Medium Goods Vehicle           0.30              0.22           0.12
Heavy Goods Vehicle            0.84              0.55           0.34
Buses                          0.31              0.24           0.13
1/ Bump-Integrator Roughness: 12,700 mm/km
2/  Bump-Integrator Roughness:  7,800 mm/km
3/  Bump-Integrator Roughness:  1,500 mm/km
Source: MOTC



- 100 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 2of 3
MNYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Traffic COmDOsition by Class of Road
(Z)
Vehicle Class
ROAD CLASS                                 _
Car       L.G.        M.G.        H.G.        B.
Trunk Roads         27         42          18          7         6
Pr'.mary Roads      18         62          15          1         4
Secondary Roads    11          51          30          1         7
Minor Roads          6         67          28          0         0
Estimated Average Traffic Composition for
Economic Analysis of Maintenance Program
MAINTENANCE                         Vehicle Class
ACTIVITY         Car        L.G.       M.G.        H.G.        B.
Grading and
Gravelling         15         60          19         1          5
Resealing           25         47          17          6         5



- 101 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 3 of 3
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Cost Benefit Analysis
Gradiog
Economic cost of grading cycle: KE 60/km
Average VOC:                       KE 0.24/km
Reduction in VOC:                  KE 0.02/km
ER: > 100%
Regravelling
Economic cost of regravelling: KE 3,950/km
VOC without regravelling:         K£ 0.28/km
VOC with regravelling:            KE 0.20/km
Average cycles: ADT 250: every 4 years
ADT 150: every 5 years
ADT 65: every 8 years
ER:   61%
Resealing
Economic cost of resealing:           KE 6,500/km
Average VOC without resealing:        K£ 0.20/km
Average VOC with resealing:           KE 0.09/km
Average cycles: ADT 1,000: every 5 years
ADT   600: every 6 years
ADT   300: every 7 years
ER: > 100%



- 102 -                        Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis of New Construction Program
Minor Roads Improvement Program
Economic cost of improvement:            KE 7,500/km
Average VOC without improvement:         K£. 0.30/km
Average VOC with improvement:            K£ 0.20/km
Life of the investment:          8 years
Average ADT: 35
ER:   16%
Program of New Construction
Screening
1.     MOTC's screening procedure provides for identification of roads by
the Planning Division after consultations with Roads Department personnel,
provincial administration, district development committees other Government
ministries and agencies and as a result of the Materials Branch's report on
the deterioration of paved roads.
2.        This is to be followed by the elaboration for each road of a
planning indicator composed of four components: geographic services,
socio-economic impact, trip service and intermodal service. The geographic
service factor indicates whether the proposed road directly serves as an
international, inter-regional or inter-district link, as well as whether it
serves major urban centers and gives access to isolated population
centers. The socio-economic factor takes into account the various service
centers served within the area of influence of the proposed road, the
population density, agricultural and industrial potential of the area of
influence, and the importance of the road as a means of transporting cash
agricultural crops and industrial raw or finished products. The trip
service factor measures annual average daily traffic, volumes of heavy
traffic, number of long-distance trips and public transport vehicles and
projected traffic growth. The intermodal services factor measures the
importance of the road as a link to other forms of transport by assigning a
higher rating to roads which provide significant access to another form of
transport (rail head, port, airport etc.).



- 103 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 2 of 3
3.        The planning factor thus derived, plus other factors such as cost
of construction, all weather status and surface condition of the proposed
roads help to determine which roads are to be subjected to detailed
economic analysis.
Program Formulation
4.        Economic analysis is based on vehicle operating and maintenance
cost savings. All costs and benefits are net of taxes and duties. Foreign
exchange and labor are shadow priced. Initially the same base year is
assumed for all projects to allow ranking according to priorities. By end
1983 economic rates of return had been calculated for 44 projects. The
program of new construction (strengthening, reconstruction, upgrading) has
been formulated from among those roads with the highest rate of return
(Table on Page 3). This list may have to be amended at negotiations as
other considerations, e.g. status of preparation, external financing,
equity in regional distribution, national security goals and development
objectives are taken into consideration. During implementation when the
Highway Design Model will become operational the program may also have to
be amended.



- 104 -                         ANNEX 4.2
Page 3 of 3
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Program of New Construction (FYs 1984-1988
Road Section                  Length         Cost       Economic Return
(km)      (K£' 000)           (Z)
A. Strengthening
Timboroa-Burnt Forest            16          2,000            100
Sagana-Marua                    38           4,000             43
Kabete-Limuru                    12          3,300             39
Kiganjo-Nanyuki                  58          5,450             37
Ahero-Kisii                      81          7,885             35
Burnt Forest-Eldoret             44          5,500             29
Machakos T'off-Ulu               28          3,000             27
Turbo-Webuye                     39          6,700             17
Dundora-Kangundo                57           6,107             88
Sotik-Kericho                   50           5,360             53
Sub-Total                423          49,302             44
B. Upgrading to Bitumen
Mwatate-Taveta                   90          4,500            100
Lodwar-Kakuma                   134         33,000              9'
Kakuma-Lokichokio               120         33,000              9!
Narok-Amala                      56          3,000             62
Amala-Sotik                      53          3,000             62
Rodi Kopany-Karungu              47          2,400             48
Kisumu-Muhoroni                  56          3,000             43
Sub-Total                556          81,900             20
C. Reconstruction
Webuye-Malaba                    61          6,090             39
Thika-Makutano                   12          4,000             22
Sub-Total                 73          10,090             32
Total                      141,292             29



[~~~~~~ ~ ~                     G      0,x'u   A  N  D) A  t 
C)  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
C)                                                                   N)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
T                             <', IIt'i'S                                               a¢'
/v 0                                 m
X                                                         ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  -    
:   &,.  :|! S.   S   ,   ,   li,  2,                      jN>      C
A< ~~~~~~~~~(C< I'  7)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



