Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ft!LE iA p
Report No. P-3780-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$50.0 MILLION AND
A PROPOSED SPECIAL FUND CREDIT OF SDR 37.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
April 19, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -        Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.00             -        US$0.08 1/
US$1.00              -        KSh 13.7
US$1.00              -        SDR 0.9432 2/
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIR      -       Country Implementation Review
EAC      -       East African Community
SAL      -       Structural Adjustment Lending
FISCAL YEAR
Government:       July 1. - June 30
1/ Since December 1982, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR - KSh 14.06. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time.  A rate of US$1.00   KSh 13.7 has been used in
evaluating this- project.
2/  As of February 29, 1984



KENYA                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan/Special Fund Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Kenya
Amount:                  A Loan of US$50.0 million equivalent and a Special
Fund Credit of SDR 37.8 million (US$40.0 million
equivalent)
Terms:                   The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including
5 yeaLrs of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The Special Fund Credit would be on standard
IDA terms.
Project Description:    The proposed project would help finance the last
four years of the Government's Fifth Highway Sector
Plan (FY1984-88). The main objectives of the
project are to assist the Government to reduce
transport costs and to strengthen the Ministry of
Transport and Communications in the areas of
highway administration and plan implementation.
These objectives would be achieved through: (a)
improving the maintenance of the existing road
network; (b) strengthening and upgrading priority
roads; (c) improving highway planning and
administration; (d) enforcing appropriate vehicle
axle load regulations; (e) developing the domestic
road construction industry; (f) instituting
appropriate user charges for various vehicle
categories; and (g) improving the modal
distribution of traffic along Kenya's main
transport; corridor.
Risks:                   The proposed project faces two principal risks,
both related to the economic environment. First,
should the economic situation deteriorate, the
hig'hway sector could suffer budgetary reductions.
Reviews of the annual plans would ensure that
priority programs and projects would not be
affected by such reductions. Second, shortage of
foreign exchange could restrict critical imported
materials. By providing financing for some
imported materials, the project would alleviate
shortages of these materials. A third risk is that
maintenance operations may not improve measurably
as a result of (i) slow progress in work
programming and supervision of operations; and (ii)
inadequate coordination among the various units of
the Ministry. The project includes measures to
reduce the likelihood of this occurrence.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Estimated Project Costs:
Local   Foreign      Total
US$ millions--------
Road Works by Contract
Resealing and Regravelling                    21.7        18.3        403
Strengthening/Upgrading                       14.9        40.1        550
Support to the Ministry
Equipment, Tools, Spare Parts                  0.5        10.2        13.7
Workshops and Stores                            1.1        2.6         3 7
Materials                                      0.8         309         4.7
Laboratory Equipment                                       0.7         0.7
Road Safety and Traffic Enforcement            0.1         1.0
Consultants' Services                             1.4         5.5        6.9
Base Cost                                       40.5        82.3       122c8
Price Contingencies                           13.2        16.4        29.6
Total Project Cost a/                           53-7        98.7       152.4
Front-End Fee                                                0.1         0.3.
Total Financing Required                53.7        98.8       152.5
Financing Plan:
-- US$ Mil:Lion Equivalent --      % of Total
Local      Foreign      Total       Financing
Sources
IBRD                                      50.0        50.0         33
Special Fund                  -           40.0        40.0         26
Government of Kenya          53.7          8.8        62.5         41
Total a/                       53.7         98.8       152.5        100
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$13.5 million equivalent



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:               FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
(US$ Millions)
Annual                            6.0    24.0    24.0    20.0    14.0         2.0
Cumulative                        6.0    30.0    54.0    74.0    88.0    90.0
Economic Rate of Return:   64%
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 4920-KE, Date: April 9, 1984
Map: IBRD 17748



IL
-4
S



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMAENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
TC THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan for US$50.0 million and a Special Fund Credit for SDR 37.8 million
(US$40.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of Kenya to help finance a
second highway sector project. The Loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years' grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Special Fund Credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4689-KE) dated October
5, 1983 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary of
social and economic data is in Annex I.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then, the country has experienced remarkable continuity in
both political leadership and development strategy.  That strategy has been
to promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment,
encouragement of both smalilholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of
accelerated industrializat:ion, by providing incentives for private, includ-
ing foreign, investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model
can be characterized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diver-
sity of organizational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise
with a significant amount of Government participation and guidance.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remark-
able growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing
grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively.  The expansion of
agriculture was stimulated by redistribution of large estates to small-
holders, rapid diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder
output. Growth of manufacturing was made possible very largely by the
expansion of domestic demand due to rising agricultural incomes, while in-
vestment for domestic production was being encouraged by high levels of
protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign investment, and active
Government promotion of and participation in manufacturing ventures.
5.        Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth of per
capita income declined substantially after 1974. Kenya remains a poor
country, still heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP
per capita in 1982 was US$390. Agriculture accounted for more than a third



4
i.
of GDP and about two-thirds of exports (other than refined petroleumt pro-
ducts) in 1978-83.  Since the growth of the :i.ndustrial sector has been
largely confined to the 1 ajor urban areas, agriiculture remains the
principal source of inco ne in the rural areas where over BO% of the
population live and work.,  Kenya still has signirf.cant p-oblems of poverty
and underemployment.  About one-fourth of the population is estimated to
have incomes placing them below the absolute poverty line.
6.         A fundamental probiem K..enya fazes is posed by the raFid growt,"-
rate of population, currently estill ated at 3.9% per year, wh.ich is among
the highest in the world.  This iS, ironically, partly the result of
Kenya's past success in raising health and general living standards, which
has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has probably resulted  .n
an increase in the country's already high fertiiity  rates
7.         With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to
mount on Kenya's limited arable land   Oi. the country's total iand area of
about 575,000 sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially
produictive.  However, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only
9% can be regarded as high potential landl w4 th 9  of miedium potential and
82% Low potential arid- and semi-arid areas.  Of the less than 20% of -lanld
area which has good arable potential, much is now densely settledc
8.         Rapid population growth has created otther problems as well.
First, there is the strong likelihood that, un:leSs growth slows dramati-
cally or ways are found to increase the rate at which income earning oppor-
tunities in agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into
urban areas. Even if the non-agricultural sector were to grow very
rapidly, it probably would be unable to absorb all the new urban labor
force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemployment and underemploy-
ment.  Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already been created by
the growing demand for social services, especially education. Finally,
efforts to improve the distribution of income and alleviate poverty wil:L be
impeded by the relative lack of access to lancl and education for the
children of the poorest section of the population.
9.         A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent, manufacturing production a:Lso catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected markets of the for-
mer East African Communlty (EAC).  The scope for further industrialization
along these lines is limited, as most of the easy import-substitution pos-
sibilities have been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has
been abolished.  The past pattern of' industrialization has left the sector
increasingly dependent on imported raw mat:erials, components and spare
parts, and therefore it is vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign
exchange. To maintain growth it will be rnecessary to reorient industry
toward increased use of domestic inputs arid increased production for
export.
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural
output, which averaged only about 2.4% per year over 1972-79, but improved
modestly to 3.4% p.a. over 1980-83.  This reflects generally inefficient



- 3 -
marketing and pricing policies, lack of institutional support and input
supply, less favorable climatic conditions, and weakening of the structural
factors fueling earlier growt:h. In addition, the concentration of land
holdings, insecure land tenure, and problems in planning and execution of
agricultural projects and programs are inhibiting agricultural growth.
Measures to deal with these problems are essential to revitalize the agri-
cultural sector.
11.       Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification of
exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on the balance
of payments. From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at an average
annual rate of 4.6%, but over the past five years, export volume grew more
slowly. In 1983, however, export volume dropped to 9% below the 1978
level. To some extent, this is a reflection of production problems in
agriculture and industry, as well as declining demand for petroleum
products, but it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources
toward export-oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-83
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulner-
able to swings in the country's international terms of trade. The GDP
growth rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in pe--
troleum and other import prices required restrictive economic policies,
accelerated rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following
frost damage in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to
decelerate in mid-1977 and through 1978 with the especially rapid declinie
in coffee prices.
13.       During the Fourth Development Plan period 1979-83, Kenya con-
tinued to experience strong external shocks as a result of the second oil
crisis in 1979, unfavorable external terms of trade, and declining export
volumes.  The effects of these external shocks on the balance of payments,
and incomes, were compounded by poor weather affecting, in particular,
coffee and maize production. As a result, GDP growth (at factor cost)
slowed to 3.2% in 1980, recovered in 1981 to 4.8% and slowed down again in
1982 and 1983 to 3.3% and :3.0%, respectively. The trade deficit rose
sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted. l'o
prevent further depletion of the country's reserves, the Government
introduced a program of import restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp
decline in imports and reductions in Kenya's trade gap and current account
deficit in 1979. This, together with increased external borrowing,
resulted in a recuperation of about US$179 million in gross reserves in the
same year.
14.       The improvement in the balance of payments proved to be short-
lived. The increase in petroleum prices, combined with the need for addi-
tional food imports, resulted in a 39% rise in the value of imports in
1980. While exports rose by 22%, this was not sufficient to prevent a rise
in the current account deficit to almost US$900 million and, despite in-
creased external borrowing, a decline of US$195 million in foreign exchange
reserves. In 1981-83 there was, however, a strong Government response to
the mounting economic problems, as measures were introduced to bring th,e



- 4 -
financial and structural imbalances towards stabilization.  At the same
time, the Government began to concentrate its longer-term policy
initiatives in a more coherent stabilization program aimed at addressing
the structural constraint:s to growth.  The stabilization program involved
the introduction of tighl:er fiscal and monetary management, more market
oriented pricing policy, more liberal trade regime, critical appraisal of
parastatals' performance, more restrictive wage and employment policy, more
active exchange rate policy and continued use of restrictions on imports.
As a result, the current account deficit narrowed to US$511 million in 1982
and further declined to an estimated US$178 million in 1983. As a result,
the foreign exchange reserve position improved substantially at the end of
1983.
The Fifth Development Plan, 1984-88
15.       In December 19133, the Government produced its Fifth Development
Plan (1984-88).  The theme of the Plan is "mobiLization of domestic
resources for equitable development." Underlying this theme is the
Government's recognition that the heavy depend1ence on external resourcies
for development (equal to about 24% of gross investment in 1982) cannot be
continued and future development must, therefore, be increasingly based on
domestic resources.   To achieve this objective, the Plan calls for an
increase in domestic savings as a percentage of GDP from the current level
of about 17% to 23% by 1388.
16.       As in the Fourth Plan, the new Plan's emphasis is on poverty al-
leviation. Compared witha the last Plan, it is frank in its discussion of
wi6e main development issues and problems and more realistic in its macro-
economic forecasts. However, the main weakness of the Plan is that it pro-
vides little in terms of specific policy recommendations and detailed
action programs.  Some of the noteworthy features of the Fifth Plan are:
(a)  an increased level of domestic savings to be achieved by
improving Government savings through curtailment of overall
budgetary deficits and encouraging private savings through
an active interest rate policy and expansion of the network
of financial institutions;
(b) an increased capacity utilizat:Lon in the economy as a
whole. To this effect, the Plan calls for raising the rela-
tive allocation for recurrent expenditures in the public
sector and intensification of agricultural production and
revitalization of industrial activities in the private
sector through the provision of adequate remuneration;
(c)  continuatiLon of the Government's development strategy toward
a more outward-looking, export-oriented approach. The Plan
proposes, among other things, encouragement of in-bond im-
ports for export production, maintaining an appropriate ex-
change rate and priority treatment for imports and credit
ailocations for export-oriented activities;
(d) recognition that consumer food subsidies should be avoided
and prices to farmers be guided by the limits established by
border pr:ices and the exchange rate. The Plan also proposes



- 5 -
to make the National Cereals and Produce Board a buyer and
seller of last resort. In this regard, the Plan calls for
encouragement of private grain marketing.
17.       Taken as a whole, the Plan is consistent with the strategy incor-
porated in the Government's structural adjustment program oc 1980. The
thrust of this strategy, to whi,zh Bank's structural adjustment lending is
closely linked, aims at the establishment of a set of price incentives and
other signals to producers, and a framework of Government support, that
would encourage a more efficient pattern of industrial development, more
rapid growth of agriculture, and expansion and diversification of exports.
The key to this would be the gradual replacement of quantitative restric-
tions on imports with a moderate and relatively uniform tariff. This is to
be accompanied by changes in the exchange rate designed to reduce the nega-
tive impact on individual industries and to reduce the bias against agri-
culture. In addition, fiscal and other incentives to industry are to be
harmonized with the objective of trade reform, and procedures for approval
of Government investment in commercial enterprises are to be strengthened.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
18.       The Government's structural adjustment program was supported by a
Bank Group structural adjustment lending (SAL) operation approved in March
1980. The first SAL involved: (a) revising the Government's investment
program to make it more consistent with the country's new economic
circumstances; (b) ensurirg the country's creditworthiness by improving
external debt management and introducing better planning and control of
external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of rationalization of the
trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for exports and ensuring that
exports are competitive; and (E!) reviewing and revising interest rate
policy to ensure that it is consistent with development objectives. The
program was, on the whole, carried out satisfactorily. While the general
thrust of the program was maintained, attempts to execute the policy
measures revealed some weaknesses in planning and administration.
19.       A second SAL operation was approved by the Bank Group in July
1982. In addition to supporting continued rationalization of the system of
industrial protection and improvement of incentives for exports, it
included measures aimed at revitalizing the agricultural sector, increasing
domestic supplies of energy, encouraging energy conservation, prepariNg a
viable public investment program, and introducing policy initiatives in
population.
20.       The Bank Group zonducted frequent review missions to discuss pro-
gress in achieving the release of the second tranche (US$50.0 million) of
the second SAL. Although substantial progress was made in implementing
most of the aspects of agreed policy reforms, there was delay in two major
aspects of conditionality: the preparation of a forward budget and public
investment program consistent with the objectives of structural adjustment;
and the making of decisions on the future structure of grain marketing.
Performance was also found to be lagging in other areas, including: (i)
preparing a new tariff structure; (ii) implementing the associated
industrial transitional strategy studies meant to chart policy for the



- 6 -
amelioration of the adverse effects of reduced protection on inefficient
industries; (iii) developing an export promotion program; and (iv)
reviewing large farm subdivision and other specific land issues.
21.        In the course of these reviews, the Government recognized the
need to improve its performance on the outstanding aspects of the program.
Agreement was reached on detailed work programs and schedules to accelerate
progress. In December, the Governrnent produced a public investment
program, and conveyed to the Bank appropriate decisions on the future
structure of grain marketing. Consequent:ly, as noted in January 6, 1984
memorandum to the Executive Directcrs (IDA/SecM84-8), the second tranche
was released.
22.        While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable
impact on the balance of payments over the longer term, the remaining
years of the 1980's are going to be difficult :for Kenyan policymakers and
for the Kenyan economy. The country's international terms of trade are
likely to continue to deteriorate at least until the second half of the
1980s. In addition, external debt service obligations will be high because
of borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the past
several years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are
likely to be subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing
revenues and demands for increased expenditures. It is within this context
that critical policy decisions must be made involving a fundamental re-
structuring of the pattern of development.
23.        Given the slow recovery of the world economy and Kenya's gener-
ally unfavorable export prospects, it will be difficult to maintain posi-
tive growth of GDP per capita through 1984. However, growth prospects
appear somewhat better from about 1985 onward, provided the Government's
structural adjustment program is continued and there is adequate external
assistance to enable its successful implementation. The country's terms of
trade should also stabilize, the growth of external debt should decelerate,
and current account deficits should grow at reasonable levels during
1985-90. A growth rate of GDP around 5% per year should be attainable
during the second half of the decade.
External Debt
24.        The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has risen from 3.9% in 1977 to about 30.0% in 1983. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase from about 30.0% in 1984 to a peak of 30,6%
in 1985, before declining to around 16.4% in 1995.  Debt service payments
to the Bank in 1982 accounted for 14.7% of total debt service payments;
IDA's share was 0.7%.  The Bank's share of total debt service payments is
expected to rise to about 18.3% by 1990, while lDA's share would rise to
1.2%.  The Bank is currently holding 18.9% of Kenya's total outstanding and
disbursed external debt, and IDA 11.3%. The Bank's share is expected to
decline to 16.7% and IDA's to rise to about 14.5% by 1990. Because of the
long-term balance-of-payments constraint, Kenya's development program will
require substantial financing in excess of public savings and available
non-Bank Group external capital combi ned, and the Bank Group, therefore,
expects to continue the practice of f inanciing a substantial portion of
total project costs, including some local costs when necessary.



7-
East African Community (EAC)
25.        The developments affecting the East Africa Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive D)irectors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in statements made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364) and December
1983. One of the positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been
the Partner States' decision, taken upon the mediator's recommendation,
that the East African Deve,Lopment Bank -- one of the former Community's
institutions -- should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has
been enacted. The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals
for the three Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981,
and decided to commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals.
Negotiations, which started in December 1981 and continued through 1982 and
1983, focussed on details of a division formula for assets and debts.
While it was generally accepted that both location of assets and the
principle of equal rights of all former EAC partners should be taken into
account, the weight to be attributed to these principles was a major
issue. On November 15 and 16, 1983, the negotiations culminated in a
meeting of the three Heads of State in Arusha in which full agreement was
reached on all outstanding issues, including the prominent weighting
question. The agreement follows the recommendations of the mediator -and
provides that both assets and liabilities be divided in the ratios of 42%
for Kenya, 32% for Tanzania, and 26% for Uganda. As a result of this
formula, Kenya and Tanzania have excess assets over their equity shares,
while Uganda has a shortfall.  The Presidents agreed, therefore, that Kenya
and Tanzania will pay compensati on to Uganda. The method of payment of
this compensation is being worked out at the ministerial level and an
agreement formalizing the arrangements is expected to be signed by the
three Presidents in May.
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.        To date, Kenya has received 43 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 40 IDA credits amounting to US$1,711.7 million,
which supported 73 operations. In addition, Kenya was one of the benefiLci-
aries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecomunications, and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner states of
the EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Kenya and to the EAC corporations.
27.        The Bank Group has reoriented its lending program to assist the
Government in its efforts to restructure the economy.  This has meant the
inclusion in the program of structural adjustment assistance. A first
credit in support of the Government's structural adjustment program was
approved in 1980 and a second structural adjustment operation was approved
by the Bank Group on July 1, 1982 (paragraphs 18-23). Recent economic work
has also focused on the structural problems in specific sectors, includLng
the energy sector.



- 8 -
28.       The selection of projects for Einancing and the design of such
projects have been influenced by the need to complement policy actions
under the structural adjustment program.  Continuing priority has thus been
given to the agricultural and industrial sectors, but increasing emphasis
also has been placed on sectors such as population and energy.  In FY83,
the Second Structural Adjustment Operation, an Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project, the Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project, the
National Extension Project and the Secondary Towns Project were approved.
So far in FY84, the Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Project has been approved.
29.     In FY83, disbursements on projects, as a percentage of amounts out-
standing at the beginning of the year, rose to 16% (the figure is 26% in-
cluding structural adjustment operations) from 11% in FY82. This improve-
ment was largely due to the greater use of disbursement Procedure III and
the application of the Treasury's Circular requiring operating Ministries
to make prompt reimbursement claims, under penalty of freezing funds.
However, project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in con-
trast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the
more pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints,
procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local
financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing and submitting
reimbursement claims, have led to a poor project disbursement record.  An
in-depth review of the causes of this situation has been undertaken by the
Bank Group and the problems and possible solutions were discussed with the
Government at Country Implementation Review meetings.  The discussions were
frank and constructive, and the Government informed the Bank Group of
several new initiatives to improve performance., including those mentioned.
During the ongoing CIR discussions, the Governrnent and the Bank are con-
tinuing to review the Government's development objectives and investment
priorities in the context of implementation capacity and resource con-
straints. The project portfolio is under review to determine the scope for
reducing project costs through reformulation, rephasing or cancelling
projects which cannot be adequately funded. As a result, substantial can-
cellations of funds have been made from the Sugar Rehabilitation Project
(Ln. 1636-KE) (US$58.0 million) and the Second Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 959-KE) (US$38.0 million), and the project scope
for the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project (Ln. 1449/Cr. 772-KE) has been
reduced to a level commensurate wit'h avaiLable local resources. The Rural
Water Supply Project (Ln. 1637-KE) is being ref'ormulated. Additional
possibilities for project rationalization are currently under review.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$62.5 million for eleven opera-
tions in Kenya. These include loans for six companies: Pan African Paper
Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services
(Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.; Bamburi Portland Cement Company,
Ltd; and Tetra Pak Converters, Ltd. Also included are a US$2 million
credit line to the Kenya Commercial Bank, Ltd., a US$5 million credit line
to the Kenya Commercial Finance Company, Ltd., and equity investments in
Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd., (US$1.3 million), Diamond Trust



- 9 -
of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.8 million), and Industrial Promotion Services
Kenya,Ltd. (US$0.6 million). As of September 30, 1984, IFC held for its
own account US$62.5 million, comprising US$49.7 million of loans and
US$12.8 million of equity. A Suimmary of IFC Investments is included in
Annex II.
PART III - TRANS]PORT AND THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
31.       The heaviest concentralion of transport facilities in Kenya is
along the 1,000 km corridor from Mombasa on the Indian Ocean to the Ugandan
border, v'a Nairobi.  This dense:Ly populated area of major economic
importance contains over half of Kenya's population. Almost all of the
2,100 km rail network and a sizeable proportion of the 53,800 km road
network is in the Mombasa-Uganda corridor, which is also a major transport
route for goods to and from Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and parts of Eastern
Zaire. The transport network is gradually being improved outside the
corridor, but more than half the country, in the north and east, is arid
and sparsely populated and has f,ew transport links.
Transport
32.        Overall responsibility for the development, utilization and
maintenance of the transport infrastructure is vested with the Ministry of
Transport and Communications, created in 1980. The Ministry has six major
subdivisions, the Roads and Aerodromes Department and five Divisions
responsible for the various modes and the Ministry's technical, adminis-
trative, communications, and planning functions. Each subdivision is
headed either by a Chief Engineer or a Deputy Secretary. Public sector
corporations are predominant in transport, including the Kenya Railways
Corporation, Kenya Ports Authority, Kenya Pipelines, and Kenya Airways.
The private sector is involved only in road transport and in air
chartering.
33.       By creating a Ministry responsible for all transport modes, the
Government gave due recognition to the importance of intermodal planning,
policy formulation and coordination. The organizational structure of the
Ministry and the respective responsibilities of the subdivisions and of
some of their units, however, could be streamlined. In particular, effec-
tive coordination among the units involved in the highway sector has been
*         hampered by the fact that they come under two different subdivisions, the
Roads and Aerodromes Department and the Technical Division.
34.       The Transport Planning and Coordination Division is the only unit
in the Ministry which deals with all aspects of transport. It was estab-
lished in late 1980, and absorbed the Highway Planning Section and planning
units under the previous ministerial organization. The Division consists
of three Branches: Advance Planning and Programming; Policy Review,
Research and Statistics; and Project Implementation and Monitoring. While
some of the units under the Branches are adequately staffed, others have
not been fully operational, mainly due to a shortage of qualified staff.
Thus, the Division has been unable to carry out all its functions.
Recently, however, six additional economists have been appointed.



- 10 -
35.       The Government's general policy to promote interaction and
competition between the public and private sectors applies to transport.
The public sector organizations are by statute autonomous and are expected
to be financially self sufficient. This autonomy has, to a large extent,
encouraged financial discipline and deterred uniprofitable investments, and
further progress is expected in these areas. The Government's objectives
and policies are based on the key principles that (i) transport is a
service activity which should be developed in :Line with the needs of the
productive sectors, and (Li) the relative distribution of traffic amongst
the various modes should be based on the comparative advantage of carriesrs
and achieved through the market mechanism.
36.        Transport has performed relatively well in collecting/distribut-
ing goods throughout the rural areas and moving 'Large volumes along the
main arteries and through Mombasa port. The quality of service,
flexibility in supply, and costs compare favorably with other African
countries. Transport services, however, are not being provided at the
lowest possible cost to the economy, mainly because: (i) road transport
system costs remain too high as a result of inadequate road maintenance and
vehicle overloading, and (ii) the road/rail traffic distribution in Kenya's
main transport corridor is sub-optimal (paragraph 37). The lack of costl
effectiveness arises primarily from weak implementation of key policies
rather than from inappropriate policies.
37.       The necessary conditions for the market to achieve the desired
distribution of traffic are largely satisfied: shippers are free to ship
goods by the mode of their choice (except in a few cases where rail
transport is imposed), entry into the road transport industry is open, and
road tariffs are unregulated and closely related to carriers' operating
costs. Except for a few products, primarily agricultural products, raiL
tariffs broadly correspond to railway operating costs. Some distortion in
the modal split, however, arises from unequal treatment of infrastructure
costs between rail and road transport. The railways are expected to pay
for long term infrastructure costs. For competing road transport (heavy
commercial vehicles), however, even short term marginal costs of road use
are not covered through road user charges. As a result, some long distance
road transport rates do not reflect economic costs.
38.        Kenya's first three Five-Year Development Plans allocated about a
quarter of total investments to transport. During the Fourth Plan, the
share decreased somewhat to 21% although in real terms the allocations
did not decrease. The Fifth Transport Plan (FY84-88) was drawn on a fiscal
year basis in order to correspond with the forward budget process (whereas
the national development plans are on a calendar year basis). The initial
preparation stages of the Transport Plan suffered from poor coordination
between the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of
Finance and Planning. As a result, the draft Transport Plan was overly
ambitious and the Ministry of Transport and Communications was ill-prepared
to reduce its proposals to comply with the budgetary ceilings. In the
course of 1983, a realistic and feasible Transport Plan was completed. At
Ki 385 million, in real terms, total investment:s in transport during the
Fifth Transport Plan will remain at about the same level as the Fourth



- 11 -
Transport Plan, with greater emphasis on replacement and rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure and facilities. The highway sector will account
for about two-thirds of total transport investments.
The Highway Sector
39.       Roads play the primary role for short distance transport and for
improving access to rural areas. Roads are unevenly distributed over the
country, in line with population density. Kenya's classified road networlc
totals some 53,800 km, of which 6,400 km are bitumen, 18,400 km are grave:L
and 29,000 km are earth.  The MinLstry's Roads and Aerodromes Department is
responsible for maintaining the entire classified network. Owing to lack
of adequate maintenance, overload:ing, and inadequacy of existing roads to
withstand the present day traffic,, the roads are generally in poor
condition. As a result, road transport system costs are higher than should
be, in terms of vehicle operating and road reconstruction costs.  Enforce-
ment of the vehicle axle-load regulations has not been effective to date.
The Government has been slow to review and reformulate policy until
recently when significant progress was achieved by adopting amendments to
the Traffic Act which increased axle-load limits to 10 tons and introduced
stricter enforcement.
40.       The vehicle fleet Ls estimated at 258,000 units (45% passenger
cars), and has been growing at an average of 4% per annum. While overall
traffic grew at a rapid pace in the early and mid-1970s (7.5%), traffic
levels have stabilized since 1979. Trunk roads account for only 12% of the
network, but carry 64% of all traffic. The most common vehicle on these
roads is the light commercial vehicle (40% of total traffic). The road
transport industry is characterized by a few large trucking companies
operating 50 or more trucks and a much higher number of medium to small
sized (owner) operators. Except for safety and vehicle dimension restric--
tions, road transport is almost fully deregulated and has displayed great
vitality and flexibility in adjusting to transport demand.
41.       In recent years, total revenues from the taxation of road users
have significantly exceeded total expenditures on roads. Disparities have
arisen, however, in the treatment of different categories of road users:
(a) Diesel-powered. vehicles enjoy a more favorable tax regime
(in terms of import duties, fuel taxes, and vehicle sales
taxes) than gasoline-powered vehicles, which is not
economically justified for all operating conditions.
(b) Vehicle taxation does not reflect the relative costs imposed
on the road system by various categories of road users; in
particular, heavy commercial vehicles are undertaxed.
With regard to prices of fuel products used in transport, the Government
follows a policy (primarily through taxation) under which the pump price
for each product covers much more than its resource cost (pump prices for
diesel and gasoline exceed border prices by 50% and 100%, respectively).
This policy, however, is characterized by a marked price differentiation



- 12 -
between diesel and gasoline. The Government is aware of the possible
distortions in resource use due to pronounced price differentiation, and
will review its policy under the Fifth Plan with the aim of achieving a
better match between supply and demand for fueL products.
42.        The Mechanical and Transport Department, under the Ministry's
Technical Division, is responsible for procuremnent, repair and maintenance
of most of the equipment owned by the Ministry.  The Department has a cen-
tral workshop and 7 provincial and 25 district workshops, many of which are
in temporary structures and lack adequate facilities. Ten districts have
no workshops.  As a result of more in-house repair work, the Department's
parts supply function has faced a workload increase which it has been un-
able to meet.  Poor performance in the wcrkshops and in parts control are                       4
the main factors contributing to the low availability of equipment and
vehicles (about 50% in recent years).  These weaknesses have been com-
pounded by inadequate funds and the attempt to maintain too large a fleet
for the Ministry's work program. ',hortage of funds has been the primary
cause of low utilization of the available equipment. Until FY1983, the
activities of the Department were funded through an equipment rental scheme
within the Ministry. Failure to establish and maintain rental rates ade-
quate to cover amortization, repairs and maintenance, combined with low
utilization, led to the suspension of the scheme. Pending the
establishment of appropriate funding arrangements, the activities of the
Department are financed through direct budgetary allocations.  To remedy
the various problems it is facing, the Department has carried out a
detailed equipment condition survey, and is preparing programs in (i)
equipment repair and replacement, (ii) equipment management and funding,
and (iii) workshop development and spares inventory control.
43,        The Maintenance Branch of the Roads and Aerodromes Department is
responsible for maintenance of all classi fied and special purpose roads.
For routine maintenance, the overall programming of activities in the dis-
tricts is carried out at Headquarters, while implementation is the respon-
sibility of the Ministry's field organization. Work performance has re-
mained well below the Ministry's standards, mainly due to insufficient
funds and poor work programming ancl supervision. Periodic maintenance (re-
sealing and regravelling) programs are formulated at Headquarters and exe-
cuted under its control. Output, particularly resealing, has been much
below target in the past. Resealing has been carried out to date almost
entirely by the Branch's own forces.   In FY1984, however, the Branch began
to contract some of the resealing works l:o medium sized contractors. For
regravelling works, small local contractors have participated quite exten-
sively. The small contractors, composed entirely of Kenyan nationals, have
been hampered in their development by the irregular flow of work put out to
contract (peaking in FY1980 with more than 1,000 km against some 400 km in
FY1983) as a result of budgetary constra.ints. Moreover, contracts have
been awarded under protected conditions, e.g., fixed rates and contractors
restricted to specific districts.
44.        The Ministry's Design Branch carries out in-house design work and
supervises the work done by consultants i-inanced by the Ministry and exter-
nal sources. Due to an insufficient number of experienced, permanently



- 13 -
assigned engineers, the Design Branch has been unable to carry out its work
program on a timely basis.  In the future, however, the workload will be
more manageable because the Branch has hired additional staff and the
workload has stabilized. The Materials and Research Branch is adequately
staffed and has a sound work program. During the coming years, the Branch
will focus its activities on gravel substitutes and asphaltis pavement
analysis. Highway construction (reconstruction, strengthening, upgrading,
new roads) is the responsibility of the Construction Branch of the Roads
and Aerodromes Department. Construction is mostly carried out by contract
with major works awarded to large local firms or subsidiaries of foreign
contractors. Works are awarded on the basis of unit price contracts
following international competitLve bidding and are supervised by consult-
ants.  Force account construction is carried out under three programs:  I(i)
the main Road Construction Program which builds and upgrades roads primar-
ily in remote areas, but only produces an average annual output of about 70
km;  (ii) the Gravelling, Bridging and Culverting Prograrn under which lower
class roads are upgraded to all-weather gravel standard (output has aver--
aged some 580 km/year); and (iii) the Rural Access Roads Program which uses
labor intensive techniques lo construct low-cost rural roads. During the
previous plan period, an average of 1,300 km were built per year and about
560 km were gravelled.
45.       Routine field activities rely on the 41 maintenance districts
headed by District Engineers. Some 5,600 permanent and 12,650 work-paid
staff are employed by the five Departments (Branches) involved in the
highway sector, including 325 engineers. As the Ministry's force account
activities stabilize, and contracting of works increases, the labor surplus
under certain categories should decrease through attrition. Any future
hiring of road maintenance personnel will be in accordance with the
Ministry's maintenance programming and costing scheme (paragraph 52).
Staff strengthening at the professional level and staff upgrading at the
sub-professional level remain important as many staff have been recruited
in recent years (the number of Kenyan engineers in the Roads and Aerodromes
Department increased from 14 in 1970 to 281 in 1983). The most critical
staffing constraint, requiring outside expert assistance, is at the level
of senior posts for equipment management.
46.       The Ministry offers a sound training program for young engineers
which includes rotational assignments, secondment to consulting firms, and
overseas fellowships.  In 1983, some 30 engineers were in training under
this program. At the sub-professional level, training covered nearly 9,000
employee courses during 1971-1982. In the coming years, the main thrust
will be toward in-service retraining and upgrading of skills. The 73
Kenyan instructors in the Ministry's Training Department are assisted by 10
expatriates provided under bilateral assistance programs.  On the whole,
the facilities of the Departmaent are adequate, but a shortage of some
equipment, plant, vehic'les and tools exists.
Past Bank Group Involvement in the Highway Sector
47.       Since 1960, the Batik Group has undertaken a total of 11 projects
benefitting the highway sector. Iwo projects supported the Government's
efforts to create a well-integrated network of national and regional roads



- 14 -
(First and Second Highway Projects, Cr. 70-KE? and Cr. 120-KE),   Para:llel
projects for agricultural roads have supported programs in the agricultural
sector:  Agricultural Development (Cr. 256-KE), Tea Roads (Cr. 77-KE),
Sugar Roads (Cr. 104-KE), and Rural Access Roads (Ln. 1305-KE/Cr. 651-1KE)0
Other projects have combined main road construction with agricultural
roads, e.g. the Third, Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Ln. 639-KE, Cr.
276-KE, and Ln. 932-K1E), and one project (First Highway Sector Project,
Ln. 1684-KE) was made to support the sector aIs a whole.   The Highway
Maintenance Project (Cr. 224-KE) was designed to strengthen the maintenance
organization and help finance the implementation of a large maintenance
program. These projects have, on the whole, been completed satisfactorily
and the principal objectives -- reduction in vehicle operating costs and
improvement of accessibility in rural areas --- have been largely achieved0
The projects, however, experienced delays ancl cost overruns and the
economic rates of return were on averag;e below appraisal estimates.
Project Performance Audit Reports prepared for five of these projects
highlighted: (i) issues relating to road design (resulting in premature
pavement failures) which led to the development of uniform road design
standards; and (ii) optimistic project implementation schedules.
48.        During the 1970s, the Departments ancd Branches in the highway
sector, particularly the Staff Training Department, were considerably
strengthened. The Roads and Aerodromes Department demonstrated its ability
to establish and effectively carry out programs which required innovative
approaches, such as the Rural AccBess Roads Program and the Gravelling,
Bridging and Culverting Program. Moreover, the Ministry pursued appro-
priate sector objectives and policies (<aragraph 35) under its Fourth
Transport Plan, and measures aimed at improving the performance of the
sector were initiated.  The Bank, therefore, agreed to the First Highway
Sector Project of US$90.0 million to support the Government's Fourth
Highway Sector Plan (FY1979-1983) consisting of strengthening and
reconstruction of trunk roads, upgrading to bitumen and gravel standard,
and construction of rural access roads. The institutional and sector
measures included traffic law enforcement and road safety programs, a pilot
maintenance programming and costing scheme, improved intermodal
coordination, and studies on road user charges and axle load limits.
These measures provided the basis for reforms in the Fifth Plan.
49.        Owing to slower than projected economic growth, the budgetary al-
locations for road maintenance and construction under the Project could not
be maintained at agreed targets. The shortfall was 13% for recurrent ex-
penditures and 18% for development expenditures. Physical implementation,
however, was much lower than the financial shortfalls would suggest.  Under
the maintenance program, routine maintenance and resealing and grading were
much below target due to poor availability of equipment, inadequate work
programming and work supervision, and the high fixed costs. For construc-
tion, causes were underestimation of unit costs at the time of Plan pre-
paration and implementation of certain works to higher specifications than
envisaged under the Plan. Measuries to overcome these shortcomings have
been included under the Fifth Plan.



- 15 -
PART IV. THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Transport
and Communications with Bank assistance. It was presented to the Bank for
financing iK November 1982, and appraised in August/September 1983. A
follow-up mission visited Kenya in December 1983 to assist the Ministry in
reconciling the size and composition of its Fifth Highway Sector Plan
(FY1984-1988) with sector priorities and forward budget ceilings.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., during March 19-23, 1984, with
the Governmenc's delegation led by Mr. W.P. Wambura, the Ministry's
Permanent Secretary.  A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Kenya:  Second
Hiighway Sector Project," No. 4920-KE, dated April 9, 1984, has been
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. A Loan/Special Fund
Credit and project summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a
supplementary data sheet is attached (Annex III).
The Fifth Highway Sector Plan (FY1984-1988)
51.       The Fifth Highway Sector Plan is part of Kenya's Fifth
Development Plan and is consistent with the Forward Budget and Public-
Investment Program. Formulation of the Plan composition was based on
economic criteria, first by ranking the various programs and activities
according to their economic rate of return, and then by appropriate sizing,
with priority given to maintenance. The Plan is sound and in accordance
with the Government's development priorities for the sector which
appropriately place greater emphasis on road maintenance as opposed to new
construction. Whereas under the Fourth Plan, the budgetary allocations for
road maintenance were about 25% of the total, the allocations under the
Fifth Plan are over 40% of the total. The Plan comprises (i) road
maintenance, (ii) road construction, (iii) support activities in equipment
management, staff training and research, domestic contractor upgrading, and
road safety, and (iv) institutional and sector policy measures. The total
cost of the Plan (FY84 prices) is estimated at US$634 million equivalent,
including foreign costs of about UJS$336 million, or 53% of total cost. In
addition to Bank Group financing, other donor commitments to the Plan are
expected to exceed US$110.0 million. Thus, external financing (excluding
price contingencies) would cover about 29% of the total cost of the Plan,
or about 55% of the foreign costs.
52.       The road maintenance program places heavy emphasis on periodic
maintenance (resealing and regravelling) and, unlike previous programs,
about two-thirds of the works would be contracted out. The program
provides for the resealing of about 1,100 km of paved road per annum and
the regravelling of some 1,950 km in 1985 increasing to 2,600 km in 1988.
It also provides for the strengthening of routine road maintenance
operations through consultants' assistance. The maintenance programming
and costing scheme, which was satisfactorily introduced on a pilot basis
under the previous Plan, will be gradually extended to all districts.
53.       The road construction program gives priority to the completion of
projects and the strengthening and upgrading of existing roads. Existing



- 16 -
subprograms in gravelling, bridging and culverting and in rural access
roads will be re-oriented towards periodic maintenance.  The labor-
intensive techniques successfully developed under the Rural Access Roads
Program will be applied in a new Minor Roads Improvement Program to improve
lower categories of roads.  New road construction comprises projects which
have very high rates of return and substantial donor support.
54.       Based on its detailed equipment condition survey, the Ministry
has initiated the preparation of equipment mLnagement programs aimed at:
(i) defining new equipment needs and the scope for equipment overhaul and
repair; (ii) developing improved arrangements for equipment management and
funding; and (iii) improving workshops and spares inventory control.
Support for staff training emphasizes the need for redeploying staff of' the
Ministry's Gravelling, Bridging and Culverting Program and Rural Access
Roads Program, and upgrading staff in general. Road maintenance and
workshop equipment needed by the Staff Training Department will be met
largely from existing inventory.  The research program of the Materials
Branch will concentrate on monitoring the performance of roads under
various climatic and traffic conditions, and on research to optimize the
design, construction and maintenance of different types of roads. Support
to the domestic contracting industry provides for upgrading the skills of
small domestic contractors engaged on regravelling works.  Training would
aim at preparing the contractors to ope!rate in an open competitive
environment as opposed to the prevailing protected system (paragraph 43).
The budgetary allocation for regravelling under the Plan will ensure a
steady flow of work to aid the development of the industry. Support for
road safety in the Plan provides for the strengthening of both the
Ministry's Road Safety Unit and the National Road Safety Council
established during the previous Plan, and the initiation of a program for
improving hazardous road sections on main roads. Also, the construction of
vehicle inspection centers initiated uider the previous Plan will be
completed, including equipping and staiffing.
55.       The program of institutional and sector policy measures comprises
enforcement of traffic regulations, strengthening of the Ministry, improved
intermodal coordination, and fueL conservation. Enforcement of traffic
regulations includes the introduction of the new axle load limit of 10 tons
approved by Parliament in 1983. This would be accomplished through a
public relations campaign to raise the level of awareness of the new
regulations, and actual enforcement of the new regulations using the two
existing static weighbridges and additional weighbridges to be acquired.
Measures to strengthen the Ministry's Dperations include technical
assistance, the introduction of improved maintenance planning and
programming procedures, the creation of the function of a coordinator to
improve overall coordination among the various units involved in the
highway sector, and recruitment of three additional economists for the
Transport Planning and Coordination Division.  Even though the Ministry's
training and staff development programs have been successful in producing a
large number of trained staff, some key senior positions cannot yet be
filled by Kenyans. Continuation of th(e services of expatriate personnel is
particularly needed in road maintenance, equipment and stores management,
staff training, and the Road Safety Program., External sources are expected



- 17 -
to continue to finance existing technical assistance. Two vacant Senior
Superintending Engineer positions in the Mechanical and Transport
Department need to be filled. Consultants would provide assistance in
extending the maintenance programming and costing scheme throughout the
country and in introducing the Bank's Highway Design Model for evaluatirLg
road maintenance, rehabilitation, and construction strategies. To improve
the modal distribution of t:raffic, and thereby reduce overall transport
system costs, the Plan includes measures in the areas of road user charges,
the transport of petroleum products, and transit transport.  The Government
is committed to increase taxation on heavy commercial vehicles to cover the
short run marginal cost they impose on the road network.  The Government:
intends to achieve this objective by raising the license fee and other
charges on heavy commercial vehicles over a period of three years.
Thereafter, road user charges would be adjusted as required. Moreover,
Kenya Railways is taking steps to increase its involvement in the transport
of petroleum products west of Nairobi, e.g., allocating locomotive power,
and the Government is considering extending the oil pipeline. Kenya
Railways and Uganda Railways have concluded an operating agreement which
provides arrangements for Kenyani and Ugandan wagons to cross the border,
thereby increasing the role of t:he railways in transit traffic. With
appropriate road user charges, strict enforcement of the axle-load limilts,
and a more commercial regime for the railways, the market mechanism can be
expected to produce an improved road/rail modal split in Kenya's main
transport corridor. Based on a recent study by the U.K. Road Transport
Research Laboratory (in consultation with the Ministry), the Government is
preparing new fuel conservation measures.
Project Objectives and Description
56.       The main objectives of the proposed project are to reduce trans-
port costs and strengthen the Ministry's highway administration and plan
implementation capabilities. It aims primarily at: (i) improving mainten-
ance of the existing road network; (ii) strengthening and upgrading prior-
ity roads; (iii) improving highway planning and administration; (iv) en-
forcing appropriate vehicle axle load regulations; (v) developing the
domestic road construction industry; (vi) instituting appropriate user
charges for various vehicle categories; and (vii) improving the modal dis-
tribution of traffic along Kenya's main transport corridor.
57.       The project would help finance the last four fiscal years of the
Government's Fifth Highway Sector Plan (FY1984-88). The Plan and the
subprojects to be financed by the Bank Group in the first year of the
project (FY1985) have been. agreed. Any updating/revisions of the Plan
would be based on the same criteria as for the initial Plan formulation.
The Ministry's proposals f'or such updating/revisions and the work program
for the following fiscal year would be submitted to the Bank by April 1 of
each year, taking into account the draft budgetary ceiling for the
Ministry, and would be finalized in a manner satisfactory to the Bank upon
determination of the final budgetary ceiling (Sections 3.01 (b) of both the
draft Loan Agreement and draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).  Agreement
to finance any subprojects would be contingent upon satisfactory budget
allocations for road maintenance and satisfactory support documentation.
Bank Group financing woulcl cover:



- 18 -
Road Works by Contracit
Resealing of about 2,800 km of paved roads.
Regravelling of about 1,500 km of gravel roads.
Strengthening of about: 220 km of paved roads.
Upgrading of about 245 km of gravel roads to paved standard.
Support for Highway Operations
Road maintenance equipment, tools, and spare parts.
Workshops and stores.
Road building materials.
Consultants' services for
(a) constructiorn supervision,
(b) improving highway maintenance programming and
costing, and
(c) highway planning and administration.
Equipment for the road safety and traffic enforcement pro-
grams and for research.
Domestic Road Construction Industr
Consultants' services to develop the industry.
Detailed Features
58.        Road Works By Contract.  In light of the backlog in resealing and
regravelling built up over the years, the formulation of the annual work
program for resealing and regravelling would be based primarily on the con-
dition of the road network and the current and projected traffic. Eligi-
bility for financing would be subject to satisfactory proposals describing
the scope of the works, the selection procedure adopted, economic rate of
return and relative priority, estimated costs, technical specifications,
supervision arrangements, lot packaging, prequaLification requirements, and
the procurement and execution schedule (Schedule 5, paragraph 1, draft Loan
Agreement, and Schedule 4, paragraph 1, draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement). The strengthening and upgrading of the existing road network
includes ten projects for Bank Group financing (luring FY1985-1988, six of
which would cover road strengthening works. El:igibility for financing
would be subject to submission of a fully documented feasibility study
providing justification for the investment, eng:ineering specifications,
prequalification requirements, procurement and :implementation schedules,
detailed engineering and supervision arrangemenl:s (Schedule 5, paragraph 2,
draft Loan Agreement, and Schedule 4, paragraph 2, draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement).
59.        Equipment, Tools and Spare Parts.  Financing of equipment, tools,
and spare parts, including those for the training program, would be subject
to appropriate justification for the proposed type of goods and quantities,
in terms of critical requirements, availability, and utilization ratios
(Schedule 5, paragraph 4, draft Loan Agreement, and Schedule 4, paragrapl
4, draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).  The proposal would provide a



- 19 -
description of the type of goods (with specifications), estimated costs,
lot packaging, and procurement schedule and procedures.
60.        Workshops and Stores.  Financing for the construction of
workshops and stores would be subject to appropriate justification for the
specifications and locations of the structures, in terms of critical
requirements to service operations. The proposals would provide the
specifications of the structures, estimated costs, prequalification
requirements, and procurement and construction schedules (Schedule 5,
paragraph 3, draft Loan Agreement, and Schedule 4, paragraph 3, draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement).
61.        Road Building Materials.  Justification for road building ma-
terials would be required for the proposed quantities and their intended
use, as well as details on the timing of deliveries, distribution and
storage arrangements, and procurement schedule (Schedule 5, paragraph 4,
draft Loan Agreement, and Schedule 4, paragraph 4, draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement).
62.        Consultants' Services.  Consultants' services would cover con--
struction supervision of the road strengthening and upgrading works,
assistance with the extension of the highway maintenance programming and
costing scheme, and the introduction of the Bank's Highway Design Model.
Proposals would include detailed terms of reference, man-month estimates
and budget, total cost and implementation schedule (Schedule 5, paragraph
5, draft Loan Agreement, and Schedule 4, paragraph 5, draft Special Funcd
Credit Agreement).
63.        Road Safety, Traf fic Enforcement and Research.  This project com-
ponent would include imported materials for road markings and signs,
traffic enforcement equipment, and materials research equipment for the
Materials Branch. Eligibility for financing would be subject to submission
of a proposal giving specif-ications, estimated costs, justification in
terms of the requirements in the context of the overall component, and
proposed procurement schedule and procedures (Schedule 5, paragraph 6,
draft Loan Agreement, and Schedule 4, paragraph 6, draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement).
64.        Domestic Road Construction Industry.  This component provides for
upgrading the managerial, financial, and technical competence of small
domestic road contractors with the aim of gradually preparing them for
open competition.   Consultants would provide training in the form of
seminars, on-the-job follow-up, and periodic monitoring for managers of
domestic contracting firms .  Other personnel would be given access to the
Ministry's training programs on a fee basis and the opportunity to rent
equipment from the Ministry.
65.        Also under the project, the Government would take a number of
steps in support of policy and institutional reforms:
(a) As a condition of- effectiveness, all measures required for
actual enforcement of the new 10-ton axle-load limit wouLd



- 20 -
be taken (Section 5.01(a), draft, Loan Agreement). By
December 31, 1987, two additional static weighbridges would
be installed (Section 4.10, draft Loan Agreement, and
Sect4on 4.09, draft Special Fund. Credit Agreement);
(b)  the three vacant economist positions in the Transport
Planning and Coordination Division and the two vacant Senior
Superintending Engineer positions in the Mechanical and
Transport Department would be filled with qualified staff by
July 1, 1985, the latLter ones to be employed in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines (Section 3.03 (a) and (b) of both
the draft Loan Agreement, and draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement);
(c)  the Bank Group would be afforded a reasonable opportunity
for consultations on the viability and timing of future
major investments in transiort (Section 4.03, draft Loan
Agreement, and Section 4.0.2, draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement);
(d)  by June 30, 1985, with the help of consultants, a program
would be prepared for extending the maintenance programming
and costing scheme to all districts and implemented
according to an agreed timetable, with all future hiring of
Ministry maintenance personnel in accordance with the
staffing requirements of the scheme (Section 4.04, draft
Loan Agreement, and Section 4.03, draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement);
(e)  by December 31, 1986, the Bank's Highway Design Model would
be introduced (Section 4.05, draft Loan Agreement, and
Section 4.04, draft Specia:L Fund Credit Agreement);
(f) by December 31, 1986., cost effective programs on equipment,
workshops and spares would be submitted to the Bank for
approval (Section 4.06, draft Loan Agreement, and Section
4.05, draft Special Fund Credit Agreement);
(g)  all measures required to ensure proper coordination among
the various units involved in the highway sector would be
taken (Section 4.07, draft Loan Agreement, and Section 4.06,
draft Special Fund Credit Agreement);
(h)  through the Ministry, views with the Bank Group would be
exchanged at regular intervals on appropriate fuel pricing
and measures for conservation of fuel products in transport
(Section 4.08, draft Loan Agreement, and Section 4.07, draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement);
(i)  to improve modal distributLon of traffic, the Ministry would
(i) increase license fees for heavy commercial vehicles by
10% by September 30, 1984; (ii) effect further increases of



- 21 -
license fees and other road user charges levied on heavy
commercial vehicles so that, by September 30, 1987, total
charges cover the short run marginal costs imposed by such
vehicles on the road network; and (iii) thereafter
periodically adjust taxation on such vehicles to maintain
the coverage (Section 4.09, draft Loan Agreement, and
Section 4.08, draft Special Fund Credit Agreement);
(j) all measures necessary on the Government's part to formalize
arrangements with the Republic of Uganda concerning the
interchange of rolling stock would be taken (Section 4.11,
draft Loan Agreement, and Section 4.10, draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
66.       Total project cost: (in January 1984 prices) is estimated at
US$152.4 million equivalent, of which US$98.7 million, or about 65%,
represents foreign exchange costs. The proposed Bank/Special Fund
contribution of US$90.0 million equivalent would finance 59% of the total
cost (or 65% net of taxes and duties), or 91% of the foreign cost.  The
Government of Kenya would contribute US$62.5 million equivalent, or about
41% of project cost, includiing US$13.5 million equivalent for taxes and
duties. Price contingencies of US$29.6 million, representing 24% of the
base cost, were calculated on a cumulative basis:  for local costs, 13% in
1984, 11% in 1985 and 1986, and l0% thereafter; and for foreign costs, 7.5%
in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% thereafter. Cost estimates for road
maintenance are based on actual FY1983 costs, adjusted for inflation. For
road construction, cost estimates are based on recent bids for similar
works. For estimating the costs of equipment, vehicles and tools, recent:
CIF costs for imported items plus a local component for handling and
transport were used. The average consultants' staff-month cost, inclusive
of salaries, overhead, reimbursable expenses, and profit, would be about
US$11,400 (605 staff months).
Implementation and Monitoring
67.       The Ministry would be responsible for implementing subprojects
financed by the Bank Group. The Maintenance Branch would prepare,
implement, and supervise subprojects under the resealing program. The
Mechanical and Transport Department would procure maintenance equipment,
vehicles, workshop tools and spare parts, and equipment for training,
research, and road safety and traffic enforcement.   The Construction
Department would procure the road construction subprojects and the related
supervision contracts and would implement the component for developing
domestic contractors and the program of regravelling. Technical assistance
and studies would be handled by the beneficiary department or branch.
Overall coordination of the project implementation would be assured by the
Ministry's recently appointied coordinator for the highway sector.



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursement
68.    All civil works, equipment, tools and spare parts, materials and
supplies, except as noted below, would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines. For
purposes of bid comparison, domestic manufacturers would be accorded a
preference of 15% or the existing applicable rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
Contracts valued at US$56.4 million would be procured under the special
eligibility criteria of the Special Fund. Regravelling works to be
executed by contract would be awarded following local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank, with contracts totalling US$12.8 million
procured under the Special Fund. Contracts for workshop and stores
construction would be awarded following competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Small
quantities of construction materials and items such as tools and spares, in
lots with an estimated cost of less than US$50,000 equivalent, and with an
aggregate limit of US$300,000 equivaLlent, would be procured through local
procurement procedures to be agreed with the Bank. Spare parts for
existing proprietary equipment, with an aggregate limit of US$700,000,
would be procured directly from suppliers. Minor equipment items and
instruments of a specialized nature for training, research, road safety and
traffic enforcement, which are not generally available in Kenya, would be
procured through international shopping as provided in the Bank's
guidelines. Consultants for the supervision of civil works and technical
assistance would be employed in accordance! with the Bank Group guidelines.
Consultants' services totalling US$3.7 million would be procured under the
Special Fund.
69.      Disbursements would be made against:  (i) resealing works by
contract, 50% of total expenditures; (ii) regravelling works by contract,
30% of total expenditures; (iii) road construction works and buildings, 60%
of total expenditures; (iv) equipment, tools, spare parts, materials and
supplies, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 65% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; and (v) Consultants' services, 100% of foreign expenditures and
70% of local expenditures. All disbursement requests would be fully
documented. The estimated schedule of disbursements would be faster than
under the First Highway Sector Project lairgely due to the Ministry's
increased use of disbursement Procedure III.
Accounting and Audits
70.       The Ministry's Administrative Division would maintain the
accounts for the subprojects financed by the Loan/Special Fund Credit.  The
accounts would be audited by the Auditor GenerELl or an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank Group and audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank Group no later than six months after the e!nd of each fiscal year
(Section 4.02, draft Loan Agreement, and Section 4.01, draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement).



- 23 -
Benefits and Risks
71.       The direct benefits of the physical components would arise
primarily from vehicle operating cost savings. In addition, greater
emphasis on maintenance would reduce road repair and reconstruction costs
as well as fr-ight damage, travel time and other social costs associated
with the existing condition of the network. The savings in vehicle
operating costs would accrue in the first instance to the truckers and
traders, but would be passed on to consumers and producers. The benefits
of the other components, such as road safety, training, and support to
domestic contractors are more difficult to quantify. The road safety
component, however, is expected over time to achieve a significant
reduction in traffic accidents, while the domestic contractors component
would increase the efficiency of the industry. The items to be carried out
with consultants' assistance are aimed at improved operations within the
Ministry. Among the policy measures, the most significant benefits would
result from strict enforcement of the vehicle axle load regulations. The
improved modal distribution of traffic in the main transport corridor,
resulting from more appropriate road user charges and a commercial
orientation in railway operations, would reduce transport system costs in
general. Of the amount proposed for Bank Group financing, 77% is for
components for which economic benefits can be quantified. Based on tha
likely allocation of Loan/Credit funds, the overall economic return of
these components is estimated at 64%.
72.        The proposed project faces two principal risks, both related to
the economic environment. First, should the economic situation
deteriorate, the highway sector might suffer budgetary reductions. The
annual reviews of the Highway Sector Plan, however, would ensure that
priority programs and projects would not be affected by budget reductions.
Second, shortages of foreign exchange could restrict the availability of
critical imported materials. By providing financing for some imported
materials, the project would alleviate this problem. A third risk is that
maintenance operations may not improve measurably as a result of (i) slow
progress in work programming and supervision of operations, and (ii)
inadequate coordination among the units of the Ministry. The project,
however, includes measures to reduce the likelihood of this occurrence.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the
Bank, the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Association as Administrator of the Special Fund, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
74.       Special conditions of Loan/Special Fund Credit effectiveness
include: (i) enforcement of the 10-ton axle load limit (Section 5.01 (a),
draft Loan Agreement); and (ii) cross-effectiveness between the Loan



- 24 -
Agreement and the Special Fund Crediit Agreement (Section 5.01 (b), draft
Loan Agreement and Section 5.01, draft Special F'und Credit Agreement).
Additional special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and that the proposed Special Fund Credit
would comply with Resolution Number IDA 82.6 of October 26, 1982 of the
Executive Directors.
PART VI - RECOMMENDAT[ON
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan and Special Fund Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 19, 1984



-25 -                                                             ANNEX I
PAGE I
KENYA                      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHELT
KENYA                                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                          (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/6  RECENT  /b            MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
19601--      1970-  ESTIMATF,             AFRICA S. OF SALHARA    ti. AFRICA & 81D EAST
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KH)
TOTAL                                     582.6         582.6         582.6
AGRICULTURAL                               56.4          59.1          60.4
CGP PER CAPITA (US$)                           90.0         140.0         420.u                1147.9                        1340.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             57.0         205.0         208.0                 724.2                          810.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR  (THOUSANDS)    8189.0            11253.0       17363.0
URBAN POPULATION  (' OF TOTAL)              7.4          1U.2          14.7                 27.5                            47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MULL)                                       39.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                        157.1
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                      2130
POPULATION DEESITY
PER SQ. iM.                              14.L          19.3          28.b                  56.5                          16.0
PER Sq. KM. AGRI. LAND                  145.2        190.4          275.8                 131.d                         449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                               47.7          48.9           50.2                  45.9                          43.9
15-64 YIS                               49.8          48.6           47.4                  51.2                          52.9
65 AUD ABOVE                              2.6           2.5           2.4                   2.8                            3.3
POPULATION CKROLTH RATE (7.)
TOTAL                                     2.4           3.2           3.9                   2.8                            2.9
URBAN                                     5.2           6.4           7.3                   5.3                            4.b
CRUDE BIRTd RATE (PER rHOUS)               54.7          54.7          54.8                   47.6                          42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)               23.b          17.3          12.9                  15.2                           12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     3.9           3.9           3.9                    3.2                           3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TiLOUS)                 ..          30.9          63.0
USERS (.1 OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..           1.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                              99.0         100.0          U5.o                  95.7                           97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)             99.0          95.0          88.0                  97.1                         1IU.3
PROTEINS (GCAMS PEE DAY)                68.0           b5.0          56.U                  5b.U                          72.0
oF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              27.0          27.0           24.0/c                17.2                          17.b
LCiiS (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE                29.1          21.9          14.)                  2d.6                           15.2
RALTTH
LIFE EXPECT. Ar BIRTH (YEARS)              41.3          48.7          56.0                   51.9                          57.2
INFAiT MORT. RATE (PER T:IOUS)            137.5         112.7          84.7                 117.0                         104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                                      .           15.0          17.0/d                25.4                           59.3
URBAN                                      . .       100.0          100.0/2                70.5                          d4.9
RURAL                                      ..           2.0           4.07/                12.3                          37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(21 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..          50.0          55.D/d.
URBAN                                      ..          85.0          98.0/d
RURAL                                      ..          45.0          48.0/8d
POPULATION PER PlLYSICIAN              10690.0         7830.0/h    10500.0/e,h            12181.4                        3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                  2270.U/f,h  147U.0/h         550.0/e,h           2292.0                        1320.7
POP. PEE HOSPITAL iED
TOTAL                                  790.0         770.0         d0OO.O/S              1075.4                         643.3
URBAN                                    80.0/f          ..        620.-/                402.3                         545.U
RURAL                                      ..            .          8. 30.O)N            3926.7                        2462.0
ADMLUSSiOS PER HOSPITAL SRO                  ..            ..           9.7/                    ..b.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HLOUSEHOLD
TOCAL                                      ..           4.7
ORBAN                                     4.9/f         4.7            ..
RORAL                                      ..           4.7
AVEiLAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                      ..            ..
URBAN                                     2.5/f          ..            ..                    ..
RURAL                                      ..            ..            ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                      ..            ..            ..                    ..                          46.2
URBAN                                      ..            ..            ..                     ..                         77.6
RURAL                                      ..            ..            ..                    ..                          16.1
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - _    _      _      _      .     _      _      _      _  ,   - - - - - - - --_ - -_ - -_   _      _ - -_ - -_ - -_      _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



- 26--                                                            ANNEX I
PAGE 2
KENYA                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                                     REFERENCE GROUPS (STOGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENtT ESTIMATE) /b
lb           /bRECENT                fMIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960-        1970-1  ESTIMATE-L   AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       47.0         61.0        108.0                 97.2                          89.6
MALE                       64.0         72.0        114.0                103.1                        104.8
FEMALE                    30.0          50.0        101.0                 88.5                         72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        2.0          9.0         18.0                  17.2                        41.7
MALF:                       3.0         13.0         21.C                 23.5                         52.8
FEMALE                     2.0           6.0         15.0                 14.2                         31.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              12.2          1.8           2.0                  5.2                         10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               42.0          34.0         40.0                  42.9                        31.9
SECONDARY                             15.0          21.0         25.0                 23.7                         23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  19.5/f       30.0         47.1                  37.1                         43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               7.9          8.5           7.7/c               18.8                         18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              7.0         44.4         32.4                  97.8                        138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 0.3/f        1.4           3.9                 18.6                         45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 '1.2         13.8          9.7                  18.2                         31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           0.9           .4. C./c                          0.6                          1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)              3296.0       4314.0       6147.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      34.6          34.4         33.5                 36.1                          10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 86.0          82.0         78.0                  56.8                        42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      5.0          7.0         10.0                 17.5                         27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  40.3         38.3         35. 4                 37.0                        25.6
MALE                                   53.3         50.9         47.5                  47.1                         45.4
FEMALE                                27.5          26.1         23.5                 27.0                           5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.2          1.3           1.5                  1.3                          1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENlT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECIPVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..         20.2/i         ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         52.671       60.4/j*
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..          3.9/i        2.6/
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..         11.77/        8.971`.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    .1.          . .       l50.0/E              534.2                        276.1
RURAL                                    ..           ..        112.07?              255.9                        177.1
ESRIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..        179. O/e             491.5                        400.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..        106.07?>             188.1                        283.3
ESTLMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                    ..           ..         IO.0/e                  ..                        22.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..         55./oT                  . .                       30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not oniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate' between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1978; /f 1962; /g 1976; lh Registered, not all prazticing in the country; /i Urban only; /i 1974.
May 1983



- 27-ANNEX I
Pp3
1801017105  07 SOCIAL IXDICdO02
Note:  Alohbouh the dat  oetro   too.  ouros  geteflly  ldge                     tsar soho otr  sod osll , I  eroI:oe   be ets  tho  bley -y eo  be  otrstooly
toprel  beoooee of rho lack of atrtsrtee   teors  sod_ Moretept  teed by ditfsrr.c..rr                          letrl.te   rho.a      As.  TVe tot   art  ,aoarel-e  oefo  to
deaclbeordrs  f egotude   lod    tsr  tre..da, etA  cbrttof so  tertel    ajor dlf frtre    osotcorta
af Atte.   nterfero    ropto    h  soerogIf are  -bplel-  e.4eylgftod erreO es.fo2ehtotso   art -basgsonly ober  ajorboy o  rh-   oooorrae  to.
=ro    o   at   o    1t  olso.    lt   h Honerogs of cccatrleeaeoo-   rho  bodtrthrr  depeirt  onML th    ollblr   of  areo                         If a  uolore  tslo   so- b
exerIsediw It retht, neae  of11         oreP tdlc t      o h   orte.-hC.eoos,oeolyteu I Iottepehttro  rOe tabs1  ofoe  altaorro                                         Ifeoo    rho  -ooitr  oI.
oath (cootoseot sq.ba.;                                                 Pootlutlon oat Pfryololoro  ~~-PopLattoo dtlided Op taboo  of petiotltto
- Toal srfae ara ocytl log   od ores eat iblat torso; 1960,phttosqlfedteaatce ecroar Ierry so.
bolutrl - ftilast  of              Aroorr l es  tea oIpd oolyorpre,sl s...ea  feslegosoot  ..r.e . a.e. ersor toree.bprctca  rorree oatii,
for crops, p       s    earotoa  kottlht gardens ot 00-Ie  fe1lce; 1960,                                 nrIgarlaoa
1970 nod 1980 data.                                                                                    gooott   s    asaItt   e   -  ool   ra    o  rural -Pplot   ttl
GNP FU  CAPITA (US$) - GNP pr C.pit.                                            Pt~~~~~ubot,  tot rual  dictdst by theto r"Ca ti-o  nobst of hospital bate
Ott Pt! 0dP0f8 (1911    ISP par capIta eatl At  at IIIo...t  -orarl prlcs,                       -aotlshlr In pobltoood prtt-t  ga-rore  ct estlaffrebe   a
toltulred -b   ... tootJ-o  eathd atWorldUtak Art.. (1979-01bst>                                     rehhtlbIetlotceree              isptlsrrarblsoso    phs.apolpsta fed
lO9,190,  ot  1981 tabyOa                                                                                            e   toephylcso.terhtehenr   procidlogpoloopaly caeffts
ENRGoY CONSUPfrTION PER 1d-PCITA -   -cul  ysot    Itasto    f C.-errca                                                                    :_tIa   eoesotpssaot  stafe    bya itctrloor byIt *aIt
1960, 1970, Aod 1980 dsts.                                                                                 Nta    optlstcuegOP  prlo.Clpalloor                    lopol,  o    os
POPII.ATIPt AtND VIfAL STAY7TISTICSllethsItl   y   nltd  oyutrrrl
Total Ppulerlo, Mid-sar (tbuesttal- 00  f JoIp  1; 1960, 1970, saM 91aaetr   s  HopIa  Oat i- Total yoas  of. adlsos0crdahre
baoe                                                                                                      re   h.syloala dtridsd Op the noabat ofbes
dlferst drfiotit   0fob raot   as    ffoc t copacbllily of tars                                  HOUSING
-eco  Coontrlrt; 1960, 1970, ott 1901 drta.                                                            *orroo Itt od   f Hoeso...      aror   trhouelddl -btotl. orOs ,  -n:ro
porolttco   rofsctoos- Ahloasel.d coceters of a grou   fldodoee,  h rt _ob    _oato
yoatto   It  te  200-  urst  ppuloolco prjcto    r:batc   90sd ttsliaotoesle. A boarder orldgar asp or as  ot he  _tlddt lo
total pcpolotloo  ho sgs sot 'to  oat obstreoroetlop  and fertIlIty                    rhs hoooeheld  ftc stattetlIIaltporpoe"a.
tote.  Pojeciot  a resosa  yt sots)It ..art  cospoias of tha                              A torubso  o               . psso e tr to      oa   aa..sd  srel1  -l.rg. tobeb
--il sstto   loft s-pscoooc  It birth itotosrolog  olrl tooecry'o  05                            of p-cs2ea potrO    In aLt, orbn, not   -1ru  ocoplsd roesot total
tsPite  IrItas 1e-1, oat fsasle lift,oscncp  Ihl llo 00775dl  _lg , roptt_Iy.   _6511 logs o.                                                         usooprastsrcus    a
years.  Thr psraasrsre  for IsrllicytarY s    he y  thon-  iretla                            utCCopl   yrts.,
aeulgdaclsI tl         l lp _acodleg  toEcs    rs   o   stfrlpOost    l.CtoljCl    IPsoctot of dnIlll-se   - ocalI.  rbat  otcorl-I
plnolr  rofos.t          Ouchcocp  Ish1s  anlod -oe f thet   to                                        ortteo  d-elnllo     altO  rltrtty  Ic tlotg   _oucoausptets
IoIoatt  of sotta1ty eed fent)itly trotds  for projot,e iI   Porp::r.                             of _rlA      ra,sdcrl  el  ostsctley
ttaloarnooolato   - lb a stat Ictory  pocltl rthsc    onegrocolel
totsr1he hitch  tats  Is squl to  ohs isc         .tt,sd olo  thEDgeUCAlTION
tructro  raisc___ar .   hir Is  cthi-ced cr1y pfrr   forthiciy cacas                               =Iurd lrEllssc-t Ostio
dtolloe  to th' "sP""ce-It Isna  l of  ol  tot trytet.coti-  Ctt,  oh                                  Prloary ocOtl - ttu.ass            do fasle-ICr... toolslt so  trasle
seth n..nrtatlo   of  -cs  re ploCts itself oastrly.  Mhe ottoar                                          elen           of 1 oilsa  00 tha prissop  1-e1 asp-rs-groo.              spc  t
pooTrlod aisaaYa.oo0c  ca0bol  of tOt epro)rtedclastt.pIa sholoecouatt;   oe)Ip                                                                       Pccs  ch_Y      o  agd   -0
"Iticslo  ohs popolar --I tIe yer200   o   Oort.f ololo                                                   s    but ajtjurd fur diffratIsghaoptarp  stcd to;.o
Yost atitl        Alr corlole b s --aced   -m    stcatrslor                                                b-Ce reI PtPtla a   baloeraCIAtt  ofcalehe   so.
p.P yItla-c D a,or~ altbtohd                                                                              oettor-Y ached  -             -roal   sal   aat    leol  - Cotp,otod os ohet; aecoatod
Ptculattoc banally                                         -                                        eItAd  ti er. uqotoe  s   se  four po-r  ef a.PPc-ootpri-uy toattuttlut;
yp~y0  h. -Oldpsu  poclolccPar rqcao khLosatrc  (1110 hoccact 1  f                               ""id"te  IIIo,ocolel  o  rctrtaiiglatutto   o
tTF ai 960019,re  190   C. tc.oPIProso_lip  of12  o1  ysac                                                                                  ASuo;ntsy toec r                tr
P., so. k..  a-ttot)lr    -Ceo...o  sd shoot- for .,,Inls   tstd                                           g--aslsy e.,de.d
otly;  1961, 1970 sod 1980 data..                                                                   Oooaloolroo-       s "     toccar  ofttoay    Ottlnllolott
Populocoi  Ag  Ottuccr                     Chictl    01ldr-o ( 0-10 pYotol, -orkioosos  (It-               Intl eta tactrlcal,  lOloaclal,   r  tlaer  c.e..oss .boch Iprat   Ict o-
6h   p..rsl, notd -eolcd 11  yCet sod eeo) Ao c                    Icoar    f ald-,eor                   -ntlyo-ro  depacto..rtA of aecond-cyIttuc n
ptpcloltr; 100, 190, so  191E  dots.                                                           Ppil-troth-r rt.i c-cpri-rY. sat  escottoy -'Tota1l tdoot. retoIlld It
Pyefolottltoor     blstptrtt-)-l-tet 1-)ao-lgr-sth  o-t0   IfrorulolCd-                                    otstodeo               tlse-1 lat iddrtbyto-be-ra   erochlnt            oorCor-
year  Ipoplatito  for 1950-60, 19600-T, cod 1970-0).                                                     orouoto ge_la
P. polstooitoaG- h Rt.tl          coo-orbha-uc-oooe-h  rucoa                   .h. ote.1eotlit-rtpyt    Ict                              c- Lirrtetu-tIdos  ("I'eur-daooles
Co     M lootte (prr ht..... c) -  ccllo   itepotnoc    fod
ye.c ppato;1960, 1970,ye  1981tc.COtOTO
OrDa lAah tao  oo   Ilos.d -ucoa             doah          I co     Icoe   of el d-prar1!222 Poog tElac  (ret tcccdcclalh                                   osogtnr   cooo   co
poo irlr   1960, 1970,' roi91dt.                                                                      r0nsig  ents    lht pecat;enldasOocs,  retsd
Greas                 R.loetle    0 - teuaca-d   cIrob  of dsoghtCroooIo-e  oIl) trur toilIoy   rtl
Oar toart rarodoncer polod  Ifoh r rporlrtcapsrtseu  al  ctdIIttteo(r  tbccood PoP.Ilotto) -All ry-   ef  -ai-otr  le  rd
fotot I joy rates;   seul ly her-poor srcger  ood Ico It  901, b90,so,htdtat   togsoara   puOlIn  per ,Coao   of pycploc too; otlodoen
ef bloth-too-to1 de-ltat  -ct-  ouaplat of ott Ieta  foIly plo ~Eto                                      noreabelishsd  liIcenitg.
,r-ra-                                                                                                To R,ete...r (pertlhtoaaod ppralaole)-T~ Cct ia-a   forltoudcssltto
yaotltlootlo-Oartt I-eco     of  -arclot  --t)-  po               CItt    of toccla               tetea_      ot_        00Oos  -fpyltft;atldtut-atdTtcrle-tt-
ensaofctld-P         sroIoe "C         -lbcaooc:ohno-onrod,ltlchoonoo   -odn II                                                     ooob-     nrotcrtIInfoff_,o
oil srrlr  o ecn-ooe0etop.    -NtoeuyccStonelotIn I tt thcour   neocotlo)  -  teto  Ic octac
offo  ted too ... -colodod 1.  AgettrCtCtron  Ion 01Cut  Oot  It                                       tol)col
boor  00ct i-oloe1        c    -tdctyla tolhto; 1961-65, 1901, cod 1981
d-uco,                                                                                              LeantI tltit CC11tIflCi
Pscy:atlolcoIoytttorlIo0                                     iC....tclrdof-                              Tti.otca(,rc...sodaI- Et-oorl-sly untl-  to-r-c  ,-loI.tio -ood
-hot     , at  fooe, iaon.    r  acclo   atltroln            dfr,   ot,                          n-potllo; 19600.  1970 sod 1981 docs.
ocoitls   Aetd Cto .fo         ddpIcno,ud   oto1   Ottboc.tol I.                                            I.nrae    - Fosale  laterC fer-o 00    -- rctge of tota   latcr forCo.
ooqeltottootccrtontoatt ly cl Icor  00 olyololoitot   otrtIfor  .-noo                          P&Lcolt-tt  pooc         -  A1bet footC  to f-roho, f              h-ty,Iolo   o
onlot   o  nuottoltrngnlototo    rcrocr,bdycI50,                                                    fslca    rntooro  nnl   orIoa   10,190ac   91 dto.
It h. sotoldIler;I1901-05l                             -              ,d170o..08.dt,.cteen.lly,                                .ao  an  taro   to ..o..tug. of otal  ahot, forte; 1960,
Pot Carlto  002P10 of Pco_el  latono Pcc tap) - trotof    otct   f pot nuolto                                 1970Ian  1981 tort
tcocltpsreIo -tot u          y o      ,,,P iotolyaodh I 00cc'  oecl-de  -c nont                           ollyutanoo rds    no, -ult, -ot fot-l-  loo f-orce--oa
tllosoocto   hlpoooI        tot-   tcol   po       Iocdloor   fc uodttrctoo  tot),pslotedicoir                                                        Ior,orlod  sI..   logotC  I traIt_ory;
p     Isfpont,  f  tlc.n Cuo0000  r  cou    tort-Ono                                               100   97,oc  18  dt.    heoroIaId0  t-ac-Iloteror
IIIoard arc loserf rOs   E000 of  h    brat  of ttl  -toteln  cob1goo                                    olrtlgaoI t   notcrodt pplto. oo ~%lon   IrIc
to                       m~~~~~IdtdcotIt, IdC---   rf;  19h1-t If                                                                          Ig _d.. neotAcrtonttl-onofcpltlnn-dtodhc
Prnctotorn   cyfree untol sod to t -Pceoef   OtPl7y of food                                       olt s   Islet  forn.
td-cal-cd   sotao   ndpeoa   I    ac   yrlr- to),tO-I65, 1917  -ed 1971
dote.                                                                   0010cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ llttlOo 0l
nocortttao   rroo   fte Ihldo  tutla;h  1961 S07; cot  ... duos..                                        ..c....t.           200p--                                       pr
ct doct  16,  90   t d  901 toco                                                                   oto60   IcIcoryrcod   IrI9entI1ordtrtautlot
y  Io.ofa. ..rt. thocosd  Int littlhs; 1960, 1971 aed 1981 tsno                                      O_lllto  _eery loC_oCbe           Itcatoocro               trctol sosa
-ruotscllofocnoIho  en, auf-oo -tletcdto  000  t                   gnl   odrto.o Irol                              __otucoc    torlletroa   ofIlotutesc
f   Yo   torso  h . etoldet..   00 to lo I 1f 1 oIna'rlorl,o  thontro--t l P-peluIfno hel.o laIetr. Uoorrt 1 nel r  roe)-d1, 70001  -Oct0
00000.   lototol  urrootorenutlooonoatooeitteplyott    Iltcrlro 2o0tt- cotsl    djPoco-n  efpopoiohttooCrhanIootticrs.lbo a   Coocot
ttc  ty  cttoieg, thr fooily'I tosrt onoe.d.
tncr  to tootoc  Dite u   Ip 4   at   f  oe_tlof-toal oI,_o
toa_tohteocpC     ttl,        ",oo-drc--ll  totertyot
.....a.s      . gcc etua   of 'tol' teop-tiot  `opclotloo.;  Ieoc -  P fetotl                                                                                         D-
as2   old   I   oto  e   n   lpoc,at   rat  e   oaen   o                                                                                         oneootboo    ostoan
-Ytcrotod     ndcocoh       e   loao-lrooote dorrlr.   -co CI                                                                             onondtsoatrlolooptot
crototsotrltlo   Iocalsteeob.                                                                                                                          cot_~7= y   iq......a. -



- 28 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 4
aIYA:  EXC4C INDICATORS - NATICAL A2UIlS
Population:  16,642 (mid-1980, tousards)
(GP per Capita:  UslJ420 (1901)
Awunt                 A'era Amal Growth at Constant Prices
(million US$
at current prices)
1980          1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   19821
NTItAL ACO1LS
Cross dDntic product                            6991           2.4    8.8    6.7    3.7    5.8    5.2    3.0
Agrimlture                                    1945           0.1   11.9    3.8   -0.6   -1.1    6.2    4.4
In dus try                                    1309           1.8   11.9   11.0    7.0    6.2    5.0    0.2
Servicew                                      2732           5.1    3.9    6.9    3.2    5.2    5.2    3.8
Gross donestic product at factor cost           5985           2.4    8.8    6.7    2.7    3.2    5.5    3.2
Cot ption                                       5871          -1.9    9.0   13.0    6.2   -0.9    4.8    0.8
Gro8s investnent                                1882          12.0   35.9   23.9  -27.1   38.2  -11.7   -6.1
Exports of gods and NFS                         1989           1.8    2.8    1.7   -5.0    8.3   -6.6   -2.6
Inrts of pods ard NES                          2751           -2.7   18.3   27.5  -19.3   10.7  -15.7  -14.0
Gross National Savirgs                           901          46.8   70.9  -34.5  -21.0   38.3    8.0    7.1
Prices
GDP deflatr                                100.0        71.2   83.2   85.9   91.3  100.0  112.9  132.9
Exchang rate (KSh./US$)                   7.4202       8.367  8.277   7.729  7.475   7.420  9.048  10.922
-S      Share of GIF at Market Prioes ()-                -    Average Anual Growth (%)--
(at Dostant prices)                              (at mnstant prices)
1974   1979   1980   1981   1982   1985   1990    1974-79   1981-86   1983-88   1985-90
Gross donzstic poduct2         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.01  100.0  100.0  100.0         5.1        3.9       4.7        5.2
Agriculture                   37.8   36.1   32.5   32.7   31.1   33.0   31.1          4.2        3.8       3.8        4.0
Tixltry                      24.8   26.6   21.9   21.8   21.1   21.0   21.7           6.8        3.3       5.2        6.0
Services                     37.4   37.3   45.6   45.5   45.8   46.0   47.2           4.7        4.1       5.2        5.7
OrBuaption                    79.8   84.8   84.0   83.7   81.8   79.7   77.6           6.2        2.8       4.1        4.6
Gross investent                27.2   20.4   26.9   22.6   20.6   21.7   21.8           5.6        3.8       5.9        5.4
Exports of GiMS                37.1   26.5   28.5   25.3   23.9   23.9   24.0          -1.0        3.1       4.9        5.3
Imorts of G2NFS                44.1   31.7   39.4   31.5   26.3   25.3   23.4           2.4        0.1       3.8        3.6
Gross natimal saving            16.1   11.7   12.9   13.2   13.8   15.3   16.9          4.6        7.1       6.6        7.4



-29-                                             ANNEX I
Page 5
As % of GDP
1974   1979   1980   1981   1982
PUJC FfNAN
Cirrent reveates                   16.0   24.7   25.2   24.7   23.5
Ctrrent expenditures               14.3   22.5   23.7   23.9   22.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)        1.8    2.2    1.5    0.8    1.3
Capital expenditure                 6.1   10.1    9.9    9.9    8.3
Foreigi financing                   2.0    3.7    4.8    4.3    3.3
------Average Arxnal Growth (%        )
(at constant price)
1974-79    1981-86     1983-88     1985-90
OTHER INDICAIR
GNP growth                                 4.9        3.7          4.7         5.1
GDP per capita growth                      1.0       -0.2          0.8         1.3
Fnergy cnnsumption growth                  4.9        2.3          2.8         3.1
I(XtR                                      7.8        5.5         4.5         4.2
Marginal savirgs rate                      0.26       0.28         0.22       0.24
IWort3 elasticity                         -0.4        0.03         0.80       0.65
1. Preliminary.
2. Central Goernmnnt only.
3. Goods and non-factor services.
Direction of Trade
To/From: Industrial Countries      Developing Countries      Capital Surplus Oil Exporters
1971    1981                  1971    1981                    1971    1981
Exports               34.1    46.3                   56.9    46.8                     1.1     0.8
Inports               68.2    57.3                   26.8    12.3                     1.9    29.4



- 30-                                                 ANNEX I
Population:      16,642 million (1981)                                                                              Page 6
GNP Per Capita:  US$420 (1981)
iA:  1       A3    ADH
Amnnt                                          Awerage Amual Real Growth (%)
(a lllion US$
at current prices)    --                       -Actual                                     ]Pro jected-
1980           1976    1977    1978    1979   1980    1981    1982a  1983    1984   1985   1990   1995
Total merchandise                                1246.9           5.9   -2.8   -7.7   -2.1        3.2   -5.3   -1.3       1.2    4.0    401       5.1    5.4
Priimry goods                                   657.9          -3.7     8.5     5.6    10.3   -6.0      3.7    10.2     1.1    5.1      5.2    5.5      5.6
Petroleum products                              373.0         -2.1    16.3  -16.8  -10.1    27.5  -22.7  -14.7   -3.0           1.0     1.0    3.5    3.0
Marnfactured goods                              216.0          28.5  -22.6  -22.8       2.7     0.6   -2.6  -20.2       8.0     3.0     3.0     5.6    6.6
Total verchaodise                                2623.8          -3.7    54.4   16.4  -15.4   14.7  -18.4  -13.9   -0.1           4.0     4.2     3.4     3.4
Food                                            111.2           5.4   164.1   67.0  -19.2    57.6  -13.4   43.6  -10.0          1.0.   1.0      1.0    1.0
Petroleu                                        747.4         -8.0    13.0      2.9     0.9   16.7  -12.6  -19.0   -3.0         2.0     2.0     3.0     3.0
Machionry and equipment                         743.2         -16.5    67.9    29.4  -23.4    19.0  -22.0   -10.0       3.0     6.4     5.4    4.2      4.4
Other                                          1022.0         -14.7    29.9   -1.7  -Q.9    10.8  -20.5  -19.5          1.8    4.2      5.5     3.5     3.1
PRICFSb
Export price irdex                                            150.9   62.4   65.9   76.3   100.0   111.3  121.1  140.4  148.1  159.3  223.9   333.4
lmport price index                                            154.5    92.2   77.9    8;.1   100.0  123.5  143.1   163.3  176.0   193.1  275.9  393.0
Terms of trade index                                          102.4  147.8  118.2   108.9  100.0   90.1   84.6   86.0   84.1   82.5   g3.0   84 8
Cpositioo of YErchawnise Trade
Share
(at current prices)-           -                      Ii1 Growth--
1974     1979     1981     1986     1991     1995      1974-79    1981-86    1983-88    1985-90
Exports                           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   130.0   103.0             -2.8        2.7        4.6        5.1
Primary                         36.3    54.8    52.0    60.8        61.2    61.3         -2.8        4.9        5.3        5.5
Petroleum                       20.1    20.0    29.4       19.8    20.2      23.5        -3.4       -2.0        2.5        3.5
Marafacturers                   43.6     25.2    18.6      19.3    18.6      13.1        -8.9        0.6        4.3        5.6
Imports                           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    113.0             7.1        0.3        3.7        3.4
Food                             6.6      5.3      4.5      4.9      4.6      4.1        25.0        3.4        1.0        1.0
Petroleaa                       21.2    23.7    35.7    27.6        30.3    33.2          0.2       -2.3        3.0        3.0
Machinery and equipeent         22.8    35.5    25.5       31.2     30.7    3().4        11.4        2.5        4.7        4.2
Others                          49.4    35.5    34.3    36.3    34.3    32.3              9.7        0.1        4.2        3.5
a.  Prelimdnary.
b. In rational currency (Kenya pound) and rardwandise only.
c.  At 1980 constant price.                                                                                          2.27.84



- 31 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 7
Y:   BALA  OF PAY)ENIS, EDXIERNL CAPITAL AND DE3T
(millions US$ at airrent prices)
Popolation:  16,642 (mid-1980, thsans)
GNP per Capita: US$420 (1980)
-  Actual                 -                      -Projectedt
1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981       19821     1983      1985       1990
BAIANCE OF PAYMS
Exports of goods ard services      1184.6    1619.5    1581.0    1666.0    2084.3    1758.1    1571.1    1627.9    2064.1    3753.8
Of wkhich: Merchardise f.o.b.     743.9    1130.9     955.8    1031.4    1261.4    1078.0       952.3     958.5    1176.8    2170.7
Imports of goods and services     1300.3    1658.4    2332.6    2255.8    3117.7    2569.0    2160.8    2133.8    2751.4    4747.0
Of fiixh: MErchandise c.i.f.      975.0    1279.0    1875.7    1832.5    2680.8    2168.1    1778.4    1739.2    2229.5    3767.3
Net transfers                       32.3       66.5      91.1      91.2      147.4      89.6      78.4       83.1      95.1      132.2
Current account balance            -83.4       27.6    -660.6     498.5   -886.0    -721.3    -511.3    -422.8    -592.2    -861.0
Private direct iwvestnent           37.7      54.4       32.1      78.1      60.4       60.6      60.6      64.2       72.2     104.1
ULT Loans (net)                     114.6     148.2     402.6     429.0      487.0     294.4      241.9     260.6     496.6      815.9
Official                           -          -         -         -          -        188.1     113.1     153.4     334.1      373.9
Private                            -         -          -         -          -       106.3      128.8     107.2     162.5     442.0
Other capital2                      33.2       16.:7     56.1     266.5      202.6     122.6     227.8       94.6      67.1      -0.5
Charge in reserves                -102.1    -246.9      169.8    -275.1      136.0     243.7    -19.0         3.4     -43.8     -58.5
International reserves             245.3      492.2     322.4     597.5      461.5     217.8     236.8      233.4     310.6     560.1
Reserves as months imports           2.3        3.6       1.7       3.2        1.8       1.0       1.3        1.3       1.4        1.4
EXERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                  202.0      325.2     401.3     466.3      551.1     435.9     390.0
Official grants,                     -         -          -         -          -         -         -
Concessional loans                  65.4       64.7     109.5      148.7     178.8     150.6      190.1
DAC                               46.1       33.7      59.0      92.7       80.4     106.6      86.4
OPEC                               -          5.0       -         -          -         1.8        5.4
IDA,                              13.6       17.7      16.3      21.5       71.6      14.8      85.4
Other                               5.7       8.3      34.2       34.5      26.8      27.4       12.9
Non-concessional loans             136.6      260.5     291.5     317.6      372.2     285.3      199.9
Official export credits           23.6       31.8      30.6      11.8       16.3      31.8      11.9
T5(RD                             66.7       34.7      42.3      36.7       44.2      58.8      84.5
Other officiaL3                    -          7.6      20.2       5.9       15.2      11.9      22.4
Private                           46.3      186.4     198.1     263.2      296.5     182.9      81.0
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbrused   712.4    1023.5    1305.7    1728.7    2131.3    2244.4    2359.4
Official                        643.8     769.3     849.1    1036.2    1238.8    1371.9    1585.3
Private                         68.6      254.2     456.6      692.3     892.5     872.5      774.1
Undisbursed debt                 673.1      900.1    1121.3    1415.7    1384.4    1230.4    1315.6
Debt Service
Total service payments              51.7       64.3     133.4      154.1     233.2     278.8     324.8
Interest                          24.9       35.3      54.7      79.7      116.6     119.3      147.3
Payments as % ef export of           4.4       4.0        8.4       9.2       11.2      15.9      20.7
goods and services
Average interest rate (%) on loans     7.2       6.0        5.2       7.0        3.9       9.2       6.0
outstanding
Average maturity of loans             15.5       20.5      23.7      21.1       30.7      22.8      24.6
outstandirg (years)
1. PrelIminary.
2. Official grants are incLuded in transfers in the balance of payments current account.
3. IncLudes uuse of IMF resources.                                                                             2.27.84



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATICINS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits its of September 30. 1983
US$ Million
Loan or                                                              Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                              Bank 1/  TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Nineteen (19) Loans and Twenty-three (23) Credits and two (2)
Third Window Loan Fully Disbursed                                  281.68 15.00  240.04
1105        1975    Kenya       Sites and Services                  8.00                     0.12
1184        1976    Kenya       Third Education                     10.00                    5.69
1304-T      1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                      17.00              5.77
1305        1977    Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.00-                    2.37
1449        1977    Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.00                   24.57
750        1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                               10.00    6.62
1520        1978    NCC         Second Urban Water Supply          30.00                    3.19
791       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                                       25.00  (12.30
(1550       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                       25.00                  (25.00
797        1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                   23.00   14.02
1636        1979    Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               72.00                    6.80'/
1637        1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply                 20.00                   19.55
858        1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                     13.00   11.51
1680        1979    Kenya       Telecommunications                 20.00                    3.80
1684        1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                     90.00                   43.24
914        1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                    27.00   24.80
959        1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. rev.                     46.00   43.00
962        1980    Kenya       Baringo Semi-Aird Areas                             6.50    5.43
1799        1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.00 2/                    8.59
1817        1980    1DB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                   21.34
1045        1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                   4.50    4.35
1051        1980    Kenya       Fisheries                                          10.00    9.98
1107        1981    Kenya       Fifth Education                                   40.00   39.34
1976        1981    Kenya       Railway                            58.00                   39.13
(1143       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture                                 10.00    8.85
(1995       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture                 25.00                   25.00
2065        1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exploration               4.00                    1.64
(2098       (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III 4/                     21.50                  21.50
(1213       (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III                                      16.00   16,00
1237        1982    Kenya       Cotton Proc. & Marketing 4/                       22.00   21.94
1238        1982    Kenya       Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning 4/                              23.00   22.48
2155        1982    Kenya       Second Telecommunications          44.70                   35.56
(2190       (1983   (Kenya      (Second Struc. Adjustment           60.90                   50.00
(1276       (1983   (Kenya      (Second Struc. Adjustment 4/                       70.00    2.40
1277        1983    Kenya       Agric. Technical 1wsistarCce 41                    6.00    5.19
2237        1983    Kenya       Olkaria Geothermal ExpannionJ/  12.00   -           -      12.00
1387        1983    Kenya       National Extension 3/4/                           15.00   15.00
(2319       (1983    Kenya      (Secondary Towns                     7.00                    7.00
(1390       (1983    Kenya      (Secondary Towns 3t4_                              15.00   15.00
Total                            947.78 32.00  607.04  640.07
of which has been repaid         74.62   -       4.23
Total now outstanding            873.16 32.00  602.81
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               873.16 32.00  602.81
TOTAL undisbursed                            356.09  5.77  278.21  640.07
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2I Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
SI Not yet effective.
4/  IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalenl:s of SDR's.
i/ US$58.0 million cancelled.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of September 30, 1983
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bank 1/   Undisbursed
---- 'S$ million-
Nine loans fully disbursed                            228.93
1204-EA    1976    EADB        Second Dev. Finance   14.10          0.90
Total                                             243.03         0.90
of which has been repaid                          82.30
Total now outstanding                             160.73
Amount sold                            24.36
of which has been repaid              24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bank                            160.73
Total undisbursed                                   0.90         0.90
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
September 30, 1983
Fiscal Year    Obligor                         Irpe of Business            Amount in USS Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties         Hotels                       5.2      0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977, 1979
and 1981        Pan African Paper Mills        Pulp and. Paper             22.2      6.3      28.5
1972            Tourism Promotion
Services                      Hotels                        2.4      -        2.4
1976            Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.   Textiles                        6.3      2.8      9.1
1977            Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.  C.apital Markel:                2.0      -        2.0
1980            Development Finance
Company of Kenya Ltd.        Development Finance           -       1.3       1.3
1981            Kenya Commercial Finance    Money & Capital Market          5.0      -        5.0
1982            Bamburi Portland              Cement & Construction
Cement Co., Ltd.              Material                    4.4       -        4.4
1982            Diamond Trust of Kenya
Limited                      Money & Capital Market        -       0.8       C..8
1982            Industrial Promotion
Services (Kenya) Ltd.        M.oney & Capital Market       -       0.6       0.6
1983            Tetra Pak Converters
Limited                      Pulp & Paper Products        2.2      0.3       2.5
Total Gross Commitments                                   49.7    12.8       62.5
less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                                17.6      1.8      19.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC                         32.1    11.0       4{3.1
Total Undisbursed                                          6.1      0.4       6.5



- 35 -                      ANNEX III
KENYA
Second Highway Sector Project
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:                     11 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:              Ministry of Transport
and Communications
(c)  First presentation to Bank                  November 1982
(d)  Appraisal                                   August/September 1983
(e)  Appraisal follow-up                         November/December 1983
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                 March 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:              September 1984
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Plan updating/revisions and the program financed under the
project after FY85 would be submitted to the Bank by April 1 of
each year (paragraph 57) (Sections 3.01 (b) of both the draft
Loan Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement);
The enforcement of new axle-load limit would be a condition of
effectiveness (paragraph 65) (Section 5.01 (a), draft Loan
Agreement). By December 31, 1987, the Government would install
two additional static weighbridges (Section 4.10, draft Loan
Agreement, and Section 4.09, draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement).
The Ministry would (i) increase license fees for heavy commercial
vehicles by 10% by September 30, 1984, (ii) effect further
increases on license fees and other road-user charges levied on
heavy commercial vehicles so that, by September 30, 1987, totaL
charges cover the short run marginal costs imposed by such
vehicles on the road network, and (iii) adjust thereafter
periodically taxation on such vehicles to maintain the coverage
(paragraph 65) (Section 4.09, draft Loan Agreement, and Section
4.08, draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).



I
I
I



IBRD 17748
34O                               36                                3S-                                 400                     JANUARY 1984
S U D A N   _.7    /
KENYA
:ToKoPoN                       @              g vTRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
;N.
/   \                      "..   / E    T    H    I    O       P     A                                  4.
To Add,, Ao 6''
-2^  4<     )        L g         _/  >    \t                    Ir           ,,               ?< /                                    2
D   ,      .<-o,rno    \        9  .,,,            'Kli,,>,/ss    a,.'s                                       -\  
Me  L, ?- Y         E'                              R Nyer,*       X
E IK
A             G1~~~~AS" 
2'         -1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
T-rnk Roods 
So-ondo.y Roads,          >      .. - J
t B-udo,,          0 C,t,es,Town-   /\/,  "' 2t,/ >,
_P     -o,njI ound=,   es A P.o.. oh Coplol,
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04 T Oar*OnOOntt--
e~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A A,    1a                                                                                    0   t -'   
d o 1 \ ,                          Q   . .   a )  E T H I O P I A   o
-4'
7-;I OMALIA
|      \.   (       r/    t      u.    / N )~~~~KENYA| /
0       50    100     150    200    KbIo n, er-
'BURUD    
0           SO          100 MdIe5                                             5  0TANZANIA
34                                3,6                                38'                                         (ZAMBIA



I
I
I
I



