Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/09/2008 
Report No.:  AC3583
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Bhutan 
Project ID:  P099126 
Project Name:  Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement 
Task Team Leader:  Debabrata Chakraborti 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: June 10, 2008 
Managing Unit:  SARPS 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  General public administration sector (100%) 
Theme:  Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
1.50 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The program of national procurement reforms aims to assist RGoB to create an up-to-
date national procurement system recognized by all international partners as standard and 
adequate for all procurement; be it national budget or under donor-financed projects. 
Having an improved procurement system will serve to help RGoB attain goals set in the 
various documents described before (e.g. Ninth Five-Year Plan, Vision 20/20, sector 
plans, Good Governance, etc).  
 
The program, as described above, can be divided into three main, partly overlapping, 
phases.  The first is the legal framework, which is being addressed through updating the 
national procurement manual and updating supporting bidding documents.  The second 
phase is the creation of a national public procurement policy division under the Ministry 
of Finance and the creation of procurement capacity for all stakeholders through the 
project.  The third phase looks at the establishment of an independent procurement 
grievance mechanism and the steady adoption of electronic forms of procurement.  
 
The strategic approach of this project toward procurement capacity building will focus 
on creating the capacity of national training institutes to deliver certified procurement 
training to all relevant stakeholders in a sustainable manner. This methodology shies 
Page  2
away from the traditional practice of short term, ad-hoc, training courses or workshops 
for a select number of identified individuals, as this has proven in many instances to 
become ineffective in the long term once civil servants get rotated to another position in 
government, which is a common practice the world over.  Similarly, such short-term 
training has tended to focus on rules and regulations corresponding to the projects for 
which training is a part; either the donors’ rules and/or the national ones.  Such training is 
limited to a focus on compliance and largely misses out on the aspect of competence, 
which as described above is of fundamental importance when considering procurement 
performance and desired outcomes.  
 
Through building the necessary training programs with the assistance of international 
experts, which center on both compliance and competence, and ensuring the delivery of 
such courses through national training institutes, the project aims to ensure that classes on 
procurement will be available all the time for all stakeholders to the procurement process 
and that a sustainable path is created for the establishment of a professional procurement 
cadre.  
 
RCSC has already addressed the absence of a procurement cadre in Bhutan by creating 
procurement positions within the civil service at various hierarchical levels as part of its 
civil service reform (called the Position Classification System (PCS) exercise), and 
recognizes the need to train existing in-service civil servants dealing with procurement as 
well as future servants that want to take on a career in public procurement.  
 
The spirit of Bank assistance so far has been to improve national systems by marrying 
local conditions with best practice. The focus has always been to maintain the local 
identity of the system. In a similar vein, this project seeks to build sustainable capacity in 
procurement in national educational establishments over the long term to improve 
Bhutan’s ability to train and retain procurement capacity within its public spending 
authorities.  
 
So while the wider procurement reform program aims to improve procurement 
outcomes as a direct result of progressively establishing an improved national public 
procurement system in Bhutan, this project aims to contribute toward the achievement of 
that objective through supporting improvement of procurement performance by all the 
relevant stakeholders.  
 
Indicators to measure improvement, given the current statistical environment in Bhutan, 
are:  
 
1.
Public perception, and  
 
2.
OECD/DAC country procurement assessment rating (relevant indicators).  
 
The intermediary outcomes, which will allow for project implementation progress 
monitoring, are:  
 
1.
Reformed civil service in the area of procurement;  
 
2.
Institutionalization of national procurement training regime; and,  
 
3.
Enhanced national procurement competence.   
Page  3
3. Project Description 
This project outlines three main phases of capacity building, running over a period of 
three years. These phases serve to meet a number of strategic objectives of the Royal 
Government of Bhutan, namely:  
 
1.
To establish and embed procurement benchmarks and standards based on 
international good practice;  
 
2.
To establish and professionalize a procurement community through a national 
people development strategy;  
 
3.
To strengthen and support the wider roll-out of procurement practices to create a 
‘body’ of procurement knowledge for the country.  
 
These objectives will be achieved through the support and delivery of key activities in 
the areas of people and practice development, outlined below.  The RGoB will undertake 
these various activities in each of the three phases with the assistance of specialized 
consultancy services capable of providing such unique and tailored technical assistance.  
 
Phase 1: The Development of a People Development Strategy.  This phase focuses on 
establishing the benchmarks, standards and competencies required for a potential body of 
procurement professionals and to establish a qualifications and training regime to support 
the future development of the body of procurement professionals.  
 
This would be achieved through TA support to the following partners:  
 
•
Ministry of Finance/PPPD – as the sponsor and driver of the Royal Government 
of Bhutan Procurement reform and the implementing agency of this project.  
 
•
Royal Civil Service Commission – as the key player in the development of 
procurement roles, national qualifications and career paths within the Royal Government 
of Bhutan.  
 
•
Royal University of Bhutan – issuing the certification for high-level procurement 
qualifications as the overarching body responsible for tertiary education institutes in 
Bhutan.  This will also cover the identification and creation of specific curricula for any 
of the tertiary institutes under the RUB, including for example, but not limited to, the 
institute for engineers.   
 
•
Royal Institute of Management – as the main recipient of the project’s support 
and the centre of excellence of both in-service and pre-service training and education to 
the Royal Civil Service and wider procurement community covering multiple sectors. 
This will cover both short skills development courses as well as academic programmes 
leading to certification by the institute and the RUB.  
 
•
Any governmental body which is or will be carrying out procurement training in 
order to ensure a “joined up” approach to competency development and delivery,for 
example, but not limited to, the Ministry of Works and Human Settlement.  
 
These partners are critical for the creation of continued future demand and supply of 
both in-service and pre-service procurement education and training, and for strengthening 
the overall procurement capacity in Bhutan.  
 
Page  4
Phase 2: Implementation of the People Development Strategy.  This phase focuses on 
the priorities for delivery of procurement training and education. These include:  
 
•
Delivery of training and education opportunities to support in-service 
development of public servants, delivered jointly by RIM and the project consultants.  
 
•
Specific development of key groups of procurement staff, for example, the Public 
Procurement Policy Division (PPPD) staff of the Royal Government of Bhutan, who will 
act as ambassadors/catalysts and future people developers for the profession, delivered 
jointly by RIM and the project consultants.  
 
•
Development of teaching staff from RIM and RUB by the consultants so that 
delivery of procurement training and education can be strengthened in Bhutan (i.e. 
training of trainers).  
 
Phase 3: Mainstreaming of People Development Strategy: Building the “Body of 
Knowledge”.  This phase focuses on embedding and mainstreaming of the People 
Development Strategy to Bhutanese partner organizations. Activities will focus on:  
 
•
Continued delivery of In-service training and education to stakeholders delivered 
by RIM.  
 
•
Starting delivery of other procurement education to include pre-service 
qualifications/modules which are integrated into the RUB/Bhutanese education 
framework.  
 
•
Evaluation of the impact of training and education delivered to date; monitoring 
of results/feedback of RCSC’s performance management system. Using results of both of 
these to feed into future curricula and delivery strategies and to demonstrate the positive 
contributions the development of procurement systems have made to date.  
 
In this final phase, the project will also look to develop the body of knowledge and 
procurement practice in Bhutan through the creation of networks, communities of 
practitioners, events and conferences focusing on key procurement topics and case 
studies.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Bhutan - no salient physical characteristics to analyze.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Malcolm A. B. Jansen (SASDN) 
 
Page  5
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
No safeguard issues   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No issues   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Not applicable   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Not applicable   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Page  6
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Not applicable   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
Page  7
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Debabrata Chakraborti 
04/08/2008 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Malcolm A. B. Jansen 
04/08/2008 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
04/09/2008 
Comments:  Cleared for public disclosure. 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Yolanda Tayler 
 
Comments:   
