Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3287 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/16/2007 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Bhutan 
Project ID: P099126 
Project Name: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement 
Task Team Leader: Debabrata Chakraborti 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: March 13, 2008 
Managing Unit: SARPS 
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector: General public administration sector (100%) 
Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
1.50 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The primary objective is to improve procurement outcomes in Bhutan through:  
 
(i) 
strengthening institutional capacity to provide sustainable procurement training; and  
 
(ii) 
enhancing the skills sets of all public and private stakeholders that participate in the 
public procurement practice.  
 
The project aims through its intervention to develop procurement professionals through a 
combination of competence and compliance training, which will draw from a set of competency 
framework
s
designed for the various levels of a procurement cadre, as identified under RCSC’s 
PCS.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The project will bring on board the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS), a non-
profit organization created under a Royal Charter to promote the procurement profession in the 
UK, and now operating around world. With over 40,000 members, CIPS is a unique organization 
that provides procurement training and certification, and sets the benchmark for the profession. 
Page  2
Its MCIPS certification can be compared to the level of CPA and CFA accreditations in the field 
of financial management. Under this proposed project, CIPS will work with Bhutanese institutes 
to create training programs targeting various levels of procurement competences identified in 
collaboration with the RCSC under PCS.  
 
The project will be split into three main phases of capacity building, stretching over three years, 
to meet RGoB’s strategic objectives:  
 
Phase 1: to establish and embed procurement benchmarks and standards which are based on 
international good practice,  
 
Phase 2: to establish and professionalize a procurement community through a national people 
development strategy, and  
 
Phase 3: to strengthen and support the wider roll out of procurement practices, in order to create 
a
“body” of procurement knowledge for the country.  
 
These objectives will be achieved through the support and delivery of key activities in the areas 
of people and practice development.  
 
Phase 1 will focus on establishing benchmarks, standards and competencies required for a 
potential body of procurement professionals, and establishing a qualifications and training 
regime to support the development of such a body. Phase 2 will focus on the priorities for 
delivery of procurement training and education, including: (i) delivery of training and education 
opportunities to support in-service development of public servants, (ii) development of a key 
group of procurement staff (e.g. Public Procurement Policy Mechanism) who will act as 
ambassadors/catalysts and future people developers for the profession, and (iii) development of 
teaching staff at the Royal Institute of Management (RIM) by CIPS, in order that delivery of 
procurement training and education can be strengthened.  Phase 3 focuses on embedding and 
mainstreaming the People Development Strategy to Bhutanese partner organizations. Activities 
will focus on: (i) continued delivery of in-service training and education to procurement 
stakeholders, (ii) starting delivery of other procurement education to include pre-service 
qualifications/modules which are integrated into the Royal University of Bhutan (RUB) 
education framework, and (iii) the evaluation of the impact of training and education delivered 
under the project, using feedback to inform future curriculum and delivery strategies and 
demonstrate the positive contributions the development of procurement has made.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Thimphu, Bhutan   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
There are no safeguard policies that affected by this project.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Malcolm A. B. Jansen (SASDN) 
 
Page  3
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  01/30/2008 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
There are no studies that need to take place as this project does not invoke any of the 
policies.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Debabrata Chakraborti 
11/15/2007 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
11/15/2007 
Comments:  Cleared as EA cat. 'C' 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Els Hinderdael-Forger 
11/15/2007 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
