Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3813 
Project Name 
Institutional Capacity Build
ing Project for Procurement 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P099126 
Borrower(s) 
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Tashichhodzong 
Bhutan 
Tel: 975-2-322 717 
Fax: 975-2-323 154 
yankitw@hotmail.com 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Bhutan 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI
   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 8, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
Date of Board Approval 
June 10, 2008 
 
1.
 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1.
 
Landlocked between China and India, Bhutan is 
a small kingdom covering nearly 38,500 square 
kilometers in the eastern Himalayas.  In the l
ast couple of decades, the Kingdom of Bhutan has 
experienced rapid social and economic devel
opment as a result of prudent macroeconomic 
management, beneficial exploitation of hydr
opower resources, and substantial support from 
development partners.  In the Ninth Five Year 
Plan, the Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB) 
has placed its focus on (i) improving quality of life 
and raising income levels, especially for the 
poor, (ii) ensuring good governance, (iii) prom
oting private sector growth and employment 
generation, (iv) preserving and pr
omoting cultural heritage and en
vironmental conservation, and 
(v) achieving further economic growth. 
 
2.
 
The World Bank’s latest Country Assistance Stra
tegy (CAS) for FY06-09, approved Nov 1, 2005, 
aligns itself with these goals and priorities of the Ninth Five Year Plan (NFYP).  Specifically, the 
CAS supports development based on three pillars
: (i) expanding access to better infrastructure 
and quality social services, as well as connecting communities to markets; (ii) promoting private 
sector development and employment; and (iii) stre
ngthening the management of public resources, 
as well as the monitoring and evaluation of devel
opment outcomes.  Additionally, the Bank also 
supports the crosscutting efforts related to decentr
alization, good govern
ance, and environmental 
management. 
 
3.
 
Today, Bhutan is in the middle of a period of major political transformation as it seeks to adopt a 
system of democratic governance in 2008.  Under 
this new system, nationwide elections will be 
held every five years where any qualified political parties may compete in a preliminary runoff to 
Page  2
determine which final two will contest for the nationa
l election.  The role of the king under such a 
system will shift to that of a constitutional mona
rch.  Regardless of these significant changes in 
the political mechanism, ther
e remains a strong commitment, as identified under the new 
constitution, to move forward w
ith governance reforms and the goa
ls identified in the NFYP and 
Bhutan’s other related documents such as th
e Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the 
Good Governance Plus (GG+), and Bhutan 2020. 
 
4.
 
As part of the reforms to ensure good governan
ce, RGoB has undertaken various steps towards 
creating an efficient, effective, transparent, and fair national procurement system.  The Asian 
Development Bank (ADB) provided the original assi
stance to the government in the mid 1990s to 
create procurement rules and regulations, which were
 incorporated in Chapter 17 of the Financial 
Manual.  Recognizing that their procuremen
t rules were due for some updating to align 
themselves with internationally accepted best pr
actice and to cater for the changing Bhutanese 
context, RGoB requested assistance from the 
World Bank in September of 2005.  Under the 
agreed work plan for wider procurement reforms,
 the Bank, in collaboration with the donor group 
in Bhutan, has been working with the govern
ment on the following areas: (i) renewing the 
procurement manual and its accompanying sta
ndard bidding documents and request for 
proposals, (ii) creating a public procurement 
policy division, (iii) addressing the need for 
procurement grievance mechanisms, (iv) assessing 
the readiness for adopting electronic forms of 
government procurement (e-GP), and (v) building th
e capacity of national institutions responsible 
for training people on public procurement.  Th
is project focuses on the last of these five 
components; capacity building. 
 
2.
 
Objectives 
 
5.
 
The program of national procurement reforms aims to assist RGoB to create an up-to-date 
national procurement system recognized by all inte
rnational partners as standard and adequate for 
all procurement; be it national budget or under 
donor-financed projects.  Having an improved 
procurement system will serve to help RGoB atta
in goals set in the various documents described 
before (e.g. Ninth Five-Year Plan, Vision 
20/20, sector plans, Good Governance, etc). 
 
6.
 
The program, as described above, can be divided in
to three main, partly overlapping, phases.  The 
first is the legal framework, which is being a
ddressed through updating th
e national procurement 
manual and updating supporting bi
dding documents.  The second phase is the creation of a 
national public procurement policy division under 
the Ministry of Finance and the creation of 
procurement capacity for all stakeholders thr
ough the project.  The third phase looks at the 
establishment of an independent procurement gr
ievance mechanism and the steady adoption of 
electronic forms of procurement. 
 
7.
 
The strategic approach of this project towa
rd procurement capacity building will focus on 
creating the capacity of national training institutes 
to deliver certified procurement training to all 
relevant stakeholders in a sustainable manner.
 This methodology shies away from the traditional 
practice of short term, ad-hoc, training courses or workshops for a select number of identified 
individuals, as this has proven in many instances to
 become ineffective in the long term once civil 
servants get rotated to another position in gove
rnment, which is a common practice the world 
over.  Similarly, such short-term training 
has tended to focus on rules and regulations 
corresponding to the projects for which training is a part; either the donors’ rules and/or the 
national ones.  Such training is limited to a 
focus on compliance and largely misses out on the 
aspect of competence, which as described above is
 of fundamental importance when considering 
procurement performance and desired outcomes. 
 
Page  3
8.
 
Through building the necessary training programs wi
th the assistance of international experts, 
which center on both compliance and competence,
 and ensuring the delivery of such courses 
through national training institutes, the project ai
ms to ensure that classes on procurement will be 
available all the time for all stakeholders to the pr
ocurement process and that a sustainable path is 
created for the establishment of a professional procurement cadre. 
 
9.
 
RCSC has already addressed the absence of a pr
ocurement cadre in Bhutan by creating 
procurement positions within the civil service at va
rious hierarchical levels as part of its civil 
service reform (called the Position Classification System (PCS) exercise), and recognizes the 
need to train existing in-service civil servants d
ealing with procurement as well as future servants 
that want to take on a career in public procurement. 
 
10.
 
The spirit of Bank assistance so far has been to improve national systems by marrying local 
conditions with best practice. The focus has alwa
ys been to maintain the local identity of the 
system. In a similar vein, this project seeks to 
build sustainable capacity in procurement in 
national educational establishments over the long te
rm to improve Bhutan’s ability to train and 
retain procurement capacity within 
its public spending authorities. 
 
11.
 
So while the wider procurement reform program
 aims to improve procurement outcomes as a 
direct result of progressively establishing an im
proved national public procurement system in 
Bhutan, this project aims to contribute towa
rd the achievement of that objective through 
supporting improvement of procurement perform
ance by all the relevant stakeholders. 
 
12.
 
Indicators to measure improvement, given the current statistical environment in Bhutan, are: 
1. Public perception, and 
2. OECD/DAC country procurement ass
essment rating (relevant indicators). 
 
13.
 
The intermediary outcomes, which will allow fo
r project implementation progress monitoring, 
are: 
1.
 
Reformed civil service in the area of procurement; 
2.
 
Institutionalization of national pr
ocurement training regime; and, 
3.
 
Enhanced national procurement competence. 
 
3.
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
14.
 
Good progress has been made to date, which h
as seen the RGoB complete the updating of its 
procurement manual and the start of a review pr
ocess to revise supporting documents, which will 
effectively complete the legal framework.  This 
on its own, however, is not enough to ensure 
good procurement practices.  The rules and regul
ations may help in guiding the procurement 
practice with the aim of ensuring transparen
cy, accountability, fairness, effectiveness and 
efficiency, but they will not ensure that 
the people doing procurement will be performing 
adequately.  Procurement is a profession and the 
profession requires a variety of skills to enable 
procurement officers to use the framework of rul
es and regulations to make informed decisions 
and work effectively to guarantee optimal outcom
es.  Examples of such skills include, but are not 
limited to, stocktaking, logistics, contract 
management, strategic procurement, marketing, 
negotiations, and suppl
y chain management. 
 
15.
 
Raising awareness among all stakeholders (procuring entities, bidding community, and civil 
society) of changes to rules and the importance of
 rules to the financial health of the government 
has thus far not been adequately addressed. As a 
result, the application of national procurement 
rules continues to be relatively inconsistent 
across government and within individual agencies, 
Page  4
with little evidence of progress toward improving tangible outcomes on the ground. In practice, 
there is significant evidence of non-compliance a
nd/or improper compliance as a result of a lack 
of knowledge or misinterpretation. 
 
16.
 
It is of utmost importance that legal reform
s in procurement are supported by comprehensive 
capacity building.  The same would apply for taking further the work on the other components 
dealing with adopting e-procurement and for se
tting up a procurement grievance mechanism led 
by the Ministry of Finance.  Without adequate 
capacity in procurement, it will be impossible for 
Government to address such matters effectively and ensure added value. 
 
17.
 
An overarching rationale for pursuing these reforms 
is to establish a national procurement system 
deemed acceptable by development partners 
and to shift from compulsory donor rules and 
regulations on procurement, which are currently mandatory under many donor-financed projects.  
Given donors’ commitment to increase efforts to 
rely on country-owned systems, per the 2005 
Paris Declaration, the Bank’s support of this re
form agenda comes at an opportune time to build 
such a system in Bhutan and receives unequivo
cal support from the entire donor group based in 
Bhutan in this regard. 
 
4.
 
Description 
 
18.
 
This project outlines three main phases of capacity 
building, running over a period of three years. 
These phases serve to meet a number of strategic 
objectives of the Royal Government of Bhutan, 
namely: 
1.
 
To establish and embed procurement benchmar
ks and standards based on international 
good practice; 
2.
 
To establish and professionalize a procurement community through a national people 
development strategy;  
3.
 
To strengthen and support the wider roll-out 
of procurement practices to create a ‘body’ 
of procurement knowledge for the country. 
 
19.
 
These objectives will be achieved through the supp
ort and delivery of key activities in the areas 
of people and practice development, outlined 
below.  The RGoB will undertake these various 
activities in each of the three phases with the 
assistance of specialized consultancy services 
capable of providing such unique and tailored technical assistance. 
 
20.
 
Phase 1: The Development of a People Development Strategy
.  This phase focuses on 
establishing the benchmarks, standards and co
mpetencies required for a potential body of 
procurement professionals and to establish a qualif
ications and training regime to support the 
future development of the bod
y of procurement professionals. 
 
21.
 
This would be achieved through TA s
upport to the following partners: 
 x
 
Ministry of Finance/PPPD – as the sponsor and 
driver of the Royal Government of Bhutan 
Procurement reform and the implem
enting agency of this project. 
 x
 
Royal Civil Service Commission – as the key player in the development of procurement 
roles, national qualifications and career paths 
within the Royal Government of Bhutan.  
 x
 
Royal University of Bhutan – issuing th
e certification for high-level procurement 
qualifications as the overarching body responsible 
for tertiary education institutes in Bhutan.  
This will also cover the identification and creati
on of specific curricula for any of the tertiary 
institutes under the RUB, including for example, 
but not limited to, the institute for engineers. 
Page  5
 x
 
Royal Institute of Management – as the main r
ecipient of the project’s support and the centre 
of excellence of both in-service and pre-service training and education to the Royal Civil 
Service and wider procurement community cove
ring multiple sectors. This will cover both 
short skills development courses as well as academic programmes leading to certification by 
the institute and the RUB. 
 x
 
Any governmental body which is or will be ca
rrying out procurement training in order to 
ensure a “joined up” approach to competency 
development and delivery, for example, but not 
limited to, the Ministry of Works and Human Settlement. 
 
22.
 
These partners are critical for the creation of c
ontinued future demand a
nd supply of both in-
service and pre-service procurement education a
nd training, and for strengthening the overall 
procurement capacity in Bhutan. 
 
23.
 
Phase 2: Implementation of the People Development Strategy
.  This phase focuses on the 
priorities for delivery of procurement 
training and education. These include: 
 x
 
Delivery of training and education opportunities 
to support in-service development of public 
servants, delivered jointly by RIM and the project consultants. 
 x
 
Specific development of key groups of proc
urement staff, for example, the Public 
Procurement Policy Division (PPPD) staff of th
e Royal Government of Bhutan, who will act 
as ambassadors/catalysts and future people deve
lopers for the profession, delivered jointly by 
RIM and the project consultants. 
 x
 
Development of teaching staff from RIM and RU
B by the consultants so that delivery of 
procurement training and education can be strengt
hened in Bhutan (i.e. training of trainers). 
 
24.
 
Phase 3: Mainstreaming of People Development Strategy: Building the “Body of 
Knowledge”
.  This phase focuses on embedding and mainstreaming of the People Development 
Strategy to Bhutanese partner organizations. Activities will focus on: 
 x
 
Continued delivery of In-service training and e
ducation to stakeholders delivered by RIM. 
 x
 
Starting delivery of other procurement education to include pre-service 
qualifications/modules which are integrated in
to the RUB/Bhutanese education framework. 
 x
 
Evaluation of the impact of training and e
ducation delivered to date; monitoring of 
results/feedback of RCSC’s performance manageme
nt system. Using results of both of these 
to feed into future curricula and deliver
y strategies and to demonstrate the positive 
contributions the development of proc
urement systems have made to date. 
 
30.
 
In this final phase, the project will also look to
 develop the body of knowledge and procurement 
practice in Bhutan through the creation of ne
tworks, communities of practitioners, events and 
conferences focusing on key procurement topics and case studies. 
 
5.
 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.043750
 
International Development Association (IDA) 
1.5 
 Total 
1.5043750
 
6.
 
Implementation 
 
Page  6
31.
 
The project involves four main government bodies: the Ministry of Finance (MoF), the Royal 
Civil Service Commission (RCSC), the Royal Institute of Management (RIM), the Royal 
University of Bhutan (RUB); and the project’s 
consultant. Each of these five members has an 
important and unique role to play in implementation of the project’s activities and for ensuring 
continued reform of Bhutan’s
 procurement performance beyond the timeline of this project. 
 
32.
 
The Ministry of Finance, who has been the cham
pion of procurement reforms in Bhutan, will also 
assume the role of managing this project.  This
 will be done through its Public Procurement 
Policy Division (PPPD), which is to be created 
prior to project start under its Department of 
National Properties.  The PPPD will be the direct 
counterpart to the WB team for this project. 
This division will have various 
roles and mandates to lead the entire procurement reform agenda. 
One of its major responsibilities early on will be 
to manage, coordinate, monitor and evaluate the 
activities, outputs and outcomes of the capacity 
building project.  To assist the newly formed 
PPPD in its daily activities and manage implemen
tation of this project, a parallel technical 
assistance scheme has been planned and approved by the ADB and the Bank.   
 
33.
 
The Royal Civil Service Commission has played 
a large role in taking procurement reform 
forward.  It recognized the need to professi
onalize procurement within the civil service and 
provided for such positions through their Position 
Classifications System (PCS) exercise, which 
reformed the entire civil service structure.  It
 approved the creation of the PPPD under the MoF to 
allow the latter to take procurement reform forw
ard in an exponential way.  These two significant 
decisions of the RCSC have laid the foundations 
for taking the entire procurement reform agenda 
forward, and creating demand for the procurement 
training to be delivered through this project. 
 
34.
 
The RCSC stands to receive technical assistance (T
A) in this project from the project consultant 
toward improving the job descriptions of the va
rious hierarchical procurement positions created 
under the PCS.  The TA will also include the crea
tion of national qualifications and career paths 
for these positions. 
 
35.
 
The Royal Institute of Management (RIM) is the 
body that has been mandated by government to 
train all civil servants.  It is a well establishe
d institution that has various training modules in 
place already and continues to expand
 in its endeavors.  It will be the main recipient of TA under 
this project, which focuses on creating a nationa
l institutional capacity for delivering certified 
procurement training to pre-service and in service civil servants.  Training will also be extended 
to private sector stakeholders such as bidders, cons
ultants, and suppliers.  RIM will work with the 
project consultant to identify the exact c
ourses that are needed through wide stakeholder 
participation, complete a mapping exercise to 
identify which modules already exist within its 
existing programs, which new ones need to be cr
eated, and make available trainers who will be 
trained by the consultants to deliver the designe
d courses.  Beyond the scope of this project, RIM 
is expected to continue to d
esign and deliver courses in Bhutan 
as needed.  RIM will be able to 
embark on becoming one of the certified CIPS training centers around the world. 
 
36.
 
The Royal University of Bhutan, who have been 
created more recently, have been mandated to 
act as an overarching body to bring together all 
the countries institutes and assist in creating a 
more harmonious and uniform academic system for the country.  They have important roles like 
updating institutions’ syllabi, issuing diplomas and 
certifications for the institutes, and also offer 
their own courses, to name but a few.  The specifi
c role that RUB will play in this project is 
twofold: (1) they may have to provide certifications/diplomas upon completion of the more 
higher level procurement courses that could be offe
red at RIM, and (2) they stand to receive TA 
from this project in terms of assistance in designi
ng specific procurement courses to be included 
in the syllabi of any of the other national trai
ning institutes under their purview, should they so 
Page  7
desire.  For example there could be a specific 
course designed for the engineering college which 
could stand the graduates in good stead once comp
leting their degree.  Finally, the RUB has also 
confirmed they are willing to make available traine
rs to be a part of the training of trainers 
activity of this project, so that a wider pool of trainers are available to Bhutan. 
 
37.
 
Finally, the consultant will work with all of 
the above mentioned government bodies to ensure 
that all the project’s activities are achieved.  They 
will have a full time project director in Bhutan 
for the three years of the project and have a pool 
of short term specialist consultants that will be 
available to be called on to support the project. 
 They will report directly to the MoF/PPPD and 
will have a detailed terms of re
ference and contract to stipulate all their responsibilities and 
deliverables in line with the implementation plan of this project. 
 
7.
 
Sustainability 
 
38.
 
Experience worldwide has demonstrated that the most important requirement for sustainable 
procurement reform is satisfactory policy refo
rm accompanied with adequate institutional 
arrangements for its implementation.  The RGoB
 has shown itself to be very committed in 
reforming its procurement system and policies 
by embarking on this s
ubstantial procurement 
reform agenda. 
 
39.
 
The establishment, staffing, and operationali
zation of the PPPD will be critical towards 
guaranteeing sustainable procurement reforms, as th
is will be the entity responsible for managing 
and coordinating all the activities of the reform ag
enda to ensure a consistent approach.  The 
procurement manual already provides for the establis
hment of such a division and the RGoB has 
also committed itself to its establishment.  This 
entity will have various mandates, one of which is 
to ensure and manage continuous
 capacity development in procurement in Bhutan and monitor 
and evaluate progress of procurement reforms,
 procurement implementation across government, 
and actual procurement outcomes on the ground. 
 
40.
 
This project’s approach towards delivering procur
ement training, though building the institutional 
capacity of the national academic and training in
stitutions, also guarantees that there is an 
infrastructure so to speak which will allow fo
r continued procurement 
education and remain 
flexible enough to adjust itself to changing needs. 
 
41.
 
Finally, the involvement of the RCSC in the de
velopment of a national positions classification 
incorporating procurement positions
 matched against qualifications 
integrated within the national 
curriculum is a critical component of the proj
ect, which will further ensure sustainability. 
 
8.
 
Lessons Learned from Past Op
erations in the Country/Sector 
 
42.
 
The strategic approach of this project for proc
urement capacity building will focus on creating the 
capacity of national training institutes to deliver
 procurement training, and not on the traditional 
short-term, ad-hoc training courses or workshops
, which are conducted largely by international 
experts.  The reason for such a shift comes fro
m lessons learned from past approaches, which 
include: 
 
 x
 
Short-term, ad-hoc training is not sustainabl
e since it is based on engaging foreign experts 
who are available only for short periods of time; 
 x
 
No, or little, national capacity is actually built to provide the training; 
Page  8
 x
 
It is limited in time, which means that futu
re new procurement officers may not have access 
to the same training; 
 x
 
Even the most extensive of short-term trai
ning programs cannot reach all trainees and are 
limited to a matter of weeks, which means content is limited 
 x
 
Successful completion of such a short-term course may result in an attendance certificate 
being received, but this cannot be called a ‘qualif
ication’ upon which to build a career.  This 
means that the long-term benefit and in
centives to participate can be limited; 
 x
 
Content is primarily based on compliance with rul
es, and there is usually little available in the 
way of competence training. 
 
9.
 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[x] 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
 4.10) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] 
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Piloting the Use of Borrower Systems to Address Environmental 
and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-Supported Projects (
OP
/
BP
 
4.00) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
10.
 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
A. Project Implementation Plan 
 
RGoB/CIPS: Capacity building proposal for Bhutan (March 2007) 
 
B. Bank Staff Assessments 
 
World Bank: BTOR & AM (September 2005) – Procurement assessment of Bhutan 
World Bank: BTOR & AM (January 2006) 
– Policy dialogue on procurement reforms 
World Bank: BTOR & AM (April 2006) – Cr
eation of procurement reform agenda 
World Bank: BTOR & AM (August 2006) – Start of procurement reform work 
World Bank: BTOR & AM (December 2006) – Supervision & continued dialogue on reforms 
World Bank: BTOR & AM (February 2007) – Supervision & continued dialogue on reforms 
World Bank: BTOR & AM (May 2007) – Delivery of 
products & establishment of next FY deliverables 
World Bank: BTOR & AM (September 2007) – Supervision & continued dialogue on reforms 
World Bank: BTOR & AM (December 2007) – Supe
rvision of reforms & project pre-Appraisal 
World Bank: A policy note assessing the procurement 
grievance mechanisms of Bhutan (May 2007) 
World Bank: Readiness assessment and implementation roadmap report on e-GP (June, 2007) 
RGoB: Procurement Manual (March 2007) 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed pr
oject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice th
e final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  9
 
C. Other 
 
World Bank: Institutional Capacity Buil
ding Project Concept Note, July 2007 
World Bank: Project Information Document, November 2007 
World Bank: Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet, November 2007
 
World Bank: Institutional Capacity Building Project
 for Procurement - Project Appraisal Document 
World Bank: Country Assistance Strategy for the Kingdom of Bhutan, November 2005  
World Bank: Guidelines – Procurement under IBRD Loan
s and IDA Credits (May ‘04, revised Oct ‘06) 
World Bank: Guidelines – Selection & Employment 
of Consultants (May ‘04, revised Oct ‘06) 
RGoB: Ninth Five-Year Development Plan, 2002-2007 
RGoB: Bhutan 2020, A Vision of Peace,
 Happiness, and Prosperity, May 1999 
RGoB: Bhutan Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 2004 
RGoB: Good Governance Plus – in pursuit of
 gross national happiness, November 2005 
RGoB: Position Classification System release from the Royal Civil Service Commission, August 2005 
RGoB: Organizational Development (OD) – towards ex
cellence in the civil service, (RCSC) April 2007 
RGoB: Organizational Development Plan of 
the Royal Institute of Management, 2005 
RGoB: Strategic Framework for the Royal University of Bhutan, June 2003 
RGoB: Royal Audit Authority Procurement Audit Manual, 2007 
 
11.
 
Contact point 
Contact: Dimitri De Pues 
Title: Extended Term Procurement Consultant 
Tel: +1 202 4734881 
Fax:  +1 202 4776050 
Email: ddepues@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington DC, USA 
 
12.
 
For more information contact
: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
