Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H382-BT 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 15, 2008  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER 382-BT 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 15, 2008, between KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II —FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to nine 
hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 950,000) 
(“Grant”) to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Tashichhodzong 
 
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
009752323154 
 
Thimphu, 
Bhutan 
     
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Daw Penjo 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Marco 
Scuriatti 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to improve public procurement outcomes in 
Bhutan by progressively professionalizing all the relevant stakeholders in the public 
procurement process.  
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1.  
Development of Procurement Benchmarks and Standards
Carrying out a program of activities that focuses on developing the Rec
ipient’s 
benchmarks, standards and competencies required of a national procurement program 
based upon international best practices. 
Part 2.  
Procurement Training and Education
Establishing a professional procurement community
 
within the Kingdom of Bhutan 
through the development and provision of:  (a) training and education opportunities to 
support the in-service development of public servants, delivered jointly by RIM and the 
project consultants; (b) a key group of procurement staff of the Royal Government of 
Bhutan who will act as ambassadors/catalysts and future people developers for the 
profession, delivered jointly by RIM and the project consultants; and (c) teaching staff 
from RIM and RUB to ensure delivery of procurement training and education is 
strengthened in Bhutan. 
Part 3.  
Other Training and Monitoring
Strengthening and supporting a wider roll out of procurement practices in Bhutan through 
the provision of:  (a) continued delivery of in-service training and education by RIM to 
stakeholders; (b) delivery of other procurement education to include pre-service 
qualifications/modules which are integrated into the RUB/Bhutanese education 
framework; and (c) impact evaluation of training and education delivered.  
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient, through its MoF, shall maintain at all times during Project 
implementation, the Public Procurement Policy Division (PPPD) with an 
adequate number of key professionals with skills, qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.  
2. 
The Recipient, through its MoF, shall establish by September 30, 2008, or by 
some other date acceptable to the Association, and thereafter maintain at all times 
during Project implementation, the M&E Committee, with an adequate number 
of key professionals with skills, qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association. 
B. Project 
Implementation 
Plan
 
The Recipient shall prepare within three (3) months of the Effective Date, or such 
other date as may be acceptable to the Association, a PIP that is satisfactory to 
the Association, and shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the agreed PIP and in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and 
shall not revise, amend, or abrogate the agreed PIP unless in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each Fiscal Year quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project covering the Fiscal Year quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the 
Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines of May 2004 as amended during October 2006, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  8
-
7
-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
The Recipient, through its MoF, shall hire a consultant acceptable to the Association to 
provide services under this Project on a Single-Source Selection basis, with an adequate 
number of key professionals with skills, qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association. 
C. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth the single sole source contract, which shall be 
subject to the Association’s Prior Review.  
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section and such 
additional instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  9
-
8
-
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed 
in SDR)
Percentage of Expenditures 
 to be Financed
(1)  Consultant
s’ 
Services 
950,000 100% 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
950,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
 Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year beginning July 1 and ending June 
30 the following year.  
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
6. 
“MoF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto. 
7. 
“PIP” means the Recipient’s Project Implementation Plan, to be prepared within 
three (3) months of the Effective Date, or by some other date acceptable to the 
Association, as the same shall be amended from time to time, giving details of 
the guidelines and procedures as shall have been agreed with the Association for 
the implementation, supervision and monitoring of the Project. 
8. 
“PPPD” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement Policy Division of 
Department of National Properties, Ministry of Finance, established through the 
Royal Civil Service Commissions Official Order # RCSC/HRMD/26/2008/5712, 
dated March 25, 2008. 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 9, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Page  11
-
10
-
10. 
“RIM” means the Recipient’s Royal Institute of Management, established in 
1986 and entrusted with the task of developing management and public 
administration human resource capacity in Bhutan.  
11. 
“RUB” means the Recipient’s Royal University of Bhutan, established in June 
2003 to develop and provide programs of study at the tertiary education level and 
to promote and conduct re
search.
 
