Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3466 
Project Name 
Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P099126 
Borrower(s) 
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Tashi Chhodzong 
Bhutan 
Tel: 975-2-322 717 
Fax: 975-2-323 154 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
November 15, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 30, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 14, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Landlocked between China and India, Bhutan is a small kingdom covering nearly 38,500 square 
kilometers in the eastern Himalayas and has a population of approximately 650,000. In the last couple 
of decades, Bhutan has experienced rapid social and economic development as a result of prudent 
macroeconomic management, beneficial exploitation of hydropower resources, and substantial 
support from development partners. In its latest five year plan, the Royal Government of Bhutan 
(RGoB) has placed its focus on (i) improving quality of life and raising income levels, especially for 
the poor, (ii) ensuring good governance, (iii) promoting private sector growth and employment 
generation, (iv) preserving and promoting cultural heritage and environmental conservation, and (v) 
achieving further economic growth. 
 
Bhutan is currently in the middle of a period of major political transformation as it seeks to adopt a 
system of democratic governance in 2008.  Under this new system, nationwide elections will be held 
every five years where any qualified political parties may compete in a preliminary runoff to 
determine which final two will contest for the national election.  The role of the king under such a 
system will shift to that of a constitutional monarch.  Together with these significant changes in the 
political mechanism, there remains a strong commitment, under the new constitution, to move 
forward with governance reforms and the goals identified in the ninth five year plan and other related 
documents like the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Good Governance Plus, Bhutan 2020, etc.  
 
As part of the reforms to ensure good governance, RGoB has undertaken various steps towards 
creating an efficient, effective, transparent, and fair national procurement system.  The Asian 
Development Bank (ADB) provided the original assistance to the government in the mid 1990s to 
create procurement rules and regulations, which were incorporated in Chapter 17 of the Financial 
Manual.  Recognizing that their procurement rules were due for some updating to align themselves 
with internationally accepted best practice and to cater for the changing Bhutanese context, RGoB 
Page  2
requested assistance from the World Bank in September of 2005.  Under the agreed work plan for 
wider procurement reforms, the Bank, in collaboration with the donor group in Bhutan, is working 
with the government in the following areas: (i) renewing the procurement manual and its 
accompanying standard bidding documents and request for proposals, (ii) creating a procurement 
policy unit, (iii) addressing the need for procurement grievance mechanisms, (iv) assessing the 
readiness for using e-procurement, and (v) building the capacity of national institutions responsible 
for training people on public procurement.  The RGoB is also keen for these reforms to take place so 
that increasingly the entire donor group can rely on Bhutan’s own national procurement systems in 
future rather than oblige theirs. 
 
This concept note focuses on the last of the five areas mentioned above, namely assisting RGoB build 
the capacity of its national training institutes to deliver procurement training to all specters of 
Bhutan’s society. 
 
The Bank’s latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) aligns itself with the goals and priorities of 
Bhutan’s Ninth Five-Year Plan (and associated documents), mentioned above.  Specifically the CAS 
supports development based on three pillars: (i) expanding access to better infrastructure and quality 
social services, as well as connecting communities to markets; (ii) promoting private sector 
development and employment; and (iii) strengthening the management of public resources, as well as 
the monitoring and evaluation of development outcomes.  Additionally, the Bank also supports the 
RGoB’s cross-cutting efforts related to decentralization, good governance and environmental 
management. 
 
This project is in line with the goals expressed under the third pillar of the Bhutan CAS that deals 
with “Strengthening Management of Public Resources and Monitoring and Evaluation of 
Development Outcomes”.  Improvement of the national procurement systems and performance is one 
of the areas highlighted in the CAS to achieve such goals.  The work supports RGoB’s concentration 
on improved governance, which focuses on values such as transparency, accountability, efficiency, 
fairness and professionalism. 
 
RGoB has updated its procurement manual over the course of this last fiscal year, and is now starting 
work on the supporting documents. This effectively completes putting into place the legal framework. 
These actions alone are not sufficient, however, to ensure good procurement. While new rules and 
regulations will help in guiding procurement practice with the aim of ensuring transparency, 
accountability, fairness, effectiveness and efficiency, a set of rules alone will not ensure that the 
people doing procurement will be performing adequately.  Procurement is a profession which requires 
a
variety of skills to enable procurement officers to use the framework of the rules and regulations to 
perform effectively and guarantee optimal outcomes. Examples of such skills include, but are not 
limited to, stocktaking, logistics, contract management, strategic procurement, marketing, 
negotiations, and supply chain management. It is important that legal framework reforms in 
procurement are supported by a comprehensive capacity building program. There have been 
consistent requests throughout RGoB and the private sector for such capacity building. 
 
Given that the Royal Civil Service Commission is addressing the absence of a procurement cadre in 
Bhutan by creating procurement positions within the civil service at various hierarchical levels as part 
of its civil service reform called the ‘Position Classification System’ (PCS) exercise. RCSC 
recognizes the need to train existing civil servants who are dealing with procurement, and this project 
aims to establish a sustainable training infrastructure. 
 
Page  3
The strategic approach of this project for procurement capacity building focuses on creating the 
capacity of national training institutes to deliver procurement training to all relevant stakeholders on a 
sustainable manner. This methodology shies away from the traditional practice of short term, ad-hoc, 
training courses or workshops for a select number of identified individuals, as this has proven, in 
many instances, to be ineffective over the long term as civil servants are moved to other positions in 
government -- a common practice the world over. Through building the necessary capacity in national 
training institutes, the project aims to ensure that procurement courses will be available all the time, 
and that a path is created for the establishment of a professional procurement cadre. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The primary objective is to improve procurement outcomes in Bhutan through:  
 
(i) 
strengthening institutional capacity to provide sustainable procurement training;  
(ii) 
enhancing the skills sets of all public and private stakeholders that participate in 
the public procurement practice.   
 
The project aims through its intervention to develop procurement professionals through a 
combination of competence and compliance training, which will draw from a set of 
competency frameworks designed for the various levels of a procurement cadre, as identified 
under RCSC’s PCS. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The project will bring on board the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS), a non-profit 
organization created under a Royal Charter to promote the procurement profession in the UK, and 
now operating around world. With over 40,000 members, CIPS is a unique organization that provides 
procurement training and certification, and sets the benchmark for the profession. Its MCIPS 
certification can be compared to the level of CPA and CFA accreditations in the field of financial 
management. Under this proposed project, CIPS will work with Bhutanese institutes to create training 
programs targeting various levels of procurement competences identified in collaboration with the 
RCSC under PCS. 
 
The project will be split into three main phases of capacity building, stretching over three years, to 
meet 
RGoB’s strategic objectives:  
 
Phase 1
:
to establish and embed procurement benchmarks and standards which are based on 
international good practice,  
Phase 2
:
to establish and professionalize a procurement community through a national people 
development strategy, and  
Phase 3
:
to strengthen and support the wider roll out of procurement practices, in order to create a 
“body” of procurement knowledge for the country. 
 
These objectives will be achieved through the support and delivery of key activities in the areas 
of people and practice development. 
 
Phase 1 will focus on establishing benchmarks, standards and competencies required for a potential 
body of procurement professionals, and establishing a qualifications and training regime to support 
Page  4
the development of such a body. Phase 2 will focus on the priorities for delivery of procurement 
training and education, including: (i) delivery of training and education opportunities to support in-
service development of public servants, (ii) development of a key group of procurement staff (e.g. 
Public Procurement Policy Mechanism) who will act as ambassadors/catalysts and future people 
developers for the profession, and (iii) development of teaching staff at the Royal Institute of 
Management (RIM) by CIPS, in order that delivery of procurement training and education can be 
strengthened.  Phase 3 focuses on embedding and mainstreaming the People Development Strategy to 
Bhutanese partner organizations. Activities will focus on: (i) continued delivery of in-service training 
and education to procurement stakeholders, (ii) starting delivery of other procurement education to 
include pre-service qualifications/modules which are integrated into the Royal University of Bhutan 
(RUB) education framework, and (iii) the evaluation of the impact of training and education delivered 
under the project, using feedback to inform future curriculum and delivery strategies and demonstrate 
the positive contributions the development of procurement has made. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
There are no safeguard policies that apply. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
1.5 
 Total 
1.5 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Dimitri De Pues 
Title: Extended Term Procurement Consultant 
Tel: +1 202 4734881 
Fax:  +1 202 4776050 
Email: ddepues@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington DC, USA
 
