                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                    Report No: 43728-BT




                                  PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ON A

                                           PROPOSED GRANT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 950,000 MILLION
                                   (US$1.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        KINGDOM OF BHUTAN

                                                 FOR AN

             INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PROCUREMENT




                                              May 14, 2008




Procurement Services Unit
South Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective {30 April 2008})


                              Currency Unit   =   Ngultrum (Nu.)
                                      US$1    =   40 Nu.
                                US$1.6298     =   SDR 1

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1     ­   June 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     Asia Development Bank
BAS     Budget and Accounting System
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFA     Certified Financial Accountant
CIPS    Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply
CPA     Certified Public Accountant
DANIDA  Danish International Development Agency
DPG     Development Policy Grant
e-GP    Electronic Government Procurement
FRR     Financial Rules and Regulations
GG+     Good Governance Plus
GNH     Gross National Happiness
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MCIPS   Masters of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MoF     Ministry of Finance
NFYP    Ninth Five Year Plan
PCS     Position Classification System
PFMA    Public Financial Management and Accountability
PPPD    Public Procurement Policy Division
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RAA     Royal Audit Authority
RCSC    Royal Civil Service Commission
RGoB    Royal Government of Bhutan
RIM     Royal Institute of Management
RUB     Royal University of Bhutan
SAI     Supreme Audit Institution
SIP     Simple Investment Project
TA      Technical Assistance
WB      World Bank



                             Vice President:      Pratful C. Patel
                Country Manager/Director:         Alastair J. Mckechnie
                           Sector Manager:        Nadjib Sefta
                        Task Team Leader:         Dimitri De Pues

                                                                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                           KINGDOM OF BHUTAN

                INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR PROCUREMENT

                                     PROJECT APPRAISEL DOCUMENT

                                                SOUTH ASIA

                                                   SARPS




   Date: May 14, 2008                                  Team Leader: Dimitri De Pues
   Country Director: Alastair J. Mckechnie             Sectors: General Public Administration
   Sector Manager/Director:                            (100%)
   Nadjib Sefta/Barbara Kafka                          Themes: Public expenditure, financial
                                                       management, procurement
   Project ID: P099126                                 Environmental screening category: None
   Lending Instrument: Simple Investment               (C)
   Project-Technical Assistance Loan (GRANT)
                                          Project Financing Data
   [ ] Loan     [ ] Credit     [ X ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:

   For Loans/Credits/Others:
   Total Bank financing (US$m.): 1.5
   Proposed terms: Grant
   Year to maturity: N/A
   Grace period (years): N/A
   Commitment fee (less waiver): N/A
   Service charge: N/A
                                          Financing Plan (US$m)
                        Source                         Local            Foreign           Total
   BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                      0.05              0               0.05
   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                0               1.5               1.5
   ASSOCIATION
   Total                                                   0.05             1.5              1.55
   Client: The Royal Government of Bhutan
    Responsible Agency:
                                The Public Procurement Policy Division,
                                Department of National Properties,
                                Ministry of Finance.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY               FY09        FY10       FY11
Annual           0.5          0.5        0.5
Cumulative       0.5          1.0        1.5
Project implementation period: Start July 10, 2008 End: June 30, 2011
Expected effectiveness date: July 10, 2008
Expected closing date: June 30, 2011

Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?            [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                               [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                              [ ]Yes [ ] No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                               [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?                [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?             [X]Yes [ ] No

Project development objective:

The procurement reform program aims to improve procurement outcomes through the establishment of an
improved national public procurement system in Bhutan. This project supports capacity building to
ensure improved procurement performance amongst relevant stakeholders.

Project description:

This project outlines three main components of capacity building, running over a period of three years.
These components serve to meet a number of strategic objectives of the Royal Government of Bhutan,
namely:
         1. To establish and embed procurement benchmarks and standards, which are based on
             international good practice;
         2. To establish and professionalize a procurement community through a national people
             development strategy;
         3. To strengthen and support the wider roll out of procurement practices, in order to create a
             `body' of procurement knowledge for the country.

Component 1: The Development of a People Development Strategy. This component focuses on
establishing the benchmarks, standards and competencies required for a potential corps of procurement
professionals and establishing a qualifications and training regime to support the future development of
procurement professionals.

Component 2: Implementation of the People Development Strategy. This component focuses on the
priorities for the delivery of procurement training and education.

Component 3: Mainstreaming of People Development Strategy: Building the "Body of Knowledge".
This component focuses on embedding and mainstreaming of the People Development Strategy to the
Bhutanese partner organizations.

For more detailed information on the activities of these components, please consult annex 6.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any?
None.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Board presentation: None

Loan/credit effectiveness: None

Covenants applicable to project implementation: See Section C.6 of the PAD


                                              KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
                      Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                         Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE ................................................................. 1

  1. Country and sector issues.................................................................................................... 1

  2. Rationale for Bank involvement......................................................................................... 2

  3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes.................................................... 2

B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION................................................................................................. 3

  1. Lending instrument............................................................................................................. 3

  2. Program objective and Phases ............................................................................................ 3

  3. Project development objective and key indicators.............................................................. 4

  4. Project description & components...................................................................................... 5

  5. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design............................................................ 6

  6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................................. 6

C.  IMPLEMENTATION .......................................................................................................... 7

  1. Partnership arrangements.................................................................................................... 7

  2. Institutional and implementation arrangements.................................................................. 7

  3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results.................................................................. 9

  4. Sustainability..................................................................................................................... 10

  5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects............................................................... 10

  6. Loan/credit conditions and covenants............................................................................... 12

D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................................. 12

  1. Economic and financial analyses...................................................................................... 12

  2. Technical........................................................................................................................... 13

  3. Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 13

  4. Social................................................................................................................................. 14

  5. Environment...................................................................................................................... 14

  6. Safeguard Policies............................................................................................................. 14

  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness...................................................................................... 14

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background......................................................... 15


Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies................. 18

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring ........................................................................ 21

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description...................................................................................... 28

Annex 5: Project Costs and Financing Plan............................................................................. 32

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements................................................................................. 33

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements..................................... 40

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements...................................................................................... 46

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 48

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues............................................................................................ 49

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision ..................................................................... 50

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File ................................................................................. 51

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits.............................................................................. 52

Annex 14: Country at a Glance ................................................................................................. 53

Annex 15: Map #33373............................................................................................................... 55


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE



1. Country and sector issues

1.   Landlocked between China and India, Bhutan is a small kingdom covering nearly 38,500 square
     kilometers in the eastern Himalayas. In the last couple of decades, the Kingdom of Bhutan has
     experienced rapid social and economic development as a result of prudent macroeconomic
     management, beneficial exploitation of hydropower resources, and substantial support from
     development partners. In the Ninth Five Year Plan, the Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB)
     has placed its focus on (i) improving quality of life and raising income levels, especially for the
     poor, (ii) ensuring good governance, (iii) promoting private sector growth and employment
     generation, (iv) preserving and promoting cultural heritage and environmental conservation, and
     (v) achieving further economic growth.

2.   The World Bank's latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY06-09, approved Nov 1, 2005,
     aligns itself with these goals and priorities of the Ninth Five Year Plan (NFYP). Specifically, the
     CAS supports development based on three pillars: (i) expanding access to better infrastructure
     and quality social services, as well as connecting communities to markets; (ii) promoting private
     sector development and employment; and (iii) strengthening the management of public resources,
     as well as the monitoring and evaluation of development outcomes. Additionally, the Bank also
     supports the crosscutting efforts related to decentralization, good governance, and environmental
     management.

3.   Bhutan just underwent major political transformation as it adopted a system of democratic
     governance in 2008. Under this new system, nationwide elections will be held every five years
     where any qualified political parties may compete in a preliminary runoff to determine which
     final two will contest for the national election. The role of the king under this system has shifted
     to that of a constitutional monarch. Concurrent to these significant changes in the political
     mechanism, there remains a strong commitment, as identified under the new constitution, to move
     forward with governance reforms and the goals identified in the NFYP and Bhutan's other related
     documents such as the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the Good Governance Plus
     (GG+), and Bhutan 2020.

4.   As part of the reforms to ensure good governance, RGoB has undertaken various steps towards
     creating an efficient, effective, transparent, and fair national procurement system. The Asian
     Development Bank (ADB) provided the original assistance to the government in 1999 to create
     procurement rules and regulations, which were incorporated in Chapter 17 of the Financial
     Manual. Recognizing that their procurement rules were due for some updating to align
     themselves with internationally accepted best practice and to cater for the changing Bhutanese
     context, RGoB requested assistance from the World Bank in September of 2005. Under the
     agreed work plan for wider procurement reforms, the Bank, in collaboration with the donor group
     in Bhutan, has been working with the government on the following areas: (i) reviewing the
     procurement manual and its accompanying standard bidding documents and request for
     proposals, (ii) creating a public procurement policy division, (iii) addressing the need for
     procurement grievance mechanisms, (iv) assessing the readiness for adopting electronic forms of
     government procurement (e-GP), and (v) building the capacity of national institutions responsible
     for training people on public procurement. This project focuses on the last of these five
     components; capacity building.




                                                    1

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

5.    Good progress has been made to date, which has seen the RGoB complete the updating of its
      procurement manual and the start of a review process to revise supporting documents, which will
      effectively complete the legal framework. This on its own, however, is not enough to ensure
      good procurement practices. The rules and regulations may help in guiding the procurement
      practice with the aim of ensuring transparency, accountability, fairness, effectiveness and
      efficiency, but they will not ensure that the people doing procurement will be performing
      adequately. Procurement is a profession and the profession requires a variety of skills to enable
      procurement officers to use the framework of rules and regulations to make informed decisions
      and work effectively to guarantee optimal outcomes. Examples of such skills include, but are not
      limited to, stocktaking, logistics, contract management, strategic procurement, marketing,
      negotiations, and supply chain management.

6.    Raising awareness among all stakeholders (procuring entities, bidding community, and civil
      society) of changes to rules and the importance of rules to the financial health of the government
      has thus far not been adequately addressed. As a result, the application of national procurement
      rules continues to be relatively inconsistent across government and within individual agencies,
      with little evidence of progress toward improving tangible outcomes on the ground. In practice,
      there is significant evidence of non-compliance and/or improper compliance as a result of a lack
      of knowledge or misinterpretation.

7.    It is of utmost importance that legal reforms in procurement are supported by comprehensive
      capacity building. The same would apply for taking further the work on the other components
      dealing with adopting e-procurement and for setting up a procurement grievance mechanism led
      by the Ministry of Finance. Without adequate capacity in procurement, it will be impossible for
      Government to address such matters effectively and ensure added value.

8.    One of the underlying reasons for these reforms is the desire of RGoB to obtain a national
      procurement system that is up to date to ensure efficiency and economy in procurement and that
      can be recognized by all its donor partners as being adequate to rely on so that it can move away
      from the compulsory donor rules and regulations on procurement, which are currently mandatory
      under many donor funded projects.      Given donors' commitment to increase efforts to rely on
      country-owned systems, as per the 2005 Paris Declaration, the Bank's support of this reform
      agenda comes at an opportune time to build such a system in Bhutan and receives unequivocal
      support from the entire donor group based in Bhutan in this regard. The Bank is very well placed
      to engage itself to assist the RGoB in this area, as it has been working with the government since
      2005 on developing their procurement reform agenda and has gained the support of the wider
      donor group in this program. Continuation is, therefore, useful to the government as teams and
      corresponding relationships and trusts have been built over time.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

9.    The proposed project contributes toward the Borrower's higher-level objectives envisaged in its
      NFYP, its PRSP, and the Bhutan 2020 document. Specifically, it aims to directly affect the goals
      of increasing human development and ensuring good governance. The positive outcomes
      produced through more efficient, effective, fair and transparent procurement, such as increased
      accountability, value for money, and budgetary savings are expected to have a positive impact on
      achieving other goals, including rapid economic growth, promoting private sector growth, and
      improving quality of life.



                                                    2

10.   The project supports the third pillar of the CAS; "strengthening the management of public
      resources, as well as the monitoring and evaluation of development outcomes" by ensuring that
      the country has a proper legal framework in place for procurement, and creates a professional
      procurement cadre supported by nationally-owned procurement training facilities. The project's
      positive outcomes are expected to influence the two remaining pillars: "expanding access to
      better infrastructure and quality social services, as well as connecting communities to markets"
      and "promoting private sector development and employment".

11.   The project contributes to the Bank's efforts toward reliance on country systems by directly
      improving the national procurement system and people's performance.



B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION



1. Lending instrument

12.   A Simple Investment Project (grant) was considered the most appropriate lending instrument,
      because this project has a simple design, which provides specific technical assistance to targeted
      institutions within Bhutan. It bears relatively low risk and has no controversial issues surrounding
      either environmental or social impacts. It is supported by a strong commitment from RGoB.
      There is a need to move promptly with project preparation in order that implementation can go
      hand-in-hand with civil service reforms, which the Royal Civil Service Commission (RCSC) has
      embarked upon. In the initial stages of project preparation, NLTA was considered as an
      alternative to a SIP, but was not pursued further because a SIP provides a more effective means of
      installing the TA consultant as operator to deliver core knowledge and apply it in the workspace.
      Additionally, the RGoB wishes that the capacity building project be led by the Ministry of
      Finance as part of the entire reform agenda, rather than through direct TA from the Bank.

2. Program objective and Phases

13.   The program of national procurement reforms aims to assist RGoB to create an up-to-date
      national procurement system recognized by all international partners as standard and adequate for
      all procurement; be it national budget or under donor-financed projects. Having an improved
      procurement system will serve to help RGoB attain goals set in the various documents described
      before (e.g. Ninth Five-Year Plan, Vision 2020, sector plans, Good Governance, etc).

14.   The program is divided into three main, partly overlapping, phases. The first is the legal
      framework. This is being addressed through updating the national procurement manual and
      updating supporting bidding documents. The second phase is the creation of a national public
      procurement policy division under the Ministry of Finance and the creation of procurement
      capacity for all stakeholders through the project. The third phase looks at the establishment of an
      independent procurement grievance mechanism and the steady adoption of electronic forms of
      procurement.

15.   The strategic approach of this project toward procurement capacity building will focus on
      creating the capacity of national training institutes to deliver certified procurement training to all
      relevant stakeholders in a sustainable manner. This methodology shies away from the traditional
      practice of short term, ad-hoc, training courses or workshops for a select number of identified
      individuals, as this has proven in many instances to become ineffective in the long term once civil



                                                    3

      servants get rotated to another position in government, which is a common practice the world
      over. Similarly, such short-term training has tended to focus on rules and regulations
      corresponding to the projects for which training is a part; either the donors' rules and/or the
      national ones. Such training is limited to a focus on compliance and largely misses out on the
      aspect of competence, which as described above is of fundamental importance when considering
      procurement performance and desired outcomes.

16.   Through building the necessary training programs with the assistance of international experts,
      which center on both compliance and competence, and ensuring the delivery of such courses
      through national training institutes, the project aims to ensure that classes on procurement will be
      available all the time for all stakeholders to the procurement process and that a sustainable path is
      created for the establishment of a professional procurement cadre.

17.   RCSC has already addressed the absence of a procurement cadre in Bhutan by creating
      procurement positions within the civil service at various hierarchical levels as part of its civil
      service reform (called the Position Classification System (PCS) exercise), and recognizes the
      need to train existing in-service civil servants dealing with procurement as well as future civil
      servants that want to take on a career in public procurement.

18.   The spirit of Bank assistance so far has been to improve national systems by marrying local
      conditions with best practice. The focus has always been to maintain the local identity of the
      system. In a similar vein, this project seeks to build sustainable capacity in procurement in
      national educational establishments over the long term to improve Bhutan's ability to train and
      retain procurement capacity within its public spending authorities.

3. Project development objective (PDO) and key indicators

19.   The wider procurement reform program aims to improve procurement outcomes as a direct result
      of progressively establishing an improved national public procurement system in Bhutan. This
      project aims to contribute toward the achievement of this reform objective through
      `professionalizing the procurement function by building institutional and individual capacity',
      which in turn will enhance procurement performance leading to improved procurement outcomes.

20.   In order to measure progress against this PDO, the project shall use the baseline sub-indicators
      5(c), 6(a), and 6(b) of the `OECD/DAC-World Bank Joint Venture Methodology for Assessment
      of National Procurement Systems'. These indicators read:
      1. Sub-indicator 5 (c) ­ A sustainable strategy and training capacity exists to provide training,
          advice and assistance to develop the capacity of government and private sector participants to
          understand the rules and regulations and how they should be implemented;
      2. Sub-indicator 6(a) ­ The level of procurement competence among government officials
          within the entity is consistent with their procurement responsibilities; and,
      3. Sub-indicator 6(b) ­ The procurement training and information programs for government
          officials and for private sector participants are consistent with demand.

21.   The intermediary outcomes, which will allow for project implementation progress monitoring,
      are:
      1. Reformed civil service in the area of procurement;
      2. Institutionalization of national procurement training regime; and,
      3. Enhanced national procurement competence.




                                                     4

22.   For more detailed information on the OECD/DAC-World Bank Joint Venture Methodology for
      Assessment of National Procurement Systems indicators, the intermediary outcome indicators,
      and on monitoring and evaluation arrangements in general, please consult Annex 3.

4. Project description & components

23.   This project outlines three main components of capacity building, running over a period of three
      years. These components serve to meet a number of strategic objectives of the Royal Government
      of Bhutan, namely:
           1. To establish and embed procurement benchmarks and standards based on international
                good practice;
           2. To establish and professionalize a procurement community through a national people
                development strategy;
           3. To strengthen and support the wider roll-out of procurement practices to create a `body'
                of procurement knowledge for the country.

24.    These objectives will be achieved through the support and delivery of key activities in the areas
       of people and practice development, outlined below. The RGoB will undertake these various
       activities in each of the three components with the assistance of specialized consultancy services
       capable of providing such unique and tailored technical assistance.

25.    Component 1: The Creation of a People Development Strategy. This component focuses on
       establishing the benchmarks, standards and competencies required for a potential body of
       procurement professionals and to establish a qualifications and training regime to support the
       future development of the body of procurement professionals.

26.    This would be achieved through TA support to the following partners:
       ·   Ministry of Finance/PPPD ­ as the sponsor and driver of the Royal Government of Bhutan
           Procurement reform and the implementing agency of this project.
       ·   Royal Civil Service Commission ­ as the key player in the development of procurement
           roles, national qualifications and career paths within the Royal Government of Bhutan.
       ·   Royal University of Bhutan ­ issuing the certification for high-level procurement
           qualifications as the overarching body responsible for tertiary education institutes in Bhutan.
           This will also cover the identification and creation of specific curricula for any of the tertiary
           institutes under the RUB, including for example, but not limited to, the institute for engineers.
       ·   Royal Institute of Management ­ as the main recipient of the project's support and the centre
           of excellence of both in-service and pre-service training and education to the Royal Civil
           Service and wider procurement community covering multiple sectors. This will cover both
           short skills development courses as well as academic programmes leading to certification by
           the institute and the RUB.
       ·   Any governmental body which is or will be carrying out procurement training in order to
           ensure a "joined up" approach to competency development and delivery, for example, but not
           limited to, the Ministry of Works and Human Settlement.

27.   These partners are critical for the creation of continued future demand and supply of both in-
      service and pre-service procurement education and training, and for strengthening the overall
      procurement capacity in Bhutan.

28.   Component 2: Implementation of the People Development Strategy. This component focuses
      on the priorities for delivery of procurement training and education. These include:



                                                     5

       ·   Delivery of training and education opportunities to support in-service development of public
           servants, delivered jointly by RIM and the project consultants.
       ·   Specific development of key groups of procurement staff, for example, the Public
           Procurement Policy Division (PPPD) staff of the Royal Government of Bhutan, who will act
           as ambassadors/catalysts and future people developers for the profession, delivered jointly by
           RIM and the project consultants.
       ·   Development of teaching staff from RIM and RUB by the consultants so that delivery of
           procurement training and education can be strengthened in Bhutan (i.e. training of trainers).

29.    Component 3: Mainstreaming of People Development Strategy: Building the "Body of
       Knowledge". This component focuses on embedding and mainstreaming of the People
       Development Strategy to Bhutanese partner organizations. Activities will focus on:
       ·   Continued delivery of In-service training and education to stakeholders delivered by RIM.
       ·   Starting delivery of other procurement education to include pre-service
           qualifications/modules which are integrated into the RUB/Bhutanese education framework.
       ·   Evaluation of the impact of training and education delivered to date; monitoring of
           results/feedback of RCSC's performance management system. Using results of both of these
           to feed into future curricula and delivery strategies and to demonstrate the positive
           contributions the development of procurement systems have made to date.

30.    In this final component, the project will also look to develop the body of knowledge and
       procurement practice in Bhutan through the creation of networks, communities of practitioners,
       events and conferences focusing on key procurement topics and case studies.

5. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

31.    The strategic approach of this project for procurement capacity building will focus on creating the
       capacity of national training institutes to deliver procurement training, and not on the traditional
       short-term, ad-hoc training courses or workshops, which are conducted largely by international
       experts. The reason for such a shift comes from lessons learned from past approaches, which
       include:

       ·   Short-term, ad-hoc training is not sustainable since it is based on engaging foreign experts
           who are available only for short periods of time;
       ·   No, or little, national capacity is actually built to provide the training;
       ·   It is limited in time, which means that future new procurement officers may not have access
           to the same training;
       ·   Even the most extensive of short-term training programs cannot reach all trainees and are
           limited to a matter of weeks, which means content is limited
       ·   Successful completion of such a short-term course may result in an attendance certificate
           being received, but this cannot be called a `qualification' upon which to build a career. This
           means that the long-term benefit and incentives to participate can be limited;
       ·   Content is primarily based on compliance with rules, and there is usually little available in the
           way of competence training.

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

32.    The main reasons for rejecting the only established alternative are already covered in the previous
       section.




                                                      6

33.   Other mechanisms of providing similar outputs were also investigated such as (i) providing
      training of trainers programs outside Bhutan and (ii) providing training in Bhutan against the
      qualifications already delivered. These possibilities have been rejected. The first was rejected
      both for (a) cost reasons (such training would need to be long-term), (b) because it would take
      essential training staff away from Bhutan for an unacceptable length of time and (c) because the
      program envisaged is extensive and involves a number of actors so that all need to be involved
      together throughout the project. The second possibility was rejected because the whole purpose of
      the project is to provide national qualifications, which are integrated into the national curriculum.
      Whilst the intention of the project is to ensure that those national qualifications are consistent
      with the international standards, the project will not succeed unless the qualifications are properly
      integrated into the national system and recognized as Bhutanese qualifications.



C. IMPLEMENTATION



1. Partnership arrangements

34.   The Bank has been working in close collaboration with the other donors active in Bhutan. It has
      become standard practice to hold a multi-donor meeting at the end of every mission to Bhutan to
      share and discuss the latest developments of the procurement reform agenda with our partners,
      who are unanimously in support of this work. Last fiscal year DANIDA supported the reforms
      financially by contributing US$100,000 to the Bank's budget through a reimbursable agreement
      and continues to do so through providing direct grants to the RGoB. The ADB has also recently
      shown their commitment to the reforms by working with the Bank and RGoB on the component
      dealing with the establishment of the Public Procurement Policy Division (PPPD), which has
      recently been approved by government. In this regard ADB has committed US$300,000 in
      technical assistance towards this PPPD.

35.   The RGoB too has committed itself financially through agreeing to establish and make
      operational this new division under the MoF (i.e. PPPD) and since this project's finances are to be
      used entirely for the procurement of the consultancy services, the RGoB further commits its
      resources to cover the operational costs involved in working with the identified international
      experts in implementing the work program; although these costs have been deemed to be
      relatively low as most of the costs will be factored into the consultancy contract. RGoB has
      reached an agreement with DANIDA, whereby DANIDA Bhutan has agreed to finance all costs
      related to participants involved in the training (e.g. per diem, travel etc). Finally, SNV Bhutan
      have also expressed their desire to work with the RGoB, the Bank and the international
      consultants to complement the work of this project with parallel training at the decentralized level
      on the procurement manual and standard bidding documents.

2. Institutional and implementation arrangements

36.   The project involves four main government bodies: the Ministry of Finance (MoF), the Royal
      Civil Service Commission (RCSC), the Royal Institute of Management (RIM), the Royal
      University of Bhutan (RUB); and the project's consultant (the Chartered Institute of Purchasing
      and Supply (CIPS)), whom have already been identified due to their unique status in the market
      with regards to the service they can provide and which are necessary for the success of this
      project. (NB: the upfront identification of this consultant has been reviewed and approved by the
      Regional Procurement Manager and the RGoB). Each of these five members has an important




                                                    7

     and unique role to play in implementation of the project's activities and for ensuring continued
     reform of Bhutan's procurement performance beyond the timeline of this project.

37.  The Ministry of Finance, who has been the champion of procurement reforms in Bhutan, will also
     assume the role of managing this project. This will be done through its Public Procurement
     Policy Division (PPPD), which is to be created prior to project start under its Department of
     National Properties. The PPPD will be the direct counterpart to the WB team for this project.
     This division will have various roles and mandates to lead the entire procurement reform agenda.
     One of its major responsibilities early on will be to manage, coordinate, monitor and evaluate the
     activities, outputs and outcomes of the capacity building project. To assist the newly formed
     PPPD in its daily activities and manage implementation of this project, a parallel technical
     assistance scheme has been planned and approved by the ADB and the Bank.

38.  The Royal Civil Service Commission has played a large role in taking procurement reform
     forward. It recognized the need to professionalize procurement within the civil service and
     provided for such positions through their Position Classifications System (PCS) exercise, which
     reformed the entire civil service structure. It approved the creation of the PPPD under the MoF to
     allow the latter to take procurement reform forward in an exponential way. These two significant
     decisions of the RCSC have laid the foundations for taking the entire procurement reform agenda
     forward, and creating demand for the procurement training to be delivered through this project.

39.  The RCSC stands to receive technical assistance (TA) in this project from CIPS toward
     improving the job descriptions of the various hierarchical procurement positions created under the
     PCS. The TA will also include the creation of national qualifications and career paths for these
     positions.

40.  The Royal Institute of Management (RIM) is the body that has been mandated by government to
     train civil servants. It is a well established institution that has various training modules in place
     already and continues to expand in its endeavors. It will be the main recipient of TA under this
     project, which focuses on creating a national institutional capacity for delivering certified
     procurement training to pre-service and in service civil servants. Training will also be extended
     to private sector stakeholders such as bidders, consultants, and suppliers. RIM will work with the
     project consultant to identify the exact courses that are needed through wide stakeholder
     participation, complete a mapping exercise to identify which modules already exist within its
     existing programs, which new ones need to be created, and make available trainers who will be
     trained by the consultants to deliver the designed courses. Beyond the scope of this project, RIM
     is expected to continue to design and deliver courses in Bhutan as needed. RIM will be able to
     embark on becoming one of the certified CIPS training centers around the world.

41.  The Royal University of Bhutan, which has been created more recently, has been mandated to act
     as an overarching body to bring together the country's institutes and assist in creating a more
     harmonious and uniform academic system for the country. They have important roles like
     updating institutions' syllabi, issuing diplomas and certifications for the institutes, and also offer
     their own courses, to name but a few. The specific role that RUB will play in this project is
     twofold: (1) they may have to provide certifications/diplomas upon completion of the more
     higher level procurement courses that could be offered at RIM, and (2) they stand to receive TA
     from this project in terms of assistance in designing specific procurement courses to be included
     in the syllabi of any of the other national training institutes under their purview, should they so
     desire. For example there could be a specific course designed for the engineering college which
     could stand the graduates in good stead once completing their degree. Finally, the RUB has also




                                                     8

     confirmed they are willing to make available trainers to be a part of the training of trainers
     activity of this project, so that a wider pool of trainers are available to Bhutan.

42.  Finally, the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply will work with all of the above
     mentioned government bodies to ensure that all the project's activities are achieved. They will
     have a full time project director in Bhutan for the three years of the project and have a pool of
     around 40 specialist consultants that will be available to be called on to support the project. They
     will report directly to the MoF/PPPD and will have a detailed terms of reference and contract to
     stipulate all their responsibilities and deliverables in line with the implementation plan in annex 6.

43.  CIPS is an internationally recognized not-for-profit organization that was created in 1932 and
     received its royal charter in 1999 from Her Majesty the Queen of England to promote and
     develop high standards of professional skill, ability and integrity among all those engaged in
     purchasing and supply chain management. Some of their strategic objectives include,
     "Developing the art and science of purchasing and supply", "Improving the professional
     standards of practitioners", "Promoting excellence in organizations", and "Representing the
     interests and views of individuals within the procurement profession". CIPS has developed
     courses and training materials that are used the world over for developing and certifying various
     levels of procurement qualifications.     With its 44,000 members in over 134 countries, it is a
     unique organization to provide such training and certification in procurement and sets the
     benchmark for the profession. Its MCIPS certification can be compared to the level of CPA and
     CFA accreditations in the field of financial management. RGoB and the Bank proposed CIPS to
     be the main TA provider for this project based on its unique position in the market to respond to
     the needs of this project.

44.  Annex 6 offers a detailed implementation plan of the three components, identifying key tasks,
     inputs, deliverables and timescales for each part of this three year project.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

45.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance;
     more specifically, the Public Procurement Policy Division who are the entity responsible for the
     implementation of this project. Under its auspices it shall create a M&E committee, whose
     members will comprise of one representative from each of the following entities: PPPD, RCSC,
     RIM and RUB.

46.  The committee members will be responsible for collecting, collating and analyzing all of the data
     and information. The PPPD will be responsible for producing M&E reports, which will include
     the assessment of the achievements of the projects intermediary and overall objectives. The
     M&E committee will be responsible to validate the report before it is sent to the Minister of
     Finance and subsequently the World Bank and other donors. The second table in Annex 3 spells
     out the source of information for all of the identified indicators and who will be responsible for
     collecting it; and subsequently providing it to the M&E committee.

47.  The monitoring and evaluation role of the PPPD is a very important one for-and-beyond this
     project to ensure the continuous development of the procurement profession in Bhutan. Its
     sustainability will be ensured through an official government order that establishes the PPPD and
     spells out its various mandates, one of which includes the monitoring and evaluation of public
     procurement performance.




                                                    9

48.    The creation of the PPPD will a condition to this project; and parallel technical assistance to build
       its capacity (WB and ADB) will be provided through technical assistance from the Bank and the
       Asia Development Bank, as mentioned above.

4. Sustainability

49.    Experience worldwide has demonstrated that the most important requirement for sustainable
       procurement reform is satisfactory policy reform accompanied with adequate institutional
       arrangements for its implementation. The RGoB has shown itself to be very committed in
       reforming its procurement system and policies by embarking on this substantial procurement
       reform agenda.

50.    The establishment, staffing, and operationalization of the PPPD will be critical towards
       guaranteeing sustainable procurement reforms, as this will be the entity responsible for managing
       and coordinating all the activities of the reform agenda to ensure a consistent approach. The
       procurement manual already provides for the establishment of such a division and the RGoB has
       also committed itself to its establishment. This entity will have various mandates, one of which is
       to ensure and manage continuous capacity development in procurement in Bhutan and monitor
       and evaluate progress of procurement reforms, procurement implementation across government,
       and actual procurement outcomes on the ground.

51.    This project's approach towards delivering procurement training, though building the institutional
       capacity of the national academic and training institutions, also guarantees that there is an
       infrastructure so to speak which will allow for continued procurement education and remain
       flexible enough to adjust itself to changing needs.

52.    Finally, the involvement of the RCSC in the development of a national positions classification
       incorporating procurement positions matched against qualifications integrated within the national
       curriculum is a critical component of the project, which will further ensure sustainability.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects


53.    The table below mentions some of the potential risks that the project may be faced with, together
       with some mitigating measures and the estimated risk ratings:

    Risk                                 Risk Mitigation Measures                                              Risk Rating
    The Public Procurement Policy        Extensive dialogue has taken place within government, which has            M
    Division is not be created, staffed  lead to the proposal to create such a division under the Department
    adequately, or have the necessary    of National Properties of the MoF. This proposal was included
    capacity to coordinate this project. under the Organizational Development exercise conducted by the
                                         RCSC, which looked at restructuring the entire bureaucracy as
                                         necessary. This OD report was concluded and sent to government
                                         for their blessing. Although we have been informed that the
                                         Government Coordination Meeting, lead by the current prime
                                         minister (an interim body replacing the cabinet while the country
                                         prepares for elections on March 24th, 2008) has endorsed the OD
                                         report, the final passing is still pending.

                                         Nevertheless, the RCSC has confirmed to the Bank that it shall
                                         proceed with the creation of the division in the very near future
                                         given its urgency and importance to the country and its procurement
                                         reforms. The official order from the RCSC to establish the division
                                         is expected in April of 2008.




                                                             10

Risk                                Risk Mitigation Measures                                                Risk Rating
                                    The ADB has agreed to provide the technical assistance to the
                                    division and its staff to ensure it has the capacity to fulfill its
                                    mandate. They joined the mission in December of 2007 to start this
                                    process and have recently confirmed $300,000 of earmarked funds
                                    to this end.

                                    This risk is therefore of no significance.
There is an inadequate showing of  The RCSC has already completed its Position Classification System             M
interest and a professional        exercise and developed the various hierarchical levels of
procurement cadre is slow to       procurement professionals in its civil service. The PCS has been
establish                          reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.

                                   The project will ensure the improvement of procurement job
                                   descriptions and the creation of national qualifications and career
                                   paths for those hierarchical positions.

                                   The RCSC will then make it mandatory that people holding
                                   procurement positions/responsibilities in government follow the
                                   qualification and certification programs offered by the national
                                   training institutes. This should guarantee the demand.

                                   Additionally, the project will conduct awareness programs, engage
                                   civil society, and other stakeholders to the procurement process in
                                   the design of the courses, and intends to create professional linkages
                                   with worldwide procurement networks for those that participate in
                                   the training.

                                   Aside from these mitigating measures, there has been endless
                                   demand from all spheres of government and the private sector for
                                   procurement capacity building since the reform program started
                                   taking shape two and a half years ago.
The apparent incongruity between   There appear to be some disagreements between RIM and RUB,                    M
the RIM and RUB could lead to a    which seems to have led to minimal collaboration between the two
slow down or problems with         bodies at certain times. To date, however, this has not interfered
project implementation.            with project preparations and both parties have been willing to
                                   cooperate and are willing to receive TA from this project.

                                   We shall continue to work together with both RIM and RUB, and
                                   encourage round table meetings with both parties at every step of
                                   project preparations. The project's M&E arrangements also
                                   encourage continued partnership between all parties.

                                   Finally, given that the TA for RUB centers around the creation of
                                   procurement courses for the existing institutions under its purview
                                   (like the engineering college) should RUB so desire; and the TA for
                                   RIM around assisting it in becoming the center of excellence for
                                   certified procurement training in Bhutan for pre-service and in
                                   service civil servants and the private sector, both sets of activities
                                   can run simultaneously and to a large extend independently, as one
                                   prepares college students while they pursue their degree and the
                                   other focuses on the immediate need of training all stakeholders
                                   currently involved in the procurement process in Bhutan.
Political Risks: With the major    Mitigation of such political risks lies beyond the scope of this              M
shift in the political mechanism,  project. Nevertheless, the fact that there has been extensive and
described above, it remains to be  careful preparation of the ongoing changes in governance, coupled
seen what effect it will have on   with strong commitment and ownership of the procurement reforms
the government and its             and this capacity building program by RGoB reduces these risks to
functioning. There is a risk that  some extent.
activities may be significantly
slowed down as people focus on
emerging political party



                                                        11

    Risk                                  Risk Mitigation Measures                                                 Risk Rating
    environment, including the
    formation of parties, campaigns
    and the elections themselves.
    Additionally, after the elections it
    may take some time for the new
    government to form and once
    ministers are in place it may take
    time for them to implement their
    new agendas.
    The project's design provides for    The role of CIPS in international certified procurement training has           M
    a single source procurement of the   already been explained elsewhere in this report. CIPS has achieved
    consultant (CIPS) for TA support     a unique position for setting the standard in procurement
    to the government. There is          certification with its accompanied training curriculum and wide
    always a remote chance that a        network of certified training partner institutions. It is therefore in a
    disagreement could arise between     unique position to tailor its materials and practices to the needs of
    CIPS and any of the other parties    Bhutan. No other organization is considered capable of competing
    concerned, namely: the MoF,          with CIPS in this area.
    RIM, RUB, and RCSC, which
    could affect implementation. In      Regardless of the strong technical background of CIPS, the project's
    such an unlikely event the Bank      design and the contract between RGoB and CIPS will clearly spell
    could be blamed for having           out the expected outputs from the consultant and the roles of al
    promoted the consultancy of          projects main stakeholders (i.e. MoF, RCSC, RIM, and RUB).
    CIPS.
                                         Finally, we do not expect any such disagreements between any of
                                         the parties as they have all been extensively involved in project
                                         preparation. So there is a common expectation of outputs and
                                         outcomes and an agreement on the arrangements of this project's
                                         design.

                                         The reputational risk to the Bank is hence negligible.
    Overall Risk                                                                                                        M


                  N: negligible risk; M: modest risk; S: substantial risk; H: high risk


6. Loan/credit conditions and covenants

54.     Conditions and covenants are standard.



D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses


55.     This project is designed to support the sustainability of procurement reforms through improving
        the management and execution of procurement procedures by concentrating on significantly
        improved capacity at all levels of the bureaucracy. The direct benefits envisaged under the project
        would include the more efficient execution, management and supervision of procurement
        procedures with the consequential better use of public resources, more efficient use of budget
        funds and increased aid utilization capacity. The improvement of procurement capacity at agency
        level is expected to result in the short term in procurement agents more able to understand and
        implement procurement strategies commensurate with the Government's needs whilst respecting
        the core principles of competition, transparency, efficiency and accountability. These benefits
        will be felt at both central and local government levels and will be guaranteed in the long term
        through the strengthening of national capacity to continue the capacity building initiative as part
        of the national curriculum for civil servants.               Through the expanded private sector training
        component, the project would also enhance the capacity of the domestic supply, construction and



                                                             12

      consulting industries to participate more effectively in national and international procurement. In
      the longer term, all the above would create a powerful force toward more transparent and
      accountable institutions, resulting in accelerated economic growth and faster poverty reduction.
      For more information, please refer to annex 9.


2. Technical

56.   The project design provides TA in a practical and focused way. The training programs will
      deliver core knowledge and focus on ability to apply that knowledge to the workplace. Designed
      to challenge and stimulate creative thinking the programs aim to deliver change in attitude and
      behaviors. The TA also focuses on creating institutional capacity to ensure sustainability. The
      program will be implemented in stages: strengthening the foundations for a procurement cadre,
      assessing the existing training modules and creation specific syllabus to fill the gap after
      conducting a needs assessment and a mapping exercise, and finally delivery of training. Since the
      training programs will be need-based, the only issue will be the correct evaluation of the skill
      gaps. To simplify this step, a prior evaluation of the potential trainees will be done with help
      from the concerned government agency to ensure that the trainees' batches do not have wide
      variances in their competence and knowledge to be treated as a training group. The other
      technical issue is the sole source selection of the consultant for delivering the TA.

3. Fiduciary

57.   Financial Management and Fund Flow Mechanism.              The guiding principle for designing the
      financial management arrangements for the project has been to use the current               financial
      management systems, to the extent feasible, as these are considered satisfactory and meeting the
      essential fiduciary requirements. Lessons learnt from the closed and ongoing Bank financed
      projects have been factored into the design of financial management arrangements for the project.
      These are: (i) elimination of a parallel accounting and reporting system and exclusive use of the
      RGoB's Budget and Accounting System (BAS); and (ii) agreement to maintain the designated
      account in Ngultrum, to eliminate the need for currency exchange.

58.   The project funds will be used entirely to meet the payments to CIPS, thereby making the
      financial arrangements fairly simple. The project funds will be handled by PPPD, MoF, who will
      budget, request for funds, account and prepare quarterly interim unaudited financial reports.
      These reports will include a forecast of expenditures for the next two quarters and will be used for
      disbursement purposes. Consolidated annual project financial statements will be audited each
      year by the Royal Audit Authority, which is the Supreme Audit Institution in Bhutan and
      acceptable to IDA. The format of the annual financial statements will consist of consolidated
      annual financial statements of the project along with a statement reconciling disbursements, as
      per claims submitted to IDA and balances available in the designated Account, as reported in the
      Interim unaudited Financial Reports well as a management letter. The arrangements are
      considered to be adequate to account for and report on the project expenditures as well as
      satisfying the fiduciary requirements of IDA. A detailed discussion of the project's financial
      management arrangements are presented in Annex 7.

59.   Procurement. The project will involve the selection of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
      Supply (CIPS), a not-for-profit organization from the UK, on single source basis since CIPS has
      the unique experience and qualification to meet the terms of reference of the assignment under
      the project.




                                                   13

4. Social

60.      There are no pertinent social issues related to this project.

5. Environment

61.      There are no pertinent environmental issues related to this project.

6. Safeguard Policies


  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                               Yes                      No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                                      [ ]                     [x]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                              [ ]                     [x]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                  [ ]                     [x]
  Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                                   [ ]                     [x]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                      [ ]                     [x]
  Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                            [ ]                     [x]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                       [ ]                     [x]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                [ ]                     [x]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)*                                                   [ ]                     [x]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                           [ ]                     [x]
  Piloting the Use of Borrower Systems to Address Environmental
  and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-Supported Projects (OP/BP                              [ ]                     [x]
  4.00)


7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

62.      There are no policy exceptions. The sole source appointment of the project consultant/operator
         has already been pre-approved by the regional procurement manager. As already explained
         above, the government notification of establishment of PPPD is a condition for negotiations. Its
         actual establishment and the provision of parallel TA from the ADB and the WB jointly will
         ensure that the PPPD is ready to take on its role in implementing this project, as well as other
         mandates that will be associated with such an entity. Nevertheless, given that most of the TA will
         be provided by CIPS in collaboration with the main stakeholders (RCSC, RIM and RUB), the
         role of the PPPD will be limited to procuring the services of the consultant, monitoring and
         evaluating progress, and processing regular payments. For this reason, the establishment and
         manning of the PPPD will be enough to consider the project ready for implementation.




*
 By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas



                                                             14

                Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background

         BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement



1.  Landlocked between China and India, Bhutan is a small kingdom covering nearly 38,500
    square kilometers in the eastern Himalayas. In the last couple of decades, Bhutan has
    experienced rapid social and economic development as a result of prudent macroeconomic
    management, beneficial exploitation of hydropower resources, and substantial support from
    the development partners.

2.  Bhutan's development has been directed under its own distinctive approach, which has
    attracted strong support from external donors. This approach rests on the overarching notion
    of Gross National Happiness (GNH), propounded by His Majesty the King in the early 1970s,
    and emphasizing the importance of balancing material, spiritual, emotional and cultural
    wellbeing as elements that together bring happiness to the individual.

3.  These aspirations have been articulated in the document Bhutan 2020: A Vision for Peace,
    Prosperity and Happiness, prepared in 1999 through a highly consultative process involving
    representatives from the RGoB, the private sector, non-governmental organizations, and the
    community. It seeks to translate the notion of GNH into a series of national objectives
    emphasizing: (a) human development, (b) cultural heritage, (c) equitable development, (d)
    good governance, and (e) environmental conservation. In the same vein as the Millennium
    Development Goals (MDGs), Bhutan 2020 establishes long-term objectives, including for
    example to ensure that 75 percent of the rural population live within half a day's walk from
    the nearest motorable road by 2012.

4.  More detailed targets are set by the Ninth Five Year Plan (2002-03 to 2006-07), which was
    prepared following a consultative process that pulled together 201 Gewog (block) plans, 20
    Dzongkhag (district) plans, and numerous sectoral plans. The Ninth Five Year Plan has five
    overall goals: (i) improving quality of life and raising income levels, especially for the poor,
    (ii) ensuring good governance, (iii) promoting private sector growth and employment
    generation, (iv) preserving and promoting cultural heritage and environmental conservation,
    and (v) achieving rapid economic growth and transformation.

5.  Today, Bhutan is in the middle of a period of major political transformation as it seeks to
    adopt a system of democratic governance in 2008. Under this new system, nationwide
    elections will be held every five years where any qualified political parties may compete in a
    preliminary runoff to determine which final two will contest for the national election. The
    role of His Majesty the King under such a system will shift to that of a constitutional
    monarch. Together with these significant changes in the political mechanism, there remains a
    strong commitment, under the new constitution, to move forward with governance reforms
    and the goals identified in the ninth five year plan and other related documents like the
    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Good Governance Plus, and Bhutan 2020.

6.  The most recent WB Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the period FY06-09 was
    approved by the WB Board on November 1, 2005, and is closely aligned with the
    Government's program. It was prepared in consultation with various levels of Government,
    the private sector, development partners, and other stakeholders. Accordingly, the WB plans
    to support development in Bhutan based on three pillars: (i) expanding access to better
    infrastructure and quality of social services, and connecting communities to markets; (ii)



                                             15

     promoting private sector development and employment; and (iii) strengthening the
     management of public resources and the monitoring and evaluation of development
     outcomes. The CAS also envisages support for the crosscutting elements of the RGoB's
     development program, aimed at promoting effective decentralization, good governance, and
     sound environmental management. The procurement reform agenda falls squarely within the
     objectives of the third pillar and supports the cross cutting element of good governance.

7.   As part of the reforms to ensure good governance, RGoB has undertaken various steps
     towards creating an efficient, effective, transparent, and fair national procurement system.
     The Asian Development Bank (ADB) provided the original assistance to the government in
     the mid 1990s to create procurement rules and regulations, which were incorporated in
     Chapter 17 of the Financial Manual. Recognizing that their procurement rules were due for
     some updating to align themselves with internationally accepted best practice and to cater for
     the changing Bhutanese context, RGoB requested assistance from the World Bank in
     September of 2005. Under the agreed work plan for wider procurement reforms, the Bank, in
     collaboration with the donor group in Bhutan, has been working with the government in the
     following areas: (i) reviewing the procurement manual and its accompanying standard
     bidding documents and request for proposals, (ii) creating a public procurement policy
     division, (iii) addressing the need for procurement grievance mechanisms, (iv) assessing the
     readiness for adopting electronic forms of government procurement (e-GP), and (v) building
     the capacity of national institutions responsible for training people on public procurement.

8.   An underlying reason for these reforms is the desire of RGoB to obtain a procurement system
     that is recognized by all its donor partners as being adequate to rely on so that it can move
     away from compulsory donor rules and regulations on procurement under their respective
     projects.

9.   Good progress has been made to date, which has seen the RGoB complete the updating of its
     procurement manual and the start of the review process to revise the supporting documents,
     which will effectively complete the legal framework. This on its own, however, is not
     enough to ensure good procurement. The rules and regulations may help in guiding the
     procurement practice with the aim of ensuring transparency, accountability, fairness,
     effectiveness and efficiency, but they will not ensure that the people doing procurement will
     be performing adequately. Procurement is a profession and the profession requires a variety
     of skills to enable procurement officers to use the framework of the rules and regulations to
     make informed decisions and work effectively to guarantee optimal outcomes. Examples of
     such skills include, but are not limited to, stocktaking, logistics, contract management,
     strategic procurement, marketing, negotiations, and supply chain management.

10.  Additionally, raising the awareness of the changes to the rules, as well as the importance of
     those rules to the financial health of the government, among all stakeholders (procuring
     entities, bidding community, civil society), has thus far not been adequately addressed. As a
     result, the application of the national procurement rules continues to be relatively inconsistent
     across government and within individual agencies with little evidence of progress in
     improving tangible outcomes on the ground. In practice, there is significant evidence of non-
     compliance or of improper compliance as the result of a lack of knowledge or of
     misunderstanding.

11.  It is, therefore, of utmost importance that the legal framework reforms in procurement are
     supported by a comprehensive capacity building program, for which there have been
     consistent requests throughout and the private sector.



                                               16

12.  The strategic approach of this project towards procurement capacity building will focus on
     creating the capacity of national training institutes to deliver procurement training to all
     relevant stakeholders in a sustainable manner. This methodology shies away from the
     traditional practice of short term, ad-hoc, training courses or workshops for a select number
     of identified individuals, as this has proven in many instances to become ineffective in the
     long term once civil servants get rotated to another position in government, which is a
     common practice the world over. Similarly, such short terms training has tended to focus on
     rules and regulations corresponding to the projects of which the training is a part; either the
     donors' rules and or the national ones. Such training is limited to a focus on compliance and
     misses out largely the aspect of competence, which as described above is of fundamental
     importance when considering procurement performance and desired outcomes.

13.  Through building the necessary training programs, which center on both compliance and
     competence, and ensuring the delivery of such courses through national training institutes, the
     project aims to ensure that classes on procurement will be available all the time for all
     stakeholders to the procurement process and that a sustainable path is created for the
     establishment of a professional procurement cadre.

14.  With regard to this last point, the Royal Civil Service Commission has already started
     addressing the absence of a procurement cadre in Bhutan by creating procurement positions
     within the civil service at various hierarchical levels as part of its civil service reform (called
     the Position Classification System exercise) and recognizes the need to train existing in-
     service civil servants dealing with procurement as well as future servants that want to take on
     a career in public procurement.

15.  The objective of the ongoing procurement reform assistance of the Bank has been to improve
     the national system by marrying local conditions with best practice. The focus has always
     been to maintain the local identity of the system. In the same way, the current capacity
     development program seeks to build national and sustainable capacity in procurement in
     national educational establishments over the long term to improve Bhutan's ability to train
     and retain procurement capacity within its public spending authorities.




                                               17

           Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies

                 BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement



Apart from the initial procurement assistance provided by the ADB in 1997 through technical assistance,
there has not been any procurement support to Bhutan until now. Aside from this wider procurement
reform agenda, which as already described focuses on building national systems so donors can rely on
them in future, further Bank projects have been created that deal with "country systems" in their own
field. These are briefly described below:

1.      Second Development Policy Grant (2007): The second Development Policy Grant (DPG2)
        carries forward the objectives of the first operation, helping the : (a) enhance the delivery of
        public services by strengthening fiscal management, (b) increase the effectiveness of public
        spending by improving financial management and procurement processes, (c) create better
        income earning opportunities by improving the investment climate, facilitating greater labor
        market flexibility, and increasing foreign direct investment, (d) raise educational attainment,
        particularly in previously under-served areas, by expanding access to high quality education
        services, and (e) reduce maternal mortality by increasing the number of births delivered in health
        facilities. Fiduciary systems were added as a separate area to be supported by the DPG program
        under the second operation, reflecting the RGoB's continuing efforts to improve financial
        management (previously included in the first component of DPG1 under macroeconomic, fiscal
        and financial management), and adding a component on procurement to highlight important
        initiatives underway.

2.      Second Rural Access Project (2007): The project was approved under the use of country
        systems procedures in accordance with the World Bank's Operational Policy 4.00 (Piloting the
        Use of Borrowers Systems to Address Environmental and Social safeguard Issues in Bank
        Supported Projects). The project includes specific measures to build environmental capacity of
        Department of Roads, in geotechnical skills development, bio-engineering, road survey and
        design, and on-site environmental compliance monitoring of the implementation of
        environmental safeguard measures in road construction. This capacity building effort is aimed at
        strengthening and effectively utilizing Bhutan's environmental assessment systems to address
        environmental issues in the road sector in Bhutan.

3.      Country Environmental Safeguard Review (2007: ESW): This work is designed to identify
        critical gaps in Bhutan's environmental safeguard system and specific measures to reach
        equivalence with international standards as well as to assess specific actions to strengthen country
        capacity for implementation of these safeguard policies. The review is expected to help in
        promoting the harmonization and wider application of Bhutan's environmental safeguard policies
        in donor development assistance. Capacity improvement measures will likely be supported
        through Bank's lending operations.

4.      Use of country financial management systems in Bank financed Operations: Improving
        public financial management and accountability is a central part of the reform program in Bhutan.
        Diagnostic studies conducted earlier by the Bank and other donors have indicated that while the
        core elements of an effective financial management system are largely in place, several major
        challenges remain. With these considerations in mind, the RGoB has been pursuing several
        reform initiatives in the areas of accounting and audit. The first and the second Development
        Policy Grants (DPG) operations included many key components of the RGoB's ongoing Public
        Financial Management and Accountability (PFMA) reform initiatives. The RGoB is moving



                                                     18

           forward with PFMA initiatives aimed at: (1) improving the legal framework, (2) strengthening the
           institutional underpinnings of the PFMA system, (3) enhancing information systems, and (4)
           sharpening the oversight of public finances. Many of the steps taken in the areas of budget
           execution, monitoring and cash management have produced visible positive results, and provide a
           strong trajectory for further financial management improvement. The RGoB has demonstrated its
           will to continue implementing financial management reforms, evidenced by the scale and variety
           of actions underway.

           Bank-financed projects in Bhutan have increasingly been relying on the country's own
           accounting and financial reporting systems to meet Bank's requirements. Significant efforts have
           thus, been made in the several projects prepared over the last few years to ensure that the
           classification of expenditures, as required for project management are built into the Chart of
           Accounts of the Bhutan's own computerized accounting system (Budget & Accounting System -
           BAS) in a manner that would allow the BAS to budget, account and report for project related
           expenditures. These upfront actions, facilitated by the flexibility provided by Bank's own
           simplification agenda have significantly reduced the burden of maintaining stand-alone financial
           management systems hitherto required for Bank financed projects. At project design stage, it is
           considered by default that country systems will be followed and any deviations are to be given
           adequate justification.

           All projects prepared in Bhutan during the last 1-2 years are following report based disbursement
           methods. In an effort to further simplify the use of Advance (Special) Accounts set up by the
           Bank, the new projects are using local currency bank accounts.


                       Bhutan: Key Elements of Country Financial Management Systems




                                                            Improvement

                     Element                                                                             Extent of Use
                                                      Good             Needs  Weak

1. Budget Execution
·    Appropriate legal framework for orderliness                                     · All Bank financed projects are included in the
     in the annual budget process                                                      annual budget
·    Multi-year perspective in fiscal planning,                                      · National budget execution procedures as established
     expenditure policy and budgeting                                                  and implemented applies to all Bank financed
·    Robust budget classification system                                               operations as well
·    Comprehensiveness of information included                                       · 's Financial Rules & Regulations (FRR), 2002

     in budget documentation                                                           followed for procedures for authorization, approvals
·    Extent of unreported government operations                                        and payments
·    Transparency of inter-governmental fiscal
     relationships (if applicable)
·    Predictability in the availability of funds for
     commitment of expenditures
·    Recording and Management of cash
     balances
·    Effectiveness of internal controls, including
     internal audit

2. Financial Reporting
·    Timeliness and regularity of accounts                                           · Project components/sub components/activities are
     reconciliation                                                                    built into the 's existing Chart of Accounts
·    Availability of information on resources                                        · This allows the information required for financial




                                                                            19

                                                          Improvement

                    Element                                                                           Extent of Use
                                                    Good             Needs  Weak

    received by service delivery teams                                               reports to be generated from the standard
·   Quality and timeliness of in-year budget                                         Government financial reports
    reports                                                                        · All new projects in Bhutan are following report
·   Quality (alignment with international                                            based disbursement processes
    accounting standards etc.) and timeliness of
    annual financial statements
3. External Scrutiny and Auditing
·   Constitutional and de facto independence of                                     · For all Bank financed operations, the Royal Audit
    SAI (including not undertaking executive                                          Authority (the country's supreme audit institution)
    functions that could pose a conflict of                                           is the external auditor
    interest)                                                                       · Project specific Terms of Reference (TORs) are
·   Adequacy and security of SAI resources                                            agreed with the RAA for the conduct of the audit
·   Competence and CPD of SAI staff
·   Quality (alignment with international
    auditing standards, regular peer reviews etc)
    scope and nature of external audit
·   Legislative scrutiny of annual budget law
·   Rendition of an explicit audit opinion on
    annual financial statements
·   Timely legislative scrutiny of external audit
    report, effective follow up/action on findings
·   Public access to key fiscal information




                                                                          20

                              Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring

                 BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement

                                          Results Framework

               PDO                   Project Outcome Indicators            Use of Project Outcome
                                                                                  Information
Professionalize the procurement     1. A one unit increase in the      The three OECD/DAC indicators
function by building institutional      scoring of sub-indicator 5 (c) are deemed to be the most useful
and individual capacity.                over the life of the project.  indicators available to measure
                                        Sub-indicator 5(c): A          the impact of this project on its
                                        sustainable strategy and       stated objective. The three
                                        training capacity exists to    indicators are taken from the
                                        provide training, advice and   Baseline Indicators list, which
                                        assistance to develop the      are used to measure/assess a
                                        capacity of government and     national procurement system's
                                        private sector participants to status. Since the procurement
                                        understand the rules and       system in Bhutan, as already
                                        regulations and how they       described in this document, is at
                                        should be implemented          its nascent stage, using baseline
                                    2. A one unit increase in the      indicators is very useful to not
                                        scoring of sub-indicator 6(a)  only determine what the
                                        over the life of the project.  baselines is at the start of the
                                        Sub- indicator 6(a): The       project, but also to measure
                                        level of procurement           progress over the life of the
                                        competence among               project against this baseline.
                                        government officials within
                                        the entity is consistent with  More detailed information on
                                        their procurement              each of the baselines indicators
                                        responsibilities               on the left and their scoring
                                    3. A one unit increase in the      system can be found below this
                                        scoring of sub-indicator 6(b)  table (extract from the
                                        over the life of the project.  OECD/DAC-World Bank
                                        Sub-indicator 6(c): The        Methodology for Assessment of
                                        procurement training and       National Procurement Systems
                                        information programs for       document).
                                        government officials and for
                                        private sector participants
                                        are consistent with demand.
    Intermediate Outcomes               Intermediate Outcome            Use of Intermediate Outcome
                                               Indicators                          Monitoring
Outcome 1: Reformed Civil           1. Job descriptions created        The creation of proper
service in the area of              2. National qualifications         procurement job descriptions,
procurement.                            established                    national qualifications and career
                                    3. Career paths developed          paths for each of the procurement
                                                                       positions created by the RCSC
                                                                       will ensure that the foundations
                                                                       are there for a reformed civil
                                                                       service in procurement.
Outcome 2: Institutionalization     1. Competency frameworks           By assisting the RIM and RUB in



                                                    21

of national procurement training    developed                    creating competency frameworks
regime.                          2. Curriculum created           and corresponding curriculum
                                 3. Trainers trained             and by training their trainers, the
                                                                 institutional capacity will be built
                                                                 to enable them to respond to the
                                                                 need for procurement training
                                                                 from RCSC and the private
                                                                 sector.
Outcome 3: Enhanced national     1. # of courses offered through Through measuring the number
procurement competence.             the RIM and RUB              of courses that are available for
                                 2. % of procurement staff       all the identified stakeholder
                                    trained nationwide.          groups such as ministries,
                                 3. % of identified stakeholder  agencies, Dzongkhags, private
                                    groups that received some    sector, auditors, etc, and how
                                    form of training.            many of these groups have had
                                 4. Performance of post training staff trained will provide us with
                                    assessment (quiz)            a reflection of where capacity has
                                                                 increased across the procurement
                                                                 spectrum in Bhutan. Also once
                                                                 people have received training in
                                                                 the RIM and RUB on
                                                                 procurement their procurement
                                                                 competence will enhance and this
                                                                 will be measured through and
                                                                 end of training knowledge test
                                                                 and the percentage of people
                                                                 from the various target groups
                                                                 have completed the training.




                                               22

OECD/DAC Indicator and scoring information

"Sub-indicator 5 (c) ­ A sustainable strategy and training capacity exists to provide training, advice and
assistance to develop the capacity of government and private sector participants to understand the rules
and regulations and how they should be implemented."

The purpose of this sub indicator is to verify existence of permanent and relevant training programs for
new and existing staff in government procurement. These programs are essential to maintain the supply of
qualified procurement staff to public and private sectors. Another objective is to assess the existence and
quality of advisory services on procurement matters for government agencies and the public at large.

The evaluator should look at the curricula of the existing programs and judge their relevance, nature,
scope and sustainability. A well functioning system should provide for evaluation of the training program
and monitoring of progress in addressing capacity issues. The assessment should include verification of
advisory services or help desks for public or private sector parties where they can get advice on
application and interpretation of policy and rules.




"Sub-indicator 6(a) ­ The level of procurement competence among government officials within the entity
is consistent with their procurement responsibilities."

The purpose of this indicator is to assess the degree of professionalism and knowledge of those
responsible for implementation of procurement activities.

        a) There are defined skill and knowledge profiles for specialized procurement jobs.
        b) There is systematic matching of skills against requirements for competitive recruitment.
        c) Staff required to undertake procurement activities on an ad hoc basis have the knowledge
            they need to undertake the activity or have access to professional staff that can provide this
            knowledge.




                                                     23

"Sub-indicator 6(b) ­ The procurement training and information programs for government officials and
for private sector participants are consistent with demand."

This sub indicator assesses the sufficiency of the procurement training and information programs in terms
of content and supply.

        (a) Training programs' design is based on a skills gap inventory to match the needs of the
             system.
        (b) Information and training programs on public procurement for private sector are offered
             regularly either by the government or by private institutions.
        (c) The waiting time to get into a course (for public or private sector participants) is reasonable,
             say one or two terms.




Arrangements for results monitoring

Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance; more
specifically, the Public Procurement Policy Division who are the entity responsible for the
implementation of this project. Under its auspices it shall create a M&E committee, whose members will
comprise of one representative from each the following entities: PPPD, RCSC, RIM and RUB.

The committee members will be responsible for collecting, collating and analyzing all of the data and
information. The PPPD will be responsible for producing M&E reports, which will include the
assessment of the achievements of the projects intermediary and overall objectives. The M&E committee
will be responsible to validate the report before it is sent to the Minister of Finance and subsequently the
World Bank and other donors.

The ensuing table spells out the source of information for all of the identified indicators and who will be
responsible for collecting it; and subsequently providing it to the M&E committee.

The monitoring and evaluation role of the PPPD is a very important one for and beyond this project to
ensure the continuous development of the procurement profession in Bhutan. Its sustainability will be



                                                       24

ensured through an official government order that establishes the PPPD and spells out its various
mandates, one of which includes the monitoring and evaluation of public procurement performance.

The creation of the PPPD is a project conditionality. Parallel technical assistance to build its capacity
(WB and ADB) will be provided through technical assistance from the Bank and the Asian Development
Bank.




                                                    25

                                                             Data

                                                                 for



                                                                                                                                  Collection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Committee                                                                                      Committee

                                                                    Responsibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PPPD/M&E                                                                Committee/CIPS                                                                                                                 PPPD/M&E                                                                          Committee/CIPS                                                                                                                                                                                PPPD/M&E                                                                          Committee/CIPS                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M&E                                                            /RCSC/CIPS                      M&E                                                     /RCSC/CIPS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               report                                                                                         report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      staff             ntation,e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         staff                 ntation,e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 staff                         ntation,e
                                                                                  Data                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         project
                                                                                                                                            Collection
                                                                                                                                                                        Instruments
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Government                                                                          training                                                                     materials,                            RCSC                  docum        and progress reports.         Government                                                                              training                                                        materials,                                 RCSC                      docum                and progress reports.         Government                                                                              training                                                        materials,                                 RCSC                              docum        and progress reports.                                                  Progress                                                                                       Progress


                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                       end                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         end                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             end
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             creation.                                                                                      creation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                      Reports                                                 assessments:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            assessments:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    assessments:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    time                                                                                           time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               project.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       project.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        project.
                                                                                         Frequency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Two                                                                         baseline                                                                         of                                                                                                         Two                                                                             baseline                                                            of                                                                                                                          Two                                                                             baseline                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                  One                                                                                            One



monitoring                        Reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             against                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 against                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         against
                                           and
                                                                                                  YR3
          results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26
                 for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Recalculate                                                               baseline                                                                                                                                                                                      Recalculate                                                                   baseline                                                                                                                                                                                          Recalculate                                                                   baseline
                                              Collection

                                                        Data

                    Arrangements
                                                                                                     YR2




                                                                                                        YR1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               baseline                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                baseline                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        baseline

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Do                                                             exercise                                                                                                                                                                                                 Do                                                                 exercise                                                                                                                                                                                                     Do                                                                 exercise                                                                                                                                                                                                                   created                                                                                        created


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    not                                                                                            not
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              be
                                                                                                           Baseline                                                                                                                                        To                                                                 created                                                                                                                                                                                              To                                                                     created                                                                                                                                                                                                  To                                                                     created                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Does                          exist                                                            Does                   exist


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sub-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sub-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sub-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                        over                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                 over                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                 over                       project.
                                                                                                                                                                                    increase                                                                                                                                                            (c)
                                                                                                                   Outcome                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5                              the                                                                                                                                        increase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6(a)                   the                                                                                                                               increase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6(b)                           the                                                                   Indicators
                                                                                                                                                                                            unit                                                                                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            scoring                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          unit                                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       scoring                                                                                                                                                                                               unit                                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                                                             Indicators                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                scoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               life                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     life                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               descriptions
                                                                                                                                                                                                one                                                                                the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           one                                                                          the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               life                                                Intermediate
                                                                                                                          Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                one                                                                          the
                                                                                                                                                                                                   A                                                                                  in                                                                    indicator                              the          project.                                                                                                                            A                                                                            in                             indicator                   the               project.                                                                                                              A                                                                            in                             indicator                           the                                                                    Outcome                                                                     Job                created                                                         National                qualifications

            Committee                                                                                    Committee                                                                                                 Committee                                                                                      Committee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Committee                                                                                                                                                              Committee                                                                                                    Committee


                     M&E                                                        /RCSC/CIPS                        M&E                                                       /RIM/RUB/CIPS                                   M&E                                                       /RIM/RUB/CIPS                        M&E                                                    /RIM/RUB/CIPS                                                                                      MOF/RCSC/RIM/RUB/CIPS                                                                                                                                                                               M&E                                                 /RIM/RUB/CIPS                                                                                                      M&E                                               /RIM/RUB/CIPS                                              M&E                                                                                    /RIM/RUB/CIPS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                        report                                                                                       report                                                                                                    report                                                                                         report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        report                                                                                                                                                                 report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     report

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 &

                              Progress                                                                                     Progress                                                                                                  Progress                                                                                       Progress                                                                                                                                                              Needs                                     assessment                mapping              exercise                                                                                       Progress                                                                                                                                                               Progress                                                                                               Knowledge                                                                                         Quiz                                                                              progress


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Yr.                                                                                                                     Yr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               be                                                  be                                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           life                                                                                                                                                       the                                  depend                                                                                                                            in                                                                                                                      in
                                      creation.                                                                                    creation.                                                                                                 creation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the                                             ber
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 will                                                will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                throughout                                        of                     and                                                                                                              training                                                                                              training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  num            will       assessment
                                               time                                                                                         time                                                                                                      time                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    life                                                                                    mapping                                                                                            happen                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.                                                                                           happen                                   3.                                                                                                                                                    continuous
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            &                                                                                                                                     &
                                                   One                                                                                          One                                                                                                       One                                                                                 Training                                               trainers continuous       throughout project.       Courses                                                          created                                       the                 project                  exact           nature              on        and exercise                                     Bulk                                             will                    2                            Bulk                                                               will                                  2                                                            Progress                                                                                         on                                                                         basis



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        participants                                                                                 score                                                                       higher
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                    a                                                                            or                                            27

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100%                                                                                                      8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100%                                                                                                  100%                                                                                                                                                                                    75%                                                                                  have                                                                          75%



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         participants                                                                            score                                                                      higher
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                               a                                                                           or

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          80%                                                                                                    5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50%                                                                                                   50%                                                                                                                                                                                                  65%                                                                             have                                                                         75%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           have
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              score
                                                      created                                                                                      created                                                                                                   created                                                                                         50%                                                                                                  2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10%                                                                                                   25%                                                                                                                                                                                                    50%                                                                                participants                                                                        a       higher


                                                             not                                                                                          not                                                                                                       not

                                                                Does                      exist                                                              Does                        exist                                                                         Does                        exist                                                        0%                                                                                                 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0%                                                                                                    0%                                                                                                                                                                                                     N/A


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    offered                                                         RIM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  staff                                                                                                                                                      some                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 groups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  trained                                                                                                                                                              the
                                                                    paths                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nationwide                                                                                                                                             training                                                                                                                                                                              assessment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           courses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  total                                                                                                 identified                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        received
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                         of
established                                                              Career                developed                                                         Competency                   frameworks developed                                                         Curriculum                   developed                                                        Trainers                                                                                                   #                                                     through                          RUB                                                                                                                                                             %                                  procurement               trained                                       %                                                stakeholder                              that           form                                                                                     Performance                                                                                  training                                                       (quiz)

                               Annex 4: Detailed Project Description

               BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement



  Background

1.   As part of the reforms to ensure good governance, RGoB has undertaken various steps towards
     creating an efficient, effective, transparent, and fair national procurement system. The Asian
     Development Bank (ADB) provided the original assistance to the government in the mid 1990s to
     create procurement rules and regulations, which were incorporated in Chapter 17 of the Financial
     Manual. Recognizing that their procurement rules were due for some updating to align
     themselves with internationally accepted best practice and to cater for the changing Bhutanese
     context, RGoB requested assistance from the World Bank in September of 2005. Under the
     agreed work plan for wider procurement reforms, the Bank, in collaboration with the donor group
     in Bhutan, has been working with the government on the following areas: (i) renewing the
     procurement manual and its accompanying standard bidding documents and request for
     proposals, (ii) creating a public procurement policy division, (iii) addressing the need for
     procurement grievance mechanisms, (iv) assessing the readiness for adopting electronic forms of
     government procurement (e-GP), and (v) building the capacity of national institutions responsible
     for training people on public procurement. This project focuses on the last of these five
     components; capacity building.

  Rationale

2.   Good progress has been made to date, which has seen the RGoB complete the updating of its
     procurement manual and the start of the review process to revise the supporting documents,
     which will effectively complete the legal framework. This on its own, however, is not enough to
     ensure good procurement. The rules and regulations may help in guiding the procurement
     practice with the aim of ensuring transparency, accountability, fairness, effectiveness and
     efficiency, but they will not ensure that the people doing procurement will be performing
     adequately. Procurement is a profession and the profession requires a variety of skills to enable
     procurement officers to use the framework of the rules and regulations to make informed
     decisions and work effectively to guarantee optimal outcomes. Examples of such skills include,
     but are not limited to, stocktaking, logistics, contract management, strategic procurement,
     marketing, negotiations, and supply chain management.

3.   Additionally, raising the awareness of the changes to the rules, as well as the importance of those
     rules to the financial health of the government, among all stakeholders (procuring entities,
     bidding community, civil society), has thus far not been adequately addressed. As a result, the
     application of the national procurement rules continues to be relatively inconsistent across
     government and within individual agencies with little evidence of progress in improving tangible
     outcomes on the ground. In practice, there is significant evidence of non-compliance or of
     improper compliance as the result of a lack of knowledge or of misunderstanding.

4.   It is, therefore, of utmost importance that the legal framework reforms in procurement are
     supported by a comprehensive capacity building program, for which there have been consistent
     requests throughout and the private sector. The same would apply for taking further the work on
     the other components dealing with adopting e-GP and setting up a procurement grievance
     mechanism. Without adequate capacity in procurement, it will be challenging for the RGoB to
     address such matters properly and ensure that it leads to added value.



                                                    28

  Lending Instrument

5.   A Simple Investment Project (grant) was considered the most appropriate lending instrument,
     because this project has a simple design, which provides specific technical assistance to targeted
     institutions within Bhutan. It contains relatively low risks and has no controversial issues
     surrounding the environmental or social aspects of project design. It is supported by a strong
     commitment from the RGoB. There was also the need to move promptly with project
     preparations so implementation can start as soon as possible to go hand in hand with the reforms
     in civil service that the Royal Civil Service Commission (RCSC) has itself commenced and
     which will be elaborated on below. In the initial stages of project preparation, NLTA was
     considered as an alternative to a SIP, but it was not pursued further, because SIP provided a better
     course for installing the TA consultant as operator not only to deliver core knowledge but also to
     apply that knowledge in the workspace. Also the RGoB insists the capacity building project, as
     part of the entire reform agenda, should be led by the Ministry of Finance.

  Project Strategy

6.   The strategic approach of this project towards procurement capacity building will focus on
     creating the capacity of national training institutes to deliver procurement training to all relevant
     stakeholders in a sustainable manner. This methodology shies away from the traditional practice
     of short term, ad-hoc, training courses or workshops for a select number of identified individuals,
     as this has proven in many instances to become ineffective in the long term once civil servants get
     rotated to another position in government, which is a common practice the world over. Similarly,
     such short terms training has tended to focus on rules and regulations corresponding to the
     projects of which the training is a part; either the donors' rules and/or the national ones. Such
     training is limited to a focus on compliance and misses out largely the aspect of competence,
     which as described above is of fundamental importance when considering procurement
     performance and desired outcomes.

7.   Through building the necessary training programs, which center on both compliance and
     competence, and ensuring the delivery of such courses through national training institutes, the
     project aims to ensure that classes on procurement will be available all the time for all
     stakeholders to the procurement process and that a sustainable path is created for the
     establishment of a professional procurement cadre.

8.   With regard to this last point, the Royal Civil Service Commission has already started addressing
     the absence of a procurement cadre in Bhutan by creating procurement positions within the civil
     service at various hierarchical levels as part of its civil service reform (called the Position
     Classification System exercise) and recognizes the need to train existing in-service civil servants
     dealing with procurement as well as future servants that want to take on a career in public
     procurement.

9.   The spirit of the assistance of the Bank thus far has been to improve the national system by
     marrying local conditions with best practice. The focus has always been to maintain the local
     identity of the system. In the same way, the current capacity development program seeks to build
     national and sustainable capacity in procurement in national educational establishments over the
     long term to improve Bhutan's ability to train and retain procurement capacity within its public
     spending authorities.




                                                   29

10.   The project will bring on board the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS), which is
      a not-for-profit organization, created under a Royal Charter to promote the profession of
      procurement in the UK, but now operates the world over. Having more than 44,000 members in
      134 countries, it is a unique organization that provides training and certification in procurement
      and sets the benchmark for the profession. Its MCIPS certification can be compared to the level
      of CPA and CFA accreditations in the field of financial management. Under this project CIPS
      will work with the Royal Civil Service Commission to create the procurement job descriptions,
      national qualifications, and careers paths for the procurement job families created under their
      position classification system. CIPS will also work closely with the institutes in Bhutan to create
      the necessary syllabi and courses for the various levels of procurement competences identified in
      collaboration with the RCSC. Finally, CIPS will also assist in the deliverance of actual training
      to the stakeholders, while it trains the trainers simultaneously so they will be able to conduct the
      training independently in future.

   Project Objective

11.   The project development objective is to improve procurement outcomes as a direct result of
      progressively establishing an improved national public procurement system in Bhutan. This
      particular project on capacity building, which is one component of the larger reform agenda, aims
      to contribute towards the achievement of this reform objective by ensuring the improvement of
      procurement performance by all the relevant stakeholders.

12.   The most suitable outcome indicators that have been identified to measure such an improvement,
      given the current statistical environment in Bhutan, are:
          1. Public perception, and
          2. OECD/DAC country procurement assessment rating (relevant indicators).

13.   The intermediary outcomes, which will allow for project implementation progress monitoring,
      are:
          1. Reformed civil service in the area of procurement;
          2. Institutionalization of national procurement training regime; and,
          3. Enhanced national procurement competence.

   Project Components

14.   This project outlines 3 main components of capacity building, running over 3 years. These
      components serve to meet a number of strategic objectives of the Royal Government of Bhutan:
          1. To establish and embed procurement benchmarks and standards which are based on
               international good practice;
          2. To establish and professionalize a procurement community through a national people
               development strategy;
          3. To strengthen and support the wider roll out of procurement practices, in order to create a
               "Body" of procurement knowledge for the country.

15.   These objectives will be achieved through the support and delivery of key activities in the areas
      of people and practice development which are outlined below.

16.   Component 1: The Development of a People Development Strategy. This component focuses
      on establishing the benchmarks, standards and competencies required of a potential body of
      procurement professionals and establishing a qualifications and training regime to support the
      future development of the body of procurement professionals.



                                                    30

17.  This would be achieved by TA support to the following partners:

         ·    Ministry of Finance/PPPD ­ as the sponsor and driver of the Royal Government of
              Bhutan Procurement reform and the implementing agency of this project.
         ·    Royal University of Bhutan ­ issuing the certification for procurement qualifications as
              the overarching body responsible for tertiary education institutes in Bhutan. This will
              also cover the identification and creation of specific curriculum for any of the tertiary
              institutes under for the RUB, including for example, but not limited to, the institute for
              engineers.
         ·    Royal Institute of Management ­ as the main recipient of the project's support and the
              centre of excellence of both in-service and pre-service training and education to the
              Royal Civil Service and wider procurement community covering multiple sectors. This
              will cover both short skills development courses as well as academic programmes leading
              to certification.
         ·    Any governmental body which is or will be carrying out procurement training in order to
              ensure a "joined up" approach to competency development and delivery, For example,
              but not limited to, the Ministry of Works and Human Settlement.

18.  These partners are critical to the creation of continued future demand and supply of both in-
     service and pre-service procurement education and training and thus procurement capacity with
     Bhutan.

19.  Component 2: Implementation of the People Development Strategy. This component focuses
     on the priorities for delivery of procurement training and education. These include:
         ·    Delivery of training and education opportunities to support the in-service development of
              public servants, delivered jointly by RIM and the project consultants.
         ·    Specific development on a key group of procurement staff, for example the Public
              Procurement Policy Division (PPPD) staff of the Royal Government of Bhutan who will
              act as ambassadors/catalysts and future people developers for the profession, delivered
              jointly by RIM and the project consultants.
         ·    Development of teaching staff from RIM and RUB by the project consultants so that
              delivery of procurement training and education can be strengthened in Bhutan (training of
              trainers).

20.  Component 3: Mainstreaming of People Development Strategy: Building the "Body of
     Knowledge". This component focuses on embedding and mainstreaming of the People
     Development Strategy to the Bhutanese partner organizations. Activities will focus on:
         ·    Continued delivery of In-service training and education to RCS delivered by RIM.
         ·    Starting delivery of other procurement education to include pre-service
              qualifications/modules which are integrated into the RUB/Bhutanese education
              framework.
         ·    Evaluation of impact of training and education delivered to date; monitoring of
              results/feedback of RCSC performance management system. Using results of both of
              these to feed into future curriculum and delivery strategies and to demonstrate the
              positive contributions the development of procurement has made to date.

21.  In this final component, the project will also look to develop the body of knowledge and the
     procurement practice in Bhutan through the creation of networks, communities of practitioners,
     events and conferences focusing on key procurement topics and RGoB case studies.



                                                   31

                               Annex 5: Project Costs and Financing Plan

                  BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement

Due to the simple nature of this project, the costing table is quite straightforward and simple. An IDA
grant will finance US$1.5m to this project, all of which is to be used for the contracting of the project's
consultant. RGoB has one explicit cost that it will contribute to the project, namely the costs to set up
and run the Public Procurement Policy Division (PPPD).

The table below reflects an initial set up costs for the PPPD of Nu. 1.75 million (US$43750). It is also
important to note here that ADB has committed to providing parallel assistance to this project to
strengthen the PPPD once established through a US$300,000 Technical Assistance (grant). The Bank
will also provide TA in the ensuing fiscal years to the PPPD in partnership with the ADB.

DANIDA is also entering into a direct agreement (commitment) with the MoF to finance some of the
activities of the PPPD, like the translation and printing of the procurement documents, and the payment of
training participant's per diems etc.


                                                      Financing         Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                                 US           US             US
                                                                       $million      $million      $million
Consultancy Contract                                     IDA                           1.5            1.5
PPPD Establishment                                                       0.05                        0.05
Total Baseline Cost
 Physical Contingencies
 Price Contingencies
                           Total Project Costs                           0.05          1.5           1.55
                    Interest during construction
                                  Front-end Fee

                    Total Financing Required                               :       IDA: 1.5      Total: 1.55




                                                       32

                             Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements

             BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement



1.  The project involves four main government bodies: the Ministry of Finance (MoF), the Royal
    Civil Service Commission (RCSC), the Royal Institute of Management (RIM), and the Royal
    University of Bhutan (RUB); and the project's consultant: the Chartered Institute of Purchasing
    and Supply (CIPS). Each of these five members has an important and unique role to play in not
    only the implementation of the project's activities, but also in ensuring a continued reform in
    procurement performance in Bhutan beyond the timeline of this project.

2.  The Ministry of Finance, who has been the champion of procurement reforms in Bhutan, will also
    assume the role of implementing this project. This will be done through its Public Procurement
    Policy Division (PPPD), which is to be created prior to project start under its Department of
    National Properties. Although this division will have various roles and mandates to lead the
    entire procurement reform agenda, one of its major responsibilities early on will be to manage,
    coordinate, monitor and evaluate the activities, outputs and outcomes of the capacity building
    project. To assist the newly formed PPPD in its daily activities and, therefore, also managing this
    project, a parallel technical assistance has already been planned and approved within the ADB
    and the Bank. The PPPD will also be the direct counterpart to the WB team for this project.

3.  In addition to the MoF, the Royal Civil Service Commission has also played a large role in taking
    these procurement reforms forward. They recognized the need to professionalize procurement
    within its civil service and provided for such positions through their Position Classifications
    System (PCS) exercise, which reformed the entire civil service structure. They also approved the
    creation of the PPPD under the MoF to allow the latter to take procurement reforms forward in an
    exponential way. These two significant decisions of the RCSC have laid the foundations for not
    only taking the entire procurement reform agenda forward, but also to create the demand for
    procurement training which will be delivered in this project.

4.  The RCSC stands to receive technical assistance (TA) in this project from CIPS towards
    improving the job descriptions of the various hierarchical procurement positions created under the
    PCS. The TA will also include the creation of national qualifications and career paths for these
    aforementioned positions.

5.  The Royal Institute of Management is the body that has been mandated by government to train all
    civil servants. They are a well established institution that have various training modules in place
    already and continues to expand in its endeavors. They will be the main recipient of the TA
    under this project, which focuses on creating a national institutional capacity towards delivering
    certified procurement training to pre-service and in service civil servants. The training will also
    be extended to private sector stakeholders like bidders, consultants, and suppliers. They will
    work with the project consultant to identify the exact courses that are needed through wide
    stakeholder participation, complete a mapping exercise to identify which modules already exist
    within its existing programs and which new ones need to be created, and make available the
    trainers who will be trained by the consultants to deliver the designed courses. Beyond the scope
    of this project, RIM is expected to continue to design and deliver courses in Bhutan as needed.
    Should they so desire they will also be able to embark on becoming one of the certified CIPS
    training centers around the world.




                                                  33

       6.     The Royal University of Bhutan, who have been created more recently, have been mandated to
              act as an overarching body to bring together all the countries institutes and assist in creating a
              more harmonious and uniform academic system for the country. They have important roles like
              updating institutions' syllabi, issuing diplomas and certifications for the institutes, and also offer
              their own courses, to name but a few. The specific role that RUB will play in this project is
              twofold: (1) they may have to provide certifications/diplomas upon completion of the more
              higher level procurement courses that could be offered at RIM, and (2) they stand to receive TA
              from this project in terms of assistance in designing specific procurement courses to be included
              in the syllabi of any of the other national training institutes under their purview, should they so
              desire. For example there could be a specific course designed for the engineering college which
              could stand the graduates in good stead once completing their degree. Finally, the RUB has also
              confirmed they are willing to make available trainers to be a part of the training of trainers
              activity of this project, so that a wider pool of trainers are available to Bhutan.

       7.     Finally, CIPS will work with all of the above mentioned government bodies to ensure that all the
              project's activities are achieved. They will have a full time project director in Bhutan for the
              three years of the project and have a pool of around 40 specialist consultants that will be available
              to be called on to support the project. They will report directly to the MoF/PPPD and will have a
              detailed terms of reference and contract to stipulate all their responsibilities and deliverables in
              line with the implementation plan below.

       8.     CIPS is an internationally recognized not-for-profit organization that was created in 1932 and
              received its royal charter in 1999 from her majesty the queen of England to promote and develop
              high standards of professional skill, ability and integrity among all those engaged in purchasing
              and supply chain management. Some of their strategic objectives include, "Developing the art
              and science of purchasing and supply", "Improving the professional standards of practitioners",
              "Promoting excellence in organizations", and "Representing the interests and views of individuals
              within the procurement profession". CIPS has developed courses and training materials that are
              used the world over for developing and certifying various levels of procurement qualifications.
              With its 44,000 members in over 134 countries, it is a unique organization to provide such
              training and certification in procurement and sets the benchmark for the profession. Its MCIPS
              certification can be compared to the level of CPA and CFA accreditations in the field of financial
              management. The Bank proposed CIPS to be the main TA provider for this project based on its
              unique position in the market to respond to the needs of this project.

       9.     The ensuing tables provide detailed information of the project's implementation activities, who
              are responsible for them, and estimated timelines for each of the three components:


              COMPONENT 1: Develop People Development Strategy ­ Duration 6 months

       10.    This component focuses on establishing the benchmarks, standards and competencies required of
              a potential body of procurement professionals and establishing a qualifications and training
              regime to support the future development of the body of procurement professionals.

                                          Inputs required           Outputs/deliverables                Timescale
People Development


Royal Civil Service Commission:
Establishment of Royal Civil              RCSC to lead.             RCSC procurement job                3 months



                                                             34

Service Commission (RCSC)           CIPS will provide     family, roles and career paths
procurement job family, roles and   technical assistance  and performance
career paths and performance        and share good        management systems
management systems                  practice on job
                                    roles, structure, etc
                                    to assist the RCSC
                                    to complete this
                                    work.
Definition and agreement of         RCSC to lead.         Defined competencies at key    3 months
underpinning competencies           CIPS will support     job roles which can then be
required of RCSC procurement        and offer advice on   used in training/development
roles ­ both technical and          National              requirement specification and
behavioral/attitudinal              Occupational          ongoing performance
                                    standards to          management activity
                                    underpin RCSC job
                                    roles
Development of any Bhutanese        RIM/CIPS/ RCSC        Training content identified;   3 months
specific competency framework to    work together to      Development programme
support short-term in-service       design programme,     designed and signed off by all
training and development            focusing on           parties
requirements identified as a result immediate skills
of the mapping exercise (e.g.       development
immediate skill requirements and    requirements (not
awareness training on the new       qualifications at
manual                              this stage).
Mapping of the RCSC competency      CIPS to use RCSC      Mapping carried out;           2 months
framework to the CIPS               competencies to       Output report identifying
qualifications ladder to show where map to CIPS           overlap/gaps and CIPS
qualifications can be used to       qualifications        recommendations
support development of key roles.   framework.
This can be used for long term
qualifications and education
infrastructure plans.
Mapping of CIPS qualifications      CIPS to work with     Mapping carried out;           1 month
ladder to the Bhutanese National    RCSC to carry out     Output report identifying
Qualifications Framework to ensure  mapping exercise      overlap/gaps and CIPS
qualifications fit with national                          recommendations
education strategy

Royal University of Bhutan:
RUB to provide details of           RUB to lead,          Validation framework in        6 months
validation process of academic      supported by CIPS     place
programmes developed under the
project through its academic
framework
RUB to provide staff as appropriate As below              As below                       As below



                                                      35

to join train the trainer activities
outlined under RIM section below
in order to build capacity, provide
replacement cover etc
RUB to identify in which areas it      RUB to take the      A plan of various courses that  3 months
may be interested for CIPS to assist   lead with CIPS to    RUB/CIPS can develop over
it in creating specific training       advise               the life of this project (NB:
courses for its institutions under its                      the development will
purview.                                                    probably only happen in the
                                                            last year of the project due to
                                                            the immediate and urgent
                                                            need to develop the training
                                                            set up in RIM.
Royal Institute of Management:
Develop curriculum to support in-      CIPS/RIM to          Training materials created      6 months
service training of civil service      jointly develop with
procurement staff with RIM in line     view to leading to
with competencies identified under     an accredited
RCSC section                           programme during
                                       future phases.
Mapping of CIPS qualifications         CIPS to lead         Mapping carried out;            1 month
ladder to identified RIM's             mapping exercise     Output report identifying
curriculum offering to identify                             overlap/gaps and CIPS
potential overlap/gaps (looking                             recommendations
where there are existing
competencies and/or materials
already to avoid any duplication)
Establishment of a procurement         CIPS to draw up      Person specification for        2 weeks
trainer profile                        guidelines for       trainers
                                       person specification
                                       for deliverers
Identification of academic/teaching    RIM/RUB to           List of potential teaching staff 1 month
staff to be developed to deliver       identify potential
procurement qualifications and         suitable staff
training                               against above
                                       person specification
Carry out training needs analysis      CIPS to carry out    Training/Development plan       3 months
against profile of staff required to                        for appropriate teaching staff
teach procurement to identify any
potential development required
If desired, evaluate a RIM             CIPS to carry out    CIPS evaluation of              6 months
qualifications submission for CIPS                          submission
recognition

Ministry of Finance:
Ensure Procurement Manual legal        MoF to lead with     Complete competence             1 month


                                                       36

  systems & procedures are covered       RCSC & RIM                 framework                         MoF/RIM/RCSC
  within competence frameworks and
  curriculum
  Carry out a communication strategy
  to raise awareness within
  government of the capacity building
  exercise
  All government bodies:
  Map existing procurement training      CIPS to carry out          Mapping carried out;              2 months
  schemes to competence frameworks       mapping                    Output report identifying
  and CIPS qualifications ladder (if                                overlap/gaps and CIPS
  required) to ensure compliance with                               recommendations
  overall Bhutanese competency
  standards and that the same
  messages are being conveyed
  regardless of the source of training

  Practice Development
  Provide general advice and             In particular, CIPS        Various documents/support         Ongoing as
  guidance to all parties on good        can provide                materials to be provided          applicable
  procurement practice (international    information on
  best practice)                         development of an
                                         ethical code, good
                                         governance, anti-
                                         corruption policies,
                                         e-procurement and
                                         procurement audit
                                         systems


                  COMPONENT 2: Implement People Development Strategy ­ Duration 12 months

          11.     This component focuses on the priorities for delivery of procurement training and education.



                                         Inputs required                     Outputs/deliverables       Timescale
People Development


Train the trainer development for        CIPS/RIM/RUB to co-                 Trained trainers to        6 months
RIM/RUB                                  ordinate training; CIPS to          deliver procurement
                                         deliver                             training
In-Service skills training delivery for  RIM to deliver, supported            in-service training       To start after
staff ­ both core skills and             by CIPS subsequent to               delivered                  above and
specialist/management level              training of trainers ­ support                                 ongoing
                                         to be greater at beginning
                                         e.g. joint delivery and start



                                                             37

                                           to be phased out over time.
In-Service and one to one support for      CIPS to deliver; shadowing   One to one                To start after
PPPM staff. This is a fundamental          and gradual takeover of this coaching/mentoring        above and
requirement as these people will be        activity by RIM staff        scheme in place for key   ongoing
critical in embedding future                                            PPPM staff ­ these
procurement practices.                                                  people to be supported
                                                                        to act as "Procurement
                                                                        Ambassadors" to other
                                                                        learners
Development of academic                    RIM/CIPS/RUB, supported      Curriculum developed      8 months
qualifications to:                         by RUB for validation
    ·   lead on from the immediate         purposes
        in-service skills development
        courses already running
    ·   form basis of pre-service
        programmes
    ·   prepare some of the students
        at other institutions under
        RUB already to some extent
        in procurement in their
        related fields.
RUB to carry out preparation work          RUB/RIM/CIPS                 Accredited courses        Dependent on
for certification of appropriate RIM                                                              above activity
procurement courses and if
appropriate carry out course
validation

Practice Development


Continue to provide general advice         In particular, CIPS can      Various                   Ongoing as
and guidance to all parties on good        provide information on       documents/support         applicable
procurement practice (international        development of an ethical    materials to be
best practice)                             code, good governance, anti- provided
                                           corruption policies, e-
                                           procurement and
                                           procurement audit systems



             COMPONENT 3: Mainstreaming People Development Strategy: Building the "Body of
                                          Knowledge" ­ duration 12 months.

          12.     This component focuses on embedding and mainstreaming of the People Development Strategy
                  to the Bhutanese partner organizations.



                                           Inputs required              Outputs/deliverables      Timescale


                                                            38

People Development
Continued In-service training for       RIM to fully takeover        In-service Training    Ongoing over year
Civil Servants                          delivery with CIPS available takes place, with RIM
                                        as back-up advice and        taking ownership and
                                        support if required          control
Start delivering pre-service            RIM to lead delivery,        Pre-service Training   Ongoing over year
qualifications                          supported by CIPS            takes place, with RIM
                                                                     taking ownership and
                                                                     control
Integration of procurement courses      RUB with CIPS support        Revised Syllabus       Ongoing over the
in RUB identified institutions          where necessary                                     year
Evaluation exercise                     CIPS plus partners to carry  Measurement against    Ongoing over year
                                        out full evaluation of       competence
                                        training to date             frameworks to
                                                                     determine impact of
                                                                     training on In-service
                                                                     training and against
                                                                     qualification
                                                                     frameworks for pre-
                                                                     service delivery ­
                                                                     reference Kirkpatrick
                                                                     framework for
                                                                     approach to be adopted.

Practice Development
If appropriate, deliver training to key WB/ RCSC /CIPS to            Training delivered     1 month
players to help them carry out CIPS     identify key player(s) to
certification to assist with            work on certification.
benchmarking and standard setting       CIPS to deliver training
and audit requirements for the Civil
Service
Carry out first Certification           Trained provider to carry    Systems certified      6 months
                                        out first certification,
                                        overseen by CIPS




                                                           39

                   Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements

                  BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement

Financial Management Assessment of Implementing Entities

1. The key implementation (spending) agencies have been identified as follows:

          (a)     Public Procurement Policy Division (PPPD) of Department of National Properties,
                  Ministry of Finance: The newly established Public Procurement Policy Division under
                  MoF will be a nodal agency for the implementation of the project. PPPD will enter into a
                  single source contract with the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) to
                  provide management and technical support to implement the project activities.

          (b)     Royal Civil Services Commission (RCSC): RCSC established in 1982 under the Royal
                  Charter is tasked with the function of managing and framing rules for the civil service
                  with the objective of promoting efficiency, effectiveness and integrity among civil
                  servants. Under the project, RCSC will take the lead in the development of a national
                  positions classification incorporating procurement positions matched against
                  qualifications.

          (c)     Royal University of Bhutan (RUB): Established under the Royal Charter with the
                  University Council as the supreme governing authority, the University is headed by a
                  Chancellor and enjoys the status of an autonomous body. Under the project, RUB will
                  issue certifications of relevant diploma courses, if applicable. They will also participate
                  in the training of trainers component of the project and be responsible for identifying
                  which institutes under its purview could benefit from specific procurement courses that
                  could be included in their curriculum.


          (d)     Royal Institute of Management (RIM): The Royal Institute of Management was
                  established in 1986 as a training Institute. In 1990, it was granted an autonomous status
                  under the Royal Charter 1990. The Charter entrusts the Institute with the task of
                  developing management and public administration human resource capacity in the
                  country. Under the project, RIM will play a key role in creating competency frameworks
                  and corresponding curriculum and by training their trainers. The project will support
                  building of institutional capacity to enable them to respond to the need for procurement
                  training from RCSC and the private sector.

2. While all the four agencies listed above have implementation responsibilities, project funds are
expected to flow only through the Public Procurement Policy Division of the Department of National
Properties, Ministry of Finance. MoF is one of the ten central ministries of RGoB, with several
departments; for the project, the Department of National Properties (DNP) and its constituent PPPD will
be the nodal agency. The financial management arrangements at MoF are based on established 's 2001
Financial Rules & Regulations (FRR), which provide the required control framework for accounting,
reporting as well as procedural transaction control over individual items of expenditure and receipts. The
Ministry accounts for its expenditures in the Budget and Accounting System (BAS) of RGoB. While
MoF has several ongoing IDF grants and is familiar with the Bank's financial management requirements,
this will be the first time that DNP will be implementing a Bank financed project.

3. Given the Bank's knowledge and familiarity of the government financial processes and accounting
systems, no separate assessments were carried out for MoF. Nonetheless, lessons learnt from the closed



                                                       40

and ongoing Bank financed projects have been factored into the design of financial management
arrangements for the project:

                    Table 1. Summary of Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures
                  Risk                         Risk      Risk Mitigation Measures Incorporated into
                                              Rating                      Project Design
Weak capacity leading to submission of           M    The project will use interim unaudited financial
incomplete documentation required for                 reports used for project reporting as supporting
traditional SOE method of disbursement                documentation for purposes of disbursement. Under
                                                      this arrangement, the requirement for submitting
                                                      additional documentation is minimal. Nonetheless,
                                                      the Bank will provide support until the
                                                      implementing agencies are familiar with Bank
                                                      requirements.
Special Account exhausted due to                 M    Disbursements based on interim unaudited financial
lumpiness of payments.                                reports. will allow the quantum of the advance to be
                                                      responsive to fund requirements of the project
Overall Risk Rating                              M
H ­ High, S ­ Substantial, M ­ Modest, N ­ Negligible

Strengths & Weaknesses

4. RGoB is familiar with management of external funds, as well as utilization, accounting and reporting
for the same, even though this will be the first time that MoF will be implementing a Bank financed
operation.    The financial management arrangements at MoF are based on established financial
management arrangements of RGoB.



                           Table 2. Summary of Weaknesses and Action Plan
                     Weakness                                              Resolution
 Country Level
 BAS is still new and the accounting staff is         RGoB has embarked on an ambitious BAS user
 unfamiliar with the system. The system is not       training plan for Dzongkhag and geog level, formed
 networked on a real time basis and information      a BAS Core Group to understand the user needs and
 is transferred on an offline basis, often resulting work on upgrading the BAS.
 in delays in consolidation of financial
 statements. This severely impairs the state's       At the project level, consolidated interim unaudited
 ability to prepare in-year budget reports required  financial reports will be prepared on a quarterly
 to make meaningful management decisions.            basis. Quarterly interim unaudited financial reports
                                                     will form the basis for withdrawals from the IDA
                                                     Grant.
 Evidence from the external audit reports,           The external audit reports assign the origin of
 identifying a large number of irregular             irregularity to individual officers. The control
 transactions, suggests that the transactional       mechanisms (along with the requirement of obtaining
 controls are often not complied with and are        clearances from the RAA for important career
 circumvented.                                       developments) help in the follow-up processes of
                                                     eliciting responses, resulting in adjustments or
                                                     recoveries. The increasing reduction in the total
                                                     irregularities in monetary terms from the earlier
                                                     years suggests that this additional control mechanism



                                                     41

                      Weakness                                                 Resolution
                                                        is more effective.
 Internal audit function exists in all ministries,      Developing an appropriate institutional framework
 but its operation is very limited. With a present      for the internal audit function in RGoB is an
 strength of ten internal auditors placed in six        identified area of reform. Recent developments
 ministries, the size of the function is not            include the development of a Mission Statement and
 commensurate with the requirement. In addition,        Code of Ethics for the internal audit function. Going
 there is no uniformity in the organizational           forward, RGoB is working to determine the TA
 structure ­ in some ministries they report to the      requirements, which can be financed from the
 Minister as well as the Secretary. For the             follow-on IDF Grant.
 internal audit function to be effective RGoB
 needs to ensure that there is an appropriate
 structure particularly with regard to professional
 independence; there is sufficient breadth of
 mandate, access to information and power to
 report; staff trained in the use of professional
 audit methods, including risk assessment
 techniques.
 Project Level
 Internal audit mechanism is not effective.             It has been agreed that the internal auditor designated
                                                        to each of implementing agencies will review the
                                                        project activities in such a manner that each of the
                                                        spending units will be covered at least once every
                                                        financial year. It has also agreed that any exceptional
                                                        internal audit reports on project activities will be
                                                        made available to RAA and IDA during project
                                                        review/supervision.
 Financial management capacities are noted to be        The project is designed to use RGoB's own
 weak. There is also a shortage of capable and          accounting systems and will thus not require
 experienced accountants in RGoB.                       additional staff. Staffing arrangements in place are
                                                        considered adequate for the purposes of the project.



Financial Management Arrangements

5. The guiding principle for designing the financial management arrangements for the project has been
to use the current      financial management systems, to the extent feasible, as these are considered
satisfactory and meeting the essential fiduciary requirements. Key aspects of financial management are as
follows:

         The expenditures under the project are limited to payments to CIPS. The service contract (time
         based) with CIPS will provide the framework for the payments which will comprise essentially of
         remuneration and reimbursable expenses. The contract will set forth the currencies in which will
         be required to make payments to CIPS;
         CIPS will be required to keep accurate and systematic accounts and records in respect of the
         Services, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting principles and in such form and
         detail as will clearly identify all relevant time changes and costs, and the bases thereof, and will
         periodically permit the Client or its designated representative and/or the Bank to inspect the same
         and make copies thereof as well as to have them audited by auditors appointed by the RGoB or
         the Bank, if so required.



                                                        42

         Equipment, vehicles and materials made available to CIPS by RGoB or purchased by CIPS
         wholly or partly with funds provided by RGoB under the Grant, will be the property of RGoB and
         will be marked accordingly. Upon termination or expiration of the project (or the contract) CIPS
         will make available to RGoB an inventory of such equipment, vehicles and materials and dispose
         of such equipment and materials in accordance with RGoB's financial rules and regulations.
         As soon as practicable and not later than fifteen (15) days after the end of each calendar quarter
         during the period of the service contract, or after the end of each time intervals otherwise
         indicated in the contract CIPS will submit to RGoB, in duplicate, itemized statements,
         accompanied by copies of invoices, vouchers and other appropriate supporting materials, of the
         amounts payable pursuant to the contract for such month. Separate statements shall be submitted
         in respect of amounts payable in foreign currency and in local currency. Each statement shall
         distinguish that portion of the total eligible costs which pertains to remuneration from that portion
         which pertains to reimbursable expenses.
         RGoB will pay CIPS statements within sixty (60) days after the receipt of such statements with
         supporting documents. Only such portion of a statement that is not satisfactorily supported may
         be withheld from payment. Should any discrepancy be found to exist between actual payment
         and costs authorized to be incurred by CIPS, may add or subtract the difference from any
         subsequent payments.
         The project interim financial reports will encompass the total project and thus reflect all project
         activities, financing, and expenditures, including counterpart funds. Thus, the format and contents
         of the financial reports have been designed to reflect contributions by way of counterpart funding
         by RGoB.
         Standard Books of Accounts/Records will be maintained at MoF.
         Security deposits or taxes deducted from the consultant's bills but transferred to temporary
         suspense accounts, pending releases will be considered as expenditures eligible for
         disbursements.

6. Budgeting: The project will be budgeted for as a separate line under the MoF in a manner that will
allow for all project-related expenditures to be separately identified, accounted and reported in the
consolidated Budget and Accounting System (BAS) reports. An exercise to determine the detailed
classification of accounting heads has been undertaken to ensure that the project components/activities are
built into the Chart of Accounts. DNP, MoF will be responsible for preparing and consolidating their
Annual Work Plans by December each year for the following financial year, in order to feed the
information into RGoB's budget cycle. This integration will allow the BAS reports to provide information
on the project spends by components/sub components in sufficient detail to prepare quarterly interim
unaudited financial reports required for financial monitoring and preparation of withdrawal claims from
the Grant.

7. Funds Flow, accounting and Disbursement Arrangements: Project funds will be deposited in
advance into the designated account maintained in Ngultrum to be opened at the Bank of Bhutan. The
designated account will be segregated and used only to deposit advances for the project and to make
payments for eligible project expenditures. The designated account will be operated by Department of
Public Accounts (DPA) in MOF. Funds will be withdrawn from the designated account on an `as
required' basis and transferred as an advance to the Government Budget Fund Account by DPA. These
transfers will be based on requests from PPPD for the payments to CIPS. Based on the approved requests,
the DPA in the MOF will release funds to the respective PLC account of PPPD. A PLC is DPAs
authorization to the Bank of Bhutan ('s bankers) to honor payments from the implementing unit up to the
limit set in the LC. For payments to be made to CIPS in foreign currency, RGoB may request IDA to
make direct payments to the consultants. Notwithstanding the method of disbursement, RGoB will
account for all project related receipts and payments in BAS (including direct payments being accounted
for as `in kind' transaction).


                                                        43

8. On a quarterly basis, PPPD will obtain a copy of the financial report generated from the BAS and
prepare financial management reports, the form and contents of which have been agreed with IDA.
Replenishments into the Designated Account will be based on interim unaudited financial reports and will
be processed by DPA on a quarterly basis. The Interim unaudited financial reports will report on activities
of the project and provide information on expenditure made in the previous quarter and forecast for two
subsequent quarters. Quarterly disbursements would be made based on these financial reports, providing
funds for two subsequent quarters after adjustment for past disbursements.

                                             Figure BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement
                                                                         Funds & Information Flow Arrangements for project funds

                                                                                                                                                                         Department of
                                                                                                                         Advances for project related
                                                The World                                                                                                           Public Accounts (DPA)
                                                                                                                        expend as per requests received
                                                                                         Bank
                                                                                                                                  from DNP                            Ministry of Finance
                                                                                                                                                                        General Budget
                                                 nt                                                                                                                      Fund Account
                                                   ue                                         onsi
                                                     eq                    s                      atci                                                                            Funds
                                                       ubss                                                                            Submission of quarterly unaudited
                                                                            menths                    Appl                                      financial reports               transferred
                                                           and                                            al
                                                                                  eni                                                                                           to PLC A/c
                                                                                                            aw
            s                                                 Adv.laitinI            eplr
                                                                                                              hdrti
                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                           Quarterly project financial reports           Ministry of Finance
             Paymenttceri                                                                                                             with forecast
                                                                                                                                                                             Deptt. Of
                                                Department of Public                                                              for next two quarters
                         D/s                                                                                                                                            National Properties,
                                                                          Accounts (DPA)
                                                                                                                                                                    Public Procurement Division
                            ent
                               mti                                       Designated Bank
                                                                                                                                Request for fund releases
                                                                                         Account in Nu.
                                  m
                                   mo                                    with Bank of Bhutan
                                     Clai                                                                                                                        Invoices,
                                                                                                                                                                                     Payments
                                                                                                                                                                 Progress
                                                                                                                                                                Reports etc.

                                         Spec


                                                                                                                                                                             CIPS


                                                                                                                                                 Fund Flow


                                                                                                                                                 Information Flow




9. Internal Control and Internal Auditing.                                                                                            RGoB's 2001 Financial Rules & Regulations (FRR)
provides the required control framework for procedural transaction control over individual items of
expenditure and receipts. The FRR also provides detailed guidance on internal controls including
safeguarding of cash, control over inventories, segregation of duties and delegation of authority for
approvals and operating the bank accounts. It has been agreed that the internal auditor designated to each
of the implementing agencies will review activities of the project in such a manner that each of the
spending units will be covered at least once every financial year. It has also agreed that any exceptional
internal audit reports on project activities will be made available to RAA and IDA during project
review/supervision. No separate TORS for internal audit were considered necessary.



                                                                                                                                       44

10. Staffing: At MoF, the financial management functions will be the responsibility of the
Administration & Finance Divisions (AFD) headed by an officer of the rank of Deputy Secretary. For day
to day functions, the AFD will assign the task to an Accountant. Additional help required will be obtained
on contractual basis and this has been provided for in the project costs.

11. Eligible Expenses for the Project:    The project will only finance the service contract payments to
CIPS.


12. Financial Reporting: Information on project related expenditures will be compiled on the basis of
BAS generated financial reports. This information will be utilized to prepare quarterly interim unaudited
financial reports for the project. The interim unaudited financial reports will report on the expenditure
incurred during the period cumulatively for the financial year as well for the project life and will form
part of the project progress reports, required to be submitted to IDA within 45 days of close of each
quarter.

13. Disbursement: Disbursements will be made on the basis of the quarterly consolidated interim
financial reports. As in all Bank financed operations in Bhutan, the Bank will provide advance funds to
RGoB into the designated bank account in local currency. For payments to be made to CIPS in foreign
currency, RGoB may request IDA to make direct payments to the consultants. Replenishments into the
Designated Account will be based on interim unaudited financial reports and will be processed by DPA
on a quarterly basis. The Interim unaudited financial reports will report on activities of the project and
provide information on expenditure made in the previous quarter and forecast for two subsequent quarters
(net of direct payments). Quarterly disbursements would be made based on these financial reports,
providing funds for two subsequent quarters after adjustment for past disbursements.

14. Auditing: Consolidated annual project financial statements will be audited each year by the Royal
Audit Authority, which is the Supreme Audit Institution in Bhutan and acceptable to IDA. The format of
the annual financial statements will consist of consolidated annual financial statements of the project
along with a statement reconciling credit disbursements, as per claims submitted to IDA and balances
available in the designated Account, as reported in the Interim unaudited Financial Reports well as a
management letter. The MoF will be responsible for submitting the consolidated annual project financial
statements to RAA by September 30 of each financial year. The consolidated annual financial statements
submitted for purposes of audit will include an assurance from the management on the correctness,
completeness and confirm the use of project funds for intended purposes. The Terms of Reference for the
audit have been prepared in agreement with the Bank and agreed with the RAA. The audit reports shown
below will be monitored in the Audit Reports Compliance System.

               Table 3. NIPRP: Monitoring by the Audit Reports Compliance System
              Implementing Agency                                   Audit                   Auditors
 Ministry of Finance,                                  Annual Project Financial        Royal Audit
                                                       Statements, including           Authority
                                                       designated account

16.     Supervision Plan: Given the limited nature of the expenditures under the project, the
project will need minimal supervision. This will be done through a combination of periodic desk
reviews. Special focus areas from the financial management perspective will be accuracy and
timeliness of IUFRs and the audit reports.




                                                    45

                                  Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements

                   BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", dated May 2004 as revised October
2006"; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated
May 2004 as revised October 2006; and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various
items under different expenditure categories are described in general below.

Procurement of Works: The project does not involve any works procurement.

Procurement of Goods: The project does not involve any goods procurement.

Procurement of non-consulting services: The project does not involve any procurement of non-
consulting services.

Selection of Consultants: The project will involve the selection of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply (CIPS), a not-for-profit organization from the UK, on single source basis since CIPS has the
unique experience and qualification to meet the terms of reference of the assignment under the project.

Operating Costs: The project may finance consultancy fees and operating costs towards accommodation,
travel cost and perdiem, hiring of vehicles, office establishment and expenses, maintenance of office
utilities, etc following 's own procedures and what it finds acceptable.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

The project will involve only one consultancy procurement of CIPS, UK on single source basis, which
will be carried out by the MoF. The agency is staffed by experienced staff, who can handle this
procurement.



The overall project risk for procurement is low

C. Procurement Plan

Since the project will involve only one consultancy procurement, no procurement plan is prepared for the
project.

D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision
There will not be any need for procurement mission for the project, since there is only one procurement
to take place at the beginning of the project.

E. Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition

1. Consulting Services

(a) List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms.




                                                      46

   1            2          3          4        5          6       7

 Ref. No.  Description Estimated Selection  Review   Expected   Comments
                of       Cost     Method   by Bank   Proposals
           Assignment                       (Prior / Submissio
                                             Post)       n
                                                       Date
S-1       Capacity     US$1.5    Single    Prior     April 2008
          Building for Million   Source
          Procurement




                                    47

                                 Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis

                  BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement


1.       This project is designed to support the sustainability of procurement reforms through improving
         the management and execution of procurement procedures by concentrating on significantly
         improved capacity at all levels of the bureaucracy. The direct benefits envisaged under the project
         would include the more efficient execution, management and supervision of procurement
         procedures with the consequential better use of public resources, more efficient use of budget
         funds and increased aid utilization capacity. The improvement of procurement capacity at agency
         level is expected to result in the short term in procurement agents more able to understand and
         implement procurement strategies commensurate with the Government's needs whilst respecting
         the core principles of competition, transparency, efficiency and accountability. These benefits
         will be felt at both central and local government levels and will be guaranteed in the long term
         through the strengthening of national capacity to continue the capacity building initiative as part
         of the national curriculum for civil servants.         Through the expanded private sector training
         component, the project would also enhance the capacity of the domestic supply, construction and
         consulting industries to participate more effectively in national and international procurement. In
         the longer term, all the above would create a powerful force toward more transparent and
         accountable institutions, resulting in accelerated economic growth and faster poverty reduction.

2.       To gauge the impact of the proposed interventions, the project's indicators will monitor the
         improvement in the purchasing and management capacity of procurement agents at all levels of
         the administration. Policy cohesion will be strengthened through the creation of a central policy
         mechanism which will oversee these and other efficiency improvements including the
         introduction of e-procurement and a more developed monitoring system. Efficiency gains are also
         expected to be achieved through the creation of a specific enforcement procedure. In view of the
         nature of the project (which falls to be considered as a specific improvement in public financial
         management and governance) specific benefits cannot be quantified in monetary terms and no
         calculation of economic rate of return will be attempted. The efficiency gains will become
         apparent at agency level on a contract by contract basis and the performance indicators will be
         designed to measure the specific improvement of procurement agents at the agency level
         indicating the direct efficiency gains to those agencies. Empirical and economic studies on the
         general benefits of improved procurement procedures on prices suggest that they can lower prices
         by on average 30%1.

3.       To ensure sustainability of the reform initiatives, the Government has agreed to provide
         counterpart funding for the reform program, including budgetary support for the creation of a
         central policy mechanism (already agreed with the Royal Civil Service Commission). Cost
         recovery mechanisms for providing training to private sector participants will be reviewed during
         implementation.

4.       The Government will fund the policy unit staff salaries, local taxes and operating expenses. The
         project will have significant fiscal impact on RGoB's overall budget in terms of increased
         efficiency, more effective competition, decrease of contracting costs and timeliness of contract
         execution.




1        Commission Report on the functioning of public procurement markets in the EU: benefits from the
application of EU directives and challenges for the future (03/02/2004).




                                                         48

                             Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues

           BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement



1. There are no pertinent social or environmental issues related to this project. Social equity and
  environmental sustainability may be incorporated in the training programs where appropriate so
  as to always ensure maximum good governance.




                                             49

                           Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision

                 BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement




                                                        Planned                          Actual
PCN review                                             08/17/2007                     08/31/02007
Initial PID to PIC                                           -                         11/15/2007
Initial ISDS to PIC                                          -                         11/16/2007
Authorization to Appraisal/Negotiate                   04/16/2008                      04/29/2008
Negotiations                                           05/09/2008                      05/08/2008
Board/RVP approval                                     06/10/2008
Planned date of effectiveness                          07/10/2008
Planned date of mid-term review                        01/20/2010
Planned closing date                                   06/30/2011


Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project: Ministry of Finance, Royal Institute of
Management, Royal Civil Service Commission, Royal University of Bhutan, with assistance of the World
Bank.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:


Name                                                  Title                                Unit
Dimitri De Pues                                       TTL                                SARPS
Debabrata Chakraborti                      Sr. Procurement Specialist                    SARPS
Manvinder Mamak                      Sr. Financial Management Specialist                 SARFM
Peter Armin Trepte                          Procurement consultant                       external
Saeed Ahmed Rana                         Project Preparations Specialist                  QAG
Thao Le Nguyen                                Sr. Financial Officer                      LOAFC
Philip Beauregard                               Country Lawyer                           LEGES



Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
    1. Bank resources: $41,203
    2. Trust funds: $0
    3. Total: $41,203

Approval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: $3,000
    2. Annual supervision cost: $50,000




                                                     50

                              Annex 12: Documents in the Project File

               BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement



A. Project Implementation Plan

RGoB/CIPS: Capacity building proposal for Bhutan (March 2007)

B. Bank Staff Assessments

World Bank: BTOR & AM (September 2005) ­ Procurement assessment of Bhutan
World Bank: BTOR & AM (January 2006) ­ Policy dialogue on procurement reforms
World Bank: BTOR & AM (April 2006) ­ Creation of procurement reform agenda
World Bank: BTOR & AM (August 2006) ­ Start of procurement reform work
World Bank: BTOR & AM (December 2006) ­ Supervision & continued dialogue on reforms
World Bank: BTOR & AM (February 2007) ­ Supervision & continued dialogue on reforms
World Bank: BTOR & AM (May 2007) ­ Delivery of products & establishment of next FY deliverables
World Bank: BTOR & AM (September 2007) ­ Supervision & continued dialogue on reforms
World Bank: BTOR & AM (December 2007) ­ Supervision of reforms & project pre-Appraisal
World Bank: A policy note assessing the procurement grievance mechanisms of Bhutan (May 2007)
World Bank: Readiness assessment and implementation roadmap report on e-GP (June, 2007)
RGoB: Procurement Manual (March 2007)

C. Other

World Bank: Institutional Capacity Building Project Concept Note, July 2007
World Bank: Project Information Document, November 2007
World Bank: Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet, November 2007
World Bank: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement - Project Appraisal Document
World Bank: Country Assistance Strategy for the Kingdom of Bhutan, November 2005
World Bank: Guidelines ­ Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May `04, revised Oct `06)
World Bank: Guidelines ­ Selection & Employment of Consultants (May `04, revised Oct `06)
WB/OECD/DAC Methodology for Assessment of National Procurement Systems (Version-4, 17 July 06)
RGoB: Ninth Five-Year Development Plan, 2002-2007
RGoB: Bhutan 2020, A Vision of Peace, Happiness, and Prosperity, May 1999
RGoB: Bhutan Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 2004
RGoB: Good Governance Plus ­ in pursuit of gross national happiness, November 2005
RGoB: Position Classification System release from the Royal Civil Service Commission, August 2005
RGoB: Organizational Development (OD) ­ towards excellence in the civil service, (RCSC) April 2007
RGoB: Organizational Development Plan of the Royal Institute of Management, 2005
RGoB: Strategic Framework for the Royal University of Bhutan, June 2003
RGoB: Royal Audit Authority Procurement Audit Manual, 2007




                                                  51

                                              Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits

                            BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement




                                                                                                                              Difference between
                                                                                                                              expected and actual
                                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements

Project ID  FY     Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

P073458     2007   Private Sector Development                      0          8         0         0         0         8.1      0.02

P074114     2004   Education Development Project                    0        31         0         0         0       16.1      17.4

P083169     2004   HIV/AIDS and STI Prevention and Control         0         5.8        0         0         0         2.5      3.5

P087039     2006   Bhutan- Sustainable Land Management             0          0         0         7.7       0         6.6      1.1

P087150     2005   Decentralized Rural Development                  0         7         0         0         0         4.6      2.5

P100332     2007   Second Rural Access Project                     0         10         0         0         0         7.7      2.5

                                                       Total:     0.00      61.8      0.00       7.7       0.00    45.6       27.02        0.00




                                                                   BHUTAN
                                                           STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                        Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                          In Millions of US Dollars


                                                                   Committed                                    Disbursed

                                                                  IFC                                         IFC

        FY Approval   Company                        Loan        Equity      Quasi     Partic.    Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.

        2004          BRCL                           9.41          0.00       0.00       0.00        9.41      0.00       0.00       0.00

                                   Total portfolio:    9.41        0.00       0.00       0.00        9.41      0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                                                Approvals Pending Commitment

                       FY Approval      Company                              Loan       Equity        Quasi       Partic.




                                              Total pending commitment:      0.00        0.00          0.00       0.00




                                                                        52

                                                            Annex 14: Country at a Glance

                              BHUTAN: Institutional Capacity Building Project for Procurement


P OVER T Y and SOC IA L                                                  So uth       Lo w-
                                                                                                  D evelo pment diamo nd*
                                                           B hutan        A sia     inco me
2005
Population, mid-year (millions)                                 0.92       1,470       2,353
                                                                                                                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               870        684          580
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                0.80       1,005       1,364

A verage annual gro wth, 1999-05

Population (%)                                                    2.7        1.7         1.9
                                                                                                  GNI                                     Gross
Labor force (%)                                                   4.5        2.1         2.3
                                                                                                  per                                    primary
M o st recent estimate (latest year available, 1999-05)                                           capita                              enrollment

Poverty (%of population below national poverty line)                 ..        ..          ..
Urban population (% of total population)                           11        29           31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                  64         63          59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                          67         66          80
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                         19        45          39           A ccess to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (%of population)               62         84          75
Literacy (% of population age 15+)                                   ..      60          62
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)                 ..      110         104                     Bhutan

  M ale                                                              ..      116         110                     Low-income group
  Female                                                             ..      105         99

KEY EC ON OM IC R A T IOS and LON G-T ER M T R EN D S

                                                   1985       1995        2004        2005
                                                                                                  Eco no mic ratio s*
GDP (US$ billions)                                  0.18        0.30       0.73         0.84

Gross capital formation/GDP                         42.8        45.7        61.0           ..
                                                                                                                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                   14.7        38.0       28.2            ..
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           7.3        40.8       47.7            ..
Gross national savings/GDP                          -12.4       43.4       53.4            ..

Current account balance/GDP                        -42.2         -11.3      -7.3           ..
                                                                                                  Domestic                           Capital
Interest payments/GDP                                0.0          0.9        0.7           ..
                                                                                                  savings                            formation
Total debt/GDP                                       5.0        35.2        81.4           ..
Total debt service/exports                           0.0         10.9        6.0           ..
Present value of debt/GDP                               ..           ..     81.6           ..
Present value of debt/exports                           ..           ..    299.8           ..
                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                        1985-95 1995-05       2004        2005     2005-09
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          5.7     6.9          7.5        5.8           ..                     Bhutan

GDP per capita                               3.0     3.9          4.9        3.3           ..                     Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                6.8     3.6         17.6          ..          ..




ST R UC T UR E o f the EC ON OM Y
                                                   1985       1995        2004        2005
                                                                                                  Gro wth o f capital and GD P (%)
(%of GDP)
                                                                                                  45
Agriculture                                         44.6        33.6       25.8            ..
Industry                                            23.0        34.4        37.9           ..     30

  M anufacturing                                     5.8         10.8        7.7           ..     15
Services                                            32.3        32.0        36.3           ..
                                                                                                   0

Household final consumption expenditure             69.4         41.0      32.6            ..               00    01    02      03    04    05
                                                                                                 -15
General gov't final consumption expenditure         23.3         18.2       19.8           ..
Imports of goods and services                       50.2        42.9        41.5           ..                       GCF              GDP



                                                1985-95    1995-05        2004        2005
                                                                                                 Gro wth o f expo rts and impo rts (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                          2.9          3.2        2.5           ..    20

Industry                                            10.4          8.4        7.3           ..
  M anufacturing                                    13.2          3.7        4.6           ..     10

Services                                             4.9          8.3        9.5           ..
                                                                                                  0
Household final consumption expenditure             -2.4          1.2       -3.3           ..              00     01    02      03    04    05
General gov't final consumption expenditure          5.2          8.7       10.2           ..    -10
Gross capital formation                              7.0         14.7       10.7           ..
                                                                                                                 Exports            Imports
Imports of goods and services                        6.5          7.0        9.4           ..


Note: 2005 data are preliminary estimates.

This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.

* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
  be incomplete.




                                                                                      53

                                                                                                                                 Bhutan

P R IC ES and GOVER N M EN T F IN A N C E
                                               1985      1995      2004     2005
                                                                                       Inflatio n (%)
D o mestic prices
(%change)                                                                              8

Consumer prices                                    1.9      9.5      4.6         ..    6

Implicit GDP deflator                             6.9       8.1      5.5      7.0      4

Go vernment finance                                                                    2

(%of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                      ..    19.2      31.5        ..              00     01      02        03     04       05
Current budget balance                               ..    -0.3      15.9        ..
                                                                                                        GDP deflator             CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              ..   -18.1       1.7        ..


T R A D E
                                               1985      1995      2004     2005
                                                                                       Expo rt and impo rt levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                17       70       158         ..
                                                                                       300
 Agricultural products                               ..      12         ..       ..
 Electricity                                         ..     23          ..       ..
                                                                                       200
 M anufactures                                       ..       ..        ..       ..
Total imports (cif)                                70       97       245         ..
 Food                                                ..     38          ..       ..    100

 Fuel and energy                                     ..     13          ..       ..
 Capital goods                                       ..       ..        ..       ..      0

                                                                                               99   00     01      02     03    04     05
Export price index (2000=100)                        ..       ..        ..       ..
Import price index (2000=100)                        ..       ..        ..       ..                Exports             Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                            ..       ..        ..       ..




B A LA N C E o f P A YM EN T S
                                               1985      1995      2004     2005
                                                                                       C urrent acco unt balance to GD P (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                      34       85       189         ..      0

Imports of goods and services                     109      125       284         ..           99    00    01      02      03   04     05

Resource balance                                  -74      -40       -95         ..     -5

Net income                                          0        -2       -16        ..
Net current transfers                               0        8        58         ..    -10


Current account balance                           -74      -34       -53         ..
                                                                                       -15
Financing items (net)                              68       48          ..       ..
Changes in net reserves                             6       -14         ..       ..
                                                                                       -20

M emo :
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)               ..     121      399         ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                 12.4     32.4      45.4      44.6


EXT ER N A L D EB T and R ESOUR C E F LOWS
                                               1985      1995      2004     2005
                                                                                       C o mpo sitio n o f 2004 debt (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                9      106       593         ..
  IBRD                                              0         0        0        0
  IDA                                                1      23        60       63                                     B: 60


Total debt service                                  0       10        12         ..
  IBRD                                              0         0        0        0
  IDA                                               0         0         1        1                                               D: 109

Composition o f net resource flows
  Official grants                                   7       39        41         ..
  Official creditors                                6         5       86         ..
  Private creditors                                 0       -2         0         ..
                                                                                             E: 424
  Fo reign direct investment (net inflows)          0        0          1        ..
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)                    0         0        0         ..

World Bank program
  Commitments                                       9         0        0         ..
                                                                                        A - IBRD                             E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                                      1        1        9        8       B - IDA     D - Other multilateral   F - Private
  Principal repayments                              0        0          1        1      C - IM F                             G - Short-term
  Net flows                                          1        1        9        8
  Interest payments                                 0        0          1        1
  Net transfers                                      1        1        8        7


Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.                                                         9/15/06




                                                                            54

MAP SECTION


                       89°E                                                                                   90°E                                                                     91°E


                                                                                                                                                       0  10    20         30             40 Kilometers                                                BHUTAN

                                                                                                                                                       0     10               20                30 Miles                                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DZONGKHAG (DISTRICT) CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL

                             BHUTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DZONGKHAG (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                              H                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                     im  a
                                                                                                   G A S A                la y a                                                                                                                                     92°E
        28°N                                                                                                          Chu          M  ou                                                                                                                                              28°N
                                                                                                                                         nt a     in                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cona
                                                                                                Gasa
                                                                                                Gasa           Pho                                   s

                                                                                                                                                                               ThunkarThunkar
                       To
                      Gamba
                                                                                                                                                                                          L H U E N T S E                      TRASHITRASHI
                                                                                                   PUNAKHAPUNAKHA       W A N G D U E                                                                                         'YANGTSE'YANGTSE
                                                                  THIMPHUTHIMPHU                                       P H O D R A N G      Mangde     B U M T H A N G
                                              ShingkarapShingkarap                                   Punakha
                                                                                                     Punakha
                                                                                      Tango
                                                                                      ango                                                                                                      Lhuentse
                                                                                                                                                                                                Lhuentse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Trashi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ashi
                                                                                      ChariChari                                                                       Tang
                                                                                                                                                                       ang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'Yangtse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'Yangtse
                                                 P A R O                                                                                                                                                      Chu
                                                                                       LobesaLobesa                                                                                                      ruuuK
                                  Haa                                                                                                              Trongsa
                                                                                                                                                   rongsa    Jakar
                                                                                                                                                             Jakar                                       K
                                     Chu                 ParoParo                                                                                                                                                                  Kulong Chu
                                                                                         THIMPHUTHIMPHU
                                     HaaHaa       Paro Chu                                                 Wangdue
                                                                                                              ngdue
                                                                                  Khasadrapchu
                                                                                  Khasadrapchu
                                 H A A
                        Torsa                                                                          Sankosh                         T R O N G S A
                                                                                                                                                                                          Lingmithang
                                                                                                                                                                                          Lingmithang              MongarMongar              Trashigang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rashigang

                                                                                                         KisonaKisona                                      Zhemgang
                                                                                                                                                           Zhemgang               Bumthang                                                    T R A S H I G A N G
                                                                                                                                                                                                M O N G A R                      Wamrong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     amrong
                Tendru
                  ndru                                                                                                                                     Yebilaptsha
                                                                                                                                                            ebilaptsha
                                                                                        DAGANADAGANA
                                                    Chhukha
                                                    Chhukha                                                                                                                                                              Manas
                   S A M C H I
        27°N                                                                   WangChu                 Daga
                                                                                                       Daga
                                                                                                                          Damphu
                                                                                                                          Damphu                                                                                   PEMA-PEMA-                          SAMDRUPSAMDRUP                 27°N
                                                                                                                                      S A R PA N G            Z H E M G A N G                                    Pemagatshel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pemagatshel


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JONGKHARJONGKHAR
                                                         C H H U K H A                                                                                                   Tongsa                                   GATSHEATSHEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GATSHEL

                                 SamtseSamtse     PheuntsholingPheuntsholing                         T S I R A N G                                           PankaPanka
                                                                                                                         Sarpang
                                                                                                                         Sarpang                                               Chu                                                                                    DaifamDaifam
                                                                                                                                                                                          PanbangPanbang                                     Samdrup
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Samdrup
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NganglamNganglam                     Jongkha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jongkha



                                                                                                                                To                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                              Goalpare       To
                                                                                                                                          Goalpare                                                                                            Guahati
                                                                                To
                                                                            Alipur Duar


                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                          IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
MA                                                                                                                                                                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                33373R
  Y
   2007
                      89°E                                                                                    90°E                                                                        91°E

