Report No. 1236b-BO                                                          FL            COPY
Appraisal of a Small Mining                                                  FILCOPY
Development Project Bolivia
September 1, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. lts contents may not
otherwise be disciosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
All currency amounts are quoted in Pesos
Bolivianos ($b) and US Dollars (US$)
$b  1.00     =      US$0.050
$b 20.00     =      US$1.00
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BAMIN      -     Banco Minero de Bolivia
BISA       -     Banco Industrial S.A.
COMIBOL    -     Corporacion Minera Boliviana
CONEPLAN   -     Ministerio de Coordinacion y Planeamiento Económico
EMUSA      -     Empresa Minera Unificada, S.A.
ERR        -     Economic Rate of Return
GEOBOL     -     Geological Survey of Bolivia
HIID       -     Harvard Institute of International Development
MMM        -     Mínistry of Mines and Metallurgy
SERMIN     -     Servicio Minero de Bolivia
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION   ...................       ....-1.......       iii
I.    INTRODUCTION       .........................................           1
II.    THE MINING SECTOR ..........    ........................               1
A.    The Bank Group's Participation in the Sector   ....              1
B.    Contribution to the Economy .................       ....         2
C.   Sectoral Structure ...................         ........ ..        2
D.    Development Constraints and Prospects ...........                5
E.    Policy Reforms ......         ..........................         5
F.   Financing of Mining    .           ......................         6
III.    THE PROJECT ..........................................                 9
A.    General .......      ........................                    9
Objectives and Composition ...............                    9
Cost Estimates ................................              10
Sources of Financing ...........      ..     .............   10
Project Execution ............      ..     ...............    11
B.    Small Mining Credit Program ........ ..           ...........    11
General Features  .............     ..     ...............    11
Financial Interm_aiary:  BAMIN ........ ........    13
C.    Assistance to GEOBOL .....  .........          ..............    16
Objectives and Past Performance ....... ........    16
Proposed Project ..........................                  18
Program Costs               .       .        ......          ......  19
D.    Technical Assistance Program ........ .. ..........    20
Planning Assistance ........... ..          ..............    20
Cadastral Survey ............. ..          ...............    22
Technical Assistance to BAMIN ........ .........    23
IV.    PROPOSED LOAN ........................................                24
A.    General Description .............................               24
Amount and Terms ..............................    24
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Messrs. J.Z. Mirski, and N. Santiago of LAC Projects Dept., DFC, which visited
Bolivia in November-December 1976. The mission was assisted by Messrs. P.
Knotter of LAC Projects Dept. DFC; R. Kanchuger and J. Richter of LAC Programs
Dept.; and R. McDowell and R. Rodger of the Industrial Projects Dept.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
Procurement   ....................................   24
Disbursements   .................   .................  25
B.   Benefits and Risks ...............................   25
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................   27
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.  Principal Minerals Produced by Small Mines
2.   GEOBOL's Prefeasibility Studies
3.   Banco Minero de Bolivia (BAMIN)
Table 1:  Analysis of Loans Made
Table 2:  Past and Projected Balance Sheet
Table 3:  Past and Projected Profit and Loss Statements
Table 4:  Projected Sources and UIses of Funds.
Table 5:  Total of Loans:  Current, in Arrears, and Rescheduled
Table 6:  Summnary of Loans Written Off
Table 8:  Projected Disbursements of the Credit Department
4.   Policy Statement of BAIIN
5.  GEOBOL:  Organization Diagram of the Office of the Inventory of
Small Mines
6.   (a)  Assistance to GEOBOL (foreign content)
(b) Assistance to GEOBOL (local content)
7.   Planning Assistance to MDMI:  Cost Estimates
8.   Cadastral Survey:  Cost Estimates
9.   BAMIN:  Technical Assistance.  Cost Estimates
10.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
i.        This report appraises a project for the development of the small
mining sector in Bolivia, consisting of a supervised credit program, survey
of small mines and technical assistance to participating institutions.  Its
overall cost is estimated at US$18.2 i,illion equivalent.  The proposed Bank
loan of US$12.0 million,Yo the Government would cover the project's estimated
foreign exchange costs.- It ís the third Bank Group financing for the mining
sector but the first one for small mining. Of the total loan amount, US$9.0
million would be relent to the Banco Minero de Bolivia (BAMIN) for financing
mining subprojects; US$1.9 million would be used for equipment and technical
assistance to the Bolivian Geological Service (GEOBOL) to continue the survey
of small mines, including preinvestment studies, and provide technical assist-
ance to small miners; and US$1.1 million would be used for technical assistance
to the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy (MMM) in policy planning and cadastral
survey and to BAMIN in project evaluation and supervision. To finance the proj-
ect's local costs, BAMIN and its loan benefíciaries would provide, in equal
parts, an equivalent of about US$4.0 million, and the Government would contrí-
bute the remaining US$2.1 million.
ii.       Mining has traditionally exerted a dominant influence on the
Bolivian economy; it accounts for 75% of merchandise exports and 15% of the
government revenue. Being capital intensive, the mining sector employs only
3% of the labor force, but several hundred thousand Bolivians depend on it for
their livelihood. Mining operations in Bolivia are carried out in both the
public and the private sector, the latter consisting of medium and small mining.
About 58% of mining exports come from the state-owned Bolivian Mining
Corporation (COMIBOL), which is beset by serious problems requiring difficult
political decisions. Medium mining, comprising 31 members of the Association
of Medium Miners, is the most efficient segment of the sector and accounts
for 22% of mining exports. The rest of the private sector is called small
mining. It consists of about 2,000 operating units, varying in size from
family operations to companies the size of medium mining enterprises. Some
small mines are organízed in cooperatives.
iii.      Small mines are rather primitive, have low productivity, and carry
out little exploration, mainly because their owners have no access to credit
and technical know-how. The entire production of small mining accounts for
only 20% of mining exports, but the subsector provides 50% of mining employ-
ment. Many owners of small mines live at the bare subsistence level. Health
and safety standards in small mines are usually very low. Small mining
presents economic as well as social and political problems, whose solution
would require sustained assistance. All past efforts to inject capital and
ad hoc technical assistance have failed.
1/ Plus US$100,000 which is available from the balance of IDA credit
No. 455-BO.



- ii -
iv.       Recent developments in the mining sector have been disappointing.
Even apart from temporary adverse effects of deteriorating market conditions
for major minerals since 1975, the sector's contribution to GDP has been de-
clining for some time, reflecting the existence of deep-seated structural
problems. These include inadequate exploration, undercapitalization and in-
sufficient maintenance of the existing mines, specially small ones, and an
excessive dependence on tin mining. Past political instability, adverse
miníng policies, and a virtual lack of long-term credit have discouraged
mining investment and have been responsible for the current situation.
v.        The Government is determined to resolve some of the sectoral prob-
lems by initiating better planning and new policies aimed at more equitable
mining taxes, establishing a central fund to finance mining exploration, and
opening public lands for joint exploitation by public and private interests.
Because of its economic and social importance, small mining is naturally a
major concern of the Government. The proposed loan would assist the Govern-
ment's mining policy by strengthening the economic evaluation and planning
capacity of MMM and its agencies. It would specifically assist small mining
by financing technical assistance and coveríng foreign exchange costs of
BAMIN's subprojects, which could not be prepared or financed at this time
wíthout Bank participation.
vi.       Established in 1936 as an autonomous public institution to promote
míning development in Bolivia, BAMIN performs two major functions - provision
of credit and marketing of minerals - both traditionally oriented towards the
small mining sector. It has a history of inefficient operations. In the
past, its operations have often been influenced by political considerations,
resulting in a gradual deterioration of BAMIN's loan portfolio and its decapi-
talization.  Most of BAMIN's portfolio is made up of small mining loans of
less than US$50,000 each, mostly for short-term working capital. It includes
some loans to medium miners, made mostly from special foreign funds. A sub-
stantial amount of outstanding loans, mostly derived from past advances on
deliveries of minerals and now included in the Trading Department's portfolio,
are uncollectible and should be written off or are overdue and would require
legal action. However, despite the attitude of many small miners who seem to
consider BAMIN as a welfare institution, collection of recently made loans has
been reasonably good, resulting in a modest return of about 2.2% on the Credit
Department's equity in 1975.after taxes and sizeable provisions for portfolio
losses.
vii.      In preparation for the proposed loan, the Government has strength-
ened its membership on BAMIN's Board of Directors to reduce the past influence
of private mining interests; agreed to divide BAMIN's assets and liabilities
among the Credit and Trading Departments, each of which would have separate
equity resources; and offered to contribute US$2.0 million additional capital
and to convert a $b 60 million loan from the Central Bank loan into BAMIN's
equity. These government actions, together with BAMIN's adoption of a satis-
factory credit policy, upgrading of its technical office, and contracting
external auditors and hiring consultants to strengthen the management control
system should result in a much stronger organization and financial position of
BAMIN. Although BAMIN cannot as yet be considered for a direct Bank loan, it can



- Iii -
serve as a channel for Bank funds, mainly because, with some technical assist-
ance. it is expected to appraise and supervise mining projects satisfactorily.
viii.     BAMIN would receive the loan funds from the Government in U$ dollars
at the current interest charged by the Bank (presently 8.9% p.a.), and relend
them to small mliners, also in US dollars, at an interest rate of not less than
12% p.a. (now the maximum legal rate on foreign official funds). The Govern-
ment would assume the cross currency risk between US dollars and the curren-
cies disbursed by tite Bank, at a fee of 1/4% p.a. to be paid by subloan
beneficiarles. With other fees and charges, the effective borrowing rate
v7ould be about 13% p.a. Subloans would be normally for 8 to 13 years, includ-
ing a grace period not to exceed 3 years. BAMIN would repay the borrowed
amount on the basis of the composite of amortization schedules applicable to
subloans.
ix.       As a result of the proposed loan and the recently increased lending
rates on BAMIN½s peso funds, return on the Credit Department's equlty should
rise to about 4% by 1979, within satisfactory debt/equity and current ratios
and an acceptable debt-service coverage. The aggregate economie rate of
reLurn on BAMIN's subprojects would be about 20%, which is satisfactory but
iower than tlhe 40% return expected on subloans to medium miners financed under
IDA Credit No. 455-DO and again under a Bank loan approved in June, 1976. The
difference    thsse returns is due to costly initial installations and equip-
ment which are niecessary in small mines, while medium mining projects are
rnostly for expansion and modernization.
X.        Wlile the benefits from the survey of small mines and the technical
assistance program are not suscep-Ible to quantitative measurement, they
WGic.Ui d be realized in the form of improved efficiency, increased technical
competence, better sectoral planning and improved performance.
xi.       The project is considered suitable for a loan of US$12.0 million
to Bolivia to be repaid within 15 years., including up to 3 years of grace, on
the basis of the aggregate of: (a) the level principal payment schedule for
thie UIS$3.0 millaon non-credit portion, and (b) the composite of subloans'
repayment schedules of BAMIN.






1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bolivia, through its Ministry of Mines and
Metallurgy (MMM), has asked the Bank for a loan to help finance a project
for the development of small mining, which would include a credit program,
continued survey of small mines, and technical assistance. The proposed
loan would be the third Bank Group financing of the mining sector in Bolivia,
which began with the US$6.2 million IDA Credit No. 455-BO, of 1974, 1/ and
consisted of three components, namely: a US$5.0 million credit for Banco
Industrial, S.A. (BISA) to help finance the expansion and modernization of
medium-sized mines; US$850,000 for a survey of small mines; and US$350,000
for technical assistance to MMM. All components are being successfully
implemented. BISA's portion is expected to be fully committed this year. A
second operation, complementary to the proposed loan, was approved last June.
It consists of a US$10 million Bank loan to assist BISA's financing of private
mining and industrial enterprises and of an IFC equity investment of up to
US$550,000 to strengthen BISA's capital base.
1.02      The IDA Credit has made a substantial contribution to the Bolivian
mining sector and the economy as a whole. The impact of BISA's mining sub-
loans is reviewed in Staff Project Report No. 1132a-BO dated June 4, 1976.
The importance of the small mining survey carried out under the IDA Credit is
discussed in paras. 3.27 and 3.28, and experience with the technical assist-
ance component of the Credit, in para. 3.38.
1.03     Work on the project began in 1972.  Considerable effort and time
was required to make appropriate institutional arrangements to assure an
effective credit program and the necessary technical assistance for small
mines. The preliminary survey of smiall mines, financed under the IDA Credit,
was a crucial step in the project's preparation.
1.04     Following several project preparation missions in 1974-75, the project
was appraised in November/December 1975 by a mission composed of Messrs. J. Z.
Mirski, and N. Santiago, and assisted by Messrs. R. Kanchuger, P. Knotter, R.
McDowell, J. Richter, and R. Rodger, all of the Bank.
II. THE MINING SECTOR
A. The Bank Group's Participation in the Sector
2.01     The Bank Group has been active in Bolivia's mining sector since the
early 1970s. The Mining and Metallurgical Sector Report No. PI-14 of 1972
made recommendations regarding the Government's mining development policies
1/   Report No. 276a-BO



-2-
and institutions and its stated investment priorities. The technical assis-
tance component of IDA Credit No. 455-BO helped the Government ínitiate re-
forms in crucial mining policy and administrative areas such as exploration,
foreign investment, taxation and credit. A follow-up mining sector mission
visited Bolivia in early 1976. Its report, which is under preparation, will
focus on development prospects of the sector in light of major policy issues,
including taxation, investment and marketing, and the Government's forth-
coming 1976-80 development plan. The proposed project, aimed at the small
mining sector development, is an integral part of Bank Group financial and
technical assistance to Bolivia's mining sector.
B. Contribution to the Economy
2.02     Mining is one of the most important economic activities and the
principal export sector of the Bolivian economy. Its share in GDP, 13% during
1968-75, is second only to agriculture. Over the same period, the sector
accounted for 75% of merchandise exports and provided 15% of Central Govern-
ment revenues. Among a wide range of minerals produced, tin is still the
most important. Bolivia is the second largest producer of tin in the world.
2.03     Mining in Bolivia is expensive due to a combination of factors, in-
cluding low level of technology, high cost of transport, and inadequate tax-
ation. Almost the entire mining output is exported, mainly in the form of
concentrates. Except for bismuth and about one third of the tin and antimony
production, minerals are not refined in Bolivia, and foreign refining fees and
transport costs reduce Bolivian earnings from mineral exports by about 20%.
At the same time, import requirements are very high, approaching 80% of fixed
investments and 70% of the overall investment costs of mining projects.
2.04     Due to generally capital-intensive production methods, the number
of persons employed in mining is rather low, some 70,000, equivalent to about
3% of the labor force. Despite this, the mining sector exerts a significant
influence on Bolivia's economy and political environment. Mining workers are
well organized and, in the large- and medium-sized mines, have succeeded in
attaining high wages by Bolivian standards and generous social benefits.
Despite these improvements, however, working and living conditions affecting
the miners' well-being, particularly in small mines, are primitive and still
far below the standards of more advanced nations.
C. Sectoral Structure
2.05     Mining enterprises in Bolivia fall into three basic categories, which
are listed below together with their relative contributions to sectoral ex-
ports, employment and fiscal revenue.



-3-
Subsector Shares in Mining Exports, Employment and Taxes, 1965-75
(Percent)
Mining           Mining           Mining
Exports       Employment          Taxes
Large Mining (COMIBOL)           58              40               57
Medium Mining                    22              10               28
Small Mining                     20              50               15
2.06      Public (large) mining.  The dominant entity is the state-owned mining
corporation, COMIBOL, which owns and manages 14 large nationalized mines and
accounts for over one half of mining exports and taxes, and over one third of
mining employment. COIIIBOL is beset, however, by serious problems. Inflexi-
bility in decision making, resulting from over-centralization and extremely
difficult labor relations, has led to inefficient use of labor, with only about
35% of the labor force actually employed underground, as against over 60% in
the medium mines. Under pressure from the Central Government and organized
labor substantial amounts have been spent on social welfare programs, while
essential operational and maintenance expenditures have been neglected. Only
ver.y recently has there been some new investment in mine development and ore
processing; the latter has resulted in increased recovery ratios and higher
concentration, des.ite a declining metal content of ores. Nevertheless,
COMIBOL's onerational costs continue to exceed those of medium mines. A long-
term solution to COMIBOL's problems would involve difficult political decisions.
2.07      Medium mining.  This subsector consists of 31 private firms. 1/ In
order to be regarded as a medium mining enterprise, a company has to have:
(a) a minimum share capital of US'100,000 equivalent; (b) a minimum monthly
production of 5.5 fine tons of tin or wolfram, or 20 tons of antimony or zinc,
or 15 tons of copper or lead; (c) adequate technical and managerial organi-
zation; and (d) membership in the National Association of Medium Miners. 2/
There is no upper size limit for private mining companies. Medium mining
firms represent the most efficient segment of the sector. They are respon-
sible for 70% of the Bolivian production of antimony and 50% of tungsten -
minerals with strong markets - their output having grown at an average rate of
7.1% between 1960 and 1970. They also provide relatively good working and
living conditions for their workers.
2.08      Small mining.  According to a recently completed inventory of the
small mining subsector, there are 5,240 mining properties; their distribution
according to principal minerals produced is shown in Annex 1. Of these, only
some 2,000 to 3,000 mines are operating at any one time, the actual number
depending on conditions of the international metal markets. Small mining
operations vary in size from one-family and part-time activities to enterprises
1/   As of May 15, 1976.
2/   Supreme Decree No. 5674 of December 30, 1960.



- 4 -
comparable ín output and employment to smaller medium mines. Some of the small
mines are organized in cooperatives, often working under marginal condítions.
The entire production of the small mines, mostly sold to Banco Minero de
Bolivia (BAMIN), accounted for about 20% of mining exports and 15% of mining
taxes between 1965 and 1975. On the other hand, small mines provide about
50% of mining employment, and livelihood for about 150,000 persons.
2.09      In general, small mines operations are rather primitive, have low
productivity and carry out little or no exploration. Business records, if
any, are thin and there is vírtually no explorational or operational planning.
Normally, only the richest and most easily accessible portions of deposits
are exploited, often in a way which makes the later use of more advanced
techniques more difficult or impossible. The major deficiencies of small
mines are ]ow level of technology, poor management, and little or no capital.
The problem ís compounded because small mines are widely dispersed over
Bolivia's geographically difficult terrain and because they mostly produce
tin (41%), for which demand has not been strong, and complex minerals (25%),
which are costly to recover. Many owners of small mines live at the bare
subsistence level, often substantially below the living conditions of the
workers in COMIBOL's mines. Health and safety standards in small mines are
usually very low.
2.10      Small mnining presents economic as well as social and political
problems. While some small mines can become financially viable once a
significant injection of capital resources and technical assistance is pro-
vided, many others are too small or have too poor ore reserves to justify
additional investment and are likely to disappear or be merged into larger
units.
2.11      Past efforts to inject capital and ad hoc technical assistance
have achieved little more than to emphasize the existing problemis of the
small mining sector. Their solution would require sustained assistance
ín exploration, mine planning and development, investment financing for
potentially efficient units, and in improved processing (beneficiation) of
ore, to ninimize loss of mineral values.
2.12      The Bank's lending program for Bolivia has been designed to help
the Government's efforts in these specific areas. Exploration assistance
was initiated under IDA Credit No. 455-BO and would be continued under the
proposed loan. Since credit to small miners can only be effective if it is
supported by substantial technical assistance in the planning and implemen-
tation of mine development, the latter would be obligatory under BAMIN's
supervised lending program.
2.13      The extent of beneficiation applied by most small mines to upgrade
the extracted ore is very limited. Usually, crushing by boulders and cobbing
(hand-picking) are the typical concentration methods used and only some
occasional crude washing and gravity separation systems are constructed with
whatever materials available. The net return to the miner under these condí-
tions is usually small. Thus, concentration plants would likely be an inherent



- 5 -
part of many subprojects to be considered for the development financing
of BAMIN. In addition, the Governnent has been considering the establishment
of regional plants which would provide facilities to concentrate or upgrade
mineral ore produced by small miners. Some preinvestment studies have been
prepared but they would have to be updated and improved to be suitable for
financing.
D. Development Constraints and Prospects
2.14      After relatively fast expansion during the mid-1960s, mining pro-
duction in Bolivia has been growing at less than 2% per year, and the sector's
contribution to the growth of GDP amounted to only 5% during 1968-74. At
present, mining is just recovering from a serious down-turn in 1975, caused by
depressed world metal markets. Following the price boom in late 1973-74,
prices of basic metals declined by 13% in 1975; demand for tin, antimony, and
copper was particularly weak. In an attempt to support prices, the Inter-
national Tin Council established export quotas which reduced exportable volumes
to about 75% of their 1974 level. As a result, mining value-added in Bolivia
contracted in 1975 by 5%, net exports of minerals fell by 23% from their 1974
peak to an estimated value of US$233 million, and Governnent revenues from
mining were reducea by 20% to just over $b 2 billion. On the other hand,
operating _oSts continued to rise, forcing a number of small mines to close.
2.15      More important than the temporary weakness of the mineral market is
the poor performance of the mining sector over the last decade, reflecting deep-
seated structural problems. Investment has been grossly inadequate for the
development of the existing mines ind for new exploration. Scarcity of
term credit and recurring periods of investment uncertainty have deterred
private investment, encouraging the use of mining profits in other sectors.
As a result, known mineral deposits have been seriously depleted. Partly due
to undercapitalization, health and safety standards in many mines are very
low. Government policies, including an antiquated system of mining taxation
based on gross production value, and the unrealistically low prices set on
rminíng rights ("patentes") have also contributed to worsening the situation.
E. Policy Reforms
2.16      The Government has recognized the need for thorough policy reforms
recommended by the Bank's sectoral mission (para. 2.01), in order to make
private mining in Bolivia more viable. A new mining tax legislation being
considered by the Government 1/ proposes a changeover from the present
production tax to a tax on business pro¡-t, at least for larger firms with
1/   Based on a study by the Harvard Institute for International Development
(HIID) financed under IDA Credit No. 455-BO.



adequate accounts. The proposed tax would largely remove the obstacles to
output and investment growth inherent in the present system, and put mining
taxes on a more equal footing with the rest of the economy. The Government
plans to issue a new mining law by the end of 1976; establish, with foreign
financial assistance, a mineral exploration fund 1/ to provide capital for
exploration activities; open up government-held iands to exploration, domestic
as well as foreign, in partnership with state entities; extend fiscal incen-
tives to investment in ore extraction and processing with the intention of
attracting foreign funds and know-how; intensify training programs for mining
workers; and increase public investment in smelting, refining, and in support-
ing infrastructure for mining. Also, the desirability and methods of diversi-
fying mining production to move away from excessive concentration on tin are
being studied. Small mining is a major concern for the Government since it
represents not only economic but also social and political problems. The
Government has made substantial efforts to rehabilitate BAMIN both finan-
cially and administratively, (para. 3.14) and MDM has been active in coordi-
nating preparation of this project.
2.17     DNany of the prospects for Bolivía's mining sector depend on future
international metal markets, about which Bolivia can do little, and on in-
creased efficiency of operations, to which sound mining policies can signifi-
cantly contribute. The Government's proposed polic.y changes would help to
remove the major obstacles to mining development and to increase the mining
sector' s contribution to public revenues, foreign exchange earnings, and
economic growth. The implementation of these policies would require
strengthening of government institutions, and improvement of the management
and administration of both public and private enterprises. The proposed
project is directed toward these objectives, with special emphasis on small
mining. The role of tin in Bolivian mining and possible diversification
measures are an object of the ongoing economic policy díalogue with the
Government.
F. Financing of Mining
2.18      Availability of credit.  Bolivia's banking system, which consists of
the Central Bank, commercial and several specialized banks, is still at an
early stage of development.  Nevertheless, rising incomes, greater political
stabiiity, and more consistent government policies in recent years have
sparked accelerated financial development, resulting in the formation of
some new banks and fínancial companies.  This development has been rein-
forced by the increase in the share of total credit going to the private
1/   Based on a feasibility study by the US Geological Survey, also financed
under the IDA Credit. Bank participation in the financing of an explora-
tion fund would only be considered after consultation with the Executive
Directors.



sector as rising public revenues due to higher oil prices have reduced the
need for government deficit financing. However, although commercial banks'
resources and their total volume of lending have increased, their average
lending term has fallen to less than one year following the full commitment
of concessionary funds which had been available from foreign assistance
grants and loans. The result is that term financing for investment and
permanent working capital, including private mining, is highly inadequate.
During 1972-75 only about 9% of the total credit went to mining and over
one half of this was used for holding mineral stocks. Because term credit
is scarce, in the absence of a capital market, even the largest of the
mediurm mining companies have difficulties in raising domestic funds for
long-term investment, and roll-over of short-term loans from commercial banks
has been a general practice. BISA, through access to the IDA Credit, has
become a major domestic source of medium- and long-term financing for private
mining, but thus far has reached only a modest number of medium-size projects.
The recently approved Bank loan and IFC equity investment should provide
BISA with additional funds for expansion of the existing mines and develop-
ment of new mining projects, and thus alleviate the scarcity of term credit
in the medium mining subsector.
2.19      MIost small miners have very limited resources, a tight cash flow,
and usually insuff½ibent collateral to qualify for loans from commercial
banks. 1/ "-^ce they cannot invest and remain poor. BAMIN has traditionally
been the main source of finance for small mining. However, due to its
limited resources and predominantly marketing orientation, BAMIN's credit
operations with small mines consist mainly of cash advances for future mineral
deliveries and short-term loans for tools and materials bought from BA1I'Ws
warehouses. The proposed project through its focus on development of
specific mining projects, is expected to improve the traditional pattern of
BAMIN's credit activities and provide access to term financing for a number
of small mining enterprises.
2.20      Interest rates.  Real interest rates in Bolivia have generally
remained positive since the 1959 stabilization program. Between 1959 and
1972, the rate of increase in the La Paz Consumers Price Index 2/ stayed with-
in the range of -1% to 11.5% p.a., and averaged 5.9% p.a. Nominal interest
rates exceeded this average. A spurt of inflation following the 68% peso
devaluation in 1972 made real interest rates highly negative during most of
1973-74 and raised the average rate of inflation in 1970-75 to 20.6% p.a.
In 1975 real interest rates again turned positive as inflation dropped to
7.5% p.a. Since mid-1975 it has declined further. In the long run, inflation
in Bolivia should not exceed the 7% p.a. expected in the industrial countries
with which it trades. 3/
1/   Banks are not allowed to accept mining properties as loan collateral.
2/   The only avallable price index.
3/   Staff estimates, April, 1976.



- 8 -
2.21      In order to mobilize domestic funds for productive uses, interest
rates on savings deposits in commercial banks were raised from 9% to 10% in
1974 and, at the same time, the Central Bank started to guarantee the dollar
value of the savings deposits of individuals. In August 1975, the dollar
guarantee was extended to time deposits, whose interest rates were raised to
10-1/4% for 90-day deposits and up to 11-3/4% for 360-day deposits. 1/ Com-
mercial banks pay up to 9% per annum on US dollar time deposits. Central
Bank regulations permit commercial banks to charge nominal interest of up to
15% per annum on loans made from their own resources. Because of taxes,
commissions and prepayment of the ínterest normally required by banks, the
effective rate to the borrower may exceed 23% on "productive" 2/ peso loans,
and 33% on personal and commercial loans, usually of short-term maturity.
2.22      In comparison to commercial banks, the cost of term loans made by
development institutions, such as BAMIN, is much lower. The maximum lending
rate on development banks' own resources was 13% per annum until early 1976,
when the rate was raised to 15% per annum to conform to the maximum nominal
rate of commercial banks. The need for a rate increase had been discussed
with the Central Bank during project preparation. However, despite the
present nominal equality in peso lending rates between commercial bank
credit and development bank loans, there is still a sizeable difference in
their comparative effective cost. There are no taxes or employees' benefit
feo on development loans. Thus, including a closing fee, the effective cost
of these loans, which may now reach 16% p.a., is still below the effective
interest rates of commercial banks. However, some development institutions,
e.g., BISA, lend their own funds in US dollars, making their clients responsi-
ble for the exchange risk.
2.23      Developrment funds from international organizations may not be re-
lent at more than 12% per annum. Subloans are usually denominated in US
dollars and, after lending fees and commissions, their cost to the borrower
is about 13%ó per annum.  Under the proposed loan, this cost would include
the Bank commitment fee and the Central Bank charge for the cross currency
risk (para. 4.03).
1/   Corporate savers receive the same interest rates but without dollar
guarantee.
2/   Commercial banks are required to lend a portion of their resources for
productive purposes, which only exclude consumption credit and loans to
finance purely commercial transactions.



- 9 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
Objectives and Composition
3.01      The main goal of the Bank program for the small mining sector in
Bolivia is a gradual transformation of small mining units with development
potential into efficient mining enterprises. The specific objective of the
proposed project is the development of some 20 preselected small mining
operations through provlsion of supervised credit with obligatory technical
assistance. In order to assure availability of development credit and tech-.
nical assistance to small miners, and to induce improved sectoral policies,
the project aims at strengthening BAMIN, the selected credit intermediary;
upgrading the technical capabilities of GEOBOL; and providing continuing
assistance to NMDI in sectoral planning, including cadastral survey.
3.02      The proposed project consists of financing the foreign exchange
costs of three separate but complementary components, namely:
(a)  A credit program to assist BAMIN in financing feasibility
dadies and subloans for the preparation, development and
exploitation of small mining projects, preselected on the
basis of GEOBOL's prefeaslbllity studies;
(b) Assistance to GEOBOL:
(i) to continue the survey of small mines through financing
equipment and foreign experts, and to strengthen its capability
in the preparation of prefeasibility studies of mining projects
and provision of comprehensive technical assistance to BAMIN's
credit beneficiaries;
(ii) to strengthen its mineral analysis capacity; and
(c) A technical assistance program composed of:
(i) expert assistance to improve the planning capability
of MMM;
(ii)  equipment and expert assistance to carry out a cadastral
survey of MMM; and
(lii) consulting services and irnpleTents for BAMIN to improve
its project appraisal and supervision capability, and its
management control system, including accounting.



- 10 -
Cost Estimates
3.03      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$18.2 mil-
lion equivalent, of which about US$12.0 million would be in foreign exchange.
Estimated costs of the major project components are shown below:
Project Costs and Sources of Financing
(in US$ millions or equivalent)
Total    Foreign
Local Costs                   Foreign  Project  Exchange
Project Component         Government  BAMIN  Miners  Total    Cost         Costs   Component
(IBRD)                (%)
Small Mining Credit               -     2.00   2.00    4.00    9.00        13.00       69
Assistance to GEOBOL           1.57         -      -    1.57    1.87 /1   3.43         55
Technical Assistance           0.48     0.09       -    0.57    1.13        1.70       65
Planning Office (MMfl)      0.12         -       -    0.12    0.37 /2   0.49 /2   75
Cadastral Survey (MMM)       0.36         -      -    0.36    0.48        0.84       57
BAMIN                           -     0.09       -    0.09    0.28        0.37       75
Total Costs             2.05      2.09   2.00    6.14   12.00        18.13 /2   66
% of Project Costs    11.3%    11.5%  11.0%   33.8%   66.2%    100.0%
/1   Includes technical assistance.
/2   Reduced by US$100,000, which is available from the uncommitted balance
of the existing IDA Credit 455-BO.
The amount of direct investment required by the credit program is based on
a tentative pipeline of subprojects resulting from GEOBOL's preliminary inves-
tigations.  While some of these subprojects may be withdrawn or discontinued
before they reach the investment stage, it is expected that they will be
replaced by other subprojects, as GEOBOL's staff would gradually be gaining
experLence and improving its efficiency. Similarly, while some changes in the
investment costs of individual subprojects are likely to occur after further
preinvestment studies, these changes should not affect the present estimates
of overall costs to any considerable extent. The cost of other project com-
ponencs are based on the estimated prices of the necessary equipnent and
services, which are considered to be reasonable and should not change sub-
stantially during the procurement period.
Sources of Financing
3.04      Except for the proposed loan of US$12.0 million, no other external
financing of the project is enjisaged. The Bank loan would cover the esti-
mated foreign exchange component representing about 66% of the total project
costs, 1/ after the utilization of the uncommitted balance under the technical
1/   This closely corresponds to the estimated foreígn exchange component of
investment in the Bolivian miniíng sector (para. 2.03).



- 11 -
assistance portion of IDA Credit No. 455-BO. Local costs of the projects
would be shared among MMM, BAMIN and the credit beneficiaries. The necessary
budgetary allocation to GEOBOL to continue the 1976-77 program of the small
mining survey was approved in January, 1976 and is now in effect. During
negotiations the Government confirmed its intention to finance thls program
beyond 1977. Finally, the local lnvestment costs of subprojects would be
covered by project beneficiaries (at least 10%) and by BAMIN's own resources,
which would be adequately increased through an additional governnent contri-
bution to BAMIN's paid-in capital (para. 3.25).
Project Execution
3.05      MJIM would have overall project responsibility.  It would assure
coordination among the participating agencies, oversee the progress of the
individual project components, administer the technical assistance contracts
for its planning office, and carry out the cadastral survey. GEOBOL, through
its small mining survey unit, would be directly responsible for preselecting
potential mining subprojects, carrying out prefeasibillty studies, assisting
BAMIN in the administration of feasibility studies, and helping the benefici-
aries of BAMIN's subloans in project execution and administration of their
enterprises, either directly or through arrangements with other institutions
or consultants. BAMIN would be in charge of the mining credit component of
the proposed loan, and would be responsible for the appraisal, financing and
supervisi,n of subloans for mining development; it would also administer and
evaluate feasibility studies.
3.06      In view of the project's complex nature and the need for substantial
technical assistance, project implementation would call for a large manpower
input, including frequent field vLsits, both of the Bank's regional and central
projects staff and of a consultant to be retained by the Bank. The latter
should, on the Bank's behalf, assure close coordination and supervision of the
project for up to six months per year, over a two-year period.
B. Small Mining Credit Program
General Features
3.07      Subloans.  BAMIN can provide term financing for up to 15 years.
However, no subloan is expected to be made for more than 13 years including a
reasonable grace period not to exceed 3 years. Thus, assuming a two year
commitment period, the 15 year maturity of the proposed Bank loan would be
sufficient. The maximum amount of individual subproject financing would be
limited to 25% of the Credit Departeen`'s equity; this limitation is included
in BAMIN's Policy Statement (Annex 4) which was confirmed during negotiations.
BAMIN would relend Bank funds in US dollars, at an interest rate of not less
than 12% p.a. (now the maxiinum legal rate on foreign official funds), plus a
commitment fee (at least 1% p.a. on the undisbursed balance), a one-time
commission of 1/4% for the employees' fund and a closing fee of 1/4%, and a
fee of 1/4% p.a. to the Government to cover the cross currency risk between
the US dollar and the currencies disbursed by the Bank (para. 4.03).



- 12 -
3.08      The above fees and charges would raise the effective cost of BAMIN
subloans to about 13% p.a. Since BAMIN would obtain Bank funds at the current
Bank interest rate (now 8.9% p.a.), it would have an interest spread of 3.1%
(plus a 1/4% closing fee). This would not cover administrative costs of the
Credit Department, which are about 4% of the projected total assets. It is
acceptable only because BAMIN's overall gross financial margin exceeds 4% due
to concessionary financing obtained in the past (Annex 3, para. 30). The
feasibility of Increasing BAMIN's relending rate and/or closing fees and re-
reducing its administrative costs was examinned during negotiations and would
be followed up closely during supervision.
3.09      _ubprojects.  The credit program has been designed to serve small
miners who have economie and administrative potential for growth, but who
would need, in addition to credit, substantial help in the preparation and
execution of their projects. Thus, technical assistance by GEOBOL or,
although unlikely, by another qualified party, would be an obligatory corol-
lary to BAMIN subloans. Some larger operations of the small mining subsector
would be encouraged to form joint ventures and¡or look for other or additional
sources of funds, such as BISA, consortium-type financing, or foreign partners.
The participation in the credit program would be limited to subprojects
preselected on the basis of GEOBOL's prefeasibility studies. Every applicant
for BAMIN's credit would also be required to submit a feasibility study,
prepared by a qualified consultant who would be a¿ceptable to a technical
committee of BAMIN in which MMM and GEOBOL would participate.
3.10      A tentative list of GEOBOL's prefeasibility studies, most of which
are expected to result in BAMIN's subloans, are presented in Annex 2. It
includes 20 prefeasibility studies which have been or would be completed by
mid-1978, and which should be financed over a two-year jeriod starting in the
first half of 1977. Most of these projects are in a pieliminary stage and
only 4 prefeasibiiity studies were completed by July 1976. However, the fitst
feasibility studies should be ready by the time of loin effectiveness. The
preliminary investment figure for this tentative project list is US$14.7
million. This includes one large mine which, due to BAMIN's exposure limita-
tion could be only partially financed under the project. Accountiig for the
above, and considering likely adjustments to the present estimates as a result
of further studies, the amount of US$9.0 million should be sufficient to cover
about 70% of the investment costs of the mines expected to participate in
the project, which corresponds quite closely to the foreign exchange compo-
nent of míning investment in Bolivia.
3.11      Although BAMIN would finance only small mining projects their
average investment cost would be about US$600,000, which is only slightly
lower than the average investment cost of medium mining projects financed by
BISA. This is explained by the fact that small mining subprojects would need
basic investment in studiej, mine installations and equipment, which are
costly, and which are not required in the case of most BISA subprojects which
are generally for expansion and modernization of existing mines.



- 13 -
3.12      Since BAMIN has no experience in project appraisal it would be
required initially to submit all its subloan proposals for Bank approval.
It is expected, however, that, after the Bank's review of the first five
sub-projects, BAMIN would have gained sufficient experience to permit setting
of a free limit of about US$350,000. This amount should assure Bank review
of a representative sample of subprojects totalling about 50% of the credit
portion of the loan.
Financial Intermediary: BAMIN 1/
3.13      General.  BAMIN was established  in 1936 as an autonomous public
institution, to promote mining development  in Bolivia.  As an agency of MMM,
it performs two major functions: provision of credit and marketing of
minerals, both oriented to the small mining sector.  BAMIN has a history of
inefficient operations and, in the past, its operations have often been
influenced by political considerations. This resulted in deterioration
of BAMIN's loan portfolio and its decapitalization.
3.14      In late 1972 the Government decided to rehabilitate BAMIN and
asked the Bank for assistance. Over the last 3 years the Bank has maintained
close contact with r "MIN's management and, as part of the project preparation,
has provided it with technical and administrative advice. As a result,
several steps were taken to strengthen BAMIN's financial position and organi-
zation. However, in spite of substantial improvements since 1973, further
financial and administrative adjustments are needed before BAMIN can estab-
lish itself as a financially sound and efficient development credit insti-
tution.  In the meantime,   it can serve as channel for Bank funds mainly
because, with some technical assisLance, it can be expected to undertake
satisfactory appraisal of mining subprojects. Considering the unique role of
BAMIN in the small mining sector and the Government's determination to streng-
then BAIIN's development banking function within the framework of the mining
development policies, the institution-building program is a key aspect of the
proposed project.
3.15      Management and staff.  Although BAMIN is fully government-owned,
its nine-man Board of Directors includes the Minister of Mines and Metallurgy,
as its president, three private and four public members, and a representative
of the union of BAMIN's employees. In the past, the private sector directors,
representing mining interests, have exerted excessive influence in the Board's
decisions. This has prompted a proposal to revise BAMIN's statutes to increase
to five the number of public sector directors and to nine the total member-
ship of the Board, which is satisfactory to the Bank. The present general
manager of BAMIN has been in charge since January 1975; he has the necessary
professional background and administratFive experience. The quality of BAMIN's
professional staff, which totals 36 (15 of worom work for the Credit Department),
1/   For a detalled description and analysis of BAMIN, see Annex 3.



- 14 -
needs upgrading. The general manager is fully aware of the situation and
would make every effort to assure that the staff participate in professional
courses both in Bolivia and abroad. The proposed loan should substantially
improve the quality of BAMIN's staff (paras. 3.47 and 3.48).
3.16      Organization.  As part of its rehabilitation program, BAMIN has been
divided into two functional units, the Trading and Credit Departments, with
separate operational accounting. These measures have not been sufficient to
permit adequate financial control over these two related but distínct opera-
tions and to transform BAMIN into a strong development bank.  The concept of a
separate marketing institution was raised during project preparation, but the
Bolivian authorities considered this proposal to be premature; its resolution
depends on the Government's marketing policies which are presently under
review. However, an understanding was reached to separate the existing assets
and llabilities between BAMIN's two operations departments, and to provide
them with separate, non-transferable resources, including conversion of a $b 60
million loan from the Central Bank into equity of the Credit Department. 11
These measures have been approved by BAMIN's directors and agreed to by the
Government. In addition, the Government agreed during negotiations: to
guarantee that the operating results and liabilities of the Trading Department
Would not, in any way, affect the Credit Department, and vice versa; to submit
the first satisfactory separate financial statements as a condition to loan
effectiveness; and to arrange for an external audit, satisfactory to the Bank,
of the separated departnents as of December 31, 1976.
3.17      Since the proposed project is mainly concerned with BAlIN's lending
operations, the following analysis focuses on the Credit Department. However,
the appraisal of BAMIN's trading activities, described in Annex 3, identified
a need for a revision of BAIIN's charges for mineral warehouse operations of
the Trading Department. These were discússed during negotiations and would
be reviewed as a part of a management control system's contract (para 3.48).
3.18      Credit Department.  This department would be responsible for
channelling and adminístering the proceeds of the Bank loan.  The department
has recently been reorganized with the resulting upgrading of its technical
office. Its present technical staff of 5 engineers and 1 analyst has t-he
necessary technical background but lacks adequate experience in the appraisal
and supervision of development projects. Hiring of an additional experienced
analyst, capable of carrying out financial and economic evaluation of sub-
projects, would be a condition to loan effectiveness; the staff would then be
sufficient to handle the initial phase of project implementation. To assist
BAMIN in setting up satisfactory project appraisal techniques and follow up
procedures, and to train its technical staff, two consultants would be fi-
nanced under the technical assistance component of the proposed loan (para.
3.47). The existing procurement and disbursement procedures of the Credit
Department are satisfactory.
1/   See Annex 3, para 4.



- 15 -
3.19      Policy Statement.  In preparation for the proposed Bank loan, BAMIN
has drafted a statement of financial and operational policies, laying down
criteria for its lending activities and, in particular, for financing of
small mining development projects. The Policy Statement, which was reviewed
with BAMIN's management and confirmed during negotiations, is considered
satisfactory (Annex 4). Among other provisions, it includes a debt/equity
ratio of 4:1, an exposure limitation to any single client not to exceed 25% of
the Credit Department's equity, and a provision to ensure health and safety
standards in the small mining projects. As a condition for loan effectiveness,
BAMsIN is to submit internal loan regulations which would be revised in accord-
ance with the adopted Poiicy Statement.
3.20      Past operations and results.  Pursuant to its traditional orienta-
tion, most of the loans outstanding at the end of 1975 were made to small mines,
mostly for short-term working capital, for less than US$50,000 each. Although
about 3% of the loans representing about 60% of the amount outstanding were
loans to medium miners, most of them result from special foreign credit lines
designed, among other things, to relieve the burden of increased mineral in-
ventories resulting from depressed market prices.
3.21      The financial position of the Credit Department is somewhat distorted
by its financing, aoart from regular loans, of sales of mining equipment under
Russian and Polish credits, and mining materials and supplies from its ware-
houses.  Rcwever, the estimated debt/equity ratio of 4.0:1 1/ and current
ratio of 1.5:1, both for 1975, are acceptable.
3.22      BAMIN is not exposed to any significant foreign exchange risk since
it relends all funds received from abroad in foreign currencies. To the extent
that BAMIN's own funds are lent ir pesos, a devaluation could increase its
debt/equity ratio and reduce its current ratio, as well as the real value of
its equity. During negotiations, the Government agreed to commit itself to
offset any decline in the real value of the Credit Department's equity resuLt-
ing from devaluation.
3.23      Despite the attitude of many small miners who seem to consider BAMIN
as a welfare institution, the Credit Department has had a reasonable record of
loan collections. It has also shown a modest return on equity which was
estimated at 2.2% for 1975. While lower than the 2.5% return on equity in
1973, this is actually an improvement since BAMIN had to pay corporate in-
come tax for the first time out of 1975 earnings. Considerable provisions
for portfolio losses were also made out of 1975 earnings.
3.24      Considering that most of BAMIN's long overdue questionable loans
belong to the Trading Department, the quality of the Credit Department's
portfolio is relatively good. Arrears over 3 months amount to about 10% of
1/   Including US$3.0 million quasi-equity loan from the Central Bank, recently
converted into equity of the Credit Department (para 3.16).



- 16 -
the loan portfoiio, which is satisfactory in the light of BAMIN's past opera-
tions. However, measures to reduce arrears were discussed during negotia-
tions and would be followed up during loan supervision. Rescheduling and
write-offs are insignificant in the total amount and occur mostly in cases of
very small miners who probably do not have viable operations. Following
recommendation of BAMIN's external auditors, accepted by the Bank, provisions
for bad debts were increased from $b 9.3 to $b 15.6 million by the end of
1975, which is a positive step towards creditworthiness of the Credit Depart-
ment. Prior to the effectiveness of the proposed loan, BAMIN would contract
a consultant to set up the proper management control system which would include
accounting (para. 3.48).
3.25      Resource position.  BAMIN has no uncommitted resources.  Two medium-
term loans totalling US$6.0 million 1/ which BAMIN has recently received from
foreign comnercial banks are virtually committeed mainly for working capital
financing and would be drawn down rapidly. As counterpart financing to the
proposed loan, the Government would contribute US$2.0 million to BAMIN's
capital over the 1976-78 period, to be utilized exclusively by the Credit
Department. Payment of the first installment in the amount of US$200,000
equivalent would be a condition for loan effectiveness. Subsequent payment
of US$1.0 million would be made in 1977, and US$800,000 in 1978,each by the
respective anniversary date of the first payment. This would be satisfactory
to support BMIIN's lending program under the proposed loan.
3.26      Financial prospects.  As a result of the proposed loan, BAMIN's
annual Loan disbursements should triple between 1975 and 1978 when they would
reach $b 130 million; they should continue at least at this level in 1979
and thereafter. This increase in lending should be achieved within the debt/
equity ratio of 4:1 and a satisfactory current ratio. Return on equity ís
projected to rise above 4% for the 1976-79 period, which is satisfactory
since BAMIN does not have to pay out dividends. This slould be achieved
with an acceptable debt/service coverage projected to be at least 1.5:1 over
the period 1976-79. 2/
C. Assistance to GEOBOL
Objectives and Past Performance
3.27      The general objective of the survey of small mining, set up by GEOBOL
under IDA Credit No. 455-BO, 3/ was to improve the knowledge of Bolivia's
1/   Not reflected in the projections.
21   For further data, see Annex 3:  paras. 36-40 and Tables 1 through 4.
3/   For a detailed description of GEOBOL and the survey of small mines,
see Report No. 276a-BO dated December 28, 1973.



- 17 -
small mining sector and develop means by which small miners with promising
properties may obtain access to technical and financial assistance. The
initial task was to establish an inventory of small mines and to prepare
technical briefs on each of them based on avallable documentation and field
examínation. Selected high potential projects were then to be studied by the
survey and prefeasibility reports prepared on them. In the case of viable
projects, this was to lead to full feasibility studies, which would be required
for BAMIN's development financing. In addition to being a prerequisite for
the proposed credit program, the information collected by the survey provides
Important sectoral data for regional concentrators (para. 2.13) and the
potential exploration fund project (para. 2.16).
3.28      The work program set up for the first phase of the survey has been
virtually completed. Thus far, the survey has been successful in that an
operating unit charged with this new task has been established within GEOBOL
(Annex 5), the necessary manpower and equipment have been assembled and are
operating, and the first four prefeasibility studies have been prepared, which
are acceptable to the Bank. The fact that this has been brought about by
local professionals who are showlng a great deal of initiative is encouraging,
as is the improvlng quality of the reports. However, there have been serious
slippages in the execution of the survey, which can be attributed to the
following causes:
(a)  Overambltious scope of the task.  The original plan foresaw
an integrated program for data collection, project identifica-
tion and preparation, and technical and financial assistance.
It also envisaged significant strengthening of GEOBOL. While
achievements on all ther- fronts have been possible, specific
tasks were not always sufficiently defined or coordinated. Under
the second phase of the survey to be financed under the proposed
loan, these problems would be confronted and dealt with, using the
help of outside consultants.
(b)  Problems of logistics.  Procurement of equipment proved to be
vastly more complicated than conceived under the original
schedule. Assembling vehicles, personnel and equipment and
organiz¡ng them into viable field units took much more time
than originally estimated. This, together with the late
arrival of drilling equipment (delayed by more than twelve
months), was responsible for much of the slippage.
(c)  Non-utilization of foreign experts.  In the early months of
the program it was expected that GEOBOL would obtain free
technical assistance from either Australian, Canadian, or
German programs.  This led to  he decision to use IDA funds,
intended for foreign experts, to cover the cost of equipment
1/   For a detailed description of GEOBOL and the survey of smali mines, see
Report No. 276a-BO dated December 28, 1973.



- 18 -
affected by substantial price increases. In the end, none of
the free technical assistance materialized and GEOBOL had to
work without outside help. Many start-up difficulties can be
attributed to the lack of adequate expertise.
(d) Changes in senior personnel. Replacement of the general manager
of GEOBOL and of the director of the survey unit substantially
delayed the preparation of prefeasibility reports, although the
unit's field work continued collectíng data without delay.
3.29      Viewed in this perspective, the results achieved are acceptable and
the standard of studies being produced is continually improving.  However,
due to the complexity and interrelation of various tasks, the need and urgency
for close coordination and supervision are quite apparent. It is in this
context that the assistance of the foreign experts included in the loan pro-
posal (para. 3.35) and a continuous follow-up by Bank staff (para 3.06)
become very important to the success of the survey of small mines program.
Proposed Project
3.30      Inventory of small mines.  GEOBOL's inventory unit will continue to
develop technical briefs on small mining properties in an effort to record
basic data, and to lead to a decision as to what particular future action is
appropriate in each case. Ultimately, most of the small mines actually in
operation would be documented in this manner and this file would form the
basic source of technical data on the sector. The major effort of the program
would be focused on the ongoing task of prefeasibility study preparation.
3.31      Technical assistance.  Within the new program an effort would be
made to channel technical assistance to small miners in accordance with the
original and ongoing objectives of the program. Generaliy there would be
two types of assistance to small miners, namely:
(a) the resolution of key geological or metallurgical questions
which, when resolved, could lead to a decision to undertake
a prefeasibility study; 1/ and
(b)  technical assistance to the recipients of BAMIN's subloans
in the preparation and implementation of their projects and
improvements in their existing operations and practices. The
latter would also include arrangements for training in modern
and efficient work methods, bookkeeping, financial planning
and other matters as appropriate.
3.32      Ilineral laboratory.  The existing mineral laboratory of GEOBOL,
which is about 12 years old, has been a bottleneck in the preparation of
1/   There will be no charge to the miner for this type of technical
assistance.



- 19 -
prefeasibility studies. In order to reduce delays in the future and to speed
up, as planned, the preparation of prefeasibility studies, it would be neces-
sary to virtually replace the existing laboratory. Once newly equipped, the
laboratory would also facilitate other GEOBOL functions, including its
national and regional mineral exploration programs.
3.33      Safety and health.  The underdeveloped nature of the Bolivian
mining industry has produced serious problems in this regard In general, and
in the small mining sector in particular. Through the technical assistance
program and Bank supervision, provision would be made in the various stages
of studying and financing of subprojects to confront the serious issues of
occupational safety and disease. Feasibility studies for subprojects would
be expected to contain specific recommendations on these matters.
Program costs 1/
3.34      The new program calls for procurement of machinery and equipment
including, notably, four additional diamond drilling machines (2 for surface
and 2 for underground work), two air compressors and two percussion drills.
Other items include vehicles, equipment for field parties, laboratory and
testing equipment, and various operating and office supplies (Annex 6(a)).
It also in 1ides 72 man-months of foreign expert assistance in various aspects
of field and headquarters work, preparation of prefeasibility studies, and
provision of technical assistance to small mining projects. The estimated
cost of the assistance to GEOBOL and its financing are summarized below:
Dreign Cost    Local Cost    Total Cost
(IBRD)         (GEOBOL)
------ (in US$'000 or equivalent) --
Foreign consultants                   238.0                 -         238.0
Local supporting personnel                -            635.8          635.8
Equipment and machinery             1,424.9            254.6        1,679.5
Cost of operations (inclu.
rent, leases and construction)            -            488.0          488.0
Material and supplies                     -            179.2          179.2
Charges and contingencies             193.6             14.1          207.7
1,856.5          1,571.7        3,428.2
3.35      These estimates are based on a work program and a detailed equip-
ment list and can therefore be considered representative.  The equipment
items are destined for field crews and office work. 2/  Sufficient allowance
has been made for equipment and spare pa,ts to ensure 3-4 years of continued
1/   For detailed cost estimates see Annex 6.
2/   For procurement procedures see para 4.06.



- 20 -
survey work. During negotiations the Government confirmed its intention to
provide sufficient local funds to assure the execution and continuous opera-
tions of this project component.
3.36      The Bank loan would cover all foreign exchange costs of directly
imported equipment and consulting services, plus 60% of locally procured
equipment, materials and supplies, and field expenses attributable to foreign
advisors. It would also pay for the equivalent of 35% of the cost of civil
works, which percentage represents the estimated foreign-currency component of
such works.  The local currency expenditures of about US$1.6 million equivalent
would be covered by GEOBOL's budget. To assure a continuous flow of prefeasi-
bility studies the loan would also provide for up to US$250,000 of refinancing
to GEOBOL (para. 4.07).
3.37      With four prefeasibility studies virtually completed and two pro-
grammed for each quarter (or 8 per year), GEOBOL should have produced 20-21
studies by mid-1978 (Annex 2). Since BAMIN would go ahead with flnancing of
feasibility studies from its own funds, there should be a continuous supply of
new mining projects for BAMIN financing beginning at the end of 1976. All
funds for the procurement of goods and services for the survey program should
be committed by the end of 1977 and disbursed by mid-1979. As a condition for
loan effectiveness, GEOBOL would prepare detailed tasks, satisfactory to the
Bank, for consultants to be used at various stages of the project execution.
D. Technical Assistance Program 1/
Planning Assistance
3.38      The assistance to fl M is a continuation of the program financed
under IDA Credit 455-BO, which intended to:  (a) estab`sh a documentation
center, including data gathering and control system; (b) review the mining
tax system; and (c) carry out a feasibility study of a mining exploration
fund. The experience with the past program has, on the whole, been satis-
factory. The tax study contract has resulted in a comprehensive report 2/
which gives clear alternatives for policy decisions. The exploration fund
study, on the other hand, left room for substantial improvement; it is being
further reviewed by the consultant and by the staff of MMM.  Finally, a
documentation center was established in MúM wíh the help of foreign experts.
The center has a mining library and should be able to store information which
flows into MIM, using microfilm equipment.  As the assistance to IM1M in pollcy
planning--originally included in the IDA Credlt--proved to be premature to
produce useful results, this component of the assistance program is to be
implemented under the presert pruject.
1/   Technical assistance to GEOBOL is included in Part C of the project.
2/   See footnote 1/ to para. 2.16 on page 5.



- 21 -
3.39      The purpose of the planning assistance would be to raise awareness
among decision makers of the need for rational ínvestment decísíons and pro-
vide training in project evaluation techniques. The first objective is to be
achieved through seminars and conferences with senior officials of MMM and its
agencies, including GEOBOL and BAMIN, and through involvement in the analysis
and solution of actual decision arrays. Training in project evaluation
techniques would be made available through specialized courses and reviews
of specific cases in conjunction with the consultants.
3.40      The work is to be done under a contract with HIID, which has already
been accepted by MMM and is satísfactory to the Bank. This is the same group
which prepared the tax study. The total cost of this comprehensive planning
assistance would be about US$594,000, including experts, equipment, and foreign
training of local personnel. The financial plan is as follows:
Foreign Cost    Local Cost    Total Cost
(IBRD)          (MMM)
------(in US$'000 or equivalent)--------
Foreign Consultants (5.5 man-years)  306.4               -           306.4
Local Personnel                          -              88.6          88.6
Training (foreign and local)            81.0            15.0          96.0
Equipment and Office Material           30.6            10.0          40.6
Contingency                             53.2             9.1          62.3
471.2           122.7        593.9
Less:  Uncommitted balance of
IDA Credit 455-BO
(approximate)                100.0           _             100.0
To be financed                         371.2           122.7         493.9
3.41      Detalled cost estimates are provided in Annex 7.  Project comple-
tion would require at least three years. The loan funds would be committed
by FY78 and disbursed by FY80. In view of the long implementation period,
an assurance by the Government as to the availability of local funds was
obtained during loan negotiations.
3.42      The HIID contract was signed by MMM on May 12, 1976.  It provides
for 5.5 man-years of consultants' assistance at an average cost of US$55,000
per man-year, including travel. The uncommitted balance of the technical
assistance conponent of IDA Credit No. 455-BO of about US$100,000 would be
used for partial financing of that contract. In view of some delay in the
project preparation, the proposed loan ¿1'ould provide for reimbursements to
MMM for foreign costs not to exceed US$50,000, which might have to be paid
prior to the signing of the loan (para. 4.07).



- 22 -
Cadastral Survey
3.43       The mining cadastral project, aímed at compiling an official
regíster of mining concession areas, is of great importance to the survey
and development of small mines. The present knowledge of mining concessions
is very limited and out of date. The most recent cadastre was compiled In
the early 1950s and covered no more than 4% of the national territory. The
objective will be to delineate areas where concessions have been granted and
to establish areas free of valid concession claims. Resolution of boundary
conflicts, which effectively inhibit operations in some areas, will then be
possible as well as the stimulation of new exploration. The cadastral survey
will also provide the necessary basis for the implementation of a new mining
development law, currently in preparation. A technical unit within MMM would
be responsible for the survey; it is to be established and set in operation
with foreign technical assistance. On-the-job training and certain specialized
equipment imports would form the balance of the project.
3.44       The project would involve both field and office work.  The former
would consist of compilation and updating of a general survey of mining
districts, survey, sampling, mapping and plotting of the tríangulation grid,
and the determination of survey marker locations. The processing of these
data and the verifícation of the existing cadastre would be done in the
office, enabling rational planning of exploration and exploitation concessions.
3.45       The first phase of the survey has been designed for execution within
a 2-year period. Its costs and the proposed sources of financing are summa-
rized below; a detailed budget is shown In Annex 8.
Foreign Cost    Local Cost    Total Cost
(IBRD)         (MMM) /1
-------(in US$'000 or equivalent)-------
Experts and Managers                 72.0             46.8          118.8
Field Work                              -            300.0          3Q0-0
Equipment /2                        400.0                -          400.0
Training and Others                   3.9             11.5            15J .4
Total                         475.9            358.3           834.2
57.0%           43.0%           100%
/1   To be financed under regular MMM budget.
/2   For procurement procedure, see para. 4.04.
3.46       The proposed loat would finance the foreign costs of equipment and
consulting services (18 man/months at US$4,000 per month) in gathering and
processing cadastral data and in training of the local staff. The latter



- 23 -
would include a computer terminal which would work for one or both of the
computers installed in La Paz. The computer-processed information on the
mining cadastre would permit the establishment of a nation-wide data bank.
The foreign consultants would be selected by the time of the loan effective-
ness.
Technical Assistance to BAMIN
3.47      The principal objective of this assistance is to help the Technical
Office of BAMIN in appraising and supervising subloans for mining development
and to train its professional staff. Two foreign advisors would be expected
to develop appropriate guidelines, train the professional staff in the metho-
dology and techniques of project appraisal, and work with them on the actual
problems encountered in loan applícations and supervision. BAMIN would select
both advisors, to be satisfactory to the Bank, prior to loan effectiveness.
They would be contracted concurrently for at least one year and be expected to
spend 2-4 weeks working with Bank staff prior to taking up their resident
assignments in La Paz.
3.48      In addition to the above BAMIN would also contract outside special-
ists to improve its management control system including accounting (para. 3.24).
A satisfactory consulting contract, which would include training of BAMIN's
staff, will be condition to loan effectiveness.
3.49      The estimated cost of technical assistance to BAIIN and íts proposed
sources of financing are summarized below:
Foreign Cost    Local Cost    Total Cost
(IBRD)          (BAMIN)
-------(in US$'000 or equivalent)-------
Experts and Counterparts
(including travel and
expenses)                            266.2           82.o           348.2
Other                                     3.8            4.0            17.8
280.0           86.0           366.0
77%             23%           100%
3.50      Detailed cost estlmates are shown in Annex 9.  Local currency costs
of the counterpart staff, materials and supplies would be absorbed by BAMIN;
avaiLabilíty of these funds was confirmed during loan negotíatlons. The
loan component used for technical assistance to BAMIN would be repaid by the
Goverriment.



- 24 -
IV. PROPOSED LOAN
A. General Description
Amount and Terms
4.01      The proposed loan of US$12.0 million would be extended to the
Governemnt of Bolivia at the Bank's prevailing interest rate (now 8.9% p.a.)
and commitment fee on the undisbursed balance (now 3/4 of 1% p.a.) for a
period of 15 years, including up to 3 years of principal grace.
4.02      The loan components for the survey of small mines (US$1.9 million)
and for technical assistance (US$1.1 million) to be administered by GEOBOL
and MM1, respectively, would be repaid on the level principal payment basis.
The credit portion of US$9.0 million would be onlent to BAMIN, to be repaid
on the basis of the composite of the amortization schedules applicable to
subloans. Since subloans would be normally repayable in 8 to 13 years, no
subloan would exceed the maturity of the Bank loan, allowing for a two-year
comnitment period. Thus the total loan of US$12.0 million would be repaid by
the Government on the basis of the aggregate of the above two amortization
methods.
4.03      BAIIN would repay the Government in US dollars equivalent.  The
cross currency exchange risk between the dollar and the currencies actually
disbursed by the Bank would be assumed by the Government at a fee of 1/4%
p.a., to be passed on to BAMIN's subborrowers.
Procurement
4.04      The loan proceeds would be used to finance the foreign exchange
costs of imported and domestically procured equipment, materials and services,
including the foreign exchange component of construction contracts. Foreign
equipment suppliers are fairly well represented in Bolivia.  The mining equip-
ment and machinery to be financed under the credit program would be imported
directly or purchased off-the-shelf from local dealers. Procurement items,
which would form part of the feasibility study for each subproject, would be
purchased on the basis of several quotations, in accordance with standard
practice for DFC projects. BAMIN would satisfy itself that equipment and
machinery to be financed under subloans are suitable for the investment proj-
ects and are reasonably priced, by ensuring that its clients have canvassed
the main sources of supply and are purchasing from the most advantageous
source.
4.05      In many cases small miners would need heavy or specialized equipment,
e.g., for earth moving or drilling, for a limited time only. Instead of buying
it, they should be able to lease or to enter into specific work service



- 25 -
contracts. No such services are presently available in Bolivia and the estab-
lishment of private equipment and service leasing enterprises has been actively
promoted during project preparation. At least one firm, 1/ an affiliate of a
diversified medium mining company, would be prepared to provide equipment and
work contract services to small miners when the demand appeared. Also, at
least one financial institution is prepared to finance equipment leasing and
is considering entering the leasing business directly. These equipment or
service leasing contracts would be eligible for financing under the proposed
loan.
4.06      Equipment for the GEOBOL survey of small mines and for technícal
assistance items for BAMIN and MMM--mostly valued below US$50,000--would be
procured on the basis of international shopping. Procurement of diamond
drills and accessories, which are priced at about US$100,000 each, would
follow international bidding procedure, wíth the provision of a back-up
service being of prime consideration in bid evaluation.
4.07      To assure continuity of the survey of small mines and speed up
the preparation of preinvestment studies for potential recipients of BA2IN's
credit, GEOBOL may need to order additional equipment and make some payments
in foreign exchange before signing of the loan. Such expenditures should not
exceed US$250,000. They would be reimbursable under the loan, as long as the
purchased items are included In the procurement list acceptable to the Bank.
Similarly, some retroactive disbursements not to exceed US$50,000 might be
necessary to cover the foreign exchange cost of the MMM planning assistance
contract with HIID.
Disbursements
4.08      Although the Government of Bolívia would be the borrower, disburse-
ments would be made directly to the institution responsible for the execution,
of the respective portion of the loan under advice to the Central Bank.
With respect to individual subprojects, loan funds would be disbursed for the
full foreign exchange (c.i.f.) expenditures of direct imports whenever it can
be established; 60% of the total expenditures for imported machinery and
equipment purchased locally; and 35% of the total expenditures for civil
works, both percentages representing the estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent. Standard documentation would be submitted with all withdrawal appli-
cations. Pursuant to para 4.07, retroactive financing up to US$300,000 is
anticipated. The loan should be committed by mid-1979 and disbursed by
mid-1980, as shown in Annex 10.
B. Benefits and Risks
4.09      The proposed loan would directly contribute to the development of
the mining sector. It would help develop viable mining enterprises, transform
1/   Servicio Minero (SERMIN), an affiliate of Empresa Minera Unificada, S.A.
(EMUSA).



- 26 -
BAMIN into a more effective development lending institution, increase the
technical capability of GEOBOL, and improve MMM's sectoral planning. It would
also complement BISA's financing of medium miners, thus filling a major gap in
the financing of private mining.
4.10      Based on a preliminary review of potential subprojects to be
financed under the loan, the aggregate economic rate of return (ERR) of the
credit component of the loan is expected to be about 20%. This rate is
satisfactory, although much lower than the ERR for medium mining subprojects
financed by BISA under IDA Credit 455-BO, which was about 40%. The differ-
ence is due to major initial costs of mining installations and equipment,
which, in the case of most BISA subprojects made for expansion and moderniza-
tion of existing mines, had been incurred previously.
4.11      Projections indicate a possible additional contribution of about
US$110 million during 1976-85 from the small mining investments to net foreign
exchange earnings. This amount, for the same reasons as the ERR above, is
somewhat lower than the expected earnings of medium miners under BISA finan-
cing. Over the same period, subprojects should contribute about US$35 million
to government revenues.  The employment effect of the project would not be
high since the expected increase in mineral production would likely be achieved
by introduction of machinery and more capital-intensive production methods.
However, income of the workers employed in the participating mines should
improve due to both improved productivity of labor and the increased exposure
of the small mines to labor organizations and governnent supervision.
4.12      The health and safety standards in the participating mines and in
tile workers' quarters at the mine sites should also improve, both as a result
of measures to be recomnended by the feasibility studies and included in
J3AMIN's subprojects, and, indirectly, as a consequence of the transfornmation
of primitive mining activities into larger efficient operations.
4.13      Benefits from the survey of small mines and the technical assistance
prcgram would be realized rmainly in the form of improved efficiency, increased
technical competence and the acquisition of a better knowledge of the sector.
As a result of the project, GEOBOL's staff would gain experience in prefeasib-
i!ity studies, and be better prepared to provide technical assistance to small
miners. ln this way, the necessary conditions would be set up for transform-
ing a growing number of potentially viable small mines into efficient enter-
prises. THNI's development-oriented staff would acquire project evaluatiLon
and planning skllls that should result in more rational mining policies and,
eventually, in improved sectoral performance.
4.14       Indirectly, feasibility studies required under the project should
result in upgrading of domestic consulting services. Also, the expected
establishinent of equipment leasing and service enterprises to serve small
miners would help to develop this specialized and risky business in Bolivia,
which is expected to extend to other types of productive activities.



- 27 -
4.15      The proposed project is the first Bank Group operation in the small
mining sector, where past efforts to inject capital and technlcal assistance
have failed. Thus, although the project has been carefully prepared, the
difficult socio-political environnent of the proposed operation could índuce
unforeseen problerms which could adversely affect the project execution. Also,
due to the novelty and complexity of the project and the substantial amount
of technical assistance required by several institutions and the ultimate
beneficiaries, there may be some unforeseen delays in the initial period of
the loan implementation, which, to some extent, have been reflected in the
disbursement schedule (Annex 10).
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOlMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached
5.01      During loan negotiations the Government agreed to the on-lending
terms for the proposed loan to BAMIN and the assumption of the exchange risk
between the US dollpr and the currencies disbursed by the Bank (para. 4.02
and 4.03). It also conflrmed the avallability of sufficient local funds to
assure the execution and continuous operations of the project component
assigned to GEOBOL, and the completion of the technical assistance program to
MMI1 (para. 3.04).  With respect to BAMIN's Credit Departnent, the Government
agreed to protect it against any adverse results of the Trading Departnent's
activities (para. 3.16); to offset any change in debt-to-equity ratio of the
Credit Department resulting from a devaluation (para. 3.22); and to contribute
to the Department's paid-in capital an equivalent of US$2.0 million in 3 satis-
factory installments (para. 3.25).  At the same time BAMIN agreed to:  the
on-lending terms and conditions of the credit component of the proposed loan
(para. 3.07); an effective separation of trading and credit operations and an
external audit of separated accounts starting December 31, 1976 (para. 3.16);
and the adoption of a revised Policy Statement reviewed during negotiations
(para. 3.19 and Annex 4).
5.02      The Government also confirmed its plans to issue in 1976 a mining
law that would include revised taxation (para. 2.16). In addition, BAMIN
indicated it would review its relending charges (including the interest
rate on lending with its own funds) and administrative costs (para. 3.08 and
para. 18 of Annex 3); intensify its general staff training prograni (para.
3.15); examine its fees for mineral storage services (para. 3.17) and pay
close attention to reducing its arrears (para. 3.24).
5.03      Following negotiations, BAIIN prescnted satisfactory evidence of
the Government's conversion into equity of the $b 60 million loan from the
Central Bank (para. 3.16); submitted the revised statutes (para. 3.15); and
confirmed the revised Policy Statement (para. 3.19 and Annex 4).



- 28 -
5.04      The following would be conditions for effectiveness of the loan:
(a)  The Governennt would:
(1)  make the first payment to BAMIN's capital of not less
than US$200,000 or its equivalent (para. 3.25);
(Ii) assure preparation by GEOBOL of detalled tasks for
outside consultants (para. 3.37);
(Iii)  assure selection of satisfactory consultants for the
cadastral survey (para. 3.46).
(b) BAMIN would:
(1)  submit, in form and content satisfactory to the Bank,
the latest balance sheet and profit and loss statement
separately for the Credit Department and the Trading
Department (para. 3.16);
(ii)  hire a qualified project analyst (para. 3.18);
(ii)  submit satisfactory internal loan regulations, revised
pursuant to the policy statement (para. 3.19);
(iv)  contract a consultant to set up a proper management
control system, includlng internal accounting
(para. 3.24);
(v)  select satisfactory advisors/consultants (para. 3.50).
B. Recommendation
5.05      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$12.0 million, for a term of 15 years,
including up to 3 years grace, as outlined in Chapter IV.



ANT-EX 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRINCIPAL MINERALS PRODUCED BY SMALL MINES
A. Single (majority) metal mines             Number of Mines
Tin               Sn (oxide)             2,141
Zinc              Zn                        33
Antimony          Sb                        752
Copper            Cu                       519
Bismuth           Bi                        45
Tungsten          W03                      418
Total Single Metal Mines             3,908
B. Complex
Tin (sulphite)                               97
Zinc                                        49
Antiiiony                                    55
Copper                                     217
Bismuth                                     24
Tungsten                                    17
Lead/Silver  (Pb/Ag)                       873
Total Complex Mines                 1,332
Total Identified Mines              5,240
LCPDF
July, 1976



ANNEX 2
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF GEOBOLIS PREFEASIBILITY STUDIES
(1975 through June 1978)
Completion       Total
Mine                    Type       Mineral          Date       Investment
(US$ I000)
1. Tuntoco                  A           Zn            1-76             2,200
2. Victoria                 B           Sn            1-76               250
3. Chicote Grande           A           Wo3           6-76             1,000
4 . Kumarana                B            Sn           6-76             1,000
5. Porvenir                 A            Sn           6-76             1,500
6. Mina San Florencio       A            Sn          12-76             1,500
7. Mina Santa Maria         B           Sn            1-77               300
8 . Mina Negro Pabellon     B            Sn           2-77               300
9 . Mina Excelsior          B            Sn           3-77               800
10. Mina La Reyna            B           Sn            h-77               400
U . Mina Morados             A           Zn,Pb         4-77             1,000
12 . Mína Monte Blanco       B           Sn            5-77               300
13 . Mina Socorro            B           Sn            7-77               350
14 . Mina Santiago           B           Sb            7-77               45o
5 . Mina San Pedro           B           Sn           10-77               450
6 . Mina Santa Rosa          B           Sn           10-77               500
2 . Mina Orquestaca          B           Sn            1-78              600
-11 . Mina Calacalani        B           Wo3,Sb        1-78               300
19 . Mina Dos Amigos         B           Wo3           4-78               500
a). Mina La Joya             A           Ag,Au,Cu      4-78            1,000
Total Investment                                      US$14,700
(prelíminary estimates)
LCPDF
July, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO MINERO DE BOLIVIA (BAMIN)
A.   Organization, Policies and Procedures
1.        Establishment and early history.  BAMIN was established on July 24,
1936, as an autonomous public institution, to promote mining development in
Bolivia. Originally, it had some private shareholders but at present it is
wholly owned by the Government. BAMIN is subject to the banking law and
thus to regulation by the Central Bank and control by the Superintendency
of Banks. Its central office is in La Paz and its six branches are located
in Cochabamba, Oruro, Potosi, Tipuani, Tupiza and Uyuni.
2.        BAMIN has two related though independent major functions.  As a
bank, it is to finance the development of mining and metallurgical industries;
it is also an official mineral marketing agency which buys, stores and exports
mineral concentrates produced by private mines. Although not limited under
the law or by its statutes, BAMIN's credit activities have traditionally been
oriented towards the small mining subsector, but medium mining firms have
also benefited from some financing, usually from special lines of credit.
Regarding íts trading function, BAMIN has an exclusive right to buy the
entire mineral output of all small miners, except when it specifically
agrees to outside transactions. On occasions, it also buys minerals from
medium miners but, as a rule, larger enterprises can sell better by contract-
ing directly, or through agents, with foreign importers of minerals. BAMIN's
rionopolistic position with respect to small mining has been both supported and
criticized, depending on circumstances, by the small miners' associatíons.
At present, BAMIN's market position is being reviewed by the Government in
connection with the revision of BAMIN statutes.
3.        BAMIN has a history of inefficient operations.  In the past, its
loans have been motivated more by political and social considerations than
by financial and economic feasibility. As a result, BAMIN has been decapi-
talized over the years and its lending operations have been largely reduced
to short-term credit for working capital and some medium-term financing of
equipment. Until recently, BAMIN's management has concentrated its attention
on the marketing side and allowed the banking function to deteriorate. Loans
were expected to be repaid from sales of minerals and, if prices were low,
loan arrears were rising. On December 31, 1971, more than 74% of BAMIN's loan
portfolio was in arrears.
4.        Reorganization scheme.  In late 1972, the Government initiated
BAMIN's rehabilitation. Under the Decree Law No. 80 of October 27, 1972,
BAMIN was divided into two operational units, namely, the Trading Department



ANNEX 3
Page 2
and the Credit Department, which would be responsible for mineral marketlng
and credit activities, respectively. This was followed by the partial separa-
tion of the accounts of these two departments. In an effort to recapitalize
BAMIN, the Government arranged, in March 1973, for a special 10-year loan from
the Central Bank of $b 60 million (US$3.0 míllion). Of the total loan amount,
$b 35 million has been earmarked for mining credit, and $b 25 million for
replenishing the inventories of mining tools and supplies which BAMIN sells to
small miners. The Governrient assumed both amortization and interest payments
on this loan, but BAMIN had a contingent liability in case the Government
failed to make appropriate payments. FollowinR loan negotiations the Govern-
ment released BAMIN from this contingent llability and converted the loan at
its original amount into the Credit Department's equity. Also, as part of
its reorganization scheme, BAMIN undertook to revise its statutes. The new
statutes, whose draft had been reviewed by the Bank and found generally
satisfactory, were submitted to the Bank following negotiations of the pro-
posed loan.
5.        During loan preparation, BAMIN has made strong efforts to complete
separation of its Credit Department from the Tradíng Department by dividing
fixed assets and resources of BAMIN and assigning personnel to each depart-
ment. The latter goal has been achieved and the final departmentalization
of balance sheets would be a condition to loan effectíveness.
6.        Board of Directors.  The revised statutes of BAMIN provide for
an increase in the number of directors representing the Government from
three to five, which was prompted by the excessive past influence of private
rmining interests in the Board's decisions. The new Board of Directors
consists of a president--the position assigned to the .Iinister of Mines
and Metallurgy--and eight members, with seven alternates, appointed by the
President of the Republic. In addition to BAMIN's president, the Govern-
ment has four directors representing MIM, the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Coordination and Economic Planning (CONEPLAN), and COMIBOL.
The private sector also has three directors designated by the National
Chamber of Mines, Mining Cooperatives and the Association of Medium Miners.
The ninth member of the Board represents the union of BAMIN's employees.
7.        Management and staff.  The general manager of BAMIN is appointed
by the President of the Republic upon recommendation of the Board of Directors.
Since January 1975 this function has been performed by Dr. Hugo Uriona, who
has the necessary professional background and administrative experience. The
revised statutes of BAMIN provide for two administrative committees presided
over by the general manager. The existing Executive Committee would continue
to deal with administrative and personnel matters and also decide on the
purchases of mining tools and supplies for resale to small miners. The new
Loan Committee would consider and approve loan proposals within the limits
provided in BAMIN's Regulations of Mining Loans.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        As of mid-1975, BAMIN employed a total staff of 534 (including
branches), but had only 36 professionals, of whom 15 worked for the Credit
Department. Some 250 persons, classified as lower clerks and unskilled
workers, were employed in BAMIN's warehouses. In general, BAMIN's personnel
should be upgraded and the proportion of professional staff should be in-
creased. The general manager is fully aware of the situation and would
make every effort to assure that the staff participate in professional courses
both in Bolivia and abroad. At present, BAMIN is planning to organize an
internal accounting course for its lower level professionals.
9.        Credit Department.  This department would be directly responsible
for small mining development projects to be financed under the proposed loan.
It is headed by Mr. Victor Chambi Perez, Credit Manager, who has been asso-
ciated with mining financing and BAMIN for many years, and who, in the absence
of Dr. Uriona, acts as general manager. In preparation for the Bank loan,
the Credit Department has been reorganized and now consists of two operational
offices and a loan administration unit.
10.       Of key importance to the project is the Technical Office, which is
responsible for the appraisal, preparation and supervision of both equipment
credit and developiment subloans. The office is headed by a senior engineer
who was hired recently and whose formal qualiflcations are adequate. The
professional staff in La Paz -- consisting of 5 engineers, a financial
analyst and a financial economist (still to be hired) -- has the necessary
technical background and should be sufficient to handle the initial phase
of project implementation. However, additional training would be needed in
the methodology and techniques of project appraisal and supervision. For this
purpose, a technical assistance component is included in the proposed loan.
Aside from the operations in La Paz, the director of the Technical Office is
responsible for the technical supervision of six regional engineers located In
Oruro, Potosi and Tupiza, who provide advice and assistance to regional
directors of BAMIN as well as its clients. The regional engineers would
assist in, but would not be directly responsible for, the preparation and
supervision of development projects.
11.       The Office of Supplies (Almacenes) is responsible for buying and
storing mining tools and supplies, as well as selling them to small miners
for cash or on short-term credit. Because of this specialized and rather
commercial type of business, it is questionable whether the office should
remain as a part of the Credit Department. While for the time being no
alternative solution is proposed, further review should be undertaken
during the project implementation stage.
12.       In addition to these two operational units, the Credit Department
includes an Office of Loan Controls, which is responsible for processing of
small working capital loans and for administrative control over lending activi-
ties in BAMIN's headquarters and six regional offices.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Trading Department
13.       The Trading Department was formally established under the Decree Law
No. 80 of October 27, 1972. It conducts its activities pursuant to internal
Regulations for Marketing of Minerals and Metals, adopted by BAMIN's Board of
Directors on June 13, 1973. It buys mineral concentrates delivered to BAMIN
warehouses located near the central office or each of the branch offices.
It may also store minerals for up to 30 days for the miners, without storage
charges. The buylng price is established on the basis of the average market
quotations of the preceding week, less BAMIN's handling charges and selling
costs. Current prices paid by BAMIN for typical minerals, according to their
metal content, are posted in all BAMIN banking offices. Normally, BAIIIN pays,
upon delivery, 50% of the estimated value of the mineral and the balance upon
completion of the laboratory test of the metal content, which takes up to 10
days. In many cases, the quantities of minerals delivered by small miners are
below the minimum selling lot and have to be stored until commercial lots of
comparable concentrates are accumulated. For this special service, BAMIN
charges a flat 2% fee based on the estimated 3-month storing period at an
annual interest rate of 8%. This fee, which has remained unchanged since the
late 1960s, is below BAMIN's actual cost. Changes in the fee to reflect
BAMIN's costs were discussed during negotiations and would be examined as a
part of a management control system contract (para. 33).
14.       Minerals are sold either directly to foreign smelters, like most tin
and copper, or through foreign trading companies. BAMIN's selling contracts
are either of the fixed-price type or are tied to international, normally
London, market prices. The metal content of ore concentrates is firstly
determined by BAMIN's laboratories at the time of purchase and again by foreign
purchasers upon delivery of the concentrates. Because of BAMIN's primitive
mixing methods and inaccurate chemical analysis, there are frequent differences
between BAMIN's and its clients' results. At times, these differences have
been substantial, have led to contractual frictions and occasionally contri-
buted to BAMIN's operating losses.
15.       The Trading Department operates primarily with a line of credit
from the Central Bank, which amounted to $b 282 million at the end of 1975.
After the separation of resources, the Department's equity would consist
of the paid-in capital of $b 25 million, reinvested profit and legal and
special reserves, which together would exceed $b 70 million.
B.   Lending Operations
16.       Policies and regulations.  Although not legally prohibited, BAMIN
does not make equity investments. Its lending activities are conducted in
accordance with the statutas of April 23, 1963, which were amended in 1964
and 1965, and its internal Regulation for Mining Loans of 1973. In 1976,
in preparation for the Bank financing, BAMIN revised its statutes and
adopted a policy for credit operations, laying down criteria for its lending
activities and, in particular, for financing of small mining development



ANNEX 3
Page 5
projects. The latter includes, among other things, the debt/equity ratio and
the exposure limit of the Credit Department to any particular client (Annex
4). BAMIN's internal loan regulations, revised to reflect the policy statement
and satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition for loan effectiveness.
17.       Types of loans.  BAMIN makes 3 types of loans, namely:
(a) working capital loans for up to 18 months, not exceeding
$b 150,000 (US$7,500) each, which includes credit sales of
mining tools and supplies from BAMIN's warehouses;
(b) production loans for financing equipment for up to 5 years
of maturity; and
(c) mining development loans, presently granted for up to 8
years. The revised regulations would extend this period
to 15 years.
Under the present regulations, loans up to US$4,000 equivalent may be approved
by a branch manager, up to US$6,000 equivalent by the Credit Manager, and up
to US$20,000 equivrlent by the Executive Committee (to be changed to Loan
Committee)¡ larger loans must be submitted to the Board of Directors. These
limits are very low but they reflect the present nature of BbMIN's financing.
They would be likely increased in the revised regulations and provide, among other
things, that each production or development subloan of over US$20,000 equiva-
lent would be evaluated by the Technical Office and considered by the Loan
Committee, and, in case of a positive conclusion, it would be presented to the
Board of Directors for approval. As part of its revision of the loan regula-
tions, BAMIN would prepare separate operational guidelines for each type of
subloans.
18.       Terms and conditions of subloans.  BAMIN charges the highest legal
interest rate, which at present is 12% p.a., on funds derived from foreign
long-term borrowings and relent in dollars (including roll-overs). It has
been lending its own funds at 13% p.a. but since the Central Bank's resolution
of January 8, 1976 it may now charge 15% p.a. 1/ In addition, BAMIN charges a
one-time fee of 1/4 of 1% for the Employees' Fund and a one-time handling
commission of 1/4 of 1%. On overdue balances, borrowers have to pay a penalty
interest of 3% p.a.  Under the present Bank interest rate of 8.9%, BMITN would
have a 3.1% spread (plus a closing fee of 1/4%), which is quite narrow for
BAMIN's type of operations and does not cover overall administrative costs
of the Credit Department. This interest differential could be accepted only
because other financial expenses of BAMIN are lower,.and its gross spread is
higher (para. 30). BAMIN would also be -xpected to pay the Bank commitment fee
(presently 3/4 of1%) on its portion of the Bank Loan, and in turn would have to
charge its mining clients a fee of 1% or more on undisbursed subloan balances. In
1/   During negotiations BAMIN agreed to review the interest rate on lending
its own funds with a view to raise it to 15% p.a.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
addition, the subborrowers would be expected to pay the Central Bank's charge
of about 1/4 of 1% p.a. for its assuming the risk of exchange fluctuations
between the US dollar and other currencies disbursed by the Bank. The overall
cost of BAMIN's development subloans to beneficiaries would be about 13% p.a.,
in US dollars.
19.       BAMIN's subloans over $b 80,000 are usually guaranteed by real
estate, and/or chattel mortgage, or by an insurance company. Under the Bank
project, the value of mineral reserves, determined according to the US
Geological Survey's standard and computed by BAMIN's Technical Office, would
also be accepted as a partial security for subloans.
20.       Project evaluations and supervision.  BAMIN has not had much experi-
ence in project appraisal. Over 80% of all its loans are for working capital,
and its appraisals of equipment and project loans are not rigorous, the primary
weight being given to collateral offered. While this reflects the prevalence
of short-term operations, it is also the result of insufficient project data,
particularly regarding mineral reserves, and the fact that financial state-
ments have not been required for lending to the small mining sector. As
a result of the proposed project, each applicant for BAMIN's financing of
mining development would be required to present a feasibility study, prepared
by a qualified party and acceptable to BAMIN's Technical Office. In addition
to technical and economic data, this study would include the financial position
of the applicant enterprise, the projected results of its project, including
at least its financial rate of return, as well as the value of available mineral
reserves. Also, it would be expected to have recommendations regarding the
nature and extent of the assistance to be provided to the miner by GEOBOL or
another qualified party. There is no doubt that the quality of project evalua-
tion by BAMIN would have to be substantially improved. To assist BAMIN in
setting up satisfactory project appralsal techniques and procedures and to
train its technical staff, a portion of the Bank loan would be earmarked to
finance two experts for at least 12 months.
21.       According to BAMIN's loan regulations, all projects should be
inspected by the central Technical Office personnel to check the proper use of
BAMIN's funds. In practice, this end-use check is done only in the case of
more important loans. It is quite clear that the present supervision activi-
ties of BAMIN are not adequate for development projects. In 1974, a total of
28 construction sites were visited and only 5 in the first nine months of 1975.
The Technical Office of BAMIN would be expected to develop satisfactory super-
vision guidelines and a timetable for site visits to follow up on the develop-
ment of all its subprojects, irrespective of the source of financing. Consul-
tants financed under the loan would assist BAMIN in this matter.
22.       Procurement and disbursement.  BAMIN's procurement procedures, which
generally provide for bid solicitation and in some cases for public bidding,
are adequate. However, recently, BAMIN has not had much opportunity to apply
them, since it financed in most cases Russian or Polish equipment available
under bilateral credit terms. For the development projects, BAMIN would
require its clients to obtain, whenever appropriate, quotations from at least
three suppliers.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
23.       BAMIN disburses for the cost of locally purchased equipment by
paying directly to the supplier or by checks made to the order of thie
supplier, with a note indicating the client's name and specific procurement
items. Regarding direct imports, BAMIN would follow the Bank's practices
and assist its borrowers whenever necessary.
24.       Past operations.  In 1975, BAMIN made 736 loans in the amount of
$b 184.6 million, an inerease of 253% in the amount, and 81% in the number of
loans made in 1974. This sharp increase in the loan amount reflects mainly a
special credit, obtained from a German commercial bank in 1975, primarily for
medium miners to finance increased inventory of minerals (mainly tin and
antimony) whose market prices were depressed. The rise in the number of loans
was primar ly due to an increase in the number of credit sales of mining tools
and materials from BAMIN warehouses made possible by the 1973 loan of $b 60
million from the Central Bank and by the gradual utilization of $b 57 million
of Russian and Polish credits to finance machinery purchases. Over a 4-year
period, from the end of 1972 through 1975, BAMIN made a total of 1,487 loans
for $b 271 million (Table 1), showing a steady increase in the number of loans
and the total amount of loans made. About 85% of the loans made in the 4-year
period were in the amounts below $b 100,000, and only 42 loans exceeded $b 1.0
niillion (US$50,00C' each. About 83% of the loans were for working capital,
and only 91 were made in excess of 5 years for investment. While 97% of all
loans were made to the small mining subsector, they accounted for only 41%
of the loan amount; the remaining 59% were absorbed by 39 larger loans made
to medium miners.  Except for a gradually increasing amount of outstanding
loans, no permanent change in the lendíng pattern of BAMIIN and types of its
loans is expected until Bank-firanced subprojects are under way.
C.   Financial Structure and Results
23.       Background.  Although BAMIN's trading and credit operations were
botb reviewed during appraisal, the following financial analysis is restricted
to the Credit Department, which would be made financially independent of the
Tradlng Department.  The two departments would maintain separate financial
accotnts and would be restricted in the transfer of resources between them-
selves. The Government would also guarantee that operating results and
liabilities of the Trading Department would not in any way affect the Credit
Departnent, and vice-versa.
26.       The principal problem confronting the financial analysis of BAMIN's
Credit Department is the lack of rellable data regarding its operations.
MHanagement information systems appear to be among the priority areas for
improvement. Wlile headquarters appears to be obtaining information re-
garding operations and results, it is 'tl a considerable time lag in certain
cases, and not in a form whlch would allow ready analysis of operational
results. A second problem is the fact that the Credit Department is not
concerned solely with providing credit, but also includes activities such as
sales of equipment and mining supplies. This reduces the usefulness of
financial ratios for comparative purposes. Mindful of the above constraints,
the analysis that follows is limíted and is only indicative of BAMIN's overall
financial position and prospects.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
27.       Financial structure.  Total assets of the Credit Department ex-
panded by more than 50% per year from 1973 to 1975 due to the special credit
line from a German commercial bank, Russian and Polish credits for the pur-
chase of machinery and equipment, and the increase in resources provided by
the Central Bank which permitted further expansion in assets (Table 2).
Following loan negotiations the Government submltted satisfactory evidence
of the conversion of the $b 60 million Central Bank loan into equity of the
Credit Department. Thus, defining this loan as equity, the Credit Department
would have a debt/equity ratio, estimated at 4.0:1 at year-end 1975, which
is at the limit proposed under the project.
z8.       It has not been possible to calculate current ratio of the Credit
Department prior to 1975, but an estimate of the year-end 1975 current ratio
silOS a satisfactory 1.5:1.  This is not surprising in view of the nature of
niost of BAMIN's borrowings, whose terms exceed BAMIN's average lending term.
1,19.     BAMIN is not exposed to any significant foreign exchange risk in
its operations since funds are lent out in the same currency In which they
are obtained. To the extent that BAMIN's own funds are lent out in pesos,
a devaluation could, however, increase its debt/equity ratio and reduce its
currenít ratio as well as the real value of its equity. Although devaluation
is unlikely at the present time, the Government agreed during negotiations to
offset any chlange in the Credit Department's debt-to-equity ratio resulting
fronm a devaluation.
P Profitabllity.  The results of the Credit Department operations
:.e past have been rather uneven due to the attitude of small miners who
dered BAMIN as an instrument of social welfare.  In spite of this atti-
'i 01¿ -,owever, with the rise in mineral prices in 197! the Credit Depart-
i.lcSt has had reasonable loan collection experience and managed to obtain
,r oKlest return on equity of about 2.5% in 1973, 2.7 in 1974 and 2.2% in
1975 (Tables 3 and 4). While still low, the return for 1975 is satisfactory
since it is after taxes which BAMIN did not have to pay until 1975, and after
sizeable provisions for portfolio losses. Slightly higher returns are pro-
jected for the future (para. 39).  BAMIN's administrative costs are about
4% of the average total assets (Table 3) but this ratio is distorted by tlie
Warehousing operations (almacenes) which are expensive and comprise about
half of the assets.
31.       Portfolio guality and reserves.  It is not possible to state with
accuracy tlie quality of BAMIN's portfolio. At the end of August, 1975,
BAiTIN's records showjed loans in arrears with principal amount outstanding
of 20% of total portfolio (Table 5). The external auditor's field audit
showed that about 30% of the Credit Department portfolio was in arrears
as of thie same date. Management explained this discrepancy as being due
to the lag in the transriíttal of information from branch offices to head-
quarters, which further confirms the weakness of BAMIN's management control
system. Most of the arrears recorded, however, were for less than three
Fionths, and appear to be due to low mineral prices rather than to a deter-
loration in BAMIN's collection efforts. The total amount of loans in



ANNEX 3
Page 9
arrears for more than three months as of the end of August 1975 was about
10%, according to BAMIN's records. Even including the unreported arrears
uncovered by the auditors, the arrears rate is not excessive considering
BAMIN's history and past operations. However, measures to reduce arrears
were discussed during negotiations and would be followed up as a part of loan
supervision. Reschedulings from 1974 onwards have been relatively insignif-
icant.  Also, whíle many loans have been written off, the average amount has
been small, about $b 8,000 as compared to BAMIN's average loan size of about
$b 140,000 (Table 6). Thus, write-offs have not significantly affected
BAMIN's operations from 1974 onwards; in 1975 (8 months) they amounted only to
about 0.6% of total portfolio on an annual basis. The small size of write-
offs shows that it is the very small miners, who probably do not have viable
operations to begin with, who do not pay their debts except when they sell
their minerals to BAMIN.
32.       During its preliminary audit in August 1975 BAMIN's external
auditors recommended an increase in the provisions for losses from $b 9.3
million to $b 15.6 million. The analysis was based not on a loan-by-loan
review but rather on the less satisfactory aging of BAMIN's arrears. As
of year-end 1975, the provisions have, in fact, been increased to $b 15.6
million. While it is still not possible to determine the adequacy of this
reserve, wtiieh now amounts to about 15% of BAMIN's portfolio, 1/ this is
definitely a positive step towards establishing the Credit Department's
creditworthiness.
33.       External audit.  BAMIN's operations were not subject to external
auditing prior to 1975. As part Z its preparation for the proposed project,
BAMIN hired Arthur Young and Co. as its external auditor. As expected,
the audit report for 1975 did not have an opinion, due principally to some
of BAbMIN's accounting practices and its weak control system which complicates
the external auditing funetion. A satisfactory consulting contract to set
tlp a proper management control system, which should lead not only to better
internal accounting but also to improved external reporting, would be required
as a condition to loan effectiveness. The foreign exchange costs to set up
such a system would be financed under the loan.
Resource Position and Reguirements
34.       As of the end of August 1975, BAMIN had practically no uncommitted
resources available for development projects.  It had some undisbursed resources
remaining from the Russian and Polish credits, amounting to about US$1.0 million,
but these are to be utilized exclusively for the purc1ase of machinery and
equipment from these countries (Table 7).  It was also able to secure a US$6.5
million loan from the Deutsch-Sudamerikanisc'e Bank as of year-end 1975,
but this has to be utilized for the financing of the mineral stock of the
medium miners.  BAMIN has recently obtained two medium-term foreign loans
1/   Excluding the subloans made with the Deutsch-Sudamerikanische Bank
loan made in December, 1975.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
totaling US$6.0 million, to be used mainly for working capital financing.
Neither of the loans is expected to be utilized for the proposed project
since both loans will probably be drawn down rapidly.
35.       In order for BAMIN to have the required counterpart financing under
the proposed loan, the Government has agreed to provide a US$2 million equity
contribution to the Credit Department which would be earmarked speclfically
for Bank-financed projects. This contribution will be spread over a three-
year period, namely; US$200,000 in 1976, US$1.0 million in 1977 and US$800,000
in 1978.  The amount and the schedule are satisfactory to support the projected
disbursements under the proposed loan (Annex 10).
Projected Operations, Financial Structure and Results
36.       Projected operations.  BAMIN's loan disbursements are projected
first to decline and then to increase from $b 43 million in 1976 1/ to about
$b 130 million by 1978 and 1979, which would already Include the proposed
Bank loan. With the full utilization of the proposed loan, the Credit Depart-
ment's disbursements would decline to about the original 1976 level by 1981.
In practice, though, if the proposed project is successful, the Bank or some
other institution would probably provide BAMIN with additional resources
for project lending which should result in at least the maintenance of the
$b 130 million disbursement level.
37.       No increase is expected in operations relating to the sale of
machinery and supplies. This activity should then become less important
for the Credit Department over the forecast period, which could contribute
to the process of transformation of the Credit Department into a "pure"
lending institution.
38.       Financial structure.  The projections show the Credit Department's
debt/equity ratio declining from 4.0:1 at year-end 1975 to 3.3:1 by year-end
1976 1/ due to the partial repayment of the DSB loan (Table 7). The debt/equity
ratio of the Credit Department is not expected to exceed 4:1 over the fore-
cast period (1976-1979).  The Credit Department would also have satifiactory
liquidity over the same period.
39.       Profitability.  Net income is projected to increase to a more satis-
factory level from 1977 onwards, because of the projected increase in interest
received as a percentage of average portfolio due to the increase in BAMIN's
lending rate for foreign official funds from 10% and 12%, and for own funds
from 13% to 15% (Table 8). Income from the sale of irachinery and supplies is
projected to remain at the 1975 level.  Return on equity is projected to rise
to above 4% for the 1976-1979 period, which should contribute to the strengthen-
ing of BAMIN's capital base.
40.       Debt-service coverage, which is projected to remain at an acceptable
1.5:1 by 1977, increases to 3.9:1 by 1979 (Table 4).
1/   Excluding two recent foreign loans (para. 34).



BOLIVIA
SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Minero - Credit Department
Analysis of Loans Made from 1972 to 1975
(in thousands of Bolivian Pesos)
1972                      1973                       1974                       1975                     Total
No.    Amount    Z        No.    Amount    Z         No.    Amount    Z.       No.    Amount    %         No.    Amount    %
1. By Amount
0.-  -      50.0           182   2,825       37       209   2,579       8       257   8,091       14       423  10,335        6    1,071  23,830         9
50.1  -    100.0             13      952      13        20   1,491        5       35   3,000        5       134  10,000        6       202  15,442        6
100.1  -    500.0             13   2,452       32        13   3,027       10       29   8,636       16        62  15,203        9       117  29,318       11
500.1  -  1,000.0             -        -        -         3   2,676        9       37   9,259       17        15  11,275        6        55  23,210        9
1,000.1  -  3,000.0               2   1,329      18         3   5,828       19         6   8,418      15         26 129,607      73        42 179,244       66 1
3,000.1 and over                 -       -        -         26 1596607 5043 189.432                   33
210   7,558    100        250  31,231    100         367  55,837    100         660 176,420    100    1,487 271,044    100
2. By Use
Working Cap!yaI -/              160   3,257      43       226   7,200       23       296  12,591       23       548  25,867       15    1,230  48,915       18
Production -3/                  45   3,962       52        22  23,201       74        68  40,746      73        101 147,511      84       236 215,420       79
Development -                     5     339       5         2      830       3         3   2,499        4        11   3,041        2        21   6,709       2
210   7,558    100        250. 31,231    100         367  55,837    100         660 176,420    100    1,487 271,044    100
3.  By Type of Borrower-
4/
Small Mining                   210   7,558    100         247  13,301       42       354  31,122       56       637  58,110       33    1,448 109,990       41
Medium Mining                    -        -       -          3  18,030      58        13  24,715       44        23 118,310       67        39 161,055       59
210   7,558    100        250  31,231    100         367  55,837    100         660 176,420    100    1,487 271,044    100
4.  ny Financing Source                                                                                                   ----
Bamin                           111   2,115      28       211   6,346       20       294  17,385       31       346  16,734        9      962  42,580        16
USAID                            99   5,443      72        34   6,793       22        29   9,401       17        46   9,792        6       208  31,429       12
DSB                              -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       175 125,560       71       175 125,560      46
Equipment Credit from the
Central RnAIk ani               -        -        -         5  18091       58        44  29,050       51        9
Rtussian Sources                                                                                                93  24,334       14       142  71,476       26
210   7,558    100        250  31,231    100         367  55,837    100         660 176,420    100    1,487 271,044    100
1/  Loans with maximum term of 18 months.
2/  Loans with maximum term of 5 years.
3/  Loans with niaximum terin of 8 years.
4/  Includes cooperatives.                                                                                                                                          2
5/  Estimate.
LCPDF                                                                                                                                                               Lo
August, 1976



BOLIVIA                                       ANNEX 3
SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                            Table 2
Banco Minero-Credit Department
Past and Projected Balance Sheets as of December 31
(in thousands of Bolivian Pesos)
Past                             Proj ected
ASSETS                                                       1973=    1974-y   1975          1976     1977      1978      1979
Cash and banks                                            5,185    8,872   15,114       14,061   15,330   16,054   16,852
Loans outstanding - current                                  -         -    29,471      98,330  101,350   50,770   63,600
Miscellaneous receivables                                   137    7,942   10,975       11,000   11,100   11,300   11,400
Total Current Assets                                                     55,560    123,391  127,780   78,124   91,852
Materials, machinery and equipment                       43,316   61,561   99,602       85,623   80,463   76,836   71,838
Loans outstanding (net of current portion)               69,570   95,905  205,100    149,726  130,276  211,606  278,706
Provision for bad debts                                  (7,563) (10,879) (15,595)   (16,870) (18,000) (19,500) (23,000)
Fixed and other assets                                   36,481-/ 43,554-/  8,485        8,264    8,043    7,822    7,601
Total Assets                              147.126  206,937   53,151 4]         4  328.562  35488   426,997
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Accounts payable and other current liabilities           21,2235I 40,172)1  17,870      18,500   19,000   20,000   20,500
Short-ternn debt 1/                                        _          -     18,191      66,609   66,289    8,849    4,179
Total Current Liabilities                                                36,061      85,109   85,289   28,84    24,679
Medium- ar:d Long-Term Debt
USAID                                                    32,811   31,975   31,197       29,768   28,339   26,910   25,481
Russían and Polish Credits                                  -         -     57,224      57,284   52,424   45,004   44,854
Deutsch Sud. Bank                                           -         -    120,000      60,000   1             -         -
Warld Bank                                                  -         -         --                18,000   86,000  155,400
Other sources                                               239        37    5,240          -        -         -         -
Total Meduiun- and Long-Term Deb2/                    33,050   32,012  213,661    147,05    98,763  157,914  225,735
Provisions                                                4 424   11 733,  5,457         8,084    9,365   10,711   12,119
Other Liabilities                                        53,524i  64,820-1  27,674      28,000   28,500   29,000   30,000
MU II1Y
Cerntral Bank Loan (quasi-equity)                        35,000   58,200   55,560           -        -         -         -
Pald-in Capital                                             -         -         -       64,000   84,000  100,000  100,000
Retúined earnings                                           -         -     14,738      17,889   22,645    8,414   34,464
Total Equity                                          35,000   58,200   70,298       81,889  106,645  128,414  134,464
Total Liabilities and Equity                         147,126  206,937  353,151    350,134  328,562  354,888  426,97
RATIOS
Current ratio                                             n.a.      n.a.     1.5         1.4       1.5       2.7       3.7
Lebt/equity  6/                                           3.2       2.6      4.0         3.3       2.1       1.8       2.2
Increase in portfolio (%)                                 n.a.    37.9    144.6          5.7      (6.6)    13.3      30,5
Increase in assets (%)                                    n.a.    40.7      70.7        (0.9)    (6.2)       8.0     20.3
Provision for bad debts/total portfolio (%)              10.9      11.3      6.6         6.8       7.8       7.4       6.7
1/  Includes current portion of medium- and long-term debt.
2/  Excluding current portion from 1975 amounts.
3/  Balance sheets prepared by BAMIN do not segregate current assets/liabilities.
4/ Includes acccunts awaiting settlement from BAMIN's branch offices.
5/  May include some non-current itemns.
6/  Excluding $b 120 million five-year foreign banks' loans and an additional $b 25 million capital allocations,
both received in mid-1976. Allowíng for these changes the debt/equity ratio would be approximately 3.6 in
1976; 2.6 in 1977; 2.0 in 1978; and 2.1 in 1979.
LCPDF
August 1976



BOLIVIA
SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PRC)JECT
Banco Minero - Credit Department
Past and Projected Profit and Loss Statements
(in thousands of Bolivian Pesos)
Past                              Projected 4/
1973     1974      1975         1976      1977     1978      1979
Income
Interest recelved                           4,446   10,607   10,697         29,991   30,130   28,307   33,150
Commissions                                 1,167       754    1,517           215    1,050    1,140        873
Gross profit from sale of supplies          1,023    6,298    8,372          7,469    9,160    9,450    9,800
Extraordinary income                           397      846        96          -         -        -         -
Total Income                           7,033   18,505   20,682        37,675   40,340   38,897   43,823
Expenses
Financial expenses                             823      945       807       17,478   16,795   12,135   13,260
Gross spread                           6,210   17,560   19,875        20,197   23,545   26,762   30,563
Salaríes and social benefits                4,724    8,345   10,812         11,700   12,600   13,600   14,700
Office expenses and subsidies                  619    3,692    1,867         2,300    2,500    2,800    3,100
Depreciation            2                        9        58      221          221       221       221      221
ProvisLons fqr losses                          -      4,220    5,000         1,275    1,130    1,500    3,500
Write--offs 3                                  _        -         -            200       300       400      400
Total Non-financial Expenses           5,352   16,315   17,950        15,696   16,751   18,521   21,921
Profit Before Taxes                      858    1,245    1,975         4,501    6,794    8,241    8,642
Income tax (20%)                              -         -         395          900    1,359    1,648    1,728
Contribution to employees' fund (10%)          -        -         198          450       679       824      864
Net Profit                               858    1,245    1,382          3,151    4,756    5,769    6,050
Ratíos
Financial income/average portfolio (%)         8.1 -/  13.7      10.8         12.5      13.0      11.9     11.3
1/                                                                c
Financial expenses/average borrowings (%)  2.5 -    2.9           1.0          7.8       8.9       7.3      6.7       1 
Gross financial margin (%)                     5.6     10.8       9.8          4.7       4.1       4.6      4.6         x
Net income/average equity (%)                  2.5      2.7       2.2          4.1       5.0       4.9      4.6       . w
Adminístrative costs/average
total assets (%)                            3.6       6.8       4.5          4.0       4.4      4.8       4.6
1/ As % of year-end 1973 amount.
2/  Includes provisions for losses on loans and inventory obsolescence.
3/ Included under provisions for losses from 1973 to 1975.
4/ Excludes US$6.0 million foreien loans received in 1976.
LCPDF
Auieust. 1976



ANNEX 3
Table 4
BOLIVIA
SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Minero - Credit Department
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds for Periods Ending December 31
(in thousands of Bolivian pesos)
Projected 2/
1976        1977         1978         1979
Sources
Net income                      3,151        4,756        5,769        6,050
Non-cash expenses               1,496        1,351        1,721        3,721
Cash Generated by Operations  4,647          6,107        7,490        9,771
Government equity
contributions                 4,000       20,000       16,000           -
Loan recoveries                29,471       98,330      101,350       50,770
Drawdown of borrowings
- World Bank                      -        18,000       68,000       72,000
- Central Bank
(quasi-equity)             4,440            -           -           -
- Others
Decrease in ínventory          13,979        5,160        3,627        4,998
Accounts payable and
other líabílitíes             3,582        2,281        2,846        2,908
Total Sources                  60,119      149,878      199,313      140,447
Uses
Loan disbursements             42,956       81,900      132,100      130,700
Repayment of borrowings        18,191       66,609       66,289        8,849
Increase in receivables            25          100          200          100
Total Uses                     61,172      148,609      198,589      139,649
Cash at beginning of period  15,114         14,061       15,330       16,054
Change in cash                 (1,053)       1,269          724          798
Cash at end of períod          14.061       15,330       16,054       1.6,852
Ratlos
Debt-service coverage -/          1.5          1.5          1.6          3.9
1/ On principal and interest payments, assuming a 30% tax rate.
2/ Excluding two foreign loans totalling US$6.0 million received in mid-1976.
LCPDF
August, 1976



ANNE( 3
Table 5
BOLIVIA
WI;.LL IrIN  DEVEIOPME;IT PROJECT
Banco l;nero - Credit Department
Total af' Loans C_ rent, in Arreara and Rescheduled as o£ Aust 31, 1975
(in thousands of Bolivíian Pesos)
Muffber of
Los               Amoun t       
Cu.-rent                              382                83,888            78.0
A9reae,-s
0  -  3 n.onhic                  111               12,427             11.5
3  -  6 iionths                   20                  465              0.4
6  -  12 Sianftls                 28                2,155              2.0
I2  -  24 ionnthn                 29                 1,34°              1.2
l:orc th!-n nLont1i               190 g                ,92              4.ó
Total ín arrears over 3 mo.  207                  d,884              8.3
Toval in Arrears      378                21,311             19.8
Rescheduled                        27                 2,402             2.2
TO':AL                787               107,601           100.0
LCPDF
June, 1976.



ANNEK 3
Table 6
BOIJVEIA
S!IJL MIRINIiG DSVELOPIPENJT PRIOJECT
Banco i'nero - Credit Department
Sumr of LoanB Wri-tten Off
(in thousands of Bolivian Pesos)
1973                 1974                 1975 (8 mont1hs)
IJo. o£              No . of              No. of
Loans     Aount    Loans        Amount    Loans      Anount
a Paz                 33       931.9       9        68.3        41        330.5
Potori                11         71.8      5         72.8         3         13.8
Oruro                  4         23.9      -          --         23        27.3
Tupiza                 1          0.2      3         19.0         1         21e0
Cochaboan'ba           7         15.3      1          5.1         2         27.4
111     1 0)03.1    13        165.2       70        419.5
Tot,al nu=nber--;-" lof lls iritten-off    199
Total 2oun1  of loLns anitte.n-of        1,627.8
jrverare size of loan t8riten-cff             3.2
LCP3DF
June, 1976



BOLIVIA
SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT `ROJECT
Banco Minero - Credit Department
3/
Borrowings as of August 31, 1975 -
(in thousands of US$)
Term-Date
Original       Portion      Undisbursed    Portion       Amount          Interest    Of Final                                   Revolving Use
;ource               Date       Amount         Disbursed    Amount           Repaid      Outstanding   Rate           Installment   Purpose                     Possible
entral Bank         2/9/73    1,750           1,750         ----            ---2/        1,750          4.5%         ----           Medium mines - mine
development               yes
Central Bank         2/9/73    1,250           1,250         ----            ---2/        1,250          4.5%         ----           SmaIl mines - purchase
of supplies                yes
Machinoexport -
Russian            7/19/72   3,000           2,700        300              741         2,400             3%         3/30/86        Machinery & equipment    no
Techmachexport -
Russian             2/27/72  1,000             472         528             160            312            3%         3/30/86        Machinery & equipment    no
Energomachexport -
Russian            12/27/72  1,000             886         114             241            645            3%         3/30/86'       Machinery & equipment    no
Kopex - Polish       4/28/72      280            197          83             183             144           5%         9/19/78        Machinery & equipment    no
USAID - American    5/2/66    4,300                  992         ---1/           ----           992          1% (lst
10 yrs.)    2/2/07          Mine development           yes
2 1/2% (next 20 yrs.)
USAID - American    5/2/66        840            840         ----             62            778            4%         3/30/83        Mine development           yes
1/   Undisbursed amount has been cancelled.
2/   Qaasi-equity; being repaid by the Government.
3/   Subsequent to the date a loan was contracted in 1975 with DSB of Germany for a US$6.0 million at 1 3/4%
above LIBOR to finance the mineral stock of medium mines with the final installment (repayment) due 11/6/79.
Also, in mid-1976 BAMIN received two 5-year loans from foreign commercial banks mainly for working capital
financing,
¡         



ANNEX 3
Table 8
BOLIVIA
SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Minero - Credit Department
Projected Disbursements
(fm millions of Bolivian pesos)
2/
Projected
1976      1977       1978       1979
A. Peso Funds
BAMIN 1/                          18.8       36.6       36.0       30.0
USAID                              3.0        3.0        3.0        3.0
Central Bank                       8.5        8.5        8.5        8.5
Sub-total                    30.3       48.1      47.5       41.5
B. Foreign Currency Funds
USAID                              3.6        3.9        4.7        5.3
Russian/Polish Credits             9.1       11.9       11.9       11.9
. IBRD                               -         18.0       68.0       72.0
Sub-total                    12.7       33.8      84.6       89.2
TOTAL                        43.0       81.9     132.1      130.7
1/  Includes the Governnent equity contribution of $b 40 million.
2/ Excludes US$6.0 million foreign loans and $b 25 million of additional
capital allocation, both received in mid-1976.
LCPDF
August, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DECLARATION ON POLICY REGARDING CREDIT OPERATIONS
(Ap.proved by the Board of Directors of
Banco Minero de Bolivia on           )
The purpose of this declaration is to set forth the aims and
policies of the Banco Minero de Bolivia, hereinafter referred to as "the
Bank" and to complement the general principles laid down in the Statutes
approved by the Board on                   and published by Decree-Law No.
_________ _  of_ of
T.   Aims and Operating Criterion
1.        The Bank will cooperate in the economic and social development of
Bolivia by providing technical and financial assistance for the development
and proper management of the mining activities in the private sector, in order
improve productivity and ensure rational exploitation and utilization of
nonrenewable resources, with the exception of petrochemicals. The Bank will
give due consideration to the general plans and priorities of the central
Government for promoting the growth of the country's mining sector.
2.        Although the Bank's main field of activity will be the promotion
and financing of the production and marketing of minerals, it will also
be permitted to finance the necessary infrastructure, including storage
facilities and regional concentration plants for improving the content
of the minerals. The Bank shall refrain from owning such infrastructure,
except for the storage and other facilities required for the marketing of
minerals.
3.        The Bank will place emphasis on cooperating with small mining
enterprises and mining cooperatives through supervised credit. This will
not exclude the financing of projects of mining ínstitutions or private
medium-size enterprises in order to implement the Bank's main purpose.
4.        For the time being, the Bank will refrain from investing capital
in any enterprise and will operate mainly in the following fields:
(a) Extending of short-term (up to 18 months), medium-term (up
to 5 years) and lorg-term (normally up to 10 years but in
exceptional cases up to 15 years) loans to finance and, in
special circumstances, to refinance capital goods and services,
feasibility studies, and also tools and materials from its ware-
houses and working capital for mining production.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) Guaranteeing payments for capital goods.
(c) Granting advances against products sold or to be sold
and deposited in the Bank's stores.
(d) Providing its clients, either directly or through arrangements
with other institutions, technical assistance in the financing
and management of their projects.
5.        The Bank will provide medium and long-term loans for investment
in projects appraised and approved by it that show adequate financial and
economic returns on the incremental investment, plus the capacity to repay
such loans. It will make short-term loans for operating capital, prefer-
ably in conjunction with investment financing, or separately on the
basis of an acceptable mining production plan. The Bank will cooperate
with qualified small mining enterprises in the financing of feasibility
studies for development projects.
6.        The Bank will pay particular attention to the overall trend of
mining development and to the cooperative form of ownership and to this
end will coordina_e or cooperate with special organizations and mining
research institutes and with other financial institutions, for the promotion
of advanced technology systems to increase productivity and ensure rational
utilization of mineral resources.
II.  General Principles Governing Loans
7.        The Bank will make financial decisions solely on the basis of an
investment criterion, and will provide financial assistance only to those
clients whose projects are financially sound, technically feasible, econo-
mically justified and compatible with the national priorities for mining
development.
8.        The financial comnitments in whatever form, including loans and
guarantees, which the Bank may make to a particular client will not normally
exceed any of the following percentages:
(a) 90% of the cost of the project or program;
(b) 25% of the Credit Department's equity (paid-in capital
and uncommitted reserves).
9.        All the loans financed will be fully guaranteed.  Mineral reserves,
verified by the Bank, would be acceptchle as collateral.
10.       The Bank will promote joint operations in conjunction with other
institutions, either local, foreign or international, for the financing of
projects whose requiremenls exceed the Bank's capacity.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
11.       The Bank will not assume management responsibility in the enter-
prise it assists. Under exceptional circumstances and only if the Board
so resolves, such action may be required to protect its financial interests.
The Bank will seek to divest itself of management and direct control as soon
as appropriate.
12.       The terms of the loans and guarantees furnished by the Bank will
be consistent with the life of the assets financed or guaranteed and with
realistic cash flow projections for the project.
13.       The Bank will permit refinancing of the loans due only when
special circumstances so warrant and only following a specific resolution
of *he Board to such effect.
14.       The Bank will ensure that in addition to its financing, adequate
resources are available to cover all the costs including current expenditures
for com.pleting the project.
15.       The Bank will require its borrowers to provide and maintain adequate
securities, to maintain records and to keep accounts in accordance with proper
and accepted accounting practices and to furnish any information on their
operations and accounts which the Bank may consider desirable. The Bank will
ensure its right to inspect the projects and other operations and accounts of
the enterprise. Commercial information furnished by applicants or clients
will be held confidential.
16        In order to ensure adequate health and safety standards of its
miníng projects and to improve general working and living conditions of mining
workers, the Bank will include appropriate provisions in its loan agreements
and, subsequently, assure their compliance.
III. Financial Policy
17.       The Bank's financial policy will be designed to enable it to meet
its obligations on schedule at all times and to obtaín the profit margin
needed, as a ininimum, to cover its operating costs, build up adequate reserves
and maintain the value of its capital.
18.       The rate of interest, commission and other charges will be determined
by the Board, from tíme to time, to ensure proper implementation of the estab-
lished financial policy. If the interest rate and other charges regulated by
the Government do not ensure an adequate income, the Bank will request the
Governrment to make up the deficit.
19.       The Bank will write off uncollectible debts, establish adequate
provisions to cover estimated losses and build up contingency reserves to a
level consistent with establíshed financial practices. Its net annual profit,
after deduction of reserves required by law and the contribution to the Bank
Employees' Fund, will be applied first to such provisions and reserves for
contingencies and the balance to establish other reserves and to inerease the
capital.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
20.       The Bank will maintain a satisfactory balance between maturities
of its own obligations and those of the loans and guarantees extended.
21.       Within its statutory limits on overall indebtedness, the Bank shall
refrain from incurring debts In excess of four times the amount of the Credit
Department equity (share capital and unimpaired reserves). Debts shall be
considered to include guarantees and bills of exchange to the extent they are
drawn-down and outstanding.
22.       The Bank shall not assume exchange risks on its borrowings which
are repayable in foreign currencies; it will pass such risks on to its
clients or adopt other measures to cover them.
23.       The Bank will maintain proper accounting records to reflect its
operations in accordance with sound and generally accepted practices.  It
wíll engage independent and qualified public accountants to audit its
books and certify the accounts at least once a year.
24.       The Bank may undertake the management of special funds received
from the Government, but only on the condition that, in the Board's opinion,
such activity will not impair the Bank's financial and administrative ability
to attain its main objective of promoting, developing and financing produc-
tiv7e mining activities.  Such funds will be accepted and managed by the Bank
for the Government's account at an appropriate commission.
IV. Organization and Personnel
25.       The Bank will strive to develop and maintain a solid and well-
balanced organization, management and technical staff capable of appraising
tnc? financíng proposals put before it, assisting it3 clients in the formula-
tion and execution of their projects and supervise the loans. Special and
continuing efforts will be made to adjust the internal working methods and
to train personnel at all levels to adapt them to the growing task of the
Bank in the mining sector.
26.       The Bank's personnel will be hired and promoted solely on the
basis of their ability and pertinemt professional knowledge.
V.   Revision of Policy
27.       Any proposal to revise this declaration on the Bank's financial and
operating policy shall be considered by the Board only after each of its
members has been given sufficient opportunity to study and comment on the
proposal. The affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Board members
entitled to vote will be required for approval of any proposed revision.



BOT lIVIA
i4PPFLSAI, CF A SMNLL IMIWrIG DFVEMOP`T1 PROJECT
j-G,OLI,: OROr.NTZATviO?N DIAGRAM - OFFICE OF TEE INVE1MIORY OF SMATLL MIES
DI RÇ CC  O N
| S E C.Q T: A .R l A  j                                       |                 - --    |Asesoram,ento       LeaoI
COORDNACION                                 ADMINISTRACION|
,i                                     _ _                     r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Conlodorl |Jmrefle5 de  Pesoa    Desc
AS!STENCA                                                CIBRTJOGRAFA
COORDINACIONGRAFOS
UN ID A D   DE        UNIDA" DE EXPLORACtO      T  UN D A    DE               UNIDAD   DE            UNIDAD DE ELABORACION
GEOFISgCA               iNVENTARIACI                                          PEE  TRACDI               DE  PROYECTOS
UNIDAD DE ASISTENCIA
TECNICA SUPERVISADA
¡í HNE R A                                                            OB8R AS                                      OFICINA
i~-J  G E O L 0 GI1 A  M E-T A L U R G A  I   C I V IL E S        ADN.INISTRACION           TECNlCA
i |PROYEC es MNi%E--OS | I  P   ;Y]CCTOS    I CONTRCL. DE         I CONSTRUCCIONES        GANIZACION CONTRO    SEGUR!DAD INDUSTRIA
lNERA  0     ~     ~     CNTO    D             MNTNMI E NTO         DE COSTOS DIRECO           DIUJ
1  ¡UICT;i^AR1 5! -RA ) |  G O 'CGICOS        TRATAM!ENTO          M CATN O                 E INDIRECTOS              O DiBUJO
¡         w,         ---      --T~¡ 
I  I VA LUA C10N
..  e CPY ;                                                 _                                                          ..         1,1  1kn .



ARNE1 6 (a)
BOLIVIA
SMALL MINzING DEVELOPXENT PROJECT
Assistance to GEOBOL
Foreign Content (US$ '000)
1976                       1977
Item     Total           Item      Total      Total
1.0  Survey    of Small mines
1.1 Experts
Technical (12 months)               20                        20
Organizational (12 months)          20                        20
Passages & Varicus                  10
50                       40         90
1.   1.2 Machinery & Equiplment
Diamong Drills: surface  (2)        400
undérground (2) (
Compressors (2)                     40
Percusasion Drills (2)             160
Workshop Equipment                  80
Jackleg Drills (6)                  10.o
Piping and Tubing                   10
Hose                                 9
Vehicles                             5
Geophysical Equipment               15                        36.8
Camping Equipment                   25                         5
Office Equipment                    30
Drawing Equipment                    5
Spares & Tools                                                20
Tubes & Couplings                   10                        10
Radio Spares                        10
1.3 Other                                         858.8                      71.8      930.6
Price Variation                     60                        20
Other Purchases                     13.2                      13.2
73.2                     33.2      lo6.4
2.0  Technical Assistance Unit
2.1 Experts
,,ploitation (12 months)            20                        20
Industrial (12 months)              20                        20
Epenses                            10
50                       40         90
2.2 Machinery & Equipment
Techrnical Equipment                30                        10
Vehií les                           40                        40
Camping Equipment                   20
Radio Equipment                     15                        10
Security Equipment                   7'      112                        60        172
2.3 Other (including
P-ice Variation)                              30                        10         l0
3.0 Mineral Laboratory
3.1 Experts
Chemical Analysis (6 months)                                12.0
Instrumental Analvsis (6 mas)                               12.0
Other according to needs
(12 man-months)                                       24.0
Expenses                                                    10.0
58         58
3.2 Machinery and Equipment
For Crushing and sample prep.  12.5                         23.4
Small Equipment for Crushing    4.7                         21.5
Industrial Equipment              29.0                      62.5
Small Equipment for Analysis   12.1                         41.2
Glass Material                    16.5                      24.2
Reactives                         14.0                      21.4
Office Equinment                   -                        38.3
Clothings                          0.5                       0.5
89.3                     233.0       322.3
3.3 Other (including price
variatíons)                                23.9                      23.3         47.2
TOTALS                       1,287.2                      569.3    1,856.5
LCPDF
September 1976



A1NIiX 6 b)
BOLIVIA
SMALL MININTG DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assistance to GEOBOL
Local Content (Pesos '000)
1/             1/
1976           1977         TOTAL
1.C  Personnel Services                             5,108            7,fing      12,71í
Technical & Administrative (incl.
Social Provisions)                        ___
2.0  Other Services                                 3,376           6,384         9,760
Operating Costs
Construction and Rent
3.0  MIaterials and Supplies                         416            2,168         3,584
Office and General                        __                _ -21835
4.0  £ouprcnt & Ntachinery                            314           4,778         5,092
5,0  Otjher                                           124             158           282
Cont.inogencies S Price Changes
Totals                      10,338           21,096        31,434
(US$1,571.7
equivalent)
1/ Tentative allocation.
LCPDF
August, 1976



ANNEX 7
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLANNING ASSISTANCE TO MMM - COST ESTIMATES
(in US$
IBRD            MMM            TOTAL
I. PERSONNEL
Program Director (3 years)                        -              18,000         18,000
Planning Assistant (3 years)                      -              14,400         14,400
Planning Assistant (3 years)                      -              14,400         14,400
Planning Engineer (3 years)                       -              14,400         14,400
Economist  (3 years)                              -              14,400         li,400
Expert (short-term) (12 months)                 60,000             -            60,000
(uS$5,o0o per month)
Experts (residents) (,5 years)                 236,000             -           236,000
(US$4,0o0 per month)
Secretary (3 years)                               -               9,000          9,000
Sub-Total                                296,000           84,600        380,600
II. TRAVELING EXPENSES
Expert fares                                    10,435             -            1o,435
Internal travel.ing expenses                      -               4,000          4,000
Sub-Total                                 10,435            4,000         14,435
III. TRAINING PROGRAMS OUTSIDE THE COUNTRE
5 Project Economists (one year)                 30,000             -            30,000
3 Mining Engineers (one year)                   18,000             -            18,000
2 Geological Engineers (one year)               12,000             -            12,000
1 Metallurgical Engineer (one year)              6-000             _              6,oo
Sub-Total                                 66,000             -             66
IV. TRAINING PROGRAMS IN BOLIVIA
Training program in Bolivia                       -              15,000          15,000
Equipment for the progran                       15,000             -            15,000
Sub-Total                                 15,000           15,000         30,000
V. OFFICE EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Materials and supplies                          15,000            5,000          20,000
(cables, telephones, books, etc.)
Purniture                                          -              5,000          5,000
2 Jeeps                                         15,000              -           ií5,ooo
Equipment                                          600              -              600
Sub-Total                                30,600            10,000         4o,600
TOTAL                               418,035          113,600         531,635
Contingency                         -51,215-1          0,088          62.3n3
GRAND TOTAL (Program for            47l.250          122,688         593,938
3 years)
1! Increased by US$19,775 to match the final contract cost with HIID.
LCPDF
August, 1976



ANNEX 8
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CADASTRAL SURVEY:   COST ESTIMATES
(in US$)
IBRD            MMM            TOTAL
1. ADMINISTRATION
Director                                                         14,400         14,400
Mining Engineer                                                  12,000         12,000
System Engineer                                   -              13,200         13,200
System Expert (6 months)                        24,000             -            24,000
Cadastral Experts (2) (6 months)                48,ooo             -            48,000
Secretary                                         -               7,200          7,200
Sub-Total                            72,000           46,800         118,800
2. TASK FORCE
Chief Engineer (12 months)                        -               9,600          9,600
Topographers(2) (12 months)                       -              14,400         14,400
Workmen (4) (8 months)                            -               6,400          6,400
Chauffeurs (2) (12 months)                        -               7,200          7,200
Draftsmen (2) (4 months)                                          6,400           6,400
For 5 Task Forces                                            220,000         220,000
Traveling expenses and others                   -8,000                        80,000
Sub-Total                                            300,000         300,000
3. TRAINING
System Engineers (8 months                       2,400                           2,400
Sub-Total                             2,400                            2,400
4. EQjIPMENT
Instruments                                    200,000             -           200,000
Computing Terminal                             150,000             _           150,000
Plotter                                         50,000             -            50,000
Sub-Total                           400,000             -            4oo,000
5. OTHERS
Furniture                                         -               3,000           3,000
Materials and Supplies                           1,500              500           2,000
Vehicles and Maintenance                          -               8,0oo           8,000
Sub-Total                             1,500           11,500          13,000
GRAND TOTAL  (2-year program)       475,900          358,300         834 200
LCPDF
June, 1976



ANNEX 9
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL KMNING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BAMIN: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - COST ESTIMATES
Local       Foreiígn      Total.
].. Project Ev-lation (12 raan rmonths)        -           72,000       72,00,0
2.  1Proje ct  0úaivation (12 rian ronths)     -h,000                   h,48,VOO
3. Management Control System                               96,000       96,000
4.   (2 full-time employees -24 man-months)  -
4.  Occasional specialists (4 man-months)    -            16,000        16,000
Sub-Total                               232,000       232,000
-Program Director                            12,000          -          12,000'
4iJriing Ei-iineei'              .10,000                     -          10,000
Economist (2)                                19,000          -1 19,OOO
Accountants (5)                             40,000           _         40,000
-    Sub-Total-              -- D,-uu                      S,O0
OTHER
Experts Travel and
Livin2 Expenses                             1,000        34_2OO       35,200
Materíals                                       500            500       1,000
Vehicles                                        500           -        .   500
Equipment (Calculators, etc.)                 3,000         9,300       12,300
i,Iiscellaneous (including coiitingencies)      -            4,000       4,000
Sub-Total                5,000        48,000       53,000
TOTAL                   86,000       280,000      366,000
LCPDF
.June, 1976



ANIE  10
BOLIVIA
SMALL !ttNING DEVEOPMN1N  PROJECT
Estimated Schedale of Disbursemnts for the Proposed Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year and End of Ouarter
MINI'           Technipal Assistanoe             Cumulative
BA /    GEOBOL   Plajá( Caiatza   BAIN    Total    Total
(in lTS$ 000' or equivalent)
FT 1977
March 31, 1977                      -         0.30         -       -      0.13               0.43
June 30, 1977                     0.10        0.30        _      0.10     0.05               0.98
Sub-Total               0.10        o.60        _     0.10     0.18.    0.98
FY 1978
September 30, 1977                0.25        0.40        -      0.20     0.05               1.88
December 31, 1977                 o.55        0.40       0.08    -        0.05               2.96
March 31, 1978                    0.70        0.30         -     0.18      -                 4.14
June 30, 1978                                 0.19        0.08    -        -                 5.31
Sub-Total              2.4o         1.29       0.16   0.38      0.10     4.33
FY 1979
September 30, 1978               0.90           -          -      -        -                 6.21
December 31, 1978                0.90           -         0.08    -        -                  7.19
March 31, 1979                    0.90          -          -      -        -                 8.09
June 30, 1979                    0.90           -         0.08    -        -                 9.07
Sub-Total              3.60          -         0.16    _         -       3.76
PF 1980
September 30, 1979               0.90           -         0.03    -        -                10.00
December 31, 1979                0.90           -          -      -        -                 10.90
March 31, 1980                   0.70           -        --       -                         11.60
June 30, 1980                    0.40          -                                            12.00
Sub-Total               2.90          -         0,03    _         _       2.93
TOTAL                  =2.00        =1.8=i2     =°=aQ3-  Q.4=8   0.^,8   12.00
I' Adjusted from projected Balance Sheet to reflect delays in loan approval.
/ Excludes the initial US$100,000 to be paid under IDA Credit 455-Bo.
LCPDF
June 1976






IBRD 1016OR
i1~~~~iii~~~~~;jj                                                  OEC~~~~~~DEMBER 1973
BOLIVIA
COBIJA~                                           ~?         ~    f~                         N ERMAT" MBNvANE cott4t
-,~~~~~~~~~~~4 o                                                             T~ m* CD 1W~ 0 
m -t2 -    O        '#-'  A' 'KCAN ftACM 1OWW
COBIJA   d0 °'    '         >       ,   ' @       4       -                  @  rMir0OfTriSt0b COM)  M"     0 t M
,  2                   \ C               t      --                       ,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j ZONBE OB VAEYr
o   o '              w                     X            ~~~~~~~~~-  -  A6ERAT  E.IB'ALES
¡                                 BI
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  BDA
>>
cS~~~  j    0    11    1~       E       N 
ti     tÁ                            &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,1O TRINIIDAD        
C<t   A   gZ        X                       f                  S      A      N      T    A
QC?CHABAMRA 
~~~~ 1~~~~~ 
1
~~~~k    r>__                                           20                                                                   ko Peto/i
, ~~~~(,k,             XÓZ, -            Á                                                                                       oEo rez'~ 
-20b.  ,  ,,  "U Y U N I
Jlt,'~~~       A SL T PN            "      Á         QSIS    ByIe-                     
L 0 . .t vJ, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',> 
1 S A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,iAo
OLIVÁ
Yc.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OV'
No~b INA         ¡       9                                ¿



