FI LE COPY 6       rDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1909
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
SMALL-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 9, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                            Bolivian Peso $b
US$1                                     $b20.00
$bl                                      US$0.05
$bl million                              US$50,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                           0.62 miles
Square Kilometer (km )     =             0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAMIN     -        Banco Minero de Bolivia
BISA      -        Banco Industrial S.A.
COMIBOL   -        Corporacion Minera Boliviana
GEOBOL    -        Geological Survey of Bolivia



FaO OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA FOR A SMALL-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent of US$12.0 million to assist in
financing a small-scale mining development project. The interest rate on the
proposed loan would be 8.9% per annum. The Government would make available
US$9.0 million of the loan in US dollars to Banco Minero de Bolivia (BAMIN) at
the same interest rate. BAMIN, in turn, would relend the loan proceeds in US
dollars to small miners at an annual interest rate of 12% plus various charges
that would bring the effective rate to about 13% per annum, and with terms of
between 8 and 13 years. The remaining US$3.0 million of the proposed loan
would be used to continue a national survey of small mines and to provide
technical assistance. Amortization of the proposed loan would be made on the
basis of the aggregate of two amortization schedules, i.e.:  (a) equal semi-
annual principal payments over a period of 15 years including a three-year
grace period, for the non-credit portion of the loan; and (b) for the credit
portion of the loan, a flexible schedule with a maximum term of 15 years based
on the aggregate of the amortization schedules of BAMIN's subloans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Bolivia" (786a-BO) dated July 28, 1975, was distributed to the' Executive
Directors. An updating economic memorandum is near completion and will be
distributed to the Executive Directors in the near future. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Despite the increasing importance of petroleum and natural gas
exports, as well as significant mineral deposits, Bolivia remains one of the
poorest countries in South America. The majority of its population is engaged
in traditional agriculture. Only a small part of the labor force is employed
in the modern sectors. The infrastructure is primitive and the road and rail
networks cover only a fraction of the country. The combination of strong
traditional ties within the Indian communities and geographic, health and
educational obstacles to population mobility has perpetuated the demographic
concentration on the inhospitable 10-15 thousand foot plateau, the Altiplano.
About half of Bolivia's population lives a physically, culturally and econo-
mically isolated subsistence existence in this region, which is rich in mineral
deposits but limited in agricultural potential.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
4.        The 1952 revolution sought to put an end to the dual structure
which had characterized Bolivia's economy since colonial times and to deprive
the landowning and mining oligarchy of its economic base. This objective was
only partially achieved. Progress was made in eradicating feudal relations,
distributing the land and eliminating obstacles to social mobility. The
agrarian reform and the nationalization of large mines, however, were followed
by falling production. GDP declined in the 1950s and did not recover to its
pre-1952 level until 1961. During the subsequent decade, output increased
steadily at an average annual rate of around 5%, providing for per capita
income increases averaging 2.5% p.a.    As a result, GNP per capita, which had
fallen by 24% in the 1952-60 period, had recovered by 1970 to its 1952 level
and was more equally distributed. However, the momentum of economic growth
was again lost in 1969/71 when political instability led to declining private
investment and deteriorating public finances. The deterioration of public
finances reflected a structural flaw in the economy. Bolivia's public sector
is proportionately one of the largest in South America and a source of liveli-
hood for a sizeable segment of the population. With scarce employment oppor-
tunities in the private sector, pressures to expand the ranks of public
servants proved difficult to resist. Increased expenditures on wages and
salaries, combined with a weak tax system, left few resources for investment.
Moreover, the inability of the public sector to generate adequate savings
limited its capacity to utilize available external capital assistance.
5.        On coming to power in 1971, President Banzer faced the need to
provide jobs for the unemployed and to revitalize investment and output
growth. Initially, this task was faced in the context of a sharp deteriora-
tion in Bolivia's terms of trade which produced a weakening in the balance of
payments and a further deterioration in public finances and eventually re-
sulted in a substantial devaluation in 1972. At the same time, however, more
rational economic policies were put into effect and a more favorable climate
for private investment established. New laws offering guarantees and incen-
tives to private inves-tors especially in the hydrocarbon field were promulgated
and claims arising from earlier nationalizations were settled. The Government
also improved public administration and the pricing policies of some public
undertakings. These policies were successful in increasing private investment
and in bolstering the rate of growth.
Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
6.        The most important events affecting recent economic performance
have been the substantial improvement in the terms of trade in 1974 and the
subsequent deterioration last year. The sharp increases in petroleum and
mineral prices in 1974 allowed a simultaneous and large expansion of both
consumption and investment and brought about an unprecedented improvement
in public finances, the balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves.
After current deficits in 1970-73, the Central Government achieved savings
equivalent to one-third of its capital expenditure. For the public sector
as a whole, savings in 1974 exceeded 10% of GDP and covered nearly 90% of
capital expenditure. On the balance-of-payments side, the terms of trade



- 3 -
gain in 1974 was equivalent to about 11% of GDP; the trade surplus exceeded
US$150 million; and net capital inflows approached US$90 million, nearly four
times their 1973 level, as a result of substantially higher loan disbursements
to the public sector and increased foreign investment associated with hydro-
carbon exploration. However, part of this improvement was lost in 1975 when
Bolivia's terms of trade and export volumes declined under the impact of
the world economic recession, which brought once again the extreme dependence
of the economy on its external sector into foeus. Mineral exports fell by
well over 20% as mineral prices declined by approximately 13%, on weighted
average, and shipments of most minerals fell as a direct result of the
recession and unloading on international markets of speculative stocks
accumulated during the commodity boom of 1973/74. Exportable surpluses of
crude petroleum were significantly reduced for the second year in a row due
to falling production and rapidly rising domestic consumptio% of hydrocarbon
derivatives. A significant price increase for natural gas exports to
Argentina could not compensate for the overall decline in export earnings:. Om
the whole, merchandise exports in 1975 declined by 18% while imports rose by
nearly one-third in the wake of the start-up of new public investment projects
and the liberalization of imports for consumer durables and motor cars earlier
in the year. Despite further substantial increases in disbursements of
medium-term loans to the public sector, net foreign exchange reserves fell by
US$60 million to US$100 milfion, or about two months of imports. The Central
Government's current surplus was just about 1.7% of GDP, after 2.6% in 1974,
and some borrowing from the banking system was necessary to finance growing
public investment. However, some public utilities attained stronger financial
results due to improved rates.
7.        Bolivia's terms of trade are expected to again improve in 1976 and
beyond. Mineral prices have bottomed out in 1975 and hydrocarbon prices have
resumed their rising trend. 'Furthermore, with gradual economic recovery in
industrialized countries, mineral exports volumes should increase. Government
measures taken in late 1975 to increase prices of domestically consumed petro-
leum products by about 70% on the average, especially of gasoline, should
slow down the rise in domestic demand for these products, thus contributing to
preserve exportable surpluses. The outlook for 1976, therefore, is for
somewhat accelerated growth and an improved fiscal and balance-of-payments
position.
8.        Economic growth prospects over the medium- to longer-term depend
on the0Government's ability to increase savings and stimulate investments,
particularly those for developing the hydrocarbon, mineral and agricultural
resources. Government measures taken since about 1973 and designed to broaden
the fiscal revenue base are now beginning to show results. Firm wage policies
applied since 1974 have resulted in a reduction of inflation to an annual rate
of well below 10%. Investment in mining and hydrocarbons is accelerating.
Intensified exploration for hydrocarbons by the state-owned petroleum company
and private foreign companies is underway and may lead to significantly in-
creased production and export of crude petroleum and natural gas which would
stimulate an acceleration of economic growth towards the end of the decade.



- 4-
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
9.        Service on external public debt in 1975 amounted to 16.8% of exports
of goods and non-factor services net of investment income abroad. Average
terms of the external debt outstanding have remained soft, reflecting the
high proportion of concessionary aid channeled to Bolivia. Average interest
in 1975 was 4.4% and average maturity about 22 years.
10.       This position is bound to change, however, as it can be expected
that lending terms will become harder and the share of loans on conventiolal
terms will increase. Of new loans attracted during 1974 and 1975, over 25%
were financial and suppliers' credits. With substantial disbursements
envisaged during the next five years, the service on external public debt
will move well above its historical average (12.8%) by 1977/78; but in line
with growing exports, the debt service ratio should decline in subsequent
years. In view of the nature and growing size of Bolivia's debt, prudence
in selecting and utilizing external capital will have to be an essential
element of debt management.
11.       Bolivia enjoys a substantial resource base in agriculture, minerals
and hydrocarbons which has to be developed to sustain rapid economic growth
and, in particular, rapid expansion of export earnings in the foreseeable
future. If production in the export sectors can be increased as planned and
prices for major export products are adequate, Bolivia can be considered
creditworthy for substantially increased amounts of external lending on con-
ventional terms. Nevertheless, some additional lending on soft terms (avail-
able from the Inter-American Development Bank's Fund for Special Operations and
the USAID) is justified by Bolivia's poverty and its large and continuing
external capital requirements. The country will require substantial external
financing of investment to supplement the domestic savings effort at least
until the early 1980s. While the Government is making a serious effort to
mobilize domestic resources and prepare a development program, implementation
of this program will require external assistance well in excess of the foreign
exchange component of suitable projects presently available for international
financing. Although substantially increased suppliers' and financial credits
will probably become available, they should prudently cover not more than 35%
of the public capital inflows required during 1976-80 for meeting a GDP growth
target of 5-6% annually. The remainder should be obtained on softer terms
from bilateral and international development financing agencies, including an
expanded Bank lending program.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
12.       Although Bolivia is an original member of the Bank, it did not
obtain any Bank Group resources until 1964. Bank Group assistance to Bolivia
until 1974/1975 was limited by the country's tight budget and restricted
capacity to service external debt. Lending to Bolivia was in the form of
IDA credits except for a 1971 Bank loan to help finance an "enclave" project.
Because of the narrow scope for private investment, IFC became active in



Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a firm producing
cables and plastic products. With expanding opportunities for private invest-
ment, however, IFC has most recently agreed to take an equity participation of
$550,000 in Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA) in conjunction with a Bank loan for
the same institution to assist in financing medium-sized industrial and mining
enterprises, and US$337,500 in Banco Hipotecario Nacional to assist In the
development of mortgage banking. The latter two IFC investments also aim at
contributing to establish a local market for long-term securities. Annex II
contains a summary statement of the status of Bank Group operations in Bolivia
as of July 31, 1976, and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
13.       The proposed loan would be the Bank's seventh and the Bank Group's
eighteenth operation in Bolivia. Net of undisbursed balances, Bolivia's
debt to the Bank and IDA in 1974/75 represented 8.3% of its external public
debt and the share of the Bank Group in total debt service is now about 4%.
Both figures are expected to increase marginally by 1980. Although the
Bank Group has ranked below the U.S. Government and the IDB as a source of
financial assistance to Bolivia, its role has been expanding.
14.       Future Bank lending will continue to support Government efforts to
strengthen and expand the productive base of the economy, in particular
the export sectors, while simultaneously emphasizing improved distribution
of the benefits of economic growth.   In the social sectors, Bank actLvities
will focus on the less-developed regions of the Altiplano and the interme-
diate valleys where Bolivia's rural and urban poor are concentrated.
15.       Additional agricultural projects under consideration are designed
to meet the needs of poorer farmers and an education project for the improve-
ment of rural and vocational education is in an advanced stage of preparation.
A water and sewerage project has also been prepared and will be presented to
the Board in early September. Further financing of economic infrastucture
is contemplated in the transportation and power sectors. A project to provide
access to remote area9 of the country through a program of airport development
is being prepared and continued support for the railway rehabilitation program
is planned as well.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Mining Sector
16.       Mining of non-ferrous metals has traditionally exerted a dominant
influence on the Bolivian economy. Despite very slow growth in recent years,
mining at present still accounts for 11% of GDP, about two-thirds of merchan-
dise exports, and 25% of Central Government current revenue. As a capital-
intensive activity, it employs only about 3% of the labor force, but several
hundred thousand Bolivians depend on it for their livelihood.



- 6 -
17.       Mining is carried out by public and private enterprises, the latter
consisting of medium and small mining firms.   The public sector [ncludes the
largest mines, owned and managed by the Corporacion Minera de Bolivia (COMIBOL),
which accounts for over 50% of mineral exports and 40% of employment. COMIBOL
is beset by problems of operational inefficiency, over-centralization, and
difficult labor relations, despite substantial welfare expenditures, the
resolution of which would require difficult decisions by the Government.
18.       Medium mining consists of 31 private firms, mainly domestically
owned, which form the National Association of Medium Miners. Its members must
have a share capital of at least US$100,000 and attain certain minimum output
levels. Medium mining is the most efficient segment of the sector, account-
ing for 22% of exports and 28% of taxes generated by mining. Medium mines
are relatively modern and capital intensive. They therefore employ relatively
less labor than COMIBOL or small mines, but provide their workers with better
health and safety conditions. The number of medium mining companies will
continue to increase as the larger and more efficient units of the small
mining subsector are expanding. This process would be accelerated through
the proposed project.
19.       Small mining consists of 2,000-3,000 actual operations, a signif-i-
cant number of which are frequently brought into or taken out of production
depending on international market conditions. Size of operations vary-from
one-family activities to enterprises comparable in output to smaller medium
mining firms. There are also about 100 mining cooperatives working under
marginal conditions. Small private and cooperative producers sell their
output mainly to BAMIN which assumes the full marketing risk. While the
contribution of small mines to overall mineral output has been small and
declining, they employ as much as 40,000 people, equivalent to well over half
of mining employment. Their share in output of tin, antimony, tungsten and
lead is still significant.
20.       In general, small mining operations are rather primitive, have low
productivity, and employ little capital and low levels of technology. Only
the richest and most easily accessible portions of ore deposits are normally
exploited, thus making subsequent exploitation by more advanced methods
difficult. Problems faced by small mines are compounded by the fact that
these mines are widely dispersed over Bolivia's difficult terrain and tend to
produce mainly tin, whose demand has grown little, and complex minerals which
are difficult to recover. Operations often are feasible only because costs
are kept low through inferior wages and disregard for essential health and
safety standards. However, many small mining firms have the potential to
become viable entities, provided they receive substantial inputs of capital
and technical assistance.



21.       Recent developments in mining have been disappointing.    Even apart
from temporary adverse effects of weak mineral markets in 1975, the sector's
contribution to GDP has been declining, reflecting the existence of deep-
seated structural problems. These include inadequate exploration, under-
capitalization and inadequate maintenance of the existing mines, and an
excessive dependence on tin. Past political instability, adverse mining
policies and lack of long-term credit have discouraged investment and have
largely contributed to the present situation. However, the Government is
determined to resolve these problems by initiating improved planning and more
rational policies. Its immediate aim is to levy equitable mining taxes,
establish a central fund to finance exploration, and open public lands for
joint exploration and exploitation by public and private interests. The
gradual change-over from the inadequate production tax to a profits tax is
expected to induce mining firms to modernize and expand existing operations
and to search for additional mineral reserves. Opening of public lands and
the creation of an exploration fund should further facilitate mining expansion
and induce the formation of joint ventures between foreign and local investors,
private or public, thereby bringing in foreign capital, technology and admin-
istrative know-how.
22.       Past efforts to inject capital into the small mining sector achieved
very little, mostly because it was not accompanied by appropriate technical
assistance. Bank Group assistance to Bolivian mining, based on the recommen-
dations of the 1972 sector report, 1/ is focused on the provision of term
credit for private mining, but it also contains a substantial technical
assistance component. The first operation of the Bank Group in the Bolivian
mining sector, i.e., IDA Credit No. 455-BO, provided term financing for medium
miners through Banco Industrial and technical assistance, including studies of
mining taxation and of an exploration fund. The Credit also partially covered
costs of a survey of small mines as a prerequisite for the proposed small-
scale mining development project. The portion of the Credit sublent to Banco
Industrial is now about 60% committed and should be fully committed by end-1976;
the other components of the Credit are proceeding as scheduled. The most
recent Bank/IFC operation (approved on 22 June, 1976) for Banco Industrial will
further increase financing available for medium mining. The proposed project
is designed, among other things, to finance modernization and expansion of
potentially viable small mining units and to gradually transform BAMIN into a
more effective development finance institution for private mining, thus com-
plementing the gains made with the two preceding Bank Group operations.
1/   The Mining and Metallurgical Sector, Report No. P1-14, dated December 7,
1972.



- 8 -
B.   Financial System and Financing of Mining
23.       Bolivia's financial system, which consists of the Central Bank,
commercial and specialized banks and other financial institutions, is still
at an early stage of development. Nevertheless, rising incomes, greater
political stability, and more development-oriented government policies have
accelerated financial development as reflected in the formation of some
new banks and financial companies. Also, the share of overall credit going
to the private sector has increased as rising public revenues--due to higher
oil prices--have reduced the need for deficit financing. However, while
commercial banks' resources and lending volumes have increased, average
lending terms have been shortened to less than one year following the full
commitment of concessionary funds derived from foreign capital assistance. As
a result, short-term working capital credit is now easier to get, but the
scarcity of term financing for investment and permanent working capital
remains severe. Of total credit, only 9% was allocated vo minin,g during
1972-75, over half of which was for helding mineral stocks. .jEven thle largest
medium mining firms have difficulties in raising long-terS funds. 'Banco
Industrial has only recently become a major source of term financing for
private mining and the most recent Bank/IFC operation should provide signj.-
ficant additional funds for medium mining financing. Small mines generally
have no access to credit, except for cash advances from BAMIN for future
mineral deliveries and short-term loans for purchases of supplies from BAMIN.
In turn, BAMIN's credit operations have been seriously restricted by the
institution's decapitalization and its very limited access to loan capital.
The proposed projelct is expected to improve the traditional pattern of BAMIN's
credit activities and make term credit for small mines available.
24.       Real interest rates in Bolivia have generally been positive since
the late 1950s with the exception of about 18 months during 1973-74 when there
was a spurt of high inflation following the 68% devaluation in 1972. However,
real interest rates have again turned positive after mid-1974 when inflation
returned to a level of about 7% per year, at which level it is expected to
remain over the short-to medium-term.
25.       In order to mobilize domestic funds for productive uses, interest
rates on savings deposits in commercial banks were raised from 9% to 10% in
1974 and, at the same time, the Central Bank started to guarantee the dollar
value of the savings deposits of individuals. In August 1975, the dollar
guarantee was extended to time deposits, whose interest rates were raised to
10-1/4% for 90-day deposits and up to 11-3/4% for 360-day deposits. Central
Bank regulations permit commercial banks to charge nominal interest rates of
up to 15% per annum on loans made from their own resources. However, because
of taxes, commissions and prepayment of the interest normally required by
banks, the effective rate to the borrower may exceed 23% on "productive"
peso loans, and 33% on personal and commercial loans, usually of short-term
maturity.



- 9 -
26.       In comparison to commercial banks, the cost of term loans made
by development institutions, such as BAMIN, is lower. The maximum lending
rate on development banks' own resources was 13% per annum until early 1976,
when the rate was raised to 15% per annum to conform to the maximum nominal
rate of commercial banks. Including a closing fee, this rate may reach 16%
p.a. The need for such a rate increase had been discussed with the Central
Bank during project preparation and it will facilitate mobilization of
domestic resources for investment. Some development institutions, e.g., Banco
Industrial, lend their own funds denominated in U.S. dollars, making their
clients responsible for the exchange risk. Development funds from Interna-
tional organizations may not be relent at more than 12% per annum in foreign
currency. Subloans from these international sources are usually denominated
in U.S. dollars and, after some fees and commissions, their cost to the
borrower is about 13% per annum.
27.       Interest rates in Bolivia are determined by the Central Bank, and
though there have recently been notable improvements in the financial system,
it still suffers from structural weaknesses. The term structure of interest
rates can still be improved as the present rate structure does not set a
proper differential between short and longer term loans.    It theretore dis-
courages term lending, since it offers cbtimercial banks no incentive to pay,
higher interest rates to mobilize longer term savings. As to the future, how-
ever, the financial system should be able to increasingly mobilize resouvrces
and this will assist in lengthening the average term of both assets and
liabilities. The re-establishment of positive real interest rates has set the
stage for healthy financial development and made feasible the initiation of a
small capital market which would aid in the efficient allocation of investment
funds throughout the economy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       Project Description.   The proposed project would be the Bank Group's
third operation in Bolivia's private mining sector and the first operation for
the benefit of small mining firms. As was the case with the first Bank Group
mining operation (IDA Credit No. 455-BO), the proposed project also provides
for important technical assistance inputs, in addition to loans for small
mining investment. The project, whose total costs are estimated at US$18.2
million equivalent, has three components, as follows:
(a) A program of supervised loans to be channelled through BAMIN
to potentially viable small mining firms, including financing of
feasibility studies, combined with obligatory technical assistance
to these firms during project implementation;



- 10 -
(b) continued assistance to GEOBOL (initiated with IDA
Credit No. 455-BO) in order to strengthen its
capacity to prepare prefeasibility studies of
small mining investment projects, provide technical
assistance to subloan recipients and carry out
prospection, exploration, and evaluation of
mineral deposits; and
(c) a program of technical assistance to the Ministry of Mines
and Metallurgy for strengthening sector planning and carrying
out cadastral surveys, and to BAMIN designed to improve project
appraisal and supervision, and management control.
29.       Overall project responsibility would rest with the Ministry of
Mines and Metallurgy. The Ministry would make the necessary arrangements
to assure coordination among the participating agencies, supervise implemen-
tation of individual project components, carry out the cadastral survey,
and administer the technical assistance contracts for its planning depart-
ment and BAMIN. GEOBOL's small mining unit would select potential mining
subprojects, prepare prefeasibility studies, and assist subloan beneficiaries
in project execution and mining management. BAMIN would be in charge of the
execution of the credit component of the proposed loan and be responsible for
appraising, approving, financing and supervising the small mining subprojects.
30.       The loan summary is provided in Annex III.   The proposed project
was appraised in November/December 1975. Negotiations were held in Washington
in August 1976 with a Bolivian delegation led by Mr. Armando de Urioste,
Undersecretary, Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy. The Appraisal Report (No.
1236b-BO dated September 1, 1976) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
31.       Cost Estimates and Financing Plan.   The proposed Bank loan of
US$12.0 million would finance the foreign exchange component of the project,
representing 66% of the overall project cost of US$18.2 million. Of the loan
proceeds, US$9 million would be for subloans to small miners; US$1.9 million
for continuing assistance to GEOBOL; and US$1.1 million for technical assist-
ance to the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy and BAMIN. No other external
financing for the project is envisaged. Local costs would be shared among the
project beneficiaries, i.e., the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy, BAMIN, and
sub-borrowers, the latter financing at least 10% of their investment. In
order to enable BAMIN to finance local investment costs, its resources are
being increased through a US$2 million contribution from the Central Govern-
ment to BAMIN's paid-in capital (see Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Government has also converted into equity a Central Bank loan to
BAMIN of US$3 million equivalent.



- 11 -
32.       The US$9.0 million credit portion of the proposed Bank loan would
be onlent by the Government to BAMIN in U.S. dollars at the same interest
rate as the Bank loan. The exchange risk between the currencies disbursed by
the Bank and the U.S. dollars would be assumed by the Government, which would
charge a fee of 1/4 of 1%, to be collected from BAMIN's sub-borrowers.
The US$280,000 portion of the Bank loan for BAMIN's technical assistance
program would be given by the Government to BAMIN as a grant. The Government
will also bear the total cost of the technical assistance programs for GEOBOL
and the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy. Each of these institutions would
administer its technical assistance program under the general coordination of
the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy (see Section 2.09, 2.10 and 3.01(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The loan is expected to be committed by the end of
1979 and fully disbursed by the end of 1980. The proposed loan would be
repaid on the basis of the aggregate of the following two amortization sche-
dules: (a) for the US$9.0 portion relent to BAMIN, repayments would be made
over a maximum period of 15 years and would follow a flexible schedule based
on the aggregate of the amortization schedules of BAMIN's subloans; and (b)
for the US$3.0 million non-credit portion of the Bank loan, repayments would
be made on the basis of equal semi-annual principal payments over a period of
15 years including a three-year grace period.
33.       Subloan Terms and Conditions.   Subloans would normally be for 8 to
13 years, including up to 3 years of grace, and would be denominated in U.S.
dollars. BAMIN would relend Bank funds at an annual interest rate of 12%,
plus various fees and charges (Section 2.01 (b) of the draft Project Agreement)
which would raise the effective cost of BAMIN subloans to about 13% p.a. At
the current Bank interest rate, BAMIN would have a 3.1% spread on relent Bank
funds. Subloans would be limited to projects selected on the basis of GEOBOL's
prefeasibility studies. Subloan applicants would have to submit a feasibility
study, prepared by a qualified consultant acceptable to a supervising committee
composed of representatives of the Ministry, GEOBOL and BAMIN.
34.       Approval Limits.   As BAMIN has limited project appraisal experience,
Bank approval for all subloan proposals would be initially required. However,
it is expected that a free limit in an amount to be determined by the Bank
would be established after Bank review of the initial subprojects (see Section
2.02 (a) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). A free limit of US$350,000
would ensure that the Bank would review a representative sample equalling at
least 50% of the credit portion of the loan.
35.       Procurement and Disbursement.   The loan proceeds would be used to
finance the foreign exchange costs of imported and domestically procured equip-
ment, materials and services, including the foreign exchange component of
civil works contracts. Procurement of mining machinery and equipment for sub-
projects would be in accordance with standard practice for DFC projects, i.e.,



- 12 -
on the basis of quotations from several suppliers. Equipment leasing and
service contracts would be eligible for partiaL financing under the proposed
loan. Equipment for the Survey of Small Mines and technical assistance
programs would be procured on the basis of International shopping, with the
exception of diamond drills and accessories (pric;ed at about US$200,000 each)
which would be procured through lnternational competitive bidding, in accord-
ance with Bank Guidelines.   Expenditures for some! equipment and services
needed by GEOBOL prior to the signing of the proposed loan for continuing the
survey of small mines would be reimbursable up to a maximum of US$250,000.
Also, retroactive financing not to exceed US$50,000 would cover foreign
exchange cost of ongoing planning assistance to the Ministry of Mining
and Metallurgy. Disbursements would be made dlrectly to the institution in
charge of implementation of the respective project component. Disbursements
would cover the full foreign exchange cost of direct imports, 35% of con-
struction costs, and 60% of Imported goods purchased locally, both representing
the estimated foreign exchange component (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Foreign equipment suppliers are well represented in Bolivia.
Participating Agencies
A.   Geological Survey of Bolivia (GEOBOL)
36.       In 1974, GEOBOL established a special unit to carry out the Survey
of Small Mines financed under IDA Credit No, 455-BO. The professional staff,
which consists in its entirety of Bolivian nationals, is adequate. The survey
of small mines, while falling short of its original scope, has produced
acceptable results, considering the novelty of the task, the lack of data
and the hesitancy of small mines to provide information. About 5,200 Indi-
vidual properties have been identified and classified according to their
development potential. Prefeasibility studies on the most promising mines
have been initiated and on the first ones have been virtually completed.
37.       Under the proposed project, the Unit would be responsible for
identifying potential subprojects, carrying out further prefeasibility
studies, and providing technical assistance to sub-borrowers for project
implementation and mine management either directly or through arrangements
with other suitable entities or consultants.
B.   Banco Minero de Bolivia (BAMIN)
38.       BAMIN, which is entirely owned by the Government, was established in
1936 as the principal credit and marketing institution for private mining but
at present is primarily oriented towards small mines, BAMIN has a history of
inefficient operations and, in the past, it was often Influenced by non-
economic considerations, This resulted in deterioration of BAMIN's loan
portfolio and in its decapitalization. The Government now aims at the
rehabilitation of the entity and Its transformation into an effective devel-
opment bank for private mining. Institution building at BAMIN therefore is a
central element of the proposed project and is in line with the Government's



- 13 -
mining development policies. Steps have already been taken by BAMIN to
strengthen its financial position and organization. While a direct Bank loan
to BAMIN at this time is not proposed, BAMIN can serve as channel for Bank
funds and should also be capable, with the technical assistance envisaged
under the proposed project, of undertaking satisfactory appraisal of mining
subprojects.
39.       Management and Staff.   BAMIN's eight-man Board of Directors includes
the Minister of Mines and Metallurgy as its president, three representatives
of other Government agencies, three representatives of the private mining
sector and one representative of BAMIN's employees. During project prepara-
tion, the number of Government representatives was increased from three to
four in order to reduce the excessive influence of private mining interests,
and to assure speedier implementation of Government policies. Rotation
of management, which was serious in the past, is less of a problem now; the
present manager, an able professional and administrator, has been in charge
since early 1975. BAMIN employs a total staff of about 500 people, of which
250 are unskilled workers employed in BAMIN's warehouses.   The professional
staff of 36 would be upgraded, in part in connection with the technical
assistance included in this proposed project, and, in part, through partici-
pation of the staff in professional courses both in Bolivia and abroad.
40.       Organization.   BAMIN is divided into two functional units with
separate operational accounting, i.e., the Trading Department in charge of
purchasing, storing and selling minerals, and the Credit Department in charge
of providing financing to mining enterprises and the selling of some mining
supplies. In order to ensure adequate financial control over the two distinct
operations, BAMIN has fully assigned BAMIN's existing assets, liabilities and
capital resources between the Credit and Trading Departments and will not
transfer resources from one of its departments to the other (see Section 3.04
of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
As a condition of loan effectiveness, BAMIN would have to submit to the Bank
the first financial statements separately for each department in a form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank. External audit of the effectively sepa-
rated departments would be performed starting with the accounts on December
31, 1976 (see Section 6.01 (e) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of
the draft Project Agreement).
41.       The Credit Department would administer the credit portion of the
proposed loan. It has been recently reorganized and its technical office
upgraded. The professional staff of this office, i.e., five engineers and one
financial analyst, has the necessary technical background but lacks experience
in project appraisal and supervision. To strengthen its staff, BAMIN will
hire an additional experienced analyst with good background in economics
(Section 6.01 (f) of the draft Loan Agreement). For assisting BAMIN in
training its staff and in establishing satisfactory project appraisal and
supervision techniques, two consultants are to be financed under the proposed
loan. Additional consultants would be employed to improve BAMIN's management
control system, including accounting. The hiring of such consultants would be
a condition of loan effectiveness (see Section 6.01 (h) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 14 -
42.       Policies and Procedures.   The Credit Department's procurement and
disbursement procedures are satisfactory. BAMIN's policy statement, which was
recently adopted and which includes lending criteria in general and for small
mining projects in particular, is adequate. It establishes a 4:1 debt/equity
ratio, and an exposure limitation to any single client not to exceed 25% of
the Credit Department's equity. It also stipulates that BAMIN will require
its clients to improve health and safety conditions. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, BAMIN will approve revised internal loan regulations pursuant
to its Policy Statement (see Section 6.01 (g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.       Past Operations and Results.   In the past, the Credit Department
has mainly extended working capital loans to small mines averaging less than
US$50,000 per loan. Although 3% of the number of loans representing about 60%
of the loan amount outstanding went to medium miners, most of them derived
from special foreign commercial bank credit lines designed, in part, for
inventory financing. Occasional equipment financing was also made on the
basis of credits extended by bilateral foreign assistance agencies. Including
the latter loans, the debt/equity and current ratios as of December 31,
1975, are estimated at 4.0 to 1 and 1.5 to 1, respectively, which are both
satisfactory. While BAMIN is not exposed to foreign exchange risk as loan-
able funds obtained abroad are onlent in foreign currencies, BAMIN's debt
to equity ratio would deteriorate in the event of a devaluation to the extent
that there are peso-denominated loans out of its own funds. Therefore, the
Government has agreed to take any necessary action to ensure that the debt/
equity ratio of BAMIN's Credit Department is not affected by any devaluation
of the Bolivian peso (see Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       The Credit Department has had reasonably good loan collection
experience and was able to obtain a modest return on equity of about 2.2% in
1975. While this return on equity is still low, it represents an improvement
over the previous years, since BAMIN had to pay corporate income taxes for the
first time in 1975 and considerable provisions for portfolio losses were also
made out of 1975 earnings. Of the Credit Department's arrears, those over
three months amount to about 10% of the loan portfolio, which is acceptable
considering the nature of operations. Reschedulings and write-offs have been
insignificant in terms of loan amounts and mostly affected loans to very small
miners carrying out precarious operations. Provision for bad debts was
increased at end-1975, from $b 9.3 million to $b16.5 million (approximately
US$825,000).
45.       BAMIN has no uncommitted resources.   The Government would contribute
US$2 million to BAMIN's capital during 1976-78, to be applied exclusively to
the Credit Department's equity, which would be sufficient to finance BAMIN's
contribution to the proposed program. Payment of a first installment of
US$200,000 equivalent is a condition of loan effectiveness and would be
followed by US$1 million in 1977 and US$800,000 in 1978 (see Sections 3.03
and 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
46.       Projected Operations and Financial Prospects.   As a result of the
proposed loan, BAMIN's annual loan disbursements should triple during 1975-78
to $b130 million in the last year (approximately US$6.5 million). Return on
equity is expected to rise above 4% for the whole 1976-79 period. This expan-
sion is to be achieved while preserving a 4:1 debt/equity ratio, a satisfactory
current ratio, and an acceptable debt/service coverage.
Project Benefits and Risks
47.       The proposed project would contribute to mining development in
various ways. By providing investment financing to small miners, it would
fill a major gap in the financing of productive investment. It would help to
develop viable mining enterprises, transform BAMIN into a more effective
development lending institution, increase the technical capability of GEOBOL,
and improve the Government's sector analysis and planning capacity. The latter
should result in more rational policies in the mining sector. The project
should also contribute to the upgrading of local mining consulting services
and the establishment of equipment leasing and service enterprises in Bolivia.
48.       Based on a preliminary analysis of subprojects suitable for financing
under the proposed loan, it is expected that the average economic rate of
return of small mining subprojects would be about 20%. This rate, while
satisfactory, would be lower than for medium mining subprojects financed
through Bank operations, as small mining investment would be relatively costly
(averaging US$600,000) and involve major initial costs of installations and
equipment in presently underequipped mines. Projections indicate a contribu-
tion from the small mining subprojects to Bolivia's foreign exchange earnings
of about US$110 million (net of import requirements) and to Government revenues
of about US$35 million, cumulative from inception through 1985. Direct employ-
ment generation would be relatively minor, due to the need for mechanization
of underequipped mines to increase output. However, it is hoped that workers'
incomes would rise as a result of increasing labor productivity in mines
participating in the project, as well as increased exposure of these mines to
Government scrutiny. Health and safety standards in participating mining
firms should also improve as modernization of these mines progresses and in
accordance with conditions to be attached to subloans.
49.       The project is relatively complex due to the number of institutions
involved and the need for substantial technical assistance to improve the
administrative and managerial capabilities of the executing agencies and
sub-borrowers. Therefore, there are potential difficulties which could
initially delay project implementation. Also, since this is the first Bank
Group operation in the small mining subsector, which is inherently risky,
unexpected problems may be encountered during project implementation. Close
project supervision combined with constant advice to executing institutions
and the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy, which has overall coordination
responsibilities, will therefore be required.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BAMIN, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III (Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement) and a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
51.       Features of the Loan and Project Agreements of special interest
are referred to in paragraphs 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44 and 45 of
this report. Special conditions of effectiveness are that the Government:
(i) has made the first installment payment of its additional contribution to
BAMIN's capital of not less than US$200,000 equivalent; (il) has caused GEOBOL
to prepare satisfactory terms of reference for consultants required for the
execution of its part of the project; and (iii) has selected satisfactory
consultants for the cadastral survey; and that BAMIN: (i) has delivered,
in form and content satisfactory to the Bank, the latest balance sheet and
profit and loss statement separately for the Credit Department and the Trading
Department; (11) has hired a qualified project analyst; (iii) has furnished
satisfactory internal loan regulations; (iv) has hired a consultant to set up
a proper management control system; and (v) has selected consultants for
technical assistance in project appraisal and supervision.
52.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
53.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 8, 1976



'rae of 5 pages
T`AdHL 3A
BOLIVIA               SOCIAL INOICATORS UATA SHEET
LAND  AREA  (THJU  (4M2)              - - - - - - -  --  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -        OLIViA                             FiEF7tkLNCE COUNTRILS C 1970)
)'UTAL    1 39d. 6                                    MUST .~.
AURIC.      312.9                      1960      11 IAT  L5T :m4-     ~     AmEA0OoN   HONDJURAS     PERU *
u.NP PEAt CAP ITA C USS)                 120.0    190.C      320.0             233.0       29C. C      5 20. 3
POPULATION AND vITAL STAtlSTIC-4
,'3PUJLATION (M10-YR. MILLION)          3.8       4.9        5.6                5.8        2.5        13.3
POPULATION DENSI TY
PE  .JUARE rnY.                      3 .0      4.0        5. 0              1 2. 0     22. C       10. 0
PER z,3. NM. AGAICULTURAL LA%ND      114.0 /a.   .        1.0                37. 0
VI TAL STATISTICS
AVERAG  AIRIN RAI   (/HOU)           46. 6     4A. 4      4 3. 7             42. 1      5 1.        42. 9
AVERAGE DEATH RATE W/HOU)            22.5      19.7       18.0               23.9       19.1        14.1
INFAAT MIORTALITY RATE C/THOU)         ..      15 4. 0      ....                                    6 5.0
LIFE :x?EEcrANCY AT 81RIrH (YRS)     4 2 .3    4 5. 3     46.8               41.0       49.4        5 3.:4
oj.,i 4P3,F1UCTION SATE                ..       2.8        2.8                2. 7       3 .4        2. 9
,'JPJLATI3N GiOHTI RCATE (Z)
TOrAL                                 2. 4      2. 6       2. 6               2.0        2 . f/e     2. 8
URBAN                                 3.b       4 .2       4~.1               b-1         7 .9       5. 0
JYakN POPULATION (D UF TOJTAL)         2 9 .2    3 4 .6     37. 2              23.3       3 2 .0      5 3.30
A.~E STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 10 1. YEARS                       4 2. 4    41.9       41.6 /,4 3.0                  4 6 .7      45.0 o aa
15 TO 64 YEARS                      54 .0      54 .6      55.0 o9            54. 0      5 0. 8      52. 0  a9
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3. 6      3. 5       3.4 /              3.0        2 .4        3. 0 La
A.E )L?ENOEAZY RATIO                    0.9       0.86       0. /9              09         1 .C        0.9 /a
-_'UVUNIC JEP; lQENCY V ATI IO          1./b       1.0 /a,   1.                 1.~b  I2   1.:5 /a     15
~~HILY PLAUN.,rl
A-CLPTJVli (,.UMJLATA; V  TjOLu)       .                     ..                         2 0. 7
Ui~nS (% JF MAKAVIE3 .OMIE)            .          .
;.N?'LUYMRL:V
TOTAL LAH3R FORCE (THIOUSAND)       2000.0 /_2. 43OU.0    2500.0             2803.0      800a. 0    4 300. 0 /a
LAaOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CZ)         67.0U Lcd  6 5. 0/b  6 5. 0/L           82.0       6 5 .0      45.09
J,4E4PLOYEJ CZ OF LAAIJR FORCE)        14. /9    16 .0      la.0                           8.0         5. /9.o
itNCORE 01SVVIBUOTION
I OF PRIVATE INCUINE SECID AY
HI.HEST  53 OF HOUiEH0LDS                      36.0 /9       ..                          28.0       31. 4 C2
HIAHEST 200 CF HOU3EH0L0S              .       59.C C9       ..                         60.6 /.     62.6 C
LIWEST  2 0  OF H3USEHOLDS             4.       K 0C       2..                 ..        2.5/
L'ThE.T  403 OF HOUOIEOLS               .      13                      a~ ..              .4 /8       .
~ISFRldO,Tj3N OF LAND JWNiERSHIP
. UVNE) Hf TLlF 13% OF ..WNERS            ..                   ...                                    93.0
CANED If' SIALLeST lOC 3ANEAk..                             ....                                     0.1I
HEALT4 AND 40--illTIN
PJIPOL&TI0N PEk ?hYSICIAN            3700.0/9, 2300.0         ..2 5 960. 0              3710.0 /j   1 920. 0
PUPIOLArtIJN PEAi NURSING PERSO,.        .     230.0      2370.0 /d.f        2 470.0         .      3 2 00. 0
P,PJLAT 10.4 P0. AUSPIIAL SED         580.0     490.0         ..480.0                    570.0       470.0
.'cJ' C.~174 SJr'PLY OF
C4LjO IE3 CZ 3)' RE;jI~EmE.NT.,)     6 9 .0    77.0       79.0,9 6.0                    96.0        98.0
PRJTEIN (GkAM5 PER AYIK)             43.0      46.0       46.0/9             59.0       58.0a       6 2.0
-uF kHlC.-t ANI1MAL A~-D 0UL3       ..       14.C /d     -.               23.0 /a~    25.0       24. 0
uCATAl 7ATE C/HOU) A.)ES 1-4           11.0 A     I 7.4       I. 0. 0                                 1 2. 4
_bUCAT jUN
4UOJUJTEO :NFJLLM-NT RATIU
''INAVV 33~~~~~J3C   67.0/9,    71.0 /o.  73.~~~~~~~0A /~,108.0          86.0  _~  107.0
i.30N3ARY SLHJUL                     11. 0 a  2 0.0 Le    3 1.0 ~j9.0 /b~               10.N /      35. 3
YL0   3)' iCVOJLING PROVIDEDD
(Fl NUT AKOD iECCNC L.CVEL)          14A.0     12.0       1 2. 0             1 4. 0 /2.  12.0       12. 0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
CT~ OF SECCuJOAR Y)                  14. 0     13S.0 /    1fI0. 0/a. h       22.0       186. 0      17.0 /d
ADULT LITi0RCY PATE ().                          40.0         .                12.0         .         61.0a
e RSJNS PER 34UJIY (AYEiAGE).                                  .
OJCCUPIED UOELLINOa WITHiOUT
PIPED WATER CI)                      8.
ACCESS TI ELECTRICITY890,
(0 OF ALL OkELLALGS)                 2 2 .0/,    .
AURAL 3WELLINUS CJNNECTED
TIl ELECTRICITY C)8. 0/
CONSUIPTILON
.4ADIU RECECIV7CS (PER THOU POP)       73.0     288.0         .                36.0        57.0      134.0
eASSE N57R CA6, ( PE R THOU POp)        5.0       4.0         .                 6.0        5.0        17.0
E..E~TKICIYY  KWHi/YFA rEF CAP)   I11 . 0    160.0      I17.0              201.:0     12 7.0      407.0
AEWSPRLNT (K./ Y.-4 PER CAP)            1.*       1.0        0.9                 .         1.0         3.6
SL.~ (OTES AN4D 0EFINIT;W.S ON iEVERbE



ABNER I
Page 2 of 5 pages
NOTES
Unless Other ntd       data far 1960 refor to any yoar botta-a      1959 ted I9b1, [or 1970 bat-oon 1968 end 1970, and for the Most Rleet Esti.ttat          beMcsan
1973 and 1975.
-     P are has bent, selected an an abjoctino country bennuse Of siti1ar nat-ral rendition           and otperahla human and resorce endto,cete.
BOLIVIA         1960     /a   1963,     /b  Ratio of pepalatien sedar iS ned 65 and eve        to itotl lnbor force;       Ic   19h5;     Id   As percen.tage of labor Eerie in
nepleytnen-t;    /a   7-12 and 13-18 yearn Of age     -sp-eively.
1970     /.   Ratio of pepulation under 15 aned 65 end over to total labor farce;            /b   A. peroentage of labor farce is aepleynent,          In  Popualtionnt
/d   1964-66;     /n   6-13 eed 14-17 years of age;        If  Betwen 1965 and 1970 the duration of general neenenry education stan reduced
frnm 6 en 4 years.
MOST RICEINT ESTIMATE,     In   1971;     /b   Ratio of populatiae under 13 and 63 and veer to teta1lSaber faree;             Ic  An percntage of labor farce
In e`tploy,seet,    /d   Including nidaive;        /e   1969-71 averagc;      If   1972;     LT  b-I3 aned 14-17 pests Of egee
renpectivaly;      /h   Between 1965 ned 1970 tbe deratice of genera         eodary edaati.n was reduced free 6 to 4 yearn.
CAMEROON        1970     /a   [964-66;     /6   12-is years Of age;       I.  13 yeara for lEnt Catnero.-
HONDURAS        1979     /A   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to total Saber Eerie;              /b  1967-68 population;        l/e  Regieteend, net all practicing
in tbe country;       /d  7-12 end 13-18 year. of age renpectively;         _eLa.Lrgely due te emigration7niece 1969 of El Salvadorc...s
renident Ln Honduran, Population groth rate is laster than rate of natural increase.
PERU            1970     la  gEaluden, Indian Jungle population;        lb   urban areas only;       /c   Eononically active populatiem;         /d   Including evening sehonla.
R5, September 3, 1976
DEFINITIONI OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend Area (thos knn2)                                                                          Pocolation Net nusinlg pterson - Population divded by         omber of practicing
Tetagl- Total serface area conprising [and ore        end inland waters.                          ..le and finale iradunre esroes, "trained        Or 'aerrifled" noea-, ad,
Agric.- Meat recent estiaeate of agricultural area aned temperorily or                            ...eillory personne w.1itb trining oreprica
perm.enetly for crps, pastures, narkset & kitchen gardens or to lie                        Peecllaco ner hbosrital bed - Popelation divided by nsoter Of hospital hods
fallow.                                                                                        -nifable    i Isplic seth private general and epecialioed bosplital ad
rmr,%  Dit.   -lGtU p.r -pit.                                           ~~~~~~~~~rehabLlitation centers, .ecludes nuinisg homn.  and astabLahnn-te  far
- Synri-cpit                ei-min     at curretl mackt prinena                    -stdilad preventive core
esc aed  Y nnecnversion esihod an World Snask Atllen (1973-75 knsal);                  Per caPite supply of  Moeis(          of reernet)         -Ceputcd free, energy
196W, 1970 .ms 1975 dsts.                                                                      equivalent of net fend supplies available in country per capita par day;
acalla-ble supplies comprise domestic proclacrion, importe lens esports.
P,p    HIato  and vtaL   tatinLics                                                                and changes in    tack; net n-ppLine   enclose antnal feed, aenda, q.anti-
fyBoi9tLOn (7 id     ZirflIm n      Tos at  -y7c,.s.,s,.lus,                                      ties 'no-d is fead po-ene     g  and IDsne   In distribetiom; rqieei
overage of    w- ond-year -ncleecen; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                stre ac-tivtd by FA0 based on phyni,Olaical neada for no.-a            activity
and health  -onidering    -serescreetol t-nperatnre, body cOighite, age and
oem dlotribo tioun  of Ppuplation, and allowie      10% far woate at     ..oss-
fonslarlon denaity- cet esoare lot Sid-year Population pet eq.ata kilo-                 held level.
enter (110 heccac-) Of total are..                                                         Per capita aeppI of protein <ctees per day) - Protein rosiest of pcr
Popeletion densiy - on      sar     eefarc.ln              I--Cpted as above for                   caia    e   spl     OF feed per day, not aupply of leod is deflied as
egriculiural lasi only.                                                a~~~~~~bove;' reqelreoesia fee all coutries notablieheduby fIDA gE.onAic
vit-I Statistics                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reneancrh Services provide for a nini-o  alwneof 60 grams Of total
Vital liscistica                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~proceSs per day, and 20 grarm of -aimal and pulse pretaina  of sItlb
Crude birthrt oenaead- Annual liee itirtha per thosaund of aid-                                    10 gee     hudb       enlpeen           heesadrsaeiwcta                    b
yes  pplco,inya              arilhsatie aegan sdieg in 1960 and 1970,                          of 75  rat   of itatl Protein and 23 grams of animal protein an.a
aiud  fe-aeaeaeedgin17                     fonathrecen       etimateavraga for thse world, proposed by yAO in the Third World Peed Survey.
Crdede th rate n   hos        - AnnualI deaths prtoaad of old-year                          Per eanita Brotein espey iron animal and Pslee - Pmetini         nupply Of lend
populcim;te-year arsibantic averages cending in 1960 and 1970, aed                             deieP     te    eei      n  plc      ngasprdy
filee-year ovetre9 ending in 1975 for moat recent estie.tac.                                Deathrated I/tou ag.s       n     ples i-n Aca  dgacb  per tbd an iyaegru
Infant motltAat         /b          An..aI deaths ef infants under one yearo                       1-4 yers, tho chlren in4 this.. age gdeutsp,ages teo     d en amginicatro
age Pee thnusoud live births.-                                                                        .r,t        id.       L   h.aegop          .getda         nid.tro
Lifa enncac       tbrhCrl-Anerage itober of years of life renainig                                 ealenttitin..
at birth; usually fine-year averages cedieg in 1960, 1970 sod 1975 for                      Education
developing countries..olue someirto-piayeho                                                                                                     naleto          l   gsn
iras cenrod-ntion race       -Average cuo,ker of lien dasghters a     omn    Jtll                  pertedntae   lpr1    ryscol-g        poplaIon; inIludeof abldeem          age
ba in her normal   Preprdctive Period if abe esperiencee present age-                       6-li yeanbtajsetordfeetlstsofpiayeoain
sPecific fertility rete; auall1Y fle-year averages ending is 1961,                             Lot coontriebu wi   -th univrsal   ecn       egt.-        Pi education,enolnt ayeed117
1970 aed 1973 for derelopieg      -ntoso                               trioa.sne                       oe    uisar bnieloo-       aov d. th,e offieiat acyo    ag.e.   07
,PopltI_n growth rate 1%) - total - Cuepo...d a..ual growth races of mid-                      Adjused e       Pupine s arati  be- se ondry nb o  -h off puta d anoo above
year popslatiea for 1930-61, 1960- 70 . ad 1970-75.                                            sed  edaryed  uca-tio requies a .    ead e fhour- yeanpt    ppoed    pribo ary
Papulati n grwi ttef.) - sehen          - Competed tike growth rate of total                       InstructIon; proide    general     nottina omr     iearcbef  tpraining  ..
pbpiilyOf; diffe-rent. dfnitrion       fahsara a.fec.aaa                                        instrunt;an for pupils of 12 to 17 years Of age; nerreaponden-
bilitylofdata~        ftt.)-Rtoo             ubnr       o. omougcaatcfee                        cou..rses are geceraIly occluded.
dferet dfiniiions of ura'aesmy affeci nmparobiliiy of data                                  scnln,arnnnaybd                    veat   mlinstruc      Tion   1 n ybepar- o
neetog counAts ic.                                                                              tianlyrorotipnerey beoleded
iRe strucor:  feree)- Children (0-14 Yeare)a working-age             (15-64 years),             Voceilaa nrlno 1.o             ecnay -rVocational institution
end retired (65 years and once) as percentages ~of nid-year population.            isnlude  elaol        nec     lO      te    rguawihoeae
A      -eenec atI  -Ratio of POPs1ation   under 15 end 65 and over t.                        inde pendently or as deparunenta of secondary inetrtutims.
thsc       fagsS      hruh6.                                                                 Ads1t literacy rate LX-literate adolte (able to red end wetat) aa
E    Dateicdpneceal           - Ratio of Pepulatin under 15 and 63 and over                        percentaBe of total adult Population aged 15 yearn and over.
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 Yearn.
Fomily elannieg enooptar- -cm       latine. ihos) - Comulaive comber efNoig
acc eptors of bIrtch-anntre   deie       ne    upeeo           in     fmly                  Persona oar roAn (average) - Average eunher of persona per room in
Planning pregrocn stoe incpti on.
Fomii elanieg -use,. 1% o  earn d wc en) - Peroentages of married                       ou.spied cnetimldwellings in urban areas; dwellings ec.lude
women    afhild-bearing age (15-44 years) wab .use birth-control devices                        nn-peonanent Struecturee end enocspiad P.orte.
to .1 - rri-d  -   in -.-  age gr..p.                                 ... Occupid dwllns ihot ladw          ter 1%) - Oco-pied cOmVentio...i
in nil carried socee  in name age group.duelleg                                    in uran and rural areas without inside er outside piped
E.pl,ymnt                                                                 -a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taer EaIiiie  as Percent age af all uccapied dwellings.
Ttapl    lv rfarc                                                                               Access tc eletricity(7    of all dwellngs) - C-Onvetioni dwelinjgs
Total ohor frce i honsand)  - loonoical1y active persons, Secluding                           wih     Aenrc.     inlvn        ures      sproto          Ea     ieiesi
armedforces and unemployed bat eacluding hosovinna, etodento, etc.;                             urba   and truraly ara. jV.      uresa         ecn     fttld            .i
definitions in variou     an..ntrien are not comparable.                                    gura dwllng rureedaoelatiit ..-.np...a                             aoe     e
Leharforc Ia gaicliuc 1%) - Agricaltrora   labor force (is farming,                        ruraltriilitayonly
forestry   busting and fishing) an     ercegtagen of total labor forc..ruad.
U-,sen!elyd (7  g ae fre         _-SoPl1yed are uaually defined as persons                      CODsapro
wh  re able and.willing to Eaha a Joh, out of a job on a given day,                       Rado ecives"      e     h uo e        l   ye     frciesltrdobod
remined out of aJeb, and neeking stork for a         Papcified cleaia,   eldcsstognrlpbic per                                 Athousand      fi ppelaiom;   fa  ralde obrad
not  ..o. ing one web; nay not he comparable between cauntrfes dueit                           nicne       reeiver Pbin peuniesand       in yepuarniwhn  ...gIntrd io   o
different de fimitlon    of unemployed and Soures of data, e.g., enplyt-                        radio nets was. iVeeface     dautafar recent years mayenrgitrbetcomarabl
neat office Statistica, -a-PI. asereyn, oocpolaory unomploy-tnes         Ic   ane               sainc  act- coerien     abolished.t   o licnsing.y          -tbecnpr.l
Income dl rbto         -Pretg tprvte I-ncome (both In cash and bled)                            Pn:Aeregeg iepa than        POPighi  perons   egarludes unbupanios  bea.rs  and
reevd byrebn        %, richestf207., P-epeac 20% and poorsat 40% if                         military vehices.egtprn.                X.d       b1....hass            d
households.                                                          glace~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K-rgifty kwh/yr met cap)  - Annual consuption ef industrial, cons
D___trib_t_______of   ______ _r_ Ia-Peeretlal,lad~e                   y  .Itis                                pabili and prima te elecicticity ie killowei    bouts per napita,
DIstriutin Pofr land   ownrsi -an   Pecerage.       fln    wedb      elbegenerally based on prodsro                                 dta, without allowance far [can.es in
10% and poorest 10% of lend sweets.                                     ge~~8ida hoc allowing for imports and enperts of electricity.
1pleauth ..d Nutritt                                                                (".~~~~~~~Rwerle L /er Pe r cap) - Par capita ane..al acasomptiom In kilograms
Puat im per rhyninian - Populatien divided by onubor ci practicing                               estimated from domeaticProdantion plea set imports of e-wprint.
pyici4an  qualified from a medical school at anversity level.



BOLIVIA                                                         ANNE.X I
towmicDEVLOPMENT DATA
(Am,owit  n milons of U.S      dollars)
Actual      Est.                                    19 73..  1975 -   1980                17       95~~
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                  1973     -1974        752     -g                            1975    1980      1985
Constant 1974 Prices in Million US$                          Growth Rate                Aa Percen+ of GDY
Gross Domestic Product              1,606    1,6B6    1,Z773      1,8651    2,358   3,245         I.      5.9       6.6             100.0    105.3    105.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)        -223       -                   _9 4O     _21    _172          -       -         -                         5.3      5.4
Gross Domestic Income               17,283   TM,6      1,8         ,72'3073                      10.3     5.8      6.6               100.0   ~ 100-.0 T 100.0
Import (incl. NF'S)                   409      519       608         615      812      985       21.9     6.0      3.9                30.8    36.1     36.3
Exports    "  (import capacity)      -381     -588      -44         -48       -8       932        80      56        983.                       64      2.
Resource Gap                           27      --4t6478                     -5284    -5 -8.               5.       9.                 34.     26.      26.
-69  164 ~~~~~~~~~'*~~~T~~7  228  54  -  -     - ~~~~~~~~~4.1              9.7    10.2
Consumption Expenditures            1.187     1,336     1,466      1,477     1,901  2,478        11.1     5.3       5.4
Investment  224  281    382         421       564    649                                            79.2     87.1    85.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~79.  8.1  5.
invetmen  11(inc. stocks)         24        28       32          41        56     69         30.6     8.1      2.8               16.7     22.7     25.2
Domestic Savings                       196      350       218         285      336     595         5.5    9.0     12.1                2.        29      1.
National Savings            ~~~187     331      206         260      276     483          5.0   6.0      11.8                19.6     12.2    12.3
MERCHANISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                          As Percent of Total
Imports
Food                                27.7      40.0     55.4       58.3       93.0   156.0       41.4  10.9      10.9                10.3     10.4      8.9
Other Consumer Goods                28.7      33.0     62.7       67.7      111.2   192.5       47.8  12.1      11.6                  8.5    11.7     10.6
Fuels                                1.8       5.0      6.9       7.6        11.7    19.6       95.8  11.1      10.9                  1.3     1.3      1.1
Raw Materials & Int. Goods          56.3      94.6    167.2     186.6       308.9   563.3       .72.3  13.1     12.8                24.3     31.3     29.5
Capital Goods                       99.8     181.0    196.8     238.2       470.9   758.7       40.4  19.1      10.0                46.4     36.9     45.0
Other Goods                     ......5.2     36.4     44.9      29.1        51.9    88.5       12.9   2.9      11.3                  9.3     8.4      5.0
Total March. Imnports              249.5     390.0     533.9    587.6     1,0475 1,78.6         46.3   14.4     11.2              'T00.0    T.o      ThM.O
Exports
Primsary products                   217.3    362.4     300.6    357.4       541.8 1,330.9        17.6  12.5      19.7                65.4     66.6    63.6
Fuels                                64.7    185.7     148.7    157.5       304.1    588.9      51.6   15.4      14.1                33.5     33.0    35.7
o1v crude petroleum               (46.8)   (156.8)  (106.6)   (112.1)     (229.5) (578.5)     (50.9) (16.6)   (20.3)               (28.3)  (23.6)   (27.0~
Manufactu   edmods                    1.9      5.8       1.9       2.5        5.4     12.3         -   23.2      17.9                 1.0      0.4     0.6
Total March. Excports             -M3.9 --53.9 --51. 2          -M.4      T-51.3=T32.1           26.1  13.5      17.8              =00.0 *T00.o     =00.0
Merchandise Trade Indices
Export Price Index                   51.3    100.0      92.4      96.7      131.7    188.0       34.2   7.3       7.4
Import Price Index                   81.3    100.0     110.8     117.9      159.1    222.8       16.7   7.5       7.0
Terms of Trade Index                 63.1    100.0      83.4      82.0       82.8     84.4         - 
Exports Volume Index102.8           100.0      90.6      99.2      119.3    165.6       -6.1   S.,71     6.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                  Annual Data at 1974 Prices                                                                   As Percent of Total
1973      1974     1975      1980                            1973.75      1975-80 
Agriculture               401       425~- -   454      608                               6.4           6.0                 25.2     25.6     25.8
Industry and Mining                551       562      560       757                                .8           6.2                 33.3     31.6     32.1
Service                            654       699      75      ....223                             7.7           5.515--48--21
Total                            1,606     1,686    1,773     2,358                               5.1           5.9                 100.0   100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                       Annual Data at Current Prices                              Average Annual Growth                 As Percent of GDP
(C'entral G'overniment)               1973      1974     1975     19-80                            1973-75      1975-80            1974       1975       1980
Current Receipts                   141.9     29 0    326       697                                 51.5        16.4             17.2        16.2      18.0
Current Expenditures               142.2     246     292       604                                 43.3        15.6             14.6        14.5      15.3
Budgetary Savings                   -0.3      44      34        93-                                            22.3              2.6         1.7  .    2.7
Public Sector Savings               68.6    209.1    145       344.6                               45.4        18.9             12.4         7.2       8.9
Public Fixed Capital Formation      92.5    175.1    209       503.3                               50.3        19.2             10.4        10.4      13.0
CURRENT EXPENDITUJRE DETAILS                                                                 DETAIL ON
As % Total Current Expend.)              1973    I97-       1975                           PUBLIC SECTOR                              As Percent of Total
Goods and Services                     20.5     15.0       19.8                           INVESTMENT PROGRAM        ~                  1976-4980
Wages and Salsries                     61.6     52.7       51.3
Transfer Payments                      12.8     29.0       24.9                          Agriculture                                      9.6
Other                                    5.1     3.3        4.0                           Mining and Hlydrocarbons                       23.5
Total Current Expenditure             100.0    100.0      100.0                           Industry and Power                             25.8
Transport sod Communication                    19.0
Public Service and Social Service              22.2
SELECTED INDICATORS  1973-75  1975-80   1980-85                                         ~~~~~~As Percent of Total
SELECTED INDICATORS  1973-75  1975-80 ~~~~~~~~~285                  FINANCING                    1976-1980
Average ICON                            3.02      3788-       3.31
Import Elasticity                      3.96       1.01         .61                          Private Sector                   30.0
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                                                               Foreign Sources                 31.0
Marginal National Savings Rate           .11        .13        .25                           Public Sector                   39.0
Debt Service Ratio              19.5
LABOR FORCE AND                                                                                   Value Added Per Worker (174
OUTPUT PER WORKER                 In Thousands        % of Total        Growth Rate          In U.S.Dollar's     Percent t Average
1970        L 195    270       1975         1970-75          1970       1975       1970       1975
Agriculture                    1,307       1,481    64.4      57.9            2.5           264.8      306.5       40.1       44.2
Industry & Miming                276        400     13.6      15.6            7.7        1,634.9    1,400.7       247.7      202.0
Service                          446         678    22.0      26.5            8.7         1,215.9   1,119.5       184.0      161.5
Total.22                                 ~    3        .0    ioU-To-          TT            659.9      69-3.0     10-0.0     1700-
September 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
BOLIVIA: SUMMARY: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(current US$ millions)
1973       1974        1965         1976        1980           1985
Imports (incl. N.F.S.)                     332.4      518.9      674.1         725.3       129.5        2,195.3
Exports (incl. N.F.S.)                     310.1      588.1      492.5         564.0       929.9        2,075.9
Resource Balance                           -22.3       69.2     -181.6        -161.3      -362.6         -119.4
Factor Income                              -24.8      -31.0      -26.8         -43.2      -105.7         -261.2
Net Interest Payments                 (-6.0)     (-8.0)    (-14.3)       (-24.6)     (-69.7)       (-171.7)
Other Factor Service Income (net)     (18.8)    (-23.0)    (-12.5)       (-18.6)     (-36.0)        (-89.5)
Current Transfers (net)                     15.4       12.0       13.0          12.0         7.5            4.0
Current Account Balance                    -31.7       50.2     -195.4        -192.5      -460.7          376.7
Direct Foreign Investment                    4.6       20.8       16.5          30.5       129.5          100.0
Official Capital Grants                     10.0        9.0       10.5           7.0         0.4            0.0
Public M&LT Loans (net)                     15.7       64.3      108.9         148.4       311.7          324.8
Disbursements                         (48.6)    (118.6)    (167.2)       (207.2)     (457.1)        (631.8)
Repayments                           (-32.9)    (-54.3)    (-58.3)       (-58.8)    (-145.4)       (-307.0)
Other M&LT Loans                            16.9       13.0       20.5          19.5        50.0            -
IMF Drawings                                 0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0         0.0            0.0
Other Short Term, Errors & Omissions       -30.9      -33.5      -20.5           0.0         0.0            0.0
Change in Net Reserves (- = increase)       15.4     -123.8       59.5         -12.9       -30.9          -48.1
Total Net Reserves (end of period)          72.2      155.1       95.6         108.5       198.1          246.2
1975      1976-80    1981-85
External Public Debt os                    806.3      1,323.6    2,552.6
o/w IBRD                               20.9         68.2      243.7
IDA                                49.5         57.6       62.1
IBRD-IDA Debt Service as %
of Public Debt Service                     8.7          9.5       12.0
Debt Service as % of GDP                     4.1          4.8         6.4
Debt Service Ratio                          16.9         19.5        24.2
September 1976



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
CONTRACTED PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY GUARANTEED EXTERNAL DEBT,-/ 1969-75
(US$ millions)
1969      1970      1971      1972     1973.      1974      1975
International Organizations       30.7       1.4     26.8       11.2      7.2       41.2     137.1
CAF                              -         -       0.1        2.0      1.2         -       41.8
IBRD                           23.3        -         -         -        -          -       32.0
IDA                             7.4       1.4      6.8        8.0      6.0       6.2        7.5
IDB                              -         -       19.9       1.2       -        35.0      55.9
Governments                       30.0      17.2      35.2      71.7     34.1       64.0     106.1
Argentina                       3.2      14.3       4.3       4.2      3.4        2.9        -
Czechoslovakia                   -         -        3.9       1.4       -          -
Germany F.R.                    1.7       1.4        -         -        _        28.6        _
United Kingdom                  1.4.       -                  6.8       -          -         -
USA                            22.7       1.5      25.3      40.0     26.5       28.8      22.1
USSR                             -         -         -       15.9       -          -         -
Others                          1.0        -        1.7       3.4      4.2        3.7      84.0
Su ppliers' Credits               11.5       1.6       3.9      27.4     16.6        8.7      10.1
Argentina                         -         -        1.6       5.1      5.9        1.6        -
Belgium                           _         -         -         -       5.8        0.1        -
Canada                            -         -        -          -       3.7         -         _
Denmark                          0.7       1.3       -         0.8      0.2        _
Germany F.R.                     3.9       0.3        -         -        -          _        0.1
Israel                                      _                   -        -          -        5.S
Italy                            2.1        -         -       13.9       -          _
Japan                             -         -        2.0       6.4       -          -
Spain                            3 3                  -         -        -          -         -
USA                               -         _         -        1.1      0.9        1.9       2.4
Others                           1.5        -       0.3        0.1     0.1        5.1       2.1
Private Banks,                     1.3        -       23.3      23.1      9.9       56.0      54.5
Brazil                           -         -       12.0       7.9      4.7       13.5        -
USA                             1.3        _       10.0      12.8      1.5       34.3      48.5
Others                           -         -        1.3       2.4      3.7        8.2       6.0
Other                             14.1       4.1       0.1      22.7      0.4        3.8        -
Nationalization (USA)               -       78.6        -         -       0.7         -         _
TOTAL -/       87.6      102.9     89.3     156.1      68.9     173.7     307.8
1/ Repayable in foreign currency only.
2/ Net of adjustments and cancellations.
Source:  Central Bank, IBRD Social and Economic Data Division.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of July 31, 1976)
US$ million
Loan or                                                  Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year     Borrower     Purpose                 Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                         23.3     30.6         -
261          1971    Bolivia      Livestock                         6.8       1.4
346          1972   Bolivia       Railways                          8.0       0.3
433          1973    Bolivia      Power                             6.0       0.2
455           1974   Bolivia      Mining                            6.2       3.4
561           1975   Bolivia      Agriculture                       7.5       7.3
1121         1975   ENFE          Railways               28.7                20.3
1211         1976   Bolivia       Rural Dev.              9.5 /1              9.5
1238         1976   ENDE IV       Power                  25.0                25.0
TOTAL                                       86.5 /2  65.1       67.4
Of which has been repaid                     4.4      0.4
Total held by Bank and IDA                  82.1     64.7
Total undisbursed                                               67.4
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   A loan of US$10.0 million for a mining and manufacturing project was
approved on June 22, 1976 but has not yet been signed.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Credit 455-BO - Mining Credit Project, US$6.2 million, January 18, 1974;
Effective Date: June 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 561-BO - Agricultural Credit I, US$7.5 million, June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: December 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1121-BO - Second Railway Project, US$28.7 million, June 5, 1975;
Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Borrower has arranged bilateral financing for locomotives
in the project and in accordance with the understanding reached with
the Bank, the loan amount has been adjusted downward from $32 million to
$28.7 million. Project progress has been satisfactory with performance
targets either having been attained or exceeded.
Loan 1238-BO - Fourth ENDE Power Project, US$25 million, June 2, 1976;
Effective Date: August 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1211-BO - Ingavi Rural Development Project, US$9.5 million, March 8,
1976; Effective Date:                        ; Closing Date:   June 30, 1982.
It is anticipated that the loan will become effective in the near
future.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of July 31, 1976)
Amount in US$ million
Year    Obligor                    Type of Business            Loan      Equity     Total
1973    Plasmar, S.A.          Cables and Plastic Products     0.3 /1      0.1       0.4
1976    Banco Hipotecario
Nacional             Mortgage Financing                          0.3      0.3
1976    BISA                   Investment Financing                        0.6       0.6
0.3          1.0      1.3
/1   Of which, US$0.1 million is a standby loan.
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 261-BO - Third Livestock Development Project, US$6.8 million, June 25,
1971; Effective Date: September 15, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
After implementation slowed down in 1974, the project is now proceeding
as scheduled and the credit should be fully disbursed by the closing date of
June 30, 1977.
Credit 346-BO - Railway Project, US$8 million, December 1, 1972; Effective
Date: February 21, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
All of the funds under the project have been committed. Due to
inflation, however, the funds available under the credit have been insuffi-
cient to procure all of the items included in the project. About 50% of the
items planned for procurement for the first project, have been deferred for
purchasing under the second railway project. Materials and equipment ordered
under the project did not begin to arrive in Bolivia until the last quarter
of 1974. Improvements have been made in the management operations, financial
condition and tariff structure of the railway.
Credit 433-BO - Third ENDE Power Project, US$6 million, October 17, 1973;
Effective Date: December 11, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project was initially delayed due to unexpected long delivery
time for the gas turbines originally planned to be installed at Santa Cruz.
Project progress is now satisfactory. Cost overruns are currently at about
34% over the original estimates of project cost. ENDE will finance the
overruns with its own funds.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
BOLIVIA - SMALL MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and l'roject Summary
Borrower                    :    Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiaries               :    Banco Minero de Bolivia (BAMIN); Geological
Servlce of Bolivla (GEOBOL); Ministry of
Mining and Metallurgy (MMM).
Loan Amount                 :    US$12 million equivalent.
Loan Terms                  :    The proposed loan would bear interest at 8.9%
per annum. Amortization would be on the
basis of the aggregate of the following two
amortization schedules: (a) for the US$9.0
portion relent to BAMIN, repayments would be
made over a maximum period of 15 years and
would follow a flexible schedule based on the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of
BAIIN's subloans; and (b) for the US$3.0
million non-credlt portion of the Bank loan,
repayments would be made on the basis of equal
semi-annual principal payments over a period
of 12 years after a three-year grace period.
Relendlng Terms to BAMIN    :    The Republic of Bollvia would relend to BAMIN
US$9.0 million In US dollars at the same
interest rate as the Bank loan. BAMIN in turn
would relend the loan proceeds In US dollars
to small mining projects. The Government
would assume the risk of loss resulting from
changes In the exchange rate between the
dollar and the currencies actually disbursed
by the Bank. The Government would charge BAMIN
a fee of 1/4% per annum for assuming this risk.
BMIIN Relending Terms to
Sub-borrowers             :    Interest on subloans would be 12% per annum,
plus a 1/2 of 1% one time closing fee, a commit-
ment fee of 1% per annum on the undisbursed
balance and a fee of 1/4 of 1% per annum to
cover the risk of loss resulting from changes
In the exchange rate between the dollar and
the currencies withdrawn from the loan account.
Subloans would be denominated In US dollars
and would have maturities between 8 and 13
years, including a maximum grace period of
three years.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
Purpose:                         The loan would help finance the foreign
exchange cost component of:
(a)  investment subprojects of small private
mines;
(b)   provlsion of assistance to GEOBOL;
(c)  technical assistance to MMM for a
cadastral survey and sector planning,
and to BAMIN for staff training, project
appraisal and supervision and management
control. The cost of this component
would be borne by the Government.
Estimated Cost:                                     Local    Foreign     Total
------ (US$ million) ----
Component
TOTAL                                  6.2      12.0       18.2
Small Mining Investment (BAMIN)      4.0       9.0      13.0
Assistance to GEOBOL                 1.7       1.9        3.6
Technical Assistance                 0.5       1.1        1.6
MMM                               (0.4)     (0.8)      (1.2)
BAMIN                             (0.1)     (0.3)     (0.4)
To be financed by Bank loan             -       12.0       12.0
Financing Plan:                                Govern-
IBRD    ment      BAMIN    MINERS   TOTAL
---------------(US$ million)-------------
Component
TOTAL                        12.0      2.1      2.1      2.0      18.2
Small Mining Investment     9.0       -       2.0      2.0      13.0
Assistance to GEOBOL        1.9      1.7       -        -        3.6
Technical Assistance        1.1      0.4      0.1       -        1.6
MMM                      (0.8)    (0.4)      -         -      (1.2)
BAMIN                    (0.3)      -      (0.1)      -       (0.4)



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Estimated Loan Disbursements:
Fiscal Year
1977      1978       1979      1980
(US$ million-Cumulative)
TOTAL                         1.0       5.3       9.1       12.0
Small Mining Investment     0.1       2.5       6.1       9.0
Assistance to GEOBOL        0.6       1.9       1.9        1.9
Technical Assistance        0.3       0.9       1.1        1.1
MMM                      (0.1)     (0.6)     (0.8)      (0.8)
BAMIN                    (0.2)     (0.3)     (0.3)      (0.3)
Subloan Approval Limits:           Initially, Bank approval for all subloans
would be required.   Free limit (probably
of about US$350,000) would be established
after review of first five subprojects,
subject to satisfactory progress on the part
of BAMIN.
Final Date for Subloan             December 31, 1979.
Submissions:
BAMIN Debt Covenants for its       Maximum debt/equity ratio would be 4:1.   The
Credit Department:                 maximum amount of individual subloans would
not exceed 25% of the Credit Department's
equity.
Procurement:                       Procurement for small mining subprojects
would follow standard DFC practice. Equip-
ment for survey of small mines and technical
assistance would be procured on the basis of
international shopping with the exception
of diamond drills to be procured through
international competitive bidding. There
would be retroactive financing of up to
US$300,000 for the survey of small mines and
technical assistance to MMM.
Rate of Return:                    Based on experience with mining subloans
under the first IDA Credit, and on an
analysis of a list of subprojects under
consideration, the economic rate of return
on mining subprojects should be around
20%.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Summary Income Statement of
BANIIN's Credit Department:
Income                                         1975
(In US$ thousand, at $b 20 per US$)
Interest and Commissions                        615
Gross Profit from Sale of Supplies              419
Total Income                                1,034
Expenses
Financial Expenses                               40
Salaries, Admin. Expenses                       645
Provision for Losses                            250
Income Taxes                                     20
Contribution to Employees' Fund                  10
Total Expenses                                965
Net Profit                                       69
Summary Balance Sheet of
BAMIN's Credit Department:
Assets                                    December 31, 1975
(In US$ thousand, at $b 20 per US$)
Current Assets                                2,778
Materials, Machinery and Equipment            4,980
Loans Outstanding                             9,475
Fixed and Other Assets                          425
Total Assets                               17,658
Liabilities
Current Liabilities                           1,803
Medium- and Long-term Debt                   10,683
Other Liabilities                             1,657
Total Liabilities                          14,143
Equity                                        3,515
Staff Project Report:               Report No. 1236b-BO, dated September 1, 1976



'Vi   Io _D,                                                                 50' mem  BOL ! A
CD~8I4A  N -<s        h   f
2eW0                                                                                         r2 ,.no. s'^
szo .  \\  Q  <   f   \  >4    ,p                  1.11 (I f TL A;           ,zo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,. (I,f Lq
8. E-    N     /
ij, *              * 0TCa       ,             i?RINIDAD
\?*                                                   At/  r 0S0t'  '
4X ;
AUGUST  1971                                                                 IBRD 2'204I
I.I 
GoQqa~~~~  * L'AA G.PAA...
AUGUST  1971                                                                            IBOR   2820R1



