CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1331 BO
LOAN AGREEENT
(Small-Scale Mining Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 15, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 15, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the cost of the Project described in Section 3.01
(a) of this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A and C II of the Project will be carried out by
Banco Minero de Bolivia with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Banco
Minero de Bolivia part of the proceeds of the Loan in dollars as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and Banco Minero de
Bolivia;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BAMIN" means Banco Minero de Bolivia, a bank established
on July 24, 1936, reorganized under Decreto Ley No. 9028 of Decem-
ber 15, 1969 and Resoluci6n Suprema No. 181500 of September 17,
1976 of the Borrower and operating under the laws of the Borrower.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and BAMIN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be en-
tered into between the Borrower and BAMIN pursuant to Section 3.02


﻿-3-
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(d) "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be made to BAMIN un-
der the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
BAMIN out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to BAMIN under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to an Investment Enterprise for an In-
vestment Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as
so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to
the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means a type of private enter-
prise, which (a) on the date of this Agreement does not qualify
as a Medium-scale Mining Enterprise in accordance with the Bor-
rover's Decreto Supremo No. 5674 of December 30, 1960, and (b) has
been included by GEOBOL in its inventory of small-scale mines and
to which BAMIN proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a sub-loan.
(h) "Bolivian Peso" and "$b" mean the currency of the Bor-
rower.
(i) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the cur-
rency of the Borrower.


﻿14
(J) "Statutes" means the Estatutos of BAMIN dated April 22,
1963, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
policy and operations approved by the Directors of BAMIN on July 20,
1976, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BAMIN or by any one or more
subsidiaries of BAMIN or by BAMIN and one or more of its subsid-
iaries.
(a) "GEOBOL" means Servicio Geoldgico de Bolivia or any
successor thereto.
(n) "MM" means Ministerio de Minerfa y Metalurtia or any
successor thereto.
(o) "Credit Department" means the department of BAMIN in
charge of making sub-loans to Investment Enterprises.
(p) "Trading Department" means the department of BAMIN in
charge of purchasing, storing and selling minerals.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million
dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts expended or, if the Bank shall
so agree, for amounts to be expended (I) by the Borrower or GEOBOL
to finance the reasonable cost of experts' services and goods re-
quired for Parts B and C I of the Project, and (II) by BAMIN (A)
to finance the reasonable cost of experts' services and goods re-
quired for Part C II of the Project and kB) for an Investment Proj-
ect under Part A of the Project, to finance:
(i) the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods
procured, or services supplied from, outside
the territory of the Borrover;
(ii) the equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) of the
cost of imported goods procured in the territory
of the Borrower, which percentage represents the
estimated foreign-currency component of such goods,
or, whenever the c.i.f. cost of such goods can
be determined, the equivalent of one hundred per
cent (100%) of such cost; and


﻿-6-
(iii) the equivalent of thirty-five per cent (35%) of
the cost of civil works, which percentage repre-
sents the estimated foreign-currency component
of such works,
required under a sub-loan for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal is requested; provided, however, that no with-
drawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loar unless (1) the sub-
loan shall have been approved by the Bank, or (2) the sub-loan
shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have autho-
rized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) No withdrawal shall be made, unless the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, in excess of (I) the equivalent
of $9,000,000 for expenditures by BAMIN for Investment Projects
under Part A of the Project, (II) the equivalent of $1,900,000 for
expenditures on account of goods and services required for Part B
of the Project, and (III) the equivalent of $1,100,000 for expen-
ditures on account of goods and services required for Part C of
the Project.
(c) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not exceed the amount to be determined by the
Bank, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or pro-
posed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such
Investment Project, such amount being subject to change from time
to time as determineft by the Bank.


﻿-7-
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures:
(i) made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a
sub-loan before the date of this Agreement or,
in the case of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's
approval, if such expenditures, except for ex-
penditures to finance feasibility studies, shall
have been made more than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received in
respect of such sub-loan the application and infor-
mation required by Section 2.02 (b) of the Project
Agreement or, in the case of a free-limit sub-
loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such free-limit sub-loan the request and infor-
mation required by Section 2.02 (c) of the Project
Agreement; and
(ii) made by GEOBOL or the Borrower prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000
($250,000 thereof by GEOBOL and $50,000 thereof by
the Borrower) may be made on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but
after June 30, 1976.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and BAMIN of such later date.


﻿-8-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and ninety hundredths per cent (8.90%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended
from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to: (i) con-
form in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of the amor-
tization schedules applicable to sub-loans, which have been approved
or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section
2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take into account any cancellation
pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments
made by the Borrower under Section 2.08 of this Agreement; provided
that repayments due hereunder shall be made on February 1 and
August 1 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall
include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if
necessary.
Section 2.08. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:


﻿(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
BAMIN in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or any part thereof
shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for
value by BAMIN, the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and
shall repay to the Bank on the next following interest payment
date, together with the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.07 of this
Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect
of such sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or matt-
rities of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 2.09. BAMIN is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with respect
to expenditures of BAMIN under Parts A and C II of the Project.
Section 2.10. GEOBOL is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with respect
to expenditures of GEOBOL under Part B of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 2.11. In consideration of the Borrower's assumption
of the risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
;,between the dollar and the currencies withdrawn from the Loan Ac-
count, the Borrower shall collect from BAMIN a fee payable in dol-
lars or dollar equivalent at the rate of one-fourth of one per cent
(1/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Subsidiary
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such facilities and resources in Bolivia as
will contribute to the economic and social development of the coun-
try. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Financing by BAMIN of specific small-scale development
projects, and feasibility studies therefor, in the min-
ing sector through sub-loans to private enterprises in
Bolivia, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of
BAMIN.
Part B:   (i) Continuation of survey by GEOBOL of small mines in
the Borrower's territory, and (ii) strengthening of
GEOBOL's capability to prepare prefeasibility studies
of small-scale mining projects, to administer feasi-
bility study contracts, to provide comprehensive
technical assistance to Investment Enterprises and
to carry out prospection, evaluation and exploration
of mineral deposits.
Part C: Provision of technical assistance to (I) the Borrower's
MMM to (i) improve MMM's sectoral planning and project
evaluation capability, and (ii) carry out a cadastral
survey of the mining concession areas in Bolivia; and
(II) BAMIN to improve (i) its project appraisal and
S1


﻿- 12 -
supervision capability, (ii) its management
control system.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MNN to ensure, in respect of
the Project, efficient coordination between the departments and
agencies of the Borrower and between such departments and agencies
and BAMIN.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to BAMIN under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BANIN, under the same financial terms and conditions as those
of the Loan, the equivalent in dollars of such portion of the
proceeds of the Loan as shall be disbursed by the Bank for Part A
of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause BAMIN to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services.and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable BAMIN to perform such obligations, and shall not take


﻿- 13 -
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall make available to BANIN, as a con-
tribution to its equity, to be assigned to the resources of the
Credit Department, an aggregate amount of two million dollars
($2,000,000) equivalent in the following installments and on the
following dates:
(i) the amount of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000)
equivalent referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement;
(ii) an amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000) equi-
valent not later than one (1) year after the Effec-
tive Date; and
(iii)  an amount of eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000)
equivalent not later than two (2) years after the
Effective Date.
Section 3.04. In order to ensure that the financial condition
and operation of the Credit Department will not be affected by
adverse results of the activities of the Trading Department, the
Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all action required for
the purpose.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, Parts B and C I of the Project with due diligence


﻿and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for this purpose, including, but not
limited to, such portion of the proceeds of the Loan as shall be
disbursed by the Bank for such Parts of the Project.
(b) In carrying out Parts B and C I of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(i) employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, cause the
contracts for the purchase of such goods or for civil
works as are required for such Parts of the Project
and are to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to be procured on the basis of international
shopping requiring quotations from at least three
foreign suppliers, provided, however, that the Bor-
rower shall cause the contracts for the purchase of
the diamond drills and the necessary accessories
therefor required for Part B of the Project to be
procured on the basis of international competition
under procedures consistent with Part A of the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August
1975;


﻿- 15 -
(iii) insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance
of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan for such Parts of the Project
against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use
or installation, provided that for any indemnity
such insurance shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods;
(iv) except as the Bank may otherwise agree, cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan for such Parts of the Project to be
used exclusively for such Parts of the Project until
their completion;
(v) furnish to the Bank promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments, work and procurement schedules for such Parts
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request; and
(vi) (A) maintain records adequate to record the progress
of such Parts of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan disbursed
by the Bank therefor, and disclose the use thereof
in such Parts of the Project, (B) enable the Bank's


﻿- 16 -
representatives to examine such Parts of the Project,
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents, and (C) furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning such Parts of the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so
disbursed by the Bank and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.


﻿- 18 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, Iie term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign xchange assets
held by any institutiLon performing the functiors of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, whenever a devaluation of the Bolivian Peso occurs,
promptly take such action as shall be necessary or advisable to
ensure that the debt/equity ratio of the Credit Department remains
unaffected by such devaluation.
'R1


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) BAMIN shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of BAMIN under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or BAMIN shall have failed to perform any
of their respective covenants, agreements or obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BAMIN
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Statutes which
will materially and adversely affect the financial condition or
operations of BAMIN;
(e) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without the Bank's consent;
(f) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of BAMIN;


﻿- 20 -
(g) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated or acquired or taken over by BAMIN, if such creation, acquisi-
tion or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of BAMIN's
business or BAMIN's financial situation or the efficiency of
BAMIN's management and personnel or the carrying out of the Proj-
ect; and
(h) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that BAMIN will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) or
paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (g) of Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and to BAMIN.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BAMIN has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and BAMIN, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c) a first instalment of the Borrower's contribution to the
resources of the Credit Department amounting to two hundred thou-
sand dollars ($200,000) equivalent has been made available;
(d) the Borrower has selected consultants for Part C I of
the Project;
(e) BAMIN's latest balance sheet and profit and loss state-
ment, established separately for the Credit Department and the
Trading Department, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, has been delivered to the Bank;
(f) BAMIN has hired an additional project analyst whose quali-
fications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank;


﻿-22-
(g) BAMIN has furnished to the Bank internal loan regula-
tions satisfactory to the Bank;
(h) BANIN has hired a consultant on management control sys-
tems, and selected consultants for Part C II (i) of the Project;
(i) GEOBOL has prepared terms of reference, satisfactory to
the Bank, for tht consultants to be employed pursuant to Section
3.05 (b) (i) of -is Agreement who vill assist GEOBOL in carrying
out Part B of th Project; and
(j) BAMIN has certified to the Bank that, as of a date to be
agreed between the Bank and BAMIN, there has been no material ad-
verse change in its financial condition since the date of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BAMIN, and is legally binding upon BAMIN in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and BAMIN, respectively, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and BAMIN in accordance with its
terms.


﻿- 23 -
Section 6.03. The date January 13, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 24-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following address - are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFINANZAS                   BX 5332
La Paz
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 25 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Alberto Crespo Gutierrez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
Related      Related
to Part A    to Parts
of the       B and C of
Project      the Project  Total
<  On each February 1 and August 1          375,000     125,000     500,000
Beginning February 1, 1980
through August 1, 1991
The first colum  of the Amortization Schedule is subject to
amendment pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.07 of the
Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the.figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.
lw


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.08 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                     1.80%
before maturity
More than three years but not                 3.55%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                   6.50%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                7.70%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                      8.90%
before maturity


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon amendments for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03 Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days,
or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement no applications or requests
permitted under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such
Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect


﻿- 29 -
of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received,
shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdravn from the Loan
Account, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate
the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account,
as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion
of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such amount
or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


