25365
November 22, 2002
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/24/2002
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.I. Project Statistics
Country: NICARAGUA                                 Project ID: P064915
Project: NICARGUA AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY          Task Team Leader Norman Bentley Piccioni
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 15, 2000     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: January 6, 2000mber 12, 2002        IDA Amount ($m) 23.63
Managing Unit: LCSES
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
Status: Supervision                                Sector: AY - Other Agriculture
Theme:
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The Project development objective reflects the Program's goal, aiming to establish an. efficient, demand-driven,
agricultural technology, knowledge and innovation system. At the end of the Project, or first phase of the
Program, it is expected that. (i) the main public agricultural technology institutions will be providing dffective,
coordinated sector policy guidance and client-responsive services; (ii) the private sector, the non governmental
organizations, and the educational institutions will be participating significantly in providing agricultural services
to client farmers; (iii) the public sector will be proactively undertaking strategic and btasic research and providing
advisory services that generate positive extemalities; (iv) a national agricultural technical education training
strategy wtll have been defined and a pilot begun; and (v) timely, high quality agricultural and market
information will be available to technicians and farmers
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The Program will provide a phased, long term support to five sub-programs: (i) development of institutional
capacity; (ii) development of a competitive fund for agricultural services; (iii) support to the National Institute of
Agricultural Technology (INTA); (iv) development of an agricultural technical education & training system; and
(v) development of an agricultural information system.
Development of institutional capacity - The main public institutions related to agricliltural technology will be
reformed and strengthened. A Directorate of Agricultural Technology (DTA) will be strengthened within MAG-
FOR. Through the DTA, MAG-FOR will improve its capacity to design and implement agricultural technology
and training policy and to coordinate and monitor publicly funded research, technical assistance and agricultural
technical education & training activities. A Foundation will be established to manage public-funded agricultural
research, technical assistance and agricultural technical education & training under a .oompetitive fund.
COSINTA, currently an informal council bringing together public and private sector scientific commrunity, will
be given formal status as the Foundation's general assembly and to serve as a permanent forum for discussing
and agreeing on technology issues concerning the participating organizations. The Delpartment of Agricultural
Education of the National Technology Institute (I:NATEC) will be strengthened to enable it to offer diversified
courses to a greater number of young farmers throughout the country and to provide methodological advice to
agricultural trainers.



Development of a competitive fund for agricultural services - As the main implementation tool of the
Foundation, a competitive fund will promote demand-driven agricultural services. Under the fund, a research
grant facility (FAITAN) will finance agricultural research projects presented by research organizations and
institutions, domestic and foreign, certified by or prepared with the participation of SMFs, and a technical
assistance grant facility (FAT) will stimulate competitive, private agricultural technical assistance services. As
the Program rolls out, the competitive fund mechanism will be improved and the portfolio increased so as to
e\paud and mdaxinlize tlie ieseaichi and technical assistance coverage. The possibility 'of establishing a grant
facility for agricultaral technical edLuication & training will be studied duri ng the first phase of the Pio-iam.
Support to the Nicaraguani Inslilute of Agricultural Technology (INTA) - Currenthl ihe main institution
responsible for jgriculcu.l1 technolo2y generation and diffusion, INTA will be supported to improve its capacity
for optinial use of p ublic iesouwces and to ensure the general availability, diffusion and quilizy of agricultural
kio\\ ledle and services. Durinc2 ProprniJ) execution, the current role of INTA as direcl Field provider pf technical
assistance will g-wduill) shiil' in Ia%oi of a new, higher level role as main provider of: (i) strategic and adaptive
rcse.irch. (ii) technical assistanice which generate externalities; (iii) .agriclihtiral techinc'loLog and no,,\ ld-e
captured fromn c\Iernul souice>; (iv) basic and registered seed; and (v) secund-tier services to other agricultural
service providers. Until a major involvement by other service providers-fohi the public and private sector is
achieved, and especially dtu iiin the first phase of the Program, INTA will continue to pio, ide direct services to
SNlF>.
Development of an agricultural technical education & training system - On the basis of a comprehensive
strategy to be defined during the first phase of the Program, support will be provided to agricultural technical
education & tr.ainin'z methods and to a network of agricultural training institutions. The Program will support. (i)
in-service training to technical assistance and education staff provided by specialists from the private Sector
(universities, N(Os, agro-industrial companies) and public sector (INTA.and INATEC); (ii) education and
training of future agriciiltural trainers, for basic and intermediary levels; (iii) pilot initiatives, which will
contribute to the alleviation of agricultural illiteracy and assist aoricul ]ural ! outh and Unemployed adults to work
as farmers or as skilled/semni-skilled farm workers, and (iv) in-service training for a-t iculitiral public sector
management, administrative and technical staff.
Development of an agricultural information system - An agricultural technology information systemi will be
2stablished to bi-inig together several independent sources of information available nationally and internatilonally.
The s%ztCnIn will provide timely, quality information on market trends and opportunities, agrometeorology,
agricultural services, business opportunities and best practices to: (i) agricultural researcners, technical staff,
subject matter specialists and trainers at all levels, to improve the quality of their professional services, (11)
farmers, through technical assistance agents, to enhance their decision-making ability and (iii) policy decision-
makers and program design and monitoring units, to strengthen their capacity.
The Nicaragua Agricultural Technology Program draws from and expands upon the experience of the
Agricultural Technology component of the Nicaragua Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project
(ATLMP - Id. 7780). The program purpose is to increase agricultural productivity and family income of 110,000
small and medium-scale farm households (SMFs) through the generation/enhancement of an efficient, demand-
driven, agricultural technology knowledge and innovation system. The program will be carried out in 4 phases.
Phase I (2000-2004) - System establishment; Phase 11 (2004-2008) - System strengthenin2: Phase IN (2008-
2012) - System expansion; Phase IV (2012-2016) - System consolidation.
At the end of the last phase, it is expected that Nicaragua wilI have a clearly identifiabie client-oriented,
knowledge-based agricultural technology system that promotes the interaction of agricultural research, technical
assistance and agricultural technical education & training to generate, promote and diffuse economnicaiLy
profitable agricultural innovation and information.



I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social characteristics
of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical natural
habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Agricultural areas in Nicaragua. Which include approximately 44 percent of all farm households in Nicaragua, or
approximately 110,000 producers.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: There are no major negative environmental issues expected from Project implementation. Potential
environmental impact is related to the testing and adoption of technology promoted tlhrough INTA's field
services and by those funded by the FAT and FAITAN competitive research grant facilities. These are intended
to promote locally adapted "pathways" of changes toward sustainable agriculture, through improved, cropping
patterns, integrated nutrient and pest control practices and soil and water conservation techniques. If
implemented according to prevailing best practices, the environmental impact of these changes will b' positive.
In the Pacific. Central and Northern Regions, the Project will increase the water and soil quality, help decrease
erosion rates and promote the implementation of agroforestry system. In the AtlanticiRegion, the Project will
help nioderje tde advance of the agricultural frontier by encouraging sedentary agricultural practices and
production systems adapted to the ecological conditions such as cocoa, oil palm and aqgroforestry. Terlhnical
themes will include those which encourage reforestation
To mitigate this risk, the project is ensuring: (i) persistent attention to training in cost-effective and
environmentally sustainable technology; and (ii) a ready supply of environmentally friendly recommepdations
developed by reseatch. Operation manuals for soliciting, preparing, evaluating and seiecting proposals submitted
for FAT and FAITAN funding include environmental criteria of compliance. INTA already is developing
sustainable technology under a specific program, including soil and water conservation measures, no-tillage and
legume cox ercar.ps management and IPM technology. An environmental specialist sits on the evaluation
comniittee for the FAT and FAITAN competitive funds. Environment specialists and mechnical assistancc staff
wiP be trained on the principles of agroecology and sustainable agriculture under the training program[ The
ag iiCLllLtu1l technical Directorate has access to funds to recruit the services of environmental specialists to advise
on specific aspects of environmental management concern.
The proposed sub-category "Grants for Agro-forestry" would finance on a competitive basis proposals
which fall under the Agricultural Technology project objective which aims "to establish an efficient,
demand-driven, agricultural technology, knowledge and innovation system." As described in Part B,
section 3 of the Credit Agreement. The purpose of this new window within component 2 would be to
scale up at national level the successful activities piloted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAG-FOR) as sustainable solutions to private and communal agro-forestry sector problems,
including: forestry resource management (e.g., certification, ecolabeling of mixed forest/perenlinal
crops, vertical integration of smallholders and wood-based micro enterprises); enhancement of product
quality, improvement of productivity, profitability, competitiveness and marketing efficiency of
forestry-based micro enterprises; development of public-private sector partnersIhips; and creatilve
financing mechanisms for improved forestry utilization and management (e.g., ghade coffee plantation
management).
The sub-category complies with the objectives of OP 4.01, Environmental Impacts, OP 4.09 Pest
Management and OP 4.36 Forestry, which includes "to reduce deforestation, ehhance the
environmental contribution of forested areas, reduce poverty, and encourage emnomic development."
(Ibid. page 26) and OP 4.04 Natural Habitats. QAT clearance was received on October 25, 2002.



(Attachment 4). Procurement, Disbursement, QAT and Financial Management clearances have been
consulted for the creation of the sub-component.
The nain features of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) are related to mitigation measures of potential
negative impact of the project on the natural resources quality, environmental pollution, deforestation and loss of
biodiversty for which detailed information is provided in Annex 13.
The Project's Environmental Analysis has taken into account the environmental and socioeconomic
characteristics as well as ecological vulnerability of the seven agroecological regions uf the country. It has
demonstrated that the Project overall is both directly and indirectly environmentally beneficial. The Project will
contribute to the development, the local adaptation and the diffusion of improved and profitable technologies
compatible with sustainable agricultural and animal husbandry practices appropriate to the circumstances of
SMFs. In addition, throIilih tiailiill , education and capacity building activities, the Project will provide the
appropriate social and environmental information and a knowledge base to the major stakeholders, including
researchers, echllnicl assi'-.nce pr6r iders and producers to ensure the practice of sustainable agriculture,
consistent with econiomiic, social and environmental criteria.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on 1W for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)       Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)               Yes
Forestry (OP 436, GP 4.36)                                 Yes
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  Yes
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               Yes
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*    No
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not availqble,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The Project complies with the objectives of OP4.01 Environmental Impacts, OP 4.09 Pest Management and OP
4.36 Forestry, which includes "to reduce deforestation, enhance the environmental contribution of forested
areas, reduce poverty, and encourage economic development." A provision will be made in the Operational
Manual to screen potential pesticide use.
II.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or due
to multiple project component.
None are anticipated.
II.D. Ic Descnbe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities inj the project area..



None are anticipated.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatmnent of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Environmental Impact Analysis (EIA, see Project files) includes: (i) detailed analysis of the current
environmental status of the country, (ii) GIS mapping of Nicaragua on the basis of biophysical characteristics,
demographic and poverty data, (iii) for each of the GIS zones identified, evaluation of environmental impacts of
the Project components, and (iv) mitigation measures when required, including indicators and criteria of
environmental compliance to be used in the selection process of proposals subrnitted to the Facility for Technical
Assistance (FAT), and to the Ficilhv for Nicaraguan Agriculture Technological Research (FAITAN). In addition
ippropt iate provisions have been included in the budget to ensure that specific recommendations for rhitigation
measures and supervision x" ill be adequaiel) funded, such as specialized education on sustainable natural
resources mtnanemenh and environmental impact audit under the responsibility of MARENA.
Process of environmental impact has been established, including environrnental audit, criteria of envirpnmental
compliance to be used in the selection process of proposals submnitted to the two grant facilities (FAT, FAITAN)
under the competitive fund, and indicators of environmental impact.
A social assessment (SA) was carried out during the Project preparation and the reporit is in the project files. The
main objectives of the SA were to: (i) ensure that Project objectives and incentives for change are appropriate
and acceptable to beneficiaries; and (u) minimize or mitigate adverse social impacts. A combination of
secondary data and qualitative methods were used to carry out the social assessment in site-specific Project
locations All key stakeholders were consulted extensively during the assessment, and will continue tol be
consulted during the remaining part of the Project cycle. Based on the findings and recomnmendations of the SA,
an Indigenous Population Participation Plan (IPPP) has been prepared (see Annex 12). The SA report provides
details on the content, form and mechanism of the indigenous strategy and the strategy will be included in the
Project Implementation Plan.
During the Project preparation, primary beneficiaries -small and medium-scale farm households- were consulted
through numerous field visits, nine regional stakeholder workshops, and case studies. During implementation,
COSINTA, currently an informal council bringing together MAG-FOR, INTA, INATEC, NGOs, farrners,
universities, public and private sector research and technical assistance actors, will be given formnal status and
strengthened to permit it to participate in the periodic review of agricultural technology policy and in the
definition of the national agricultural technical assistance, research and training agenda. Primary benef1iciaries
would be represented in the local, and regional committees for the selection of proposals submitted to the Facility
for Technical Assistant (FAT), as well as in the selection comnmittee of the Facility for Nicaraguan Agriculture
Technological Research (FAITAN). Primary beneficiaries would be also consulted through beneficiary
assessments.
A Social Assessment has been completed at the end of March, 2000. Based on the findings and
recommendations of the assessment an Indigenous Population Participation Plan has been produced (IPPP, see
Annex 12). An Environmental Impact Analysis has been conducted during Project preparation (see above), and
an Environmental Management Plan has been prepared (EMP, see Annex 13).



II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
A process of intensive consultation of stakeholders has been put in place during Project preparation. At the
launching phase of the EIA, in June 1999, a workshop was held in Managua with the major public and private
stakeholders. The participants discussed the scope and objectives of the EIA. During the EIA, the consultants
systematically interviewed farmers and front line agents from all agroecological zones - on a . era ge ten persons
per zone- to assess and compare the perception of local land users on the extent and severity of the
environmental issues in comparkson to tlie re- ults of specialists evaluation. The draft EIA report was discussed in
a final w orkshop held in NManaguat x i li represeiatives of all stakeholders, and the outcomes have been
incorpoiitted in the final report.
Communii\ oL,2.in iz tions. mride unions, professional associations, business associations, research institutes,
leli2 iosu org.inizitions and NGO( have been consulted during Project preparation. The participatory, pluralistic
llJilitC of thc Project %% i11 niake involvement of NGOs and other civil society organizations (CSOs) a natural
proces throu-2hout ulmplenieit3aLion. Through the COSINTA and the Foundation, NGQs and CSOs will play an
acfi' e tole in tile ia.mlJemiient jlmd decision making of the public funds under the Project. Through access to the
grint flciliiies FAITAN and F.AT i. research institutions, universities, private firms, firmers' associatipns, and
snMAl companies "ill inipleinemei research and technical assistance projects. Farmers will be able to play an active
role in ftinds allo-ation indirectdl\. through their associations (gremios) arnd directly, by selecting technical
assisiaice pro% idei s i tor contrncuual arrangements for service delivery, see Annex 6). Small and medium size
fan mers %% ill participate in ilie monitoring and evaluation process through periodic beneficiary assessment.
E. Safeguards Classiflcaliou (select in SAP) Category is determined by the highest impact in any po~licy.
Or on basis of cunwil.ti' c impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
[ 1 SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
[X ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limnited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
] S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:               Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                    March 24, 2000
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                              Expected       Actial
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop



Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                    March 24, 2000
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submnission to InfoShop                                                May 4, 2000
Pest Management Plan:                                            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submnission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted bv              Name 4                                     Date
Task Team Leader:                  Nonmantentley   ccioni                       November 22,
2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  George Ledec1 2                                     Z0oz
Project-Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                       Name                                         Date   '
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:   Juan David Quintero/6                                  2
Sector ManagerADirector            John Redwood   4t     %         7
CJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p



