Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX SenderFAX
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
April 2, 2003 
 
Mr. Eduardo Montealegre Rivas 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Managua, Nicaragua 
 
Re: 
Swiss Grant for Joint Co-
financing Nicaragua’s Agricultural 
 
Technology Project - Grant No. TF 050675 
 
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of Switzerland, to 
make a grant in an amount not exceeding three million Swiss Francs (CHF 3,000,000) (the Grant) 
to the Republic of Nicaragua (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance in order to 
support and co-finance the Agricultural Technology Project (Project) which is partially financed 
under a Development Credit Agreement entered into between the Recipient and the Association on 
July 24, 2000 and amended on December 20, 2000 (said agreement, as it may be amended from time 
to time, the DCA 3371-NI).  Unless otherwise provided for in this Letter Agreement, the Grant shall 
be governed by the following provisions of DCA 3371-NI: Schedule 2 (Description of the Project), 
Article III (execution of the Project), and Schedule 3 (Procurement and Consultant Services).  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
Director  
Central America Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
By: 
/s/ Eduardo Montealegre Rivas 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Date: 
April 8, 2003
Page  2
-2-  
 
ANNEX 
 
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. 
Purposes and Activities
:
1.1. 
The purposes of the Grant is to support and co-finance the Agricultural Technology Project 
which is partially financed under DCA 3371-NI.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are any of the 
activities set forth under Part C “Strengthening of 
Instituto Nicaragüense de 
Tecnología Agropecuaria
 (INTA)’s Operations”, namely: C.1 (Research and Development Activities 
of INTA), C.2 (Technology transfer activities of INTA), C.3 (Seed production activities of INTA) 
and Part C.5 (New post-harvest technology of INTA) as described in Schedule 2 of DCA 3371-NI 
provided, however, that expenses already financed or expected to be financed with proceeds of the 
Credit (as defined in DCA 3371-NI) shall not be financed with proceeds of the Grant.  
 
1.2. 
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) 
The carrying out of agricultural research and development activities, including 
testing and validation of new and improved technologies adapted to the demands, needs and 
capacity of small and medium farmers. 
 
(b) 
The carrying out of technology transfer activities, including: (i) adoption of 
technologies which respond to the financial and technical conditions of farmers in order to 
improve the production, the conservation of soils and natural resources, integrated pest 
management and post-harvest activities to increase productivity and nutrition levels; (ii) 
development of conditions to encourage the provision of privately supplied agricultural technical 
assistance; and (iii) introduction of new technology which will provide farmers with access to 
new markets, improved food security and product quality. 
 
(c) 
The carrying out of seed production activities, including: (i) production of 
improved varieties of basic and registered seeds for agricultural production in sufficient numbers 
to help meet national demand; (ii) training to seed multipliers farmers in production and 
organization; and (iii) development of a national seed system to encourage private farmers to 
produce and distribute seeds. 
 
(d) 
The creation of a new post-harvest technology and market development unit 
within INTA. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article III of DCA 3371-NI, the Recipient shall: (a) 
carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the 
Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with the Association's representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Association to visit the territory 
of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  In addition, the Recipient shall, if the Association 
shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of the Activities a 
Page  3
-3-  
 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the results and impact of the 
Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and the goods 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to DCA 3371-NI. 
 
3.2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient 
in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
 
“Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (in CHF
)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)       Operating costs for 
 
Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 
 
and C.5 of the Project 
 
3,000,000 80% 
 
TOTAL 3,000,000” 
======== 
 
For purposes of this paragraph, the term  "Operating Costs for Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and C.5 
of the Project”, means salaries for agricultural extensionists, researchers and field services 
providers, inputs for research activities, supplies for lab analysis, plant nurseries, bibliography, 
dissemination of results, and any other expense related to the operation of such Parts. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (ii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods 
produced in or services supplied from such territories; or (iii) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’ s knowledge, 
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; 
Page  4
-4-  
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after 31 May, 2004 or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing 
Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within four months after the 
Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’ s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another item which, in IDA’ s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance 
and  Public Credit of the Recipient or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in 
writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall 
reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign 
withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  
Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such 
amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only 
to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for operating costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  
IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to 
pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be 
necessary, for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in 
terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in 
U.S. Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to IDA, including, if necessary, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits 
 
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
Page  5
-5-  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) 
furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to 
be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable 
IDA’ s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts 
are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and 
is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; 
or (b) the right of the Recipient or any other entity to which the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development 
credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended. 
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions 
of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities. 
Page  6
-6-  
 
Attachment I 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in the table in paragraph 
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and C.5 of the Project  and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Category  in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$200,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.  
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
Page  7
-7-  
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
Page  8
-8-  
 
WB76939 
M:\Nicaragua\3371-ni\Swiss Grant TF050675 (Nicaragua).doc 
October 17, 2002 5:39 PM
 
