Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
December 16, 2002 
Mr. Eduardo Montealegre Rivas 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Managua, Nicaragua 
 
Re:  Dutch Grant for Joint Co-
financing Nicaragua’s Agricultural 
Technology Project - Grant No. TF050279
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the Association) to 
indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands 
Minister for Development Cooperation (the Minister), to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
six million United States Dollars ($6,000,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Nicaragua (the 
Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance in order to 
support and co-finance the Agricultural Technology Project (Project) which is partially financed 
under a Development Credit Agreement entered into between the Recipient and the Association on 
July 24, 2000 and amended on December 20, 2000 (said agreement, as it may be amended from time 
to time, the DCA 3371-NI).  Unless otherwise provided for in this Letter Agreement, the Grant shall 
be governed by the following provisions of DCA 3371-NI: Schedule 2 (Description of the Project), 
Article III (Execution of the Project), and Schedule 3 (Procurement and Consultant Services).  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the 
Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
Director  
Central America Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
By /s/ Eduardo Montealegre R. 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
 
Date: January 16, 2003 
Page  3
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to support and co-finance the Agricultural Technology Project 
which is partially financed under DCA 3371-NI.  The proceeds of the Grant shall be used to finance 
expenditures under the Project with the exception of expenditures for Category (3) 
–
Consultants 
Services; Category (4) – Training; and Category (5a) – Agroforestry, under Schedule 1 of DCA 
3371-NI provided, however, that expenses already financed or expected to be financed with proceeds 
of the Credit (as defined in DCA 3371-NI) shall not be financed with proceeds of the Grant.  
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article III of DCA 3371-NI, the Recipient shall: (a) 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Project 
and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time 
exchange views with the Association's representatives on the progress and results of the Project; and 
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Association to visit the territory of the 
Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  In addition, the Recipient shall, if the Association shall 
so request, prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of the Project a report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the results and impact of the Project. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services, 
works and goods required for the carrying out of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to DCA 3371-NI. 
 
3.2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Association on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant. 
 
Page  4
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project: 
 
Item
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (in US Dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1)  Goods 
                  1,600,000 
100% of foreign expenditures; 
80% of local expenditures 
 
(2)  Works 
                     500,000 
                    80% 
 
(3)  Grants (as defined in DCA 
 
3371-ni) 
 
2,100,000 
                  100% 
 
(4)  Operating Costs 
                  1,700,000 
                   80% 
 
(5)  Unallocated 
                     100,000 
                     
 
TOTAL 
_________
6,000,000 
 
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other 
than that of the Recipient;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures;  
 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the cost of operation and maintenance of 
computers, office and audiovisual equipment, office supplies, and other incremental costs related 
to the administration of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
the term “training” means the cost of tuition fees, study tours, travel and per-
diem of trainers and trainees, training materials, rental of facilities and equipment and other cost 
related to training to be carried out under the Project. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account:  
 
(i) 
for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Association, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding US$1,500,000,
 
may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 20, 
2002;  
 
(ii) 
on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient;  
 
Page  5
(iii) 
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Association or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such territories;  
 
(iv) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the Association’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or 
 
(v) 
expenditures for the purchase of agricultural pesticides. 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after the Closing Date (as 
defined in DCA 3371-NI). However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by the Association within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount 
of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Association’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items 
in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the 
Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant 
then allocated to another item which, in the Association’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet 
other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified 
by the Association.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by any 
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications under DCA 3371-NI; and (b) accompanied by 
such evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy 
the Association that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and 
that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Project.  The Association shall pay the 
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the 
Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for:  
(a) 
goods and works under contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent each, 
other than the contracts set forth in Part D.2 (a) and (b) of Schedule 3 to DCA 3371-NI; 
(b) 
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each;  
(c) 
services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $30,000 
equivalent each; and  
 
(d) 
training, operating costs, and grants,  
 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
Page  6
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with 
the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to 
pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, 
for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain in US 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a bank acceptable to the Association, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, if necessary, appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts 
are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein 
specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
Page  7
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with IBRD or any development credit agreement with 
the Association shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient 
to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient 
to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions 
of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the 
Bank, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
 
Page  8
Attachment I
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$600,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Grant Account under the eligible items, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
Page  9
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of 
time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 
2
of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as 
the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount. 
 
Page  10
WB77786 
M:\Nicaragua\3371-ni\Dutch Grant Agreement DCA 3371-NI.doc 
December 12, 2002 3:37 PM
 
