                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                       Report No: 34555

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (COFN-04400 COFN-04410 PPFI-Q1770 IDA-33710 TF-50279 TF-50675)

                                              ON A

                                             CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$23.6 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                             FOR A

                         AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT

      IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY AND
                   TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM




                                       December 20, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective 12/02/2005)

                                     Currency Unit = Cordoba
                                          1Cordoba = US$ 0.059
                                              US$ 1 = 16.81

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1      December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Lending
ATLMP     Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project
ATPm      Mass Public Technical Assistance (Atención Técnica Pública Masiva)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CC        Coordinating Committee
CETAS     Agricultural Technology Education Centers (Centros de Educación Técnica Agrícola ­ CETAS)
CIDEL     Information Centers for Local Development (Centros de Información para el Desarrollo Local)
COSUDE    Swiss Development Cooperation (Cooperación Suiza al Desarrollo)
DANIDA    Danish International Development Agency
DO        Development Objective
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAITAN    Support Facility for Nicaraguan Agricultural Technological Research
FAO       Food and Agricultural Organization
FAT       Support for the Facility for Technical Assistance
FUNICA    Foundation for Development of Agricultural & Forestry Technology (Fundación Para El Desarrollo
          Tecnológico Agropecuario y Forestal de Nicaragua)
GON       Government of Nicaragua
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
INAFOR    The National Forestry Institute (Instituto Nacional Forestal)
INATEC    National Institute for Technical Training (Instituto Nacional Tecnológico)
INTA      Nicaraguan Institute for Agricultural Technology (Instituto Nicaragüense de Tecnología Agropecuaria)
M&E       Monitoring & Evaluation
MAG-FOR   Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (Ministerio Agropecuario y Forestal)
PNLL      National Seed Program (Programa Nacional Libra por Libra)
NGO       Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV       Net Present Value
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
RDI       Rural Development Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo Rural)
RRI       Rapid Results Initiatives
SETAC     Agricultural Technical Education & Training System (Sistema de Educación Técnica Agropecuaria y
          Capacitación)
SIA       Agricultural Information System (Sistema de Información Agrícola)
SMFs      Small and Medium-scale Farmers
TA        Technical Assistance

                 Vice President:  Pamela Cox
              Country Director    Jane Armitage
               Sector Manager     Mark Cackler
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Samuel Taffesse

                                        NICARAGUA
                               Agricultural Technology Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 22
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            46
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 47

Project ID: P064915                                                  Project Name: Agricultural Technology & Rural
                                                                     Technical Education Project
Team Leader: Samuel Taffesse                                         TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 20, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Agricultural Technology & Rural Technical                L/C/TF Number: COFN-04400;
                            Education Project                                                        COFN-04410;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q1770; IDA-33710;
                                                                                                     TF-50279; TF-50675
   Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (45%); Agricultural extension
                            and research (41%); General industry and trade sector (14%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Improving labor markets (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/07/1999                                     Effective:                           12/21/2000
     Appraisal: 02/03/2000                                         MTR:                             07/14/2003
      Approval: 06/06/2000                                      Closing: 09/30/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/MAG-FOR
                      Other Partners:      International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD); Government of Swiss
                                           Confederation; and the Netherlands Ministry for Development Cooperation.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Thomas B. Wiens
Team Leader at ICR:             Samuel Taffesse                                Norman B. Piccioni
ICR Primary Author:             Samuel Taffesse with support
                                from Emma Richardson
                                (Consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The project was the first phase of a 16-year Agricultural Technology Program which had the
following purpose: to increase agricultural productivity and family income of 110,000 small and
medium-scale farm households (SMFs) through the generation/enhancement of an efficient,
demand-driven agricultural technology, knowledge and innovation system.                 The project's
development objective (DO) was to establish the system. By the end of the project, it was
expected that: (i) the main public agricultural technology institutions would be providing effective,
coordinated sector policy guidance and client-responsive services; (ii) the private sector,
non-governmental organizations, and the educational institutions would be participating
significantly in providing agricultural services to client farmers; (iii) the public sector would be
proactively undertaking strategic and basic research and providing advisory services that generate
positive externalities; (iv) a national agricultural technical education training strategy would have
been defined and a pilot begun; and (v) a timely, high quality agricultural and market information
would be available to technicians and farmers.

3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1 The project's objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 The project consists of five components to address key issues in the agricultural sector
identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). The five components and their associated
activities are described below.

Component 1: Development of Institutional Capacity (US$9.5 million or 24.8 percent of total
project cost).

3.3.2 This component supported the government to reform and strengthen the public institutions
of strategic significance to the sector as well as to encourage the involvement of both public and
private institutions in agricultural technology and agricultural technical education and training.
Specific activities were planned for each agricultural institution:
l Strengthening the ability of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAG-FOR) to manage
    the project through its new Directorate for Agricultural Technology.
l Supporting the creation of a council representing the public and private sectors, learning
    institutions, and farmers' organizations to serve as the governing assembly for the Agricultural
    Technology Knowledge and Innovation Foundation which will manage a competitive fund
    with grant facilities for agricultural services.
l Modernizing the Nicaraguan Institute for Agricultural Technology (INTA), an autonomous
    public institution under the umbrella of the MAG-FOR, to manage and execute public sector
    research and provide technical assistance (TA) to SMF households.
l Supporting the Agricultural Department of the National Institute for Technical Education and
    Training (INATEC), a public institution under the umbrella of the Ministry of Labor, to carry
    out the Agricultural Education and Training component of the project in collaboration with
    INTA.

The component financed salaries, works, vehicles, equipment, training, studies, and operating


                                                   - 2 -

expenses for MAG-FOR, INTA, INATEC and the Foundation. It also included funding for
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and for preparing new investment operations.

Component 2: Establishment of a Competitive Fund for Agricultural Services (US$8.3
million or 21.7 percent of total project cost).

3.3.3 This component promoted grant facilities to fund agricultural services responsive to client
demands. During the project, the aim was to test the competitive fund's grant facilities at a
reduced scale and then, if the system was evaluated as effective, to scale them up during the
Program's subsequent phases. The Support Facility for Nicaraguan Agricultural Technological
Research (FAITAN), established in 1998 under the Bank-supported Agricultural Technology and
Land Management Project (ATLM), was expected to finance innovative research projects for
adaptive agricultural research. Subprojects were to be submitted to FAITAN by agricultural
research organizations (domestic and foreign) and by institutions previously certified by or
prepared with the participation of SMF associations or unions. At least 36 research project
contracts and 6 alliances (between local institutions and regional or overseas universities and
research centers) were expected to be awarded over the project's life.

3.3.4 With cofinancing by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the
Support Facility for Technical Assistance (FAT) was to be created to help stimulate the
development of competitive private technical assistance agricultural services. FAT was to be field
tested in Leon, Chinandega, and Managua, targeting 5,600 SMF families. Following evaluation of
FAT performance in year 2, the coverage would be extended into new areas and thereby reach
about 1,600 additional SMF families.

Component 3: Strengthening INTA's Operations (US$16.7 million or 43.6 percent of total
project cost).

3.3.5 This component, the main activity of the project, aimed to improve INTA's organizational
procedures and capabilities through six subcomponents:

l Subcomponent 3.1 Research and Development. This subcomponent supported agricultural
    research and development activities, including testing and validation of improved technologies
    adapted to the demands, needs, and capacity of SMFs. By the end of the project, it was
    expected that 50 demand-driven technologies for SMFs would be tested, validated and
    adopted.
l Subcomponent 3.2 Technology Transfer. Under this subcomponent, INTA was expected to
    support on a regular basis a total of 60,000 SMFs, of whom about 37,000 would be new
    clients. INTA provided technical assistance under three modalities: (i) mass media and free
    demonstrations (ATPm) which was focused on increasing basic grains production for home
    consumption of small producers with scarce resources living in marginal areas; (ii) publicly
    cofinanced assistance (ATP1) which was provided to groups of recipients and focused on
    improving production of basic grains, other crops and small livestock among SMFs in more
    favorable agro-ecological zones who had at least a minimum amount of productive resources;
    and (iii) private technical assistance (ATP2) which focused on a wide range of farm and
    livestock production and marketing aspects and targeted producers with sufficient resources
    to engage in agriculture for commercial purposes and the ability to pay for the services.
    During the project, it was expected that coverage of ATPm would increase to 36,000 of


                                                - 3 -

    whom 29,000 would be new clients, with a corresponding increase in staff providing technical
    assistance. The coverage of ATP1 and ATP2 was expected to remain at the current level of
    about 15,000 annually, though in subsequent phases of the Program this would be reduced.
l Subcomponent 3.3 Seed Production. This subcomponent was to establish a national seed
    system that would encourage the production and distribution of seed by private farmers.
l Subcomponent 3.4 Post-harvest Technology and Market Development. This subcomponent
    supported the creation of a new unit in INTA. It was to support strategic alliances between
    public and private service providers of post-harvest technology; and the development of
    entrepreneurial skills by providing technical, brokering, and marketing advisory services.
l Subcomponent 3.5           Planning, monitoring and evaluation and supervision.              This
    subcomponent was to ensure the delivery of client-responsive agricultural advisory services by
    planning and supervising activities and technology transfer to SMFs.

Component 4: Establishment and Piloting of an Education and Training System (US$2.7
million or 7.1 percent of total project cost).

3.3.6 The aim of this component was to develop a cost-effective, demand-driven model of
technical agricultural training and education. During the first 18             months of project
implementation, the focus would be on elaboration of an Agricultural Technical Education and
Training Strategy. During the remainder of the project, regular training of technical staff would
be consolidated and pilot projects carried out to test new curricula for small farmers. The
component had three subcomponents.

l Subcomponent 4.1 Training of Trainers. Annual in-service training programs to be drawn up
    and carried out to provide technical staff with training in methodologies for providing client
    responsive services.
l Subcomponent 4.2 Reform and Strengthening of Agricultural Technical Education and
    Training. Development of new curricula to improve basic training in agricultural production
    skills, testing of the competency based training methodology in 3 institutions, and defining the
    future strategy of INATEC's Agricultural Education Centers (CETA).
l Subcomponent 4.3 Strengthening of Human Resources for the Public Agricultural Sector.
    This subcomponent would (i) build and equip a Center for Training and Continuing Education
    of MAG-FOR; (ii) acquire educational materials; and (iii) fund 70 sessions of training as well
    as overseas training.

Component 5: Establishment and Piloting of an Agricultural Information System (US$1.2
million or 3.1 percent of total project cost).

3.3.7 The component was to support the establishment of a national Agricultural Information
System (Sistema de Información Agrícola -- SIA) within MAG-FOR. The system would capture
and make available technical, market, environmental, and other information to farmers, technical
assistance providers, researchers, trainers, government planners, development NGOs, universities,
and producer associations. Activities to be financed included: (i) system analysis studies, such as
demand and availability of information, strengths and weaknesses of participating institutions'
information processing, and other countries' experiences in agriculture technology information
systems; (ii) design and deployment of software; (iii) a central computer node for Managua; (iv)
installation and piloting of the system; (v) development of promotion and training plans and their
implementation; and (vi) vehicles, salaries, and recurrent costs of the system.


                                                - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 The project components were not formally revised. However, a National Seed Program (
Plan Nacional Libra por Libra ­ PNLL) was introduced in 2002. Its final cost was US$5.1
million, and it was executed under Component 1 (Development of Institutional Capacity). There
were also two amendments to the Credit Agreement and the closing date of the project was
extended by nine months. Based on the availability of additional funds through a grant from the
Netherlands government and the successful activities piloted under the Bank financed Forestry
Project (PROFOR), the second amendment dated December 23, 2002 revised the project's
disbursement schedule to add under Category 5 Grants, a sub-category for agro-forestry grants.
The purpose of this new window within the project's Component 2 was to scale up at a national
level the successful activities piloted by PROFOR as sustainable solutions to private and
communal agro-forestry sector problems, such as forestry resource management (e.g.,
certification, eco-labeling of mixed forest/perennial crops) and improvement of productivity. The
National Forestry Institute (Instituto Nacional Forestal--INAFOR) benefited from the project's
financing of capacity-building activities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 The project was designed as the first phase of a 16-year Adaptable Program Loan (APL).
The choice of an APL was justified by the need for long-term commitment and sustained
intervention to bring about lasting and effective change in the rural areas. The design built on
experiences and lessons from past projects. Specifically, INTA's experience in private technical
assistance modules, which were tried and tested under the Agricultural Technology and Land
Management Project (Cr. 2536-NI), was fully incorporated in the project's design.

3.5.2   In line with the dominant thinking within the Bank and its Agricultural Knowledge and
Information System (AKIS) thematic group, the project design relied on establishing a pluralistic
demand-driven system of agricultural services and a complementary information system. Unlike
traditional projects that mainly rely on improving productivity through the provision of technical
assistance alone, the project design included other supportive activities such as rural education,
improving access to information, and strengthening and diversifying the institutional framework.
Thus, the project design was well aligned to the project's objective and recognized that a
substantial change in the rural sector could be brought about by a mix of interventions, including
support to the full production-marketing chain. The project design also incorporated lessons from
Bank reviews,1 such as the OED review on extension services.   2




3.5.3 The project design was also consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)4 that
aimed to revitalize the agricultural sector and to promote the rational exploitation of Nicaragua's
rich natural resources. The project design reflected the Government of Nicaragua's strategy that
singled out the agricultural and livestock sector as key to the recovery and economic growth of
the country, as was stated in the Letter of Development Program (Annex 11 of the PAD). The
government strategy included a comprehensive intervention in the rural sector that would address
the bottlenecks to improving the living standard of the rural poor. These interventions included
improving land markets, addressing the demand for agricultural financial services, improving the
provision of agricultural technology, developing supportive infrastructure to improve marketing



                                                - 5 -

of agricultural goods and trade, and improving management of the forestry sector.4 The project
remains relevant to the objectives of the IDA Interim Strategy Note (Report No. 32570-NI)
approved by the Board on August 4, 2005 which includes a follow-up operation, the Second
Agricultural Technology Project, which was approved by the Board on November 29, 2005.

3.5.4 However, the project design was optimistic. In particular, the setting of the quantitative
indicators, such as a 25 percent productivity increase and 15 percent income increment, were
optimistic considering that this was the Program's first phase that was dedicated to establishment
of the new agricultural technology, knowledge and innovation system. In hindsight, the Program
may have benefited if the design had incorporated and defined the role of the Rural Development
Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo Rural--IDR), an office within the Office of the Presidency that
is one of the significant players in the rural sector of Nicaragua.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 The project's objective of establishing an efficient, demand-driven system for creating and
disseminating agricultural technology, knowledge and innovation has been satisfactorily met.
During this first phase of what was originally planned as a four-phase, 16-year APL program,
there has been significant progress, although challenges still remain. The project established the
basis for a pluralistic system through the introduction of a competitive grant mechanism, the
multiple modalities for provision of agricultural extension services by INTA, and the creation of
strategic alliances between the public and private sectors, including NGOs, research and learning
institutions. This contributed to the development of a market for agricultural technical assistance
services and research that is increasingly demand-driven and responsive to producers' preferences.


4.1.2 Outcome indicators were generally met. Overall, providers of advisory services assisted
61,797 producers (53,700 by INTA, 7,847 by FAT, and 250 by INAFOR through Field Schools).
Additionally, during the 2002/03 harvest cycle, the National Seed Program (PNLL) benefited
68,071 producers,5 of whom 6,270 were new. Thus, the final estimate (68,067 producers) shows
that the project managed to register 135 percent of the appraisal target. Coverage of INTA
decreased from its peak of 53,730 in 2001 to 34,055 in 2004 due to budgetary cutbacks and
reallocation of project resources. However, overall coverage of extension services increased by 21
percent (from 27.5 percent during the baseline to 33.3 percent in the 2004 survey).6 The project
was also able to reach special groups such as indigenous inhabitants and women by allocating
specific funds within the competitive fund for TA. Both INTA and FAT had a relatively high
proportion of women as clients (27 percent and 36 percent, respectively), slightly less than the
target of 40 percent. In addition to these technical assistance services, overall training coverage
was increased by 7.5 percent, particularly for small farmers.

4.1.3 Producer satisfaction with technical services rendered was very high, as were adoption
rates.   Ninety percent of producers served by INTA and 69 percent of those served by FUNICA
reported being satisfied with technical services they received. For the Provision of Certified Seed
program (PNLL), 90 percent of producers were satisfied. This exceeds the target of 60 percent
set during appraisal. Similarly, within PNLL and INTA, 90 percent of farmers adopted at least



                                                   - 6 -

one new technical recommendation. For FUNICA-FAT this figure is 70 percent, once again
comparing favorably to the benchmark of 80 percent in the PAD. (See Annex 1 for detail.)

4.1.4 This project was the main government intervention to improve the productivity of the
agricultural sector. Comparison of the productivity gains in cereal production between 1999 and
2003 among Central America countries indicates that Nicaragua made significant advances. In
fact, Nicaragua's 22.3 percent increase in productivity from 1999 to 2003 was the best among the
Central America countries (see Table 1, which uses the Bank's Development Data Platform).

Table 1. Productivity Growth of Cereals in Selected Central American Countries (Kg/
Hectare)
                                  Costa          El
 Year                Nicaragua    Rica           Salvador        Guatemala Panama           Honduras
 1999                   1,598     4,045          2,250           1,737          2,034       1,170
 2000                   1,648     4,003          2,155           1,773          2,043       1,368
 2001                   1,693     3,700          1,910           1,826          2,711       1,447
 2002                   1,739     3,694          2,477           1,727          2,439       1,325
 2003                   1,954     4,398          2,418           1,721          2,435       1,402
 Growth         in
 productivity
 1999 to 2003        22.30        8.74           7.46            -0.96          19.73       19.80

 (%)
 Source: The World Bank. Development Data Platform (DDP). http://ddp.worldbank.org/ddp/home



4.1.5   In addition to the increase in productivity of cereals, between 2000 and 2003, the
productivity of basic grains (e.g., maize, beans, rice) increased by an annual average of 1.6
percent for the first time. A review of the PNLL program found that the program had beneficial
results on productivity, primarily for maize (increase of 37 percent), and beans (increase of 63
percent), which exceeded the average productivity growth target of 25 percent established during
appraisal. As a consequence of the PNLL program, Nicaragua now meets at least 85 percent of
the demand for basic grains certified seed.7

4.1.6    A study done on INTA's two extension modalities -- ATPm: mass media and
demonstration free of charge; ATP1: publically cofinanced assistance -- demonstrated that in
addition to productivity increases, the project had a major impact in reducing the cost of
production and improving the quality of products thereby allowing farmers to receive a better
price.   A higher price received by farmers was also the result of advisory services in
commercialization, improvement in access to markets and choosing the right time to sell products,
which was made possible due to improved storage (silos) financed by the project. Table 2
demonstrates that 100 percent of survey respondents reported an increase in productivity to the
tune of 60 percent. Fifty-five percent of the respondents claimed to have reduced their cost of
production by 25 percent, and 45 percent affirmed that they received a 20 percent higher price
due to the services provided by INTA and financed by this project.




                                                  - 7 -

Table 2. Type and magnitude of potential impact of successful technologies
                Ranking of Impacts                             Percent of         Magnitude of
                                                              respondents             change
1. Increase in productivity                                       100                   60
2. Cost reduction                                                  55                   25
3. Better price due to improved quality and /or                    45                   20
commercialization
Source: Sain, G. 2005. Evaluación de la estrategia de investigación del INTA. Unpublished.

4.1.7 The economic evaluation carried out for the ICR (see Annex 3) revealed that in the 15
representative farms, income increased between 25 and 84 percent, depending on the type of farm
activity, crops cultivated, and availability of other supportive factors. Thus, available information
indicates that the project achieved the daunting goal of increasing the income of SMFs (appraisal
target of 15 percent). The increase in productivity is believed to have helped improve the food
security of extremely poor rural families and has contributed to improving the national food
supply. The increase in bean production contributed to increased bean exports. With more than 90
percent of producers preferring certified seed, the project was a successful catalyst for developing
a functioning certified seed market.

4.1.8   In addition to extension and certified seed, the project also supported small local
interventions that, among other things, improved access to markets and product handling
(including peanut packaging), encouraged diversification to high-value products, and encouraged
production of special coffee varieties. Results of these small interventions include direct export by
producers to external markets and improved efficiency due to better post-harvesting techniques
and handling. Some farmers reported receiving 60 percent higher prices post-harvest compared to
the selling price during the harvest season--which was made possible by the provision of
appropriate storage silos for small farmers. Because of the failure to establish a centralized M&E
system, the full impact of these small, specific interventions could not be analyzed. However,
some of the results include: management and industrialization of Noni products (a fruit used for
making medicinal juice) that increased monthly sales between US$5,880 and US$6,470;
diversification into horticulture products that generated an additional US$300 on a quarter
manzana;8 enhanced milk production from 2 to 3 liters per cow per day; and increased egg
production that generated additional income of more than US$500 in 90 days.

4.1.9 The project's environmental impact, according to a study commissioned by FAO,9 included:
(i) eradication of slash-and-burn agriculture, which reduced the incidence of fire by 80 percent; (ii)
promotion of the rational use of chemical pesticides and the adoption of natural pesticides
management; (iii) increased use of organic fertilizers that also helped reduce production costs; and
(iv) adoption of soil and water conservation techniques (73 percent of the farmers that received
technical assistance under the ATPm modality used conservation techniques on their farms). In
addition, the project helped strengthen the offices of forestry districts and technical units for forest
fire control.

4.1.10 In conclusion, the optimistic targets established as key performance indicators in the PAD
were successfully met. Accordingly, achievement of the project objective is rated satisfactory. The


                                                      - 8 -

project objective and its related outcomes have become more relevant to the country with
ratification of the Dominican Republic­Central America Free Trade Agreements (DR-CAFTA).
As an APL, this first phase project was designed to establish the national agricultural technology,
knowledge and innovation system, while the second phase was aimed to strengthen the system.
The basis for the system establishment has been completed, but requires consolidation and further
strengthening. Efficiency gains were made through the introduction of post-harvest techniques,
improved access and knowledge to marketing, diversification of products, increased value-added
at the farm level (such as packaging for export market) and through the introduction of modern
cultivation methods. INTA, like other institutions, competed for research funds financed out of
the project which encouraged it to introduce efficiency and cost minimization measures in
response to external competition. The essential elements for a pluralistic system were tested and
improved during the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Development of Institutional Capacity (US$20.74 million or 218% of appraisal
estimate) -- Satisfactory

4.2.1 Two major activities were implemented under this component: institutional strengthening
and the PNLL. The achievement of institutional strengthening was mixed and thus it is rated as
moderately satisfactory. The PNLL, on the other hand, had a highly satisfactory result.

4.2.2    The project supported the following concrete outputs within MAG-FOR: (i) the
centralization and consolidation of finance and procurement management activities for all
internationally supported projects; (ii) the deployment of modern office equipment and systems;
(iii) the creation of the Directorate for Forestry Policy; (iv) development of a Strategy for the
Coffee Sector of Nicaragua (Taza de la Excelencia y a la estrategia de la caficultora en
Nicaragua); (v) the development and implementation of a communications strategy; and (vi) the
construction of new offices and auditoriums. Thus, the strengthening of MAG-FOR mostly
involved improving its administrative capacity.

4.2.3 Within INTA, the project supported the following activities: (i) strengthening of the human
capital through several kinds of training, including for 23 persons to pursue postgraduate studies
in areas relevant to the country and in line with the new conceptual framework; (ii) improving
technical and administrative infrastructure, including the provision of technical assistance to
previously unserved indigenous regions; (iii) the development of a Strategic Plan for 2003­2007;
(iv) restructuring of INTA within the framework of the new INTA law that governs the structure
and mandate of the institution; and (v) development of a new technical assistance approach based
on the micro-watershed as the lowest operational unit.

4.2.4 As planned, the competitive fund mechanism was established in 2001. At the time of this
report, FUNICA involves 27 private and public service providers. As a result of the "strategic
alliance" modality established by the project, FUNICA trained 140 professionals and helped
researchers develop technologies for improving SMF production. In addition, FUNICA in
collaboration with other organizations supported the strengthening of agro-industrial business. In
2004, FUNICA issued the first call for proposals for its agro-forestry window which was created
to continue funding of successful pilot programs implemented under the Bank-financed forestry


                                                - 9 -

project (PROFOR).11 The establishment of FUNICA was catalytic in the formation of a
transparent, pluralistic mechanism for agricultural knowledge generation and service provision.

4.2.5 Within INATEC, the project supported: (i) the creation of alliances and cooperation at the
local level; (ii) the review of curriculum for the Agricultural Technical Education Centers (
Centros de Educación Técnica Agrícola ­ CETAS); (iii) the incorporation of Field Schools and
the adoption of a demand-driven education methodology that was developed by FAO and other
institutions; and (iv) the remodeling and rehabilitation of three training centers. One of the major
advances in organizational development was the creation of alliances and coordination between
various public entities through the Local Supervising Councils of CETAS of INATEC/SETAC.
The project was innovative in that it successfully developed technical agricultural training through
INATEC that was integrated with extension and research systems.

4.2.6 In 2002, INAFOR starting benefiting from project financing in the following areas: (i)
improvement of the capacity of 10 forestry districts to deal with licensing of permits; (ii) training
in prevention and control of forest fires; and (iii) capacity improvements for three forestry districts
to help them implement the Forestry Law and associated regulations. As a result, local forest
districts developed the capacity to process and approve forest management plans in a more timely
manner. The time required is reported to have been reduced to 15 days from the usual 6 months,
much faster than the 30 days established in the law as the maximum time for approving the
management plans.

4.2.7 A Rapid Results Initiatives (RRI), aimed at accelerating the implementation of the different
activities of the project and improving the collaboration of the different institutions, was
introduced in 2002 for the first time in Nicaragua. The RRI aligned the activities of different
institutions in the sector including the public, NGOs, municipalities, and local organizations
around tangible results to be achieved by small teams within a 90 day timeframe. More than 60
professionals were involved, motivation was improved and incentive mechanisms were introduced
into the system. By the time the project was completed, more than 31 initiatives had been
undertaken that helped raise both productivity and efficiency. For example, the RRI led to the
quick start-up of the national certified seeds program.

4.2.8    Within the lead agency of MAG-FOR, the establishment of the M&E unit was not
implemented. Despite some advances in the development of the information system, it was not
mainstreamed into activities of relevant institutions. The development and execution of
technology policy in general was hampered because of budgetary constraints; management
changes at MAG-FOR, INTA, and INATEC related to the political-electoral cycle; and because
of human resource policies of MAG-FOR that restricted contracting a permanent team and thus
discouraged technical and educational specialists from staying at MAG-FOR.

4.2.9 With a goal of providing certified seed and technical assistance through the executing
agencies, MAG-FOR requested that the PNLL be supported by the project. In the first year, the
provision of certified seed benefited 68,000 farmers, 57,000 in the second year, and more than
50,000 in the third year. The certified seed program was the principal reason for the agricultural
sector's improved productivity, especially in basic grain production. One study stated that



                                                 - 10 -

"improved seed was unique in that it consistently showed a significant impact on productivity."12
The program was also the most important catalyst for the observed higher capacity in the
production of improved seeds in Nicaragua. A review done by FAO on the first phase of the
Program (2002/2003 harvest cycle) estimated that the program covered 80 percent of the national
territory and benefited 90,830 heads of households; the review demonstrated that for each
Córdoba invested on PNLL, the net return was 3.7 Córdobas.

4.2.10 Some professionals in Nicaragua point out that the PNLL was not within the conceptual
framework of the original project design. That is, they perceived the PNLL as a supply-driven
national system rather than demand-driven as planned. However, given that more than 90 percent
of producers have expressed their preference for certified seed and considering an equal
percentage reported satisfaction with the program, the perception that the PNLL is not part of the
demand-driven pluralistic system being promoted by the project could easily have been cleared up
if the Bank and the GON had articulated the program's role within the overall objective of the
project. As indicated above, the PNLL had a very high return.

Component 2: Establishment of a Competitive Fund for Agricultural Services (US$4.3 or
51.6% of appraisal estimate) -- Satisfactory

4.2.10 This component is rated satisfactory for establishing, promoting, and implementing grant
facilities to fund agricultural services. FUNICA successfully runs two grant facilities: a fund for
agricultural technology research (FAITAN), and a technical assistance fund (FAT).

4.2.11     FAITAN validated 15 technologies and worked with 4,484 producers. The new
technologies included post-harvest management, natural pest control, and improved cattle
feeding, among others. FUNICA conducted six calls for proposals to compete for research grants.
Out of 238 proposals presented, 75 contracts with 56 institutions were signed (exceeding the
appraisal target of 36 research contracts). Of the institutions that received grant awards, 60
percent had not previously executed technology projects and 10 were foreign institutions. These
research efforts have also intensified partnerships with NGOs, producer groups, and to a lesser
degree universities. Seventy-five percent of the proposals presented for FAITAN financing
directly involved producers.13     The opening up of the system for competition resulted in
applications from at least 400 institutions that had been given training on preparation and
competition for a grant.

4.2.12 As shown in Annex 1, through FAT, FUNICA assisted a total of 7,847 small and medium
-scale producers (109 percent of the PAD target), of whom 3, 677 were women. FAT conducted
three calls for proposals and received 384 responses, out of which 294 subprojects were provided
with grants. In total, 15 to 30 percent of the cost of technical assistance was financed by the grant
recipients. As planned, FUNICA was able to expand the FAT to additional geographic areas, that
is, the departments of Esteli, Nueva Segovia, and Madriz. Thirty percent of current FUNICA
projects involve technological innovations with high potential for increasing incomes of SMFs. In
terms of diversifying service providers, during the first call there were 182 suppliers; by the third
year the number of registered suppliers had grown to 239 (a 31 percent increase). Due to the
success of the initial grants, the facility has attracted new financers, such as DANIDA and



                                                - 11 -

COSUDE. FAT has had indirect positive results by creating the mechanisms and structure for
other successful investments by other institutions, such as by Institute for Rural Development
(IDR).

Figure 1. Number of Months Required to Process Grants under FAITAN

                    18
                    16
                    14
                    12
      Months        10
            of
                     8
                     6

              Number 4
                     2
                     0
                           2001        2002          2003           2004

                                              Year


Note: The 2004 call for proposal was made for forestry development sector.
Source: FUNICA.

4.2.13               However, the approval of proposals was observed to be a slow process with high
administrative costs.             The main two reasons for these weaknesses were: (i) the initial
establishment of an organization and the related sunk cost; and (ii) the small amount of the
average grant ($3,422). On the process side, in addition to the initial learning process within
FUNICA, the Bank's no-objection requirements contributed to the observed delays. FUNICA's
"Plan for Perfecting FAT" simplified procedures and allowed this demand-driven modality to run
more efficiently. Figure 1, developed by FUNICA, demonstrates that the number of months
required to process grants declined by more than two-thirds.

Component 3: Strengthening INTA's Operations (US$13.9 or 83.1% of appraisal estimate) --
Satisfactory

4.2.14               This component performed satisfactorily as discussed below for each of its six
subcomponents:

l Subcomponent 3.1 Agricultural Research and Development. A total of 181 technologies were
    validated by INTA (the PAD target was 180). According to an 2005 evaluation sponsored by
    INTA, the new technologies had a significant impact on agricultural productivity (Sain, 2005).
    In addition, a guideline for validation of technology with a gender focus was elaborated and



                                                      - 12 -

  disseminated coupled with the appropriate training.

l Subcomponent 3.2 Technology Transfer.           INTA's technical assistance coverage reached
  53,730 farmers in 2001, but it dropped to 34,055 in 2004 because of MAG-FOR's decision to
  allocate less funds than originally budgeted at appraisal. With the discontinuation of the
  private technical assistance (ATP2) modality largely due to the funding constraint, the
  coverage is showing signs of a further drop in 2005. Under the ATPm modality, the PAD
  established a target of covering 36,000 farmers by the end of the project. INTA never reached
  the target; the maximum it reached was 17,663 in 2005, but that was at the expense of other
  modalities. The graduation of seven groups of producers with a total number of 93 farmers to
  ATP1 modality under FAT did not compensate for the shortfall. On the other hand, service
  quality improved and INTA was able to reach relatively isolated indigenous farmers in the
  Northern Autonomous Atlantic Region, where two extension offices were opened to provide
  technical assistance to producers in Waspam, Siuna, and Rosita. Adoption of agricultural
  technologies has progressed at an impressive rate for the different INTA extension service
  modalities. Of the SMF farmers served by INTA, more than 90 percent adopted at least one
  technology (this also compares favorably with the PAD trigger indicator of 60 percent).

l Subcomponent 3.3 Seed Production.           Seed production increased steadily, with seven
  companies producing 650 metric tons of certified seed during the initial harvest and reaching
  1,610 metric tons by 2004, but with the capacity to produce as much as 2,250 metric tons.
  INTA was expected to produce conventional (directly produced on research stations) and
  artisanal (produced by individuals, organized associations, and seed companies) seeds to cover
  218,000 manzanas. Recent estimates show that INTA produced sufficient seed for 329,914
  manzanas (or 151 percent of the PAD target).

l Subcomponent 3.4 Post-harvest Technology and Market Development. Although the extent
  of the reduction of post-harvest losses is not known, it is estimated that the use of grain silos
  has led to a significant reduction and has allowed farmers to sell their products when the price
  of their produce was higher. The Integrated Pest Management Plan developed by INTA
  replaced the use of 12 insecticides known to be environmentally harmful. In addition,
  awareness was raised significantly through dissemination of technology guidelines, mass
  media, and by publishing articles. The main outputs of this subcomponent included: (i)
  dissemination of 70,460 technology guidelines and manuals; (ii) 1,200 contributions to media
  events as part of INTA's communication drive; (iii) publication of 76 articles in newspapers;
  (iv) training annually an average of 430 technicians (350 from INTA and 80 from other
  institutions); and (v) distribution of 31,485 grain silos, 85 percent of the PAD target.

l Subcomponent 3.5 Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation and Supervision of Activities. Under
  this subcomponent, various outputs were produced including: the M&E system for INTA's
  activity was effectively managed; INTA's strategic plan for 2003­2007 was developed,
  including a map for each of INTA's extension agents showing their areas of responsibility; an
  economic validation document was produced each year, as well as five documents on the
  extent of technology adoption.




                                               - 13 -

4.2.15 In general, INTA has successfully adopted a more holistic approach; it has gone beyond
production techniques and now covers issues relating to marketing and commercialization,
sustainable natural resource use, post-harvest management, and the inclusion of the whole
value-added chain. INTA has exhibited considerable flexibility and innovation in combining its
various extension modalities. It has combined the public and private sector efforts in different
ways and has taken advantage of the synergy that exists in these different possibilities.
Unfortunately, INTA's activities have been curtailed by resource constraints that forced a
reduction in coverage by extension agents and generally slowed down the agency's expansion.
Overall, the component is rated satisfactory.

Component 4: Establishment and Piloting of an Education and Training System (US$1.8
million or 68.9% of appraisal estimate) ­ Satisfactory

4.2.16 The component's achievement of outputs is considered satisfactory.            The activities
conducted under this component resulted in training that was integrated with research,
production, and marketing; training geared towards specific needs of localities; and improved
academic knowledge. These activities helped farmers to accelerate the adoption of new
technology and manage their farms and the commercialization of their production. The Local
Supervising Councils of the CETAS of INATEC/SETAC became the basis for creating alliances
and coordinating different public entities. These councils were composed of producers,
government institutions, NGOs, and local government and aimed to identify and solve local
problems through technical education and training. A national center for training of the public
agricultural sector was established in La Borgona, in the municipality of Ticuantepe. The specific
outputs by subcomponent are presented below.

l Subcomponent 4.1 Training of Trainers. In line with the targets set in the PAD, three
    education centers were renovated, equipped, and made operational. These three SETAC
    centers trained technical staff, teachers, leaders, and producers. Twenty-seven training events
    were conducted benefiting 642 trainers. The training included subjects such as irrigation in
    arid regions, and the management of micro-watershed, agri-business and silvopastoral. By
    training trainers, a cascading effect was likely created that reached other producers who did
    not attend SETAC centers. With help from the FAO's office in Nicaragua, 13 field schools
    were established. These field schools involved farmers in research activities, thereby enabling
    them to make informed production decisions. These schools focused on resolving the
    production problems of SMFs and provided solutions to practical and conceptual problems
    that involved the appropriate application of agricultural technology. A total of 625 producers
    attended field schools between 2003 and 2005 and learned to apply demand-driven
    technologies to solve SMFs' problems. The Education for Work modality benefited 920
    farmers in 22 communities by providing them with training that was directly applied to needs
    the communities identified.

l Subcomponent 4.2 Reform and Strengthening of Agricultural Technical Education and
    Training. This subcomponent supported the development of different conceptual frameworks
    and pedagogical guidelines including 96 manuals for students of the Agricultural Technical
    B.A Program (Programas Bachillerato Técnico Agropecuario--BTA) and Basic Rural



                                                 - 14 -

    Technique (Técnico Básico Rural--TBR).               To ensure that technical knowledge in the
    agricultural field is available at all levels, curriculum for general, technical and higher learning
    were elaborated. In the three pilot areas, Local Supervising Councils were created, which
    contributed to improving education and training with the active participation of civil societies
    and institutions involved in agricultural development in these local areas. In addition, 43
    models in distance learning which aimed to improve the capacity of technicians in basic rural
    activities were developed and, with the help of 33 facilitators and/or tutors, provided training
    in the methodology.       In improving the quality of education and extension services, this
    subcomponent supported the training of 772 directors, teachers and students. Training
    infrastructure for three localities was improved through rehabilitation and provision of
    equipment.

l Strengthening of Human Resources for the Public Agricultural Sector. A total of 566 civil
    servants from the public agricultural sector were trained. Manuals were developed to
    accompany specific courses. Fifteen experts ware trained abroad in identified relevant fields
    that included strategy formulation in training; new technologies in service of education,
    community education, among others. As part of this subcomponent, the above-mentioned
    national center for training of the public agricultural sector was built at La Borgona.

4.2.17 Although the component demonstrated important results and its significance for improving
the agricultural sector and the life of SMFs is still valid, the strategies developed were not
mainstreamed into activities of the public agricultural sector institutions.              The lack of
mainstreaming created a precarious situation for the future of this educational component. On
balance, however, the component has achieved its major outputs and it is rated satisfactory.

Component 5 Establishment and Piloting of an Agricultural Information System (US$1.11
million or 100.9% of appraisal estimate) ­ Moderately Satisfactory

4.2.18 The establishment of a comprehensive national agricultural information system within
MAG-FOR is rated moderately satisfactory. The component aimed to make available to a wide
variety of public and private stakeholders key information about the sector such as financial
elements, land, inputs, products, labor, and technology. The focus on exclusive use of the Internet
to provide critical information to producers was not viable for rural Nicaragua. Thus, with
support from FAO, the component shifted to mediums that were accessible to local farmers. The
idea of establishing Information Centers for Local Development (Centros de Información para el
Desarrollo Local--CIDEL) at the municipal level was born.

4.2.19 Ten CIDELs were opened providing the means to access information. At least two of
these CIDELs produce radio programs, and broadcast bulletins have proved to be an effective
form of information dissemination. Overall, however, the CIDELs performed relatively poorly.
The reasons are not fully understood, but seem to be related to their inability to be self-financing
and to weak ownership by the municipalities concerned. The component also supported the study
of communication flow in seven municipalities, a practice which became the basis for
establishment of local development networks. These networks have enhanced the participation of
communities in local government which is an important achievement.



                                                   - 15 -

4.2.20    The component supported the establishment of an Internet-Based System for the
Management of Information and Knowledge (www.sia.net.ni).               Thirty-one institutions are
participating in agricultural information exchanges.         However, this information is at times
outdated because of low interest in information sharing among the institutions involved. Also,
MAG-FOR failed to take a vital interest in the system and lead its development. Nonetheless, the
site receives approximately 2,000 visits per month and houses an impressive digital library with
over 300 volumes. This component also supported and facilitated the training of 2,213 people in
information technology (IT) and communications, and directly contributed to the launching of 18
Websites by institutions in the agricultural sector.

4.2.21 In conclusion, the basis for an agricultural and market information system was set, but has
not yet been fully established and sufficiently institutionalized.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 Ex ante cost-benefit analysis estimated an economic rate of return (ERR) of 29.5 percent,
calculated over a 10 year period (35.5 percent if calculated over 20 years) and a net present value
(NPV) of US$76.2 million. The ex post analysis found an ERR of 25 percent and the NPV at
C$1,112 million (US$69.5 million). The difference between the two estimates is mainly due to the
lower than expected coverage of INTA's extension services (from 42,500 estimated at appraisal to
32,000 actual beneficiaries) and the relatively high initial cost of establishing FUNICA. These
negative factors were partially compensated for by the successful implementation of the PNLL
that reached about 68,000 beneficiaries, thereby accelerating the use of improved seeds in maize,
beans, sorghum, rice, and sesame crops.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 Based on a weighted average, the annual net on-farm income was estimated at appraisal to
grow by 67 percent from about US$1,500 to US$2,500. The analysis was based on 14 farm
models covering the most relevant activities of subsistence household production units to be
supported by the project.

4.4.2 The financial analysis, done as part of this ICR, shows significant increases in family farm
income for all the representative SMF production systems. Increases in net farm income were
mainly generated by the massive introduction of improved seeds and ranged from about 25
percent to more than 80 percent at full development. Based on a weighted average taking into
account each farm model's representativeness, annual net on-farm income would be growing by
47 percent after 4 to 6 years of TA, from about US$1,675 to US$2,464. This ex-post analysis
concluded that even farmers living in extreme poverty and at a subsistence level benefited from
improved food security and on-farm increased incomes, which were results of technical assistance
and advisory services provided by the extension components of the project. (See Annex 3 for
details.)

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 Institutional arrangements to support a pluralistic system of agricultural innovation that
provides agricultural technology and advisory services were in their early stages of development
when the project was defined. The APL was designed to establish the system during Phase I and



                                                 - 16 -

strengthen it during subsequent phases. Thus, the project's central focus was on institutional
development and it has made important contributions, as described below.

4.5.2    The project contributed to institutional development through its work in making
government agricultural services more flexible and by opening up the agricultural technology
system to competition. The sector has become more holistic in its approach. It has moved beyond
an initial focus on production techniques and now covers issues relating to marketing and
commercialization, sustainable natural resource use, involvement of producer associations,
post-harvest management, and the value-added chain. The concept of institutional development
has grown beyond ideas of organizational structure to include changes in rules and enforcement
mechanisms, thereby promoting an open and pluralistic system with both competitiveness and
collaborative arrangements between public and private actors.

4.5.3 Agricultural services have become more responsive to client needs, in part due to the
introduction of new rules for participation. The project was instrumental in making a greater
number and variety of actors active in the sector. Through FUNICA, for example, more than 27
organizations (including farmers' organizations, NGOs, learning institutions, and the private
sector) interact and establish policy for competitive funds. In addition to administering the grant
mechanism, FUNICA has evolved as an important forum for stakeholders to discuss and propose
solutions to agricultural development problems and to define the modalities for implementing
interventions.

4.5.4 During the project, INTA utilized a variety of extension service modalities that combined
public and private services in various ways for different types of clients (e.g., small and medium
producers with significant resources, producers with potential to produce for export markets,
SMF producers with few resources). INTA is slowly evolving into a second-tier institution
responsible for regulation, training, licensing of service providers, and establishing norms. The
professional capacities of INTA staff are much improved as a result of training financed by the
project. The staff composition also reflects support for the new paradigm focused on provision of
TA, supported by relevant research, across the full production-marketing chain.

4.5.5 Another important development fostered by the project is the division of labor between
FUNICA and INTA regarding investment, research, and target groups. The plan is that as INTA
leaves some regions to focus on micro-watersheds, FUNICA will step in and continue to finance
TA. In addition, good collaboration exists between FUNICA, INTA and other institutions active
in the sector for setting priorities for agricultural research. As a result, duplication of efforts is
lessened and comparative advantage is maximized.

4.5.6 By piloting rural education initiatives, INATEC was able to improve its mode of operation
and focus on important complementary activities such as educating farmers on markets, prices,
cost calculation, and other factors that have a bearing on agricultural decision making. INATEC's
activities also have become responsive to the needs of producers by addressing their expressed
preferences for training and education.

4.5.7 The major contribution made within MAG-FOR was the establishment of a centralized



                                                 - 17 -

financial and procurement administration to serve all projects financed by international donors.
The establishment of this central unit within the Ministry, unlike the old fragmented and
independent system in each PIU, facilitated financial management and control of fund flows. The
project also supported modernization of MAG-FOR by financing up-to-date office equipment and
the construction of offices and meeting halls. Thanks to the project's communication strategy,
MAG-FOR activities are widely known and the Ministry has developed the capacity to reach
farmers through different media outlets. However, a significant number of capable staff have left
MAG-FOR, leaving the institution worse off than before the project. Better salaries and benefits
offered by international donors operating in Nicaragua contributed to the observed outflow of
staff.

4.5.8 Through its training, demonstration pilots, and mass media campaign, the project has also
contributed to a "cultural" shift in agriculture, boosting productivity and improving natural
resource management. The use of storage silos, reduction in slash-and-burn agricultural practices,
and use of water and soil conservation techniques are some of the important shifts away from
unsustainable practices in favor of environmentally sustainable practices.

4.5.9 It is noteworthy that all of the activities supported by the project's components were better
coordinated at the local level than at the national level. Local organizations, municipalities,
producer organizations, and service providers had excellent coordination and cooperation with
local representatives of MAG-FOR, INTA, and INATEC. The project also supported these
organizations, not only through the provision of training, but also by modernizing their offices, as
was the case with the forestry districts. As a result, an institutional basis has been established
through which to coordinate multiple interventions at the local level. This was a significant
achievement given the long history of uncoordinated actions that failed to reflect the actual needs
and preferences of SMFs.

4.5.10 During the project, the Bank and Government decided not to proceed with the second
phase of the APL and instead to utilize a Sector Investment Credit to support a Sector Wide
Approach Program (SWAP). This created uncertainty in the various institutions involved in the
Program about next steps in consolidating the gains made by this project. According to a study
done as part of the preparation of the follow-on Second Agricultural Technology Project ­ in
Support of PRORURAL (ATP II),14 Nicaragua still lacks clear delineations of responsibility for
rural development. The study also alludes to the recurrent problem of financing MAG-FOR staff
(projects funded by international donors are covering 50 to 70 percent of salaries) and to the
misaligned salary structure among institutions within the agricultural sector. Although this project
introduced a pluralistic approach to provision of technical assistance and the generation of
technology, it left the institutional strengthening of MAG-FOR incomplete. The follow-on project
(ATP II) is expected to continue with the task of institutional strengthening initiated during 2000.
On a positive note, MAG-FOR has shown institutional leadership as part of the preparation of
PRORURAL. The Directorates for General and Technology Policies have shown interest in
building on the gains made by this project and in financing activities that were neglected in the
past, such as development of the agricultural information system.




                                                 - 18 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 Factors outside the control of government or the implementation agency had a negligible
effect on project outcomes. Disbursement was temporarily suspended, but this did not
compromise project outputs. The withdrawal of support by the Government of the Netherlands
for the project (see para. 5.4.2) was a factor outside the control of the Government of Nicaragua.
The international coffee crisis that happened during the implementation of this project did not
have a major impact on outcomes.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 During the initial executing period of the project, frequent changes of leading authorities in
MAG-FOR, INATEC, and INTA influenced the pace and consistency of execution. For example,
starting with the project preparation period until 2001, there were five different Ministers of
Agriculture and INTA and INATEC had three different administrations/managers.

5.2.2 Norms regarding triangulation in the receipt of funds by the Central Bank of Nicaragua and
the Ministry of Finance resulted in delays of at least 21 days in the receipt of funds. From 2004
onwards, MAG-FOR was a pilot ministry for a new Implementation Unit System that restricted
the Ministry to a budget assigned by the government which differed from the old system in which
project funds were additional resources. Procedures were made more complex and the number of
days to receive and implement funds was lengthened. On some occasions, there were also delays
in the provision of counterpart funding. These factors contributed to the need to extend the
closing date of the credit by 9 months in order to complete the project.

5.2.3 The PAD for ATP1 was correct in assigning a high risk rating to the possibility that
"Political criteria and preferential treatment override technical judgment when selecting key
project management staff."15 This, together with the change in MAG-FOR described above (para.
5.2.2), resulted in the actual closing of the PIU and the M&E unit of the project at the end of
2004.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 There were two phases in project implementation. Initially the project was implemented
through a PIU; subsequently MAG-FOR dissolved the PIU in favor of a Coordinating Committee
(CC) composed of each executing agency and MAG-FOR.                   Changes in the implementation
modality led to the dismissal of capable technical and administrative staff who had worked in the
PIU. Delays in contracting important staff also resulted from this shift. However, once the
centralized system was implemented, the system started to function satisfactorily.

5.3.2 The restructuring of project management mentioned above resulted in a lost opportunity to
strengthen the Directorate for Agricultural Technology, which was one aim of the project. The
directorate was left with inadequate human resources to carry out its basic tasks.

5.3.3 The project's institutional strengthening component (Component 1) had a cost overrun of
US$10 million, of which half was for the PNLL program which proved to be extremely
worthwhile. Some outputs were affected, particularly INTA's ability to expand the coverage of


                                                     - 19 -

extension services, which showed a downward trend in the later years of the project as a result of
a reduction in resources.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1 Project appraisal estimated a total project cost of US$38.3 million, of which the IDA's
contribution was estimated to be US$23.3 million, with cofinancing of US$3.6 million from
IFAD and US$2 million from COSUDE. The recent estimate (see Table 2 below) of project cost
indicates that US$41.8 million (that is 109.4 percent of the original estimate) has been invested in
the project. Additional resources for the project were made available through grants from the
Government of the Netherlands totaling US$6 million and US$245,000 from counterpart
financing. After disbursing US$4.5 million, the Government of the Netherlands re-allocated the
final installment of its commitment (US$1.5 million) to other activities in Nicaragua. This was
because it was not comfortable with the project's financial arrangements, due to an allegation of
financial mismanagement within the project. The Bank contracted the auditing firm KPMG to
conduct a special audit to ascertain whether the alleged financial mismanagement had taken place.
KPMG concluded that project funds, both external and government, were used according to the
financial agreement and for activities included in the approved project operational plan.16 The
Bank was satisfied with the independent audit report and did not take further measures.

5.4.3 The final project financing figures are: IDA contributed US$24 million or 101.7 percent of
appraisal estimate (the difference with the appraisal estimate is explained by appreciation of the
SDR against the U.S. dollar); IFAD provided US$1.82 million (50 percent of estimate);
COSUDE granted US$2.31 million (99 percent of estimate); the Government of the Netherlands
US$4.56 million (not included in estimate); the Government of Nicaragua US$6.8 million (120
percent of estimate); and beneficiaries' contribution US$1.3 million (43 percent of estimate).

Table 2. Project Cost by Component (US$ Million)
 Component                                  Appraisal   Actual/latest Actual       appraisal
                                            estimate    estimate         (%)

 1.       Development     of   Institutional 9.5        20.74            218.32
 Development
 2. Establishment of a Competitive Fund 8.3             4.28             51.57
 for Agricultural Services
 3. Strengthening of INTA's operations       16.7       13.88            83.11
 4.   Establishment and Piloting of an 2.6              1.79             68.85
 Education and Training System
 5.   Establishment and Piloting of an 1.1              1.11             100.9
 Agricultural Information System
 Total                                       38.2       41.8             109.42

5.4.4 The funds allocated to Component 5 were fully utilized. All other components had cost
underruns except for Component 1, which utilized 218.3 percent of the appraisal estimate.
Although the overall cost overrun for Component 1 was US$11.2 million, US$5.1 million of this
amount was allocated to the PNLL program, which was not included in the original project



                                                - 20 -

design. Taking out the PNLL funding, Component 1 received an additional US$6.14 million over
the appraisal estimate. Most of this funding went to paying salaries of MAG-FOR staff rather than
direct financing of institutional strengthening.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 The project's sustainability is considered likely. The main outcome of the project was the
establishment of a pluralistic system for providing agricultural services which has attracted the
interest of additional donors. The institutional setup created and the grant mechanisms used to
encourage the development of the system will be maintained and deepened with support from
IFAD and other donors. FUNICA has gained experience in administering the competitive fund
and will continue to play a pivotal role as a forum for bringing together stakeholders in the
agricultural sector. Given that the pluralistic system has created a mechanism in which farmers
contribute to the cost of technical assistance provision, thus reducing the fiscal burden, the
government has an incentive to maintain it.

6.1.2 The technical assistance and training supported by the project transformed the agricultural
sector by promoting better agricultural methods, training farmers to better manage their farms,
teaching better post-harvest planning, explaining the importance of diversifying products and
income sources, facilitating access to the market, and, in some cases, directly connecting farmers
with export markets and supermarkets. The beneficiary farmers have incentives for and interest in
continuing to supply these markets, as well as training and experience in fulfilling market
requirements. The sustainability of this specific outcome is highly likely. Increases in productivity
may have softened the impact of the international coffee crisis, since economic analysis shows that
farmers with diversified and high-value products had a greater increase in income, which this
project supported.

6.1.3    INTA, as the main public institution for the provision of technical assistance and
agricultural research, will continue to be the major player in the field. INTA is slowly adapting to
its new role both as a service provider and as the agency responsible for establishing norms and
standards and licensing service providers. It recently initiated a restructuring of its activity to
focus on selected micro-watersheds that is expected to have a major impact both in developing
environmentally friendly technical assistance and improving productivity. Since reduction of
INTA's technical assistance coverage is directly related to cuts in resource allocation, availability
of external resources will determine the extent of INTA's coverage and associated activities.

6.1.4 Project outcomes are likely to be sustainable because they are based on a demand-led
model, wherein producers increasingly pay for the services they deem most appropriate.
Producers have exhibited extremely high levels of satisfaction with the technical, research, and
extension services rendered under the project. The financial analysis shows significant increases in
family farm income for all the representative SMF production systems. The project also
successfully raised productivity of farmers, especially for basic grains. These favorable results also
bode well for the sustainability of the project.




                                                - 21 -

6.1.5 While the sustainability of overall project outcomes is likely, there are areas of concern.
Although the institutional foundation for a vibrant, pluralistic, national agricultural system are
established and will continue to function in the future, the capacity of MAG-FOR to coordinate
and lead this task has become worrisome, especially if experienced staff continue to leave the
institution. A particular area of concern is the high dependence on project resources to pay
recurrent expenditures in INTA and MAG-FOR. For example, in 2004 salaries for 544 staff were
reportedly paid by project funds.

6.1.6 As one of the main sectors of the economy, and considering that the majority of the poor
live in rural areas, the Government of Nicaragua is committed to extending the pluralistic
arrangement established under this project. The government presented to the donor community an
agricultural sector-wide approach (SWAP) called PRORURAL. PRORURAL will build on the
gains made with the support of this project and scale-up operations piloted and tested during
APL1. PRORURAL has generated the support of more than 15 donors and will harmonize and
align procedures of the participating donors. The government will also continue to support the
sector through the National Development Plan 2005­2009, which emphasizes improving the
investment climate by increasing the use of technology for agricultural production and promoting
environmentally sustainable growth.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 The institutions that benefited from this project are mainly public institutions that have an
annual budget. The activities supported through this project are recurrent activities of the
participating institutions and as such will continue. New activities are either initiated on a
short-term basis (such as creating direct links between producers and supermarkets) or are
incorporated into the primary activities of the responsible institutions. However, agricultural
sector financing in Nicaragua is highly dependent on foreign resources. This trend will not change
in the short run. As a result, the government has prepared the PRORURAL program to
coordinate and harmonize the activities of donors in the rural sector. The Bank, as one of the
main donors, will continue to finance institutional strengthening and the promotion of innovation,
extension, and research in the agricultural sector. As part of the Bank's support, the
Bank-financed ATP2 project will support PRORURAL by financing staff salaries on a declining
basis. The Ministry of Finance agreed during project negotiations to progressively take over these
salaries until 2010, when it will pay 100% of salaries and operational costs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 The Bank's performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal is rated satisfactory
. The project's objective was consistent with the government's development strategy and the
priorities of the CAS. The most recent CAS at the time of project identification indicated that
revitalization of agriculture and rational exploitation of the country's abundant natural resources
were at the center of the strategy for developing Nicaragua's agricultural sector. High levels of
rural poverty, combined with the predominant role of the rural sector in Nicaragua, led the
government to single out the agricultural and livestock sector as key to the recovery and
economic growth of the country. The project was also a natural successor to the Agricultural
Technology component of the Nicaragua Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project,


                                                  - 22 -

which closed in 2000.

7.1.2 The choice of an APL instrument for financing agricultural development was justified given
that poverty in rural areas is endemic and intervention in the agriculture sector, particularly
institutional change, required a long-term engagement with sustainable support. The project
adhered to all relevant Bank safeguards policies including Environmental Assessment, Forestry,
Pest Management, and Indigenous Peoples. The Bank accurately identified possible risks, such as
lack of institutional or managerial willingness to provide and share quality information through the
SIA. Project preparation was strong in that it obliged government institutions to formulate global
and component implementation plans. Impact and output indicators were well defined.

7.1.3 However, some actions planned in the PAD required parallel strategies that were called for
(but not formulated) at the time of appraisal. In some cases, these strategies were not solidified
and institutionalized, such as the case of an educational strategy for agriculture. In retrospect,
designing the SIA component independently was a mistake since it grew independently without
institutional buy-in. This problem was later understood when Bank missions tried unsuccessfully
to house the system in a given institutional structure. Also, while the five components of the
project achieved most of their relevant targets, the cost was less than the appraisal estimate. This
indicates that the design may have overestimated the cost of each component.


7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 On balance, the Bank's supervision performance is considered moderately satisfactory.
Throughout the course of this project, 10 missions, including a midterm review, were carried out
in conjunction with other financiers such as IFAD and COSUDE and occasionally with
collaboration from FAO and DANIDA. These missions involved field visits to review project
implementation on the ground. The Bank was commended by MAG-FOR for its active role in
searching for solutions to problems and in providing TA. In some cases, Bank norms were made
more flexible in order to allow smoother project implementation. However, on some occasions
when MAG-FOR failed to implement actions agreed with the Bank, the Bank team held up
disbursement for specific activities.

7.2.2    The Bank missions were also innovative in proposing new approaches when project
implementation seemed to lag. The Bank, for instance, introduced the Rapid Result Initiative
(RRI) that had an immediate and positive impact in improving project implementation and
enhancing cooperation of participating institutions. The piloting of the RRI initiative within this
project was later applied to other Bank projects in the Africa region. The Bank project also
benefited from having the Task Team Leader (TTL) based in the field for much of the
implementation period. Coordination among Bank-financed projects in the rural sector was
excellent, as all these projects were managed by the same TTL. The Bank team also supported
capacity-building of MAG-FOR staff by inviting them to participate in Agriculture Knowledge
and Information Systems (AKIS) events, about which the beneficiaries gave positive feedback.
With the withdrawal of financing from the Government of the Netherlands and the resulting
financial gaps created, the Bank worked closely with other donors and the Government of
Nicaragua to ensure that these gaps were covered.



                                                - 23 -

7.2.3 However, Bank supervision showed some weaknesses. An evaluation done by IFAD, for
instance, found that the Bank failed to support and encourage FUNICA to develop a strategic
vision as lessons started to accumulate from implementation of competitive funds. However,
consultants hired by IFAD to evaluate FUNICA also failed in helping the Foundation to formulate
a follow-up strategy.17    The Bank team did not consider the need to go beyond the Logical
Framework developed during the design stage and thus assessments were to a large extent limited
to monitoring the original indicators. The Bank also relied on proper M&E for each executing
agency and did not exert enough pressure for the establishment of a project M&E system at
MAG-FOR.

7.2.4 With the introduction of the PNLL, the Bank should have revised the list of indicators and
reviewed the impact of this activity on other components. The Bank also should have amended
the Credit Agreement once the government showed an interest in introducing the PNLL.
Notwithstanding these operational limitations, the introduction of the PNLL program contributed
positively to the overall project impact.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1 The overall Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. The follow-up project
was initially foreseen as a second phase of an APL.         The Government, however, changed
priorities and wanted to launch a Sector-Wide Approach Program (SWAP) PRORURAL. The
Bank determined that it would be more appropriate to support PRORURAL by: (i) financing
specific elements (already supported under the first phase of the APL); while (ii) strengthening the
Government institutionally to comply with safeguard aspects and to develop a PRORURAL
monitoring and evaluation system. Thus, the Bank ensured the continuation of its involvement in
the agricultural sector of Nicaragua.

7.3.2 The project team benefited from valuable guidance and follow-up from the Sector Leader at
the time. Review of PSRs reveal that the Sector Leader gave both technical and operational
advice to the project task-team and, on some occasions, questioned the rating of the M&E system
as highly satisfactory. However, it is the determination of this ICR that there was relatively poor
communication within the Bank related to the change in structure and reduction in size of the
initially-conceived second phase of the APL to the actual follow-on project which was the Board
approved in November 2005 (US$12 million).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 The government's contribution during the preparation of the project is rated satisfactory.
Given the extremely high importance of the rural sector in Nicaragua, the government's strategic
focus on agriculture was sound and the project was well aligned with government policy. The
government agencies provided competent and active staff to participate in the preparation team.
The government supported the new APL instrument and followed the requirements necessary to
be eligible for the IDA credit.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The government's performance during the implementation of the project was mixed, but is
considered satisfactory overall. There were frequent changes of ministers and top officials in


                                               - 24 -

MAG-FOR, INATEC, and INTA. However, the overall impact of these frequent changes was
minimal. Most of the ministers remained true to the objective of the project.

7.5.2   On some occasions, agreements made with the Bank missions were neglected by
government institutions. As a result, disbursements were unofficially frozen twice during the
course of the project: first, when MAG-FOR neglected to update its expenditure categories and
associated no objections; and second, when evaluation of the PNLL was delayed and was not of
the required quality.

7.5.3 On the positive side, the government was able to consolidate its financial and procurement
arrangements, which facilitated close collaboration of projects and proved to be an efficient
mechanism for doing business. Also, the consolidation is believed to have reduced the cost of
project administration. The introduction of the PNLL improved the productivity of the
agricultural sector and the country's capacity to produce certified seed in a relatively short period
of time; that said, some professionals in Nicaragua characterize it as a "political program". The
government insisted on including the program in its flagship project for the agriculture sector and
that decision was later supported by results on the ground. While the implementation of this
activity by the government was successful, it may have resulted in shifting focus away from other
components of the project.

7.5.4 MAG-FOR also took decisive action when it found that certain components were not
implemented according to plan and for the intended purpose. Once MAG-FOR was aware that the
INATEC/SETAC training budget allocated to staff was disproportionately used by the Director to
attend international workshops and seminars, MAG-FOR denied funds for such a purpose. While
FUNICA was created with the full support of the government, and MAG-FOR signed a
memorandum with the Foundation to administer the competitive fund, later on the relationship
with MAG-FOR soured to the extent that the ministry was determined not to finance FUNICA's
activity from the resources of the Bank's follow-up project proceeds. While MAG-FOR's
resistance to the high cost of administration and operation for implementing this task is
understandable, the ministry took considerable time to determine the place and role of FUNICA
within the system. This was the result of a shift in priorities resulting from a change in responsible
authorities. However, MAG-FOR's staff argue that the intent was to ensure that project's benefits
reached the intended beneficiaries and were not disproportionately consumed by administrative
and operational costs.

7.5.5 Given MAG-FOR's willingness to cooperate and dialogue during project implementation
and since it actively sought to enhance project impact, the government's implementation
performance is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 There were two phases in project implementation. The first was the period when the project
was implemented through a PIU. The PIU had capable staff who had also participated in project
preparation. Some staff members were experts in the activities of the project, such as extension
services. In the second phase, the PIU was replaced by a project Coordination Committee (CC)
that was composed of MAG-FOR and representatives of the different executing entities of the
project. This change was preceded by the loss of capable staff, which compromised the PIU's


                                                - 25 -

capacity. This phenomena accelerated further with the disappearance of the PIU. Overall, both
the PIU and the CC worked well. However, because of the abandonment of the PIU arrangement,
the project was unable to develop a functioning M&E system notwithstanding the fact that
investment had already been made on software development.

7.6.2 In hindsight, the creation of a CC was a positive development since it created a forum to
discuss substantive and programmatic issues in addition to the usual recurrent implementation
issues. Both the PIU and the CC supported Bank supervision, fulfilled the borrower's fiduciary
responsibilities, and prepared timely reports required by the Bank.

7.6.3 However, a functioning project M&E system was not established. Bank missions relied on
the reports prepared by each executing agency on specific indicators under their responsibility.
This limited MAG-FOR's access to current information to support its decision making on the
project as a whole. However, INTA and FUNICA had functioning M&E systems, although
INTA's system remains based on a DOS platform.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 The borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1     Institutional modernization and capacity improvement is difficult in countries where
donors compete for staff from the same pool of capable professionals. During the early days of
the project, both MAG-FOR and the PIU had staff with experience in the sector and expertise in
their appropriate field. However, attracted by the benefits of other donor-supported programs and
projects, some staff left MAG-FOR. Uncertainties created by a change in the type of lending
instrument (from APL to SIL) also contributed to the outflow of staff.

8.2     Extension agents are the main source of agricultural information for producers. A
review of technology transfers and the certified seeds program revealed that most farmers learned
from extension agents about new technologies and improved seeds. In light of the extensive
communication effort this project undertook, this indicates that extension agents are still the
principal partners of farmers with respect to the adoption of new technologies. However, a
communications strategy is also an essential element in raising the awareness, interest, and
enthusiasm of producers and, more importantly, in disseminating information on new policies and
available support services.

8.3     Equally important as generation of new production technology is the relevance of that
technology in the broadest sense and along the entire production-marketing chain. Once
INTA began providing support through a comprehensive system that accounted for the full
production-marketing chain, farmers showed greater interest in adopting new technologies. The
impact was visible and immediate. Recognizing this fact, the Nicaraguan government aims to
move the research agenda towards the full cluster and production-chain approach in the
PRORURAL SWAP, supported in part by the Bank-financed Second Agricultural Technology
Project.

8.4     Supporting small farmers involves establishing the right balance between equity and


                                                - 26 -

efficiency. Competitive funds that cater to the extreme poor by their nature provide small grants;
these grants take almost equal effort and time to process as larger awards. Thus, while pursuing
equity, efficiency may be lost to some degree. However, a mechanism must be developed to
streamline procedures or package small contracts under a larger award to ensure efficiency is not
totally compromised. A case can be made for using the community-driven development (CDD)
procurement approach.

8.5     There is a need to strategically think about the institutional arrangement for managing
competitive funds. It remains to be seen whether establishing an independent institution to
manage a competitive fund is an efficient alternative, considering the operational and
administrative cost and the initial costs of establishing such an institution. An independent
institution has the potential to grow in parallel with the public research and extension institution,
creating institutional duplication. A pluralistic agricultural system could also be managed within
MAG-FOR.

8.6     Within a competitive fund, a dedicated fund has to be established to cater for special
groups, such as indigenous inhabitants and women. For historical reasons, these groups lack
the capacity to represent their interests effectively or to prepare small projects and compete for
grants. Thus, the dedicated fund has to be complemented by special training to improve these
groups' capacity.

8.7     Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) goes beyond the Logical Framework. The indicators
identified in the Logical Framework need to be revised as a project evolves during project
implementation. The establishment of a functioning M&E system allows the Logical Framework
to be dynamic, rather than a document that remains the same throughout project implementation.
Due to the absence of a functioning M&E system, the results of new activities such as the
certified seeds program (PNLL) and Rapid Results Initiatives were not consolidated and were not
incorporated into the Logical Framework.

8.8     The involvement of co-financers in the full monitoring and supervision of project
implementation enhances cooperation.          The Bank TTL ensured that IFAD and COSUDE
remained part of the project team throughout project implementation. As a result, excellent
relationships were formed, issues were discussed freely, and solutions sought collectively. In
addition, the arrangement with IFAD worked extremely well since IFAD was financing a specific
activity of the project--the technical assistance fund (FAT).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Vice Minister of Agriculture and Forestry conveyed to the Bank the Government's comments
on the ICR in a letter dated December 14, 2005. The following is a translated version of the
comments. "We have reviewed the ICR and as the project's executing agency, we would like to
express our satisfaction with the balanced manner, objectivity and rigorousness of the analysis of
the project's implementation. We would like to express our satisfaction with the satisfactory
rating of the project's implementation, as well as our commitment to contribute to the
sustainability of its results in the context of PRORURAL. The Government of Nicaragua would
like to thank the World Bank, IFAD and COSUDE for their sustained support to MAG-FOR,



                                                 - 27 -

INTA, INATEC, FUNICA and INAFOR from the preparation phase to the completion of the
project's implementation."

(b) Cofinanciers:
The draft ICR was sent to all cofinanciers but comment was not received. However they participated in the
ICR mission and they were in agreement with overall evaluation of the project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Footnotes

1. The World Bank. 1999. "Agricultural Extension." OED Lessons and Practices. No. 6. Washington,
D.C. Processed.
2. See pp. 32­33 of the PAD for the list of studies and reviews the project team utilized.
3. The World Bank. 1998. "Nicaragua: Country Assistance Strategy." March 18, 1998. Report No.
17496. Washington, D.C.
4. The Bank supported the government's comprehensive intervention strategy through additional projects
in Land (Cr. 3665), the Sustainable Forestry Investment project (C3160-NI), and Rural Municipality
(C2918-NI), among others.
5. The PNLL program managed to reach 90,000 producers. The 68,071 producers are those for whom the
provision of certified seed was financed by the project.
6. NITLAPAN. 2004. Evaluación de impacto del Programa Nacional de Tecnología y Formación Técnica
Agropecuaria. 3r informe. Noviembre 2004.
7. Dumazer, P. and E.M. Kuan. 2005. Evaluación del Programa Nacional Libra por Libra. Unpublished.
8. One Manzana is equivalent to 0.7 hectare.
9. Maya, N., and R. Ortiz. 2004. Análisis comparativo de las modalidades de asistencia técnica del INTA.
Enfoques y modelos de extensión, estructuras de costos y beneficios generados. FAO.
11. Sustainable Forestry Investment Project. Credit # 3160-NI. World Bank.
12. Sain, G. 2005. Evaluación de la estrategia de investigación del INTA. Unpublished.
13. Ammour, T. 2005. Sistematización y Lecciones Aprendidas del Proyecto de Tecnología Agrícola de
Nicaragua. MAG-FOR, June 2005.
14. PRORURAL is an agricultural sector-wide approach (SWAP) presented to 20 donor communities by
the Nicaraguan government that builds on the gains made by the APL I and will scale up operations piloted
and tested during the first phase.
15. See PAD Critical Risks section. P. 29.
16. See the report dated March 18, 2004, entitled: "Informe de los Auditores Independientes Sobre la
Aplicación de Procedimientos Previamente Convenidos".
17. These consultants were too close to personnel and management of the Foundation, which limited the
independence of their evaluation.




                                                    - 28 -

   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Key Performance Indicators
Outcome Indicators
Indicator                  Unit       PAD target Actual/Latest  % Actual/PAD ­ comments
                                                     estimate
SMFs receiving advisory    Number of  60,000         68,071     113.4%
services                   families
Increase in agricultural   %          25             22         78.6%
productivity of                                                 The actual estimate is based on the
beneficiaries SMFs                                              information from the Bank's database
                                                                for the whole country; available
                                                                information specific to the project is
                                                                higher; e.g. maize 37%; beans 63%;
Increase in income of      %          15             25         166%
beneficiaries SMFs
                                                                Representative farms income increased
                                                                between 25 & 84%. Thus, the actual/
                                                                latest estimate shows the lower band of
                                                                the estimate.
Rate of adoption by        %          80             PNLL/INTA  PNLL/INTA 112.5%
SMFs of technology                                   90%
messages introduced by
front line staff                                     FUNICA 70% FUNICA 87.5%
Surveyed farm              %          at least 60    INTA 90%   INTA ­ 150%
households, with                      for general
inclusion of at female                and 40 for     FUNICA 69% FUNICA ­ 115%
respondents, express                  female
satisfaction with the                 respondents    PNLL 90%
system performance                                              PNLL ­ 150%
Increase in the number of  %          35             31         88.6%
researchers, specialists,                                       This estimate reflects only the number
technical assistance and                                        of service providers registered by
trainers working on                                             FUNICA in 2003 compared to the 2001
technological solutions in                                      period
the technology system
The total national         %          20             30         150%
inventory of technologies                                       The figure refers to FUNICA's projects
aimed at resolving                                              with high potential for increasing
problems of SMFs                                                income of SMFs.
provided by universities                                        In case of INTA, almost all are focused
and private sector                                              in resolving SMFs' problems; e.g. 80%
research institutions                                           of the research was dedicated on beans,
(profit and non-profit)                                         rice and pastures that are the mainstay
                                                                of the SMF production systems




                                               - 29 -

 Output indicators

Indicator                           Unit    PAD target  Actual/Latest   % Actual/Pad ­ comments
                                                        estimate
Component 1 ­ Development of
institutional capacity
MAG-FOR and line-agencies invest                                        New offices, meeting hall,
in infrastructure, equipment and                                        constructed; MAG-FOR fully
staff training to develop                                               equipped with modern office
pre-investment and M&E capacity                                         technologies; extensive staff
                                                                        training conducted ­
                                                                        domestically, abroad, and on
                                                                        the job; farm schools built;
                                                                        information centers established.
INTA has adapted a new                                                  As a reflection of the improved
organizational chart, operational                                       INTA law, INTA developed
regulations and is operating in                                         and adapted new organizational
accordance with new by-laws                                             chart; the new structure
                                                                        reflected a balance among the
                                                                        different activities of INTA and
                                                                        its regional structures
COSINTA is formalized &                                                 FUNICA, was established as a
managing the competitive fund                                           condition of the Credit
through a foundation                                                    effectiveness; FUNICA's
                                                                        general assembly is conceived
                                                                        as the name chosen during
                                                                        appraisal; i.e., COSINTA. The
                                                                        foundation is slowly showing
                                                                        maturity
National Technological Innovation                                       SINTA framework was not
System (SINTA) institutional                                            enacted and no effort made to
framework enacted                                                       develop or to draft law that
                                                                        governs the institutionalization
                                                                        of SINTA or in systematizing
                                                                        and consolidating the different
                                                                        laws and regulation on
                                                                        agricultural innovations.
Project management established &                                        Project management was
coordinating effectively with public                                    established and functioned until
and private institutions & agents                                       2002? It was later replaced by
                                                                        coordination committee
                                                                        composed of executing agencies
                                                                        representatives; mainly from
                                                                        INTA, INATEC and FUNICA;
                                                                        while both system function
                                                                        there was a need for
                                                                        establishing an M&E system at
                                                                        the center



                                                - 30 -

Component 2 ­ Establishment of a
competitive fund for agricultural
services
Calls for research proposals are      #              (i) 5 calls       (i) 6 calls            (i) 120%
carried and out & research service
contracts are awarded to local                       (ii) 36 contracts (ii) 75 contracts      (ii) 208%
universities, the private sector,
regional research centers or
overseas universities
Percent of awarded research           %              70                75                     107%
projects provide solutions to SMFs
production problem
Local research institutions, regional #              (i) 10 local;     (i) 46 local           (i) 460%
& overseas research institutions
participating in the execution                       (ii) 6 regional&  (ii) 10 regional&      (ii) 167%
research contracts                                   overseas;         overseas;

Access to grant funded technical      #
assistance by the SMFs                               5,600             7, 847                 140%
Number of private service             #              30 Private        71 firms and           60%
providers individual professionals                   service           professionals &
or technicians that provide services                 providers;        technicians service
cofinanced by FAT                                    100               providers
                                                     professional or
                                                     technicians



Component 3 ­ Strengthening of
INTA's Operations
INTA implementing service             # of contracts 30
contracts with private & public
clients
New technologies consolidated by      #              180 of which      181 of which 64        100.6%
INTA                                                 (i) 6 in post     were in
                                                     harvest &         intensification (36 in
                                                     processing;       basic grains, 19 in
                                                     (ii) 50 with      post harvest & 9 in
                                                     correct           seeds); 65 in
                                                     indication in     diversification (49 in
                                                     adoption          cultivation, 16 in
                                                                       livestock); & 52 in
                                                                       sustainability (22 in
                                                                       integrated pest
                                                                       management, 30 in
                                                                       soils, water and
                                                                       agro-forestry).

Production of conventional &          Manzana        218,000           329,914                151%


                                                             - 31 -

artisanal seed material
On-the-job training offered agents   # of technical 400           436 on average per    109%
of INTA, firms, NGOs of at least     assistance                   year
20 days/person                       agents
INTA prepares a summary of the                                    At the end of each    Although INTA reported
outcomes of the validation of                                     year, INTA prepared   preparing the report, the joint
technologies, producers' records                                  the outcome of the    review may have not been
and the PAEF instrument, to be                                    validation of         systematically conducted.
reviewed jointly with DTA of                                      technologies
MAG-FOR


Component 4--Establishment &
piloting of an agricultural education
& training system
Comprehensive inter-institutional    Document       Strategy      Inter-institutional   Although the strategy was
strategy for agricultural education                 prepared      strategy prepared     prepared in cooperation with
& strategy                                                                              INTA, it lacked buy-in by
                                                                                        public institutions and therefore
                                                                                        is not implemented
Establishment of training plan for   Documents      Training plan Training program for 642 extension agents were
service providers, technical                        prepared      extension agents,     trained using the training plan.
assistance & leaders of farmers                                   supervisors,          The training plan is more
                                                                  promoters & leaders   effective at local level; it lacks
                                                                  was developed to      coordination and consolidation
                                                                  improve the quality   at national level.
                                                                  of extension services.
Establishment of a functioning                                    By year two of
Consultative committee &                                          project
executive training management unit                                implementation, a
that coordinates the Education                                    consultative group
Agricultural and Training System                                  and a management
                                                                  unit was created
                                                                  within INATEC
Design work for the agricultural                                  The center was
technical training center completed                               designed and
                                                                  equipped that created
                                                                  the capacity for
                                                                  providing continues
                                                                  training


Component 5 ­ Establishment &
piloting of an agricultural
information system
By end of year one, analysis, design # of document Design         Analysis of the web   While a web page design was
and programming of software                         document      page was done         done, the idea of the project
completed                                                                               was more than web page that
                                                                                        includes analysis of database



                                                          - 32 -

                                                                                        that will run behind the web
By end of year 3, the system is      # of document Report of the   The system was not   In 9 municipalities CIDELs
piloted and tested in two regions                  pilot           piloted due to       were opened to provide access
                                                                   changes in favor of  to information at local level.
                                                                   opening CIDELs
By end of Year 2, operation guide    # of document Guideline       Administrative and   Since the component moved
for system utilization &                           document        users manual was     away to relying heavily on web
maintenance prepared                                               prepared             based system for delivering
                                                                                        information for rural
                                                                                        communities, administrative
                                                                                        manuals and user guidance
                                                                                        were prepared; for municipality
                                                                                        portals the same was developed.
By end of Year 3, agriculture sector # of          20 ag. Sector   33 institutions      Although 33 institutions are
institutions are inter-connected,    institutions  institutions    interconnected       inter-connected, actual
inputting and generation                           interconnected                       inputting and generating
information from the SIA                                                                information from SIA is weak
                                                                                        and no sign that they will use
                                                                                        the system in the future; each
                                                                                        institution has continued
                                                                                        developing its own system
                                                                                        independently.
Training & capacity building plan    # trainee and 2 pilot regions In 16 municipalities The training included design of
developed & implemented              pilot regions                 2,213 people were    web pages, management in
                                                                   trained.             local participatory
                                                                                        communication, use of the SIA
                                                                                        portal, administration of
                                                                                        telecenters.




                                                          - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




                                           Appraisal     Actual/latest
               Component                   estimate       estimate      Actual appraisal (%)

  Institutional development                    9.5          20.74             218.32

  Establishment of competitive fund
  for agricultural services                    8.3           4.28              51.57

  Strengthening of INTA's operations         16.7           13.88              83.11

  Establishment and piloting of an
  agricultural education and training
  system                                       2.6           1.79              68.85


  Establishment and piloting of an
  agricultural information system              1.1           1.11             100.9
  Total                                      38.2             41.8            109.42



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                 2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00          0.82           0.83          0.00          1.65
                                    (0.00)         (0.65)        (0.65)         (0.00)       (1.30)
2. Goods                             4.10          2.25           1.04          0.00          7.39
                                    (2.77)         (0.95)        (0.42)         (0.00)       (4.14)
3. Services                          0.00          0.00           5.03          0.00          5.03
including individual                (0.00)         (0.00)        (4.00)         (0.00)       (4.00)
consultants
4. Competitive Grants                0.00          0.00          10.58          0.00          10.58
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.24)         (0.00)       (5.24)
5. Traning and recurrent             0.00          0.00          10.33          0.00          10.33
costs                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (7.05)         (0.00)       (7.05)
6. Miscellaneous -- PPF              0.00          0.00           1.90          0.00          1.90
                                    (0.01)         (0.00)        (1.90)         (0.00)       (1.91)
   Total                             4.10          3.07          29.71          0.00          36.88
                                    (2.78)         (1.60)       (19.26)         (0.00)       (23.64)




                                                - 34 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
  Expenditure                     Procurement Method Actual/Latest Estimate
   Categories             ICB         NCB            Other           NBF            Total
  1. Works                   2.00        1.85              1.83         0.00              5.68
  2. Goods                   0.00        1.04              0.45         0.00              1.49
  3. Services                0.00        6.85              8.51         0.00            15.36
  4. Misc.                   0.00        0.01              9.26         0.00              9.27
  Total                      2.00        9.75             20.06         0.00            31.81



1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate         Percentage of Appraisal
                                                           Co-                              Co-                           Co-
            Component               Bank Government     financier  Bank  Government      financier  Bank  Government   financier

Institutional development           7.52         1.94            0 13.14         2.68         4.25  175%       138%    NA
Establishment of competitive fund
for agricultural services           3.07         0.59        4.64   1.44         0.45         2.39   47%         76%       52%
Strengthening of INTA's
operations                          9.80         2.47          4.4  7.29         3.29           3.3  74%       133%        75%
Establishment and piloting of an
agricultural education and training
system                              2.31         0.36            0  1.42         0.17         0.21   61%         47%   NP
Establishment and piloting of an
agricultural information system     0.92         0.24            0  0.75         0.22         0.14   82%         92%   NA
Total                               23.6          5.6        9.04  24.04         6.81        10.29  102%       122%       114%




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent) ­ supplementary
                                                                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         FIDA         FIDA                    Dutch          Other                      Total
              Component                 (credit)     (Grant)      COSUDE       Grant       incomes    Beneficiaries   General

 Institutional development                  0.21          0.05         0.4         3.48          0.05          0.06         4.25
 Establishment of competitive fund
 for agricultural services                  1.47          0.08         0.3         0.15             0          0.39         2.39
 Strengthening of INTA's
 operations                                     0            0        1.54         0.65           0.2          0.91          3.3
 Establishment and piloting of an
 agricultural education and training
 system                                         0            0        0.05         0.16             0             0         0.21
 Establishment and piloting of an
 agricultural information system                0            0        0.02         0.12             0             0         0.14
 Total                                      1.68          0.13        2.31         4.56          0.25          1.36        10.29




                                                        - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Background

Half of Nicaragua's population lives in rural areas, and more than two-thirds of rural households fall below
the poverty line, in contrast with less than one-third in urban areas. Nicaragua has one of the most
agriculture-dependent economies in Latin America, with agriculture contributing to about 30 percent of
GDP and providing 40 percent of total employment. Even though the impact of the Agricultural
Technology Project (ATP) is difficult to quantify, the modernization process supported by the ATP has
clearly continued help build a solid base of agricultural technology, and overall production is showing
promising results. During the 1980s, agricultural GDP decreased by more than 3 percent per year. The
Bank-financed Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project (1994 - 1999) and the ATP
evaluated in this ICR contributed to a sector GDP annual growth rate of 2.9 percent in 2003 and 6 percent
in 2004, compared to national GDP growth rates of 2.3 percent and 5.1 percent respectively. Agriculture is
thus one of the more dynamic sectors of the economy at this time.

Project Benefits

The PAD expected the following project benefits: (i) the adoption of new production, marketing,
management, and post-harvest technologies, which would result in income and productivity increases for
approximately 60,000 SMFs and increase net farm incomes by approximately 25 percent in real terms; (ii)
improved levels of agricultural education and training for technical staff, trainers, agricultural promoters,
supervisors, and research managers; (iii) young farmers trained under a pilot scheme and the definition of
an agricultural education and training strategy; (iv) increased efficiency of public agricultural sector
employees; (v) increased agricultural growth, employment, and community development; and (vi) natural
resource protection and minimization of negative externalities as a result of soil and water conservation
techniques on-farm and in water catchment areas. Quantified benefits were estimated based on
representative mixed-farming models for 14 different farms and regions. The results of these models were
multiplied by the number of farmers to be assisted by INTA and FAT-FUNICA extension programs
directly or through private technical assistance providers. Benefits would include production increases and
lower farm-unit production costs.

Measuring the ex post project impact at this early stage of the development process is difficult as the
interventions in creating the foundation for future improvements demand complex methods of impact
assessment. Following the PAD methodology, for this ex post evaluation 15 models were redefined with
INTA and FUNICA experts, and each model multiplied by the corresponding actual number of
beneficiaries (totaling 39,200), phased according to the year in which they were incorporated in the
extension programs. Also, project financed areas covered by the LLNP seeds program who were outside
the above-mentioned farms were also added into the evaluation scenario (about 50,000 farmers using
improved seeds in about 82,800 manzanas of maize, beans, sorghum, rice, and sesame).

Project Cost

Total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$38.3 million, of which the IDA Credit would contribute
of US$23.3 million towards the costs of civil works, vehicles and equipment, training, consulting services,
competitive grant funds, and operating costs. Cofinancing of US$3.6 million and US$2 million was
anticipated form IFAD and COSUDE respectively. At closing, US$44.8 million has been invested in the
project, including US$5.1 million in the LLNP seeds program which was incorporated in 2002, diverting



                                                    - 36 -

part of the proceeds originally budgeted for the INTA extension program. Actual project costs were as
follows: IDA contributed US$23.7 million, IFAD US$3.9, other donors US$8.6 million, the Government
of Nicaragua US$5.4 million, and other beneficiaries US$3.4 million.

Project Results

Both ex ante and ex post financial and economic analyses was based on: (i) the technical and field
experience of INTA experts; and (ii) the evaluation of the economic aspects of technical assistance
programs sponsored and managed by INTA in Nicaragua . For both ex ante and ex post evaluations, a
                                                             1


scenario approach was adopted. A selection of crop and activity budgets and farm budgets typical of SMFs
in the various regions and agro-ecological zones was analyzed. Twenty-eight crop and activity models and
15 farm models were defined to cover the universe of possible beneficiaries and to compare with and
without project situations in order to measure the possible changes induced by the project. The budgets
took into account minor on-farm investments, technical production parameters, recurrent farm costs, and
family labor availability and farming requirements. Expected on-farm income improvements (before labor
costs) and their net present values (NPVs) were preferred as indicators of financial results, since most of
the models dealt with inexpensive technology improvements to existing situations.

At appraisal, the project economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 35.5 percent. Economic
return calculations included the cost of all components and the incremental farm benefits to be captured by
42,500 SMF beneficiaries of the extension programs. The adjustments made in the economic analysis, as
mentioned in the PAD, principally involved the removal of taxes and subsidies. To reflect the opportunity
cost of unskilled labor, a conversion factor of 0.85 was used and, considering that there were few
distortions on agricultural input and output prices, agricultural products were adjusted by a 0.9 factor. The
benefit stream, on the basis of these assumptions, was calculated over 10 and 20 years. The cost stream
included total project implementation costs. The resulting ERR was 29.5 percent if calculated over 10
years, and 35.5 percent if calculated over 20 years.

INTA played a major role in the ATP implementation, with direct responsibility for technology generation
and transfer services and as a second-tier institution for agricultural advisory services to SMFs households
delivered by private service providers, either directly contracted or under competitive grant funding. The
INTA technology transfer subcomponent assisted about 32,000 SMFs (75 percent of the 42,500 SMFs
targeted for the period) and was also the main executing unit of the LLNP, where it was responsible for 70
percent of the coverage of this program. The LLNP was extremely successful. It reached 108,852 farmers
in 2004-05 (including those attended by INTA and FUNICA extension programs), and led to planting of
162,000 mz with improved seeds. After three years of implementation, the PNLL reached 51.5 percent of
the country's maize crop area, 27.3 percent of the beans, 35 percent of the rice, and 100 percent of the
sorghum area, increasing significantly the average yields. The INTA seed production subcomponent
contributed to the multiplication and production of improved varieties of base and registered seeds for basic
grains, vegetables, fruits, and root crops. Support was provided to conventional seed production to produce
and supply base and registered seeds for farmers producing certified seeds.

FUNICA's main objective was to improve on a pilot basis SMFs family income and well-being through
enhanced productive and marketing capacities of agricultural producers, while ensuring the medium- and
long-term productivity of the natural resource base in selected municipalities from Leon and Chinandega.
FAITAN and FAT competitively financed proposals involving direct contracting of: (i) agricultural
research projects; and (ii) technical assistance for groups of producers from private service providers. The
proposals involved promotional and organizational activities in the area of intervention; support to eligible



                                                     - 37 -

groups for project identification and formulation, and financing of initiatives aimed at strengthening the
management of farmers' organizations to enhance SMF empowerment in the technical assistance market;
and ensuring the presentation of proposals to the technical assistance fund (FAT) that reflected producers'
needs.

For this ICR, the ERR is estimated at 25 percent and the NPV at C$1,112 million (US$69.5 million).
The difference with the PAD estimates is largely due to lower-than-expected changes in cropping patterns
at the farm level and the reduced coverage of the INTA extension service (from 42,500 beneficiaries
expected at project appraisal to 32,000 beneficiaries actually reached under the project). This was partially
offset by the successful implementation of the LLNP, which reached about 68,000 additional beneficiaries
and accelerated the use of improved seeds in maize, beans, sorghum, rice, and sesame crops. Conversion
factors for the economic analysis were re-estimated at 0.85 for maize, 0.75 for sorghum, and 0.7 for labor.
All inputs and other products were valued at their market prices for the economic analysis since there are
no significant market distortions. The main assumptions for the ex post financial analyses were: (i) social
discount rate--12 percent; (ii) time horizon--25 years; (iii) constant 2005 labor, input, and output prices;
and (iv) real exchange rate constant--C$16 per U.S. dollar. Table A.3.1 shows the aggregated economic
budget for the ex post evaluation scenario.

Additionally, separate evaluations were performed for the INTA and FUNICA research and extension
subcomponents, excluding the MAG-FOR, INAFOR, INATEC, and the Agricultural Information System
strengthening subcomponent costs. In the case of INTA, the ERR was estimated at 31.5 percent and the
NPV at C$1,354 million (US$84.4 million). For the FUNICA programs, the ERR was estimated at 16.1
percent and the NPV at C$38.4 million (US$2.4 million). The lower results obtained by the FUNICA
programs are due to up-front costs for the creation and start-up of the new institution, which is now
assisting 12,000 farmers in the new phase, instead of 8,000 beneficiaries considered at the time of project
appraisal.

Financial Analysis

The annual net on-farm income was estimated at appraisal to increase by 67 percent (weighted average)
from about US$1,500 to US$2,500. The analysis was based on 14 farm models covering the most relevant
activities of the subsistence household production units to be supported by the project. The models were
based on conservative estimates of attainable changes in family households, while taking into account the
subsistence nature and risk-minimizing strategy typical of the targeted population. Family labor
availability, labor requirements of new activities, and returns per family-day of labor were also considered
in the farm budget models. It was assumed that farmers living under extreme poverty and in mainly
subsistence conditions could likewise benefit from improved food security and on-farm increased incomes
as a result of the provision of appropriate technical support services.




                                                     - 38 -

Table A.3.1. Project Summary: Economic Results (in million cordobas)
                          Without project                         With project
                             1     4 to 20   1         2      3        4      5       6       10      20
Main production
 Basic grains               389.0   437.1   389.0     488.5  541.8   544.7    549.3  550.9   550.9   550.9
 Oil seeds                   15.9     25.7   15.9       8.3   30.3     30.6   31.1    31.4    31.4    31.4
 Vegetables                 112.3   121.7   112.3     119.2  137.5   136.6    137.6  138.2   157.4   157.9
 Fruits                      99.6   101.5    98.8     104.7  124.6   140.0    154.0  168.9   235.4   215.6
 Export products            153.0   153.0   127.0     102.1   80.8     97.2   159.4  236.8   364.6   364.6
 Other products              38.1     38.1   38.1      45.9   65.5     74.2   76.9    81.2    84.1    84.1
 Livestock products         597.8   624.8   597.8     656.6  812.9   897.9    934.8  955.4 1,001.2 1,002.5
 Other products              23.8     27.3   23.8      24.1   27.3     27.3   27.3    27.3    27.3    27.3
Subtotal main production   1,429.6 1,529.2 1,402.8  1,549.4 1,820.6 1,948.6 2,070.4 2,190.1 2,452.3 2,434.4
Production cost
 Investment
    Purchased inputs
       Fertilizers               -       -   57.2      31.8   42.4     52.6   35.6    28.9    19.9    19.0
       Patio inputs              -       -   13.7       0.3    0.9     2.3     0.8        -       -       -
       Agrochemicals             -       -   23.7       0.6    0.7     0.8     0.7     0.7     0.6     0.5
       Seeds                     -       -   60.2      27.5   28.1     27.9   26.5    24.7    24.5    24.0
       Services                  -       -    3.0      10.1   17.2     12.6    8.2     3.9     0.5     0.4
       Improved Pigs             -       -    5.4       0.3    6.3     1.7     1.7     1.3        -       -
       Other inputs              -       -   48.3      12.2   11.6     7.0     1.0     0.5        -       -
    Subtotal purchased
    Inputs                       -       -  210.6      92.2  124.0   129.8    86.8    67.3    45.5    44.0
    Labor
       Labor                     -       -   42.7      24.4   25.4     26.9   10.0     6.4     3.6     3.2
 Subtotal investment
 Costs                           -       -  253.3     116.6  149.4   156.7    96.9    73.6    49.1    47.2
 Operating
    Purchased inputs
       Fertilizers          108.6   121.9   105.7     126.0  160.9   181.8    226.8  236.7   260.0   255.2
       Patio inputs           8.5      8.5    8.5       9.9   13.5     15.1   15.6    16.4    16.9    16.9
       Agrochemicals         82.8     96.7   81.8      89.9  101.5   103.4    121.0  128.7   144.1   143.7
       Traditional seeds     21.5     24.0   21.5       7.1    8.1     7.1     6.4     6.2     6.3     6.3
       Improved seeds            -       -       -     47.4   52.1     54.5   56.8    57.7    57.7    57.7
       Farm services         54.1     62.9   53.8      53.9   62.3     62.2   65.0    66.1    67.2    67.2
       Other inputs          71.9     85.1   71.9      81.5  106.2   117.5    130.0  138.1   156.3   156.6
       Project costs             -       -       -      3.0    5.0     5.0        -       -       -       -
    Subtotal purchased
    Inputs                  347.3   399.0   343.1     418.7  509.6   546.6    621.6  649.8   708.5   703.6
    Labor                   316.2   334.5   311.2     317.5  355.5   363.1    383.7  393.1   415.1   409.1
 Subtotal operating costs   663.5   733.5   654.4     736.1  865.1   909.7 1,005.3 1,042.9 1,123.6 1,112.7
Subtotal production cost    663.5   733.5   907.7     852.7 1,014.5 1,066.4 1,102.2 1,116.5 1,172.7 1,159.9
Other costs
 Other project costs             -       -   81.5     130.1  138.2   149.8    87.9    55.2    55.2    55.2
 OUTFLOWS                   663.5   733.5   989.1     982.8 1,152.7 1,216.2 1,190.1 1,171.7 1,228.0 1,215.1
Cash flow                   766.1   795.7   413.6     566.6  668.0   732.5    880.3 1,018.4 1,224.3 1,219.2



  ERR = 25.0%, NPV = C$1,112 million (US$69.5 million)




                                                 - 39 -

   The new farm models were estimated with the assistance of INTA and FUNICA extension and M&E
   experts, and take into account the surveys conducted by previous evaluations of the INTA extension
   programs and the PNLL. Table A.3.2 shows the characteristics of the models, represented regions, and
                             2


   estimated financial results.

   Table A.3.2. Financial Results: Representative Farm Models

                                    Farm                                   Income
Type of model                        size            Investment           increase      NPV
                                    (mz)             (cordobas)              %       (cordobas)
A1. León-Chinandega
1. Minifundio (maize-beans-           2        393      4,066    5,624       38        9,610
patio)
2. Somotillo (platain-chiltoma-      12       1,634     13,153  24,254       84        48,683
cattle)
3. León (maize-sorghum-              15       3,870     21,288  27,328       28        31,269
chiltoma-cattle)
4. Tecomapa (maize-sesame-            5       1,336     18,083  27,934       54        59,973
sorghum)
A2. Masatepe
1. Rivas (maize-beans-rice-          18       3,822     34,065  46,186       36        90,552
fruits)
2. Ticuantepe (maize-beans-           4      11,060     34,035  42,702       25        54,723
plantain)
3. Carazo (maize-beans-coffee-       10       7,833     35,521  59,939       69        33,895
vegetal)
B3. Estelí
1. Jalapa (maize-beans-rice-         10       4,435     23,640  40,033       69        16,509
coffee-cattle)
2. Estelí (maize-beans-               8       1,190     14,792  20,546       39        35,298
vegetables-cattle)
B5. Matagalpa-Jinotega
1.Pantasma (maize-beans-coffee-      15       4,159     40,506  69,471       72        80,704
cattle)
2. Sebaco (maize-beans-               6        954      13,071  18,456       41        34,774
vegetables-cattle)
3. Matiguas (maize-cocoa-cattle-     30      38,992     45,019  64,685       44        89,515
patio)
C6. Jigalpa
1. Camoapa (maize-cattle-patio)      42       9,242     81,178  109,158      34       163,812
2. San Carlos (maize-beans-rice-     20       2,342     31,691  43,225       36        69,506
cattle)
D. RAAN
1. Waspan (maize-beans-               8       2,154     13,219  20,480       55        51,987
plantain-yuca)




                                                  - 40 -

The financial analysis shows significant family farm income increases for all the representative SMF
production systems. Increases in net farm income--mainly supported by the massive introduction of
improved seeds for planting the predominant subsistence crops--ranged from about 25 percent to more
than 80 percent at full development. Using a weighted average, relative to each model's representativeness,
annual net on-farm income would be growing by 47 percent after 4 to 6 years of TA, from about US$1,675
to US$2,464. Considering farm families of about seven members, beneficiaries would be increasing their
daily per capita income from about US$0.65 to US$0.96. It can be concluded that even farmers living
under extreme poverty and in mainly subsistence conditions can benefit from improved food security and
on-farm increased incomes as a result of the provision of technical support and advisory services like those
provided by the extension components of the ATP.

1. Ortiz, R. August 2004. Análisis Comparativa de las Modalidades de Asistencia Técnica del INTA. FAO;
Dumazert, P. April 2005. Evaluación del Programa Nacional Libra por Libra; Sain, G. July 2005. Evaluación de
los Procesos de Extensión del INTA y su Impacto; MAG-FOR. 2005. y El Programa Libra por Libra.
2. Ibid.




                                                  - 41 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/10/1999                5    TTL, SR. AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             AG. ECONOMIST (1); RURAL
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             RURAL EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST(1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              02/23/1999                1    BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
              08/30/1999              13     TTL, SR. AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROJECT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST(1);
                                             SR. NRM SPECIALIST (2); AG.
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FAO/CP (3);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FAO/SDRE
                                             (1); CONSULTANT/COSUDE
                                             (1);


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/14/2000              10     SR. AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SR. NRM SPECIALIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SR. INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEGAL
                                             COUNSEL(1); PROJECT
                                             MGT. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); CONSULTANTS (3):


 Supervision

              03/05/2001                7    TTL (1); OPERATIONS              S               S
                                             ANALYST (1); FMS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROJECT MGT. (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              03/05/2001                3    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);           S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             PROJECT MGT. SPE (1)
              03/22/2002                6    SR. AGRICULTURALIST (1);         S               S
                                             TECHNICAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONAL ANALYST (1);



                                              - 42 -

                                                      CONSULTANT (3)
               09/30/2002                        4    AG. ECON./TTL (1);                 S           S
                                                      COMMUNICATIONS ASSOC.
                                                      (1); CONSULTANT (2)
               07/25/2003                      11     SENIOR AGRIC. ECON. (1);           S           S
                                                      FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
                                                      EXTENSION SP. SCD (2);
                                                      COMM. SPEC. IFAD (1);
                                                      FINLAND (1); GENDER (1);
                                                      ENVIRONMENTAL SP. (1);
                                                      MONITORING (1); RUTA (2)
               07/25/2003                      11     TTL, SR. AG. ECONOMIST (1);        S           S
                                                      SR. SOCIAL & NRM SPEC. (1);
                                                      ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                                      OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                      CONSULTANT/ (2);
                                                      CONSULTANT/COMM. (1);
                                                      CONSULTANT/COSUDE (2);
                                                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                      (1); FINAN. MGMT. SPEC. (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                       1.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          65.26                          219.1
  Supervision                                  127.09                           662.4
  ICR                                              15*                            46.7
  Total                                        207.35                           931.4
* An estimate based on Work Program Agreement.
Note: The SAP report indicates a total of 198 staff weeks and US$ 1.7 million; The estimate shown above
refers only to the cost directly correlated with staff weeks.




                                                       - 43 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Momoires and Project Supervision Reports.

Ammour, T. 2005. Sistematización y Lecciones Aprendidas del Proyecto de Tecnología Agrícola
de Nicaragua. MAG-FOR, June 2005.

Dumazer, P., and E.M. Kuan. 2005. Evaluación del Programa Nacional Libra por Libra.
MAG-FOR ­ Several Reports and Reviews of the Project

Organización de Naciones Unidas para la Agricultura y la Alimentación. FAO. Informe de la
Evaluación del Programa Nacional Libra por Libra ­ PNLL. Managua, Marzo 2003.

Gobierno de Nicaragua: Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Operativo PRORURAL ­ Políticas
Productivas de Desarrollo Rural Productiva y Estrategia de ejecución "PND-O/PRORURAL"
(2005-2009). Enero, 2005.

Maya, N., and R. Ortiz. 2004. Análisis comparativo de las modalidades de asistencia técnica del
INTA. Enfoques y modelos de extensión, estructuras de costos y beneficios generados. FAO.

NITLAPAN. 2004. Evaluación de impacto del Programa Nacional de Tecnología y Formación
Técnica Agropecuaria. 3rr informe. Noviembre 2004.

Sain, G. 2005. Evaluación de la estrategia de investigación del INTA. Unpublished
The World Bank. 1998. Nicaragua: Country Assistance Strategy. March 18, 1998. Report No.
17496. Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. 2000. Project Appraisal Document for a Nicaragua Agricultural Technology
Project. Report No. 20168-NI.

The World Bank. 2002. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Nicaragua. Report No.
25043-NI. p.12.

The World Bank. 2005. Project Appraisal Document for Second Agricultural Technology Project.
Report No: 33009-NI

www.sia.net.ni




                                              - 46 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

1.    Introducción:
  El presente documento constituye un Resumen Ejecutivo del Informe Oficial de Cierre del
  Proyecto de Tecnología Agrícola (PTA), Fase I del Programa Nacional de Tecnología y
  Formación Técnica Agrícola (PNTFTA). Ese Informe brinda un recuento del desempeño y de
  las lecciones aprendidas1de la implementación del PTA durante el período 2001-5, desde la
  óptica del     MAGFOR y pretendía no solamente entregar cuentas a los ciudadanos
  nicaragüenses, a los donantes del Proyecto y a otros actores relevantes, sino que también
  pretendía: (i) generar aprendizaje institucional, provocar debate y contribuir al manejo del
  conocimiento en el Sector Público Agrícola en su interrelación con el sector privado, la
  sociedad civil y la comunidad de donantes al sector; y (ii) proveer conocimientos utiles y
  relevantes al PRORURAL, al cual pretenden apoyar precisamente dos (BM y FIDA) de los
  tres donantes originales del PTA, mediante una segunda operación conocida como PTA II.

2.    Valoración del Propósito del Proyecto:
  Los propósitos del PTA de incrementar la productividad y los ingresos de pequeños y
  medianos productores era, y continúa siendo, relevantes para las intervenciones públicas en el
  sector agrícola, siempre y cuando no se olvide que también éstas también deben contribuir a la
  reducción de la pobreza y la conservación de los recursos naturales. Sin embargo, la
  productividad y los ingresos en si mismos no eran efectos esperables suficientes para
  establecer que el PTA estaría contribuyendo a objetivos sectoriales tradicionales, y mucho
  menos a los de la Estrategia de Reforzada de Reducción de la Pobreza vigente durante el
  diseño e inicio de la implementación del PNTFTA. Un crecimiento económico sectorial a
  favor de la reducción de la pobreza ("crecimiento de base amplia") implicaba también
  considerar de manera explícita el manejo y reducción de todos los costos de producción, la
  reducción de la pérdida poscosecha, la comercialización efectiva de la producción (incluyendo
  calidad de productos y obtención de mejores precios), la diversificación productiva de los
  productores-clientes del PTA y la disminución de la inseguridad alimentaria, para
  complementar los propósitos del PTA.

3.    Valoración del Objetivo de Desarrollo:
  El establecimiento de un sistema de innovación tecnológica era un objetivo estratégico de la
  intervención pública en el ámbito de la innovación tecnológica agrícola y rural. De hecho,
  continúa siendo un objetivo instrumental de la politica actual de innovación tecnológica
  agrícola (en el marco de la Política y Estrategia de Desarrollo Rural Productivo) del país,
  habiendo sido asumido por el componente de Innovación Tecnológica de PRORURAL. El
  PNTFTA/PTA fue innovador y pionero en identificar y plantear este objetivo, habiendo
  contribuido a modernizar la visión del SPA en este ámbito. No obstante, desde el punto de
  vista del desarrollo rural integral, se debería plantear hoy en día mas bien el establecimiento de
  un sistema de innovación tecnológica rural que vaya más allá de lo agrícola.3

4.    Sobre el Diseño del PTA
  El diseño se benefició de una extensa revisión de las experiencias globales y las lecciones
  aprendidas de programas similares del Banco (p.e. ATLMP)                 y de otras agencias e



                                                - 47 -

  instituciones. Lecciones que concordaban con los principios de la nueva política
  gubernamental: un sistema basado en conocimientos y orientado a las necesidades
  tecnológicas de los pequeños y medianos productores, que facilitara la interacción
  investigación-asistencia técnica-capacitación y educación técnica agrícola que condujera a la
  generación y difusión de innovaciones económicamente rentables e información. El diseño
  estaba bastante acertado en la identificación y concatenación de sus componentes y
  sub-componentes y, especialmente, en la concatenación de los principales elementos
  causa-efectos agregados de su estrategia de intervención: desde las dimensiones de lo
  institucional, la intervención del INTA en extensión e investigación, el empleo de fondos
  competitivos para estimular mercados de servicios tecnológicos, la educación técnica agrícola
  y capacitación, y la información y tecnología de información, pasando por el establecimiento
  gradual de un Sistema Nacional de Innovación Tecnológica Agrícola (SINTA), hasta impactar
  en la productividad y los ingresos de los productores.

  Sin embargo, el diseño presentó una conceptualización y visualización muy simple de cómo
  podría y debería ser el SINTA, más allá de postular genéricamente la interrelación entre sus
  sub-sistemas y su orientación por la demanda. La orientación por la demanda era
  fundamentalmente entendida como la separación entre el financiamiento público, la
  contratación de servicios por parte de los productores y la provisión privada de los servicios.
  Se requería, entre otras cosas: (i) una estrategia diferenciada de promoción del aceleramiento
  de la innovación tecnológica según las características y el contexto de diferentes tipos de
  pequeños y medianos productores; (ii) un conjunto de parámetros descriptores del SINTA,
  incluyendo el diseño e implementación de una estrategia de organización de redes sociales e
  interinstitucionales que facilitaran la innovación; (iii) una visualización de un marco
  institucional idóneo, especialmente en el ámbito formal-jurídico (leyes, reglamentos), así como
  la inclusión del IDR y otros actores del sector privado (agroservicios, agroindustrias,
  gobiernos locales), para que operara adecuadamente el SINTA; y (iv) un planteamiento de
  cómo sincronizar los procesos de investigación, extensión y educación agrícola.

  Finalmente, cabe mencionar que el PTA fue innovador al incluir en una misma operación un
  apoyo a la temática de la educación técnica agrícola teniendo al mismo tiempo el propósito de
  integrarla (con los temas de la extensión y la investigación agrícola) dentro de una visión
  sistémica de la innovación tecnológica agrícola. Sin embargo, el enfoque de la "educación
  técnica agrícola " se quedaba corta dado que en el ámbito de la educación agrícola formal e
  informal se requiere mas bien de una visión más amplia y relevante sobre la educación para el
  desarrollo rural2; no obstante hay que reconocer que esta visión comenzó a ser desarrollada a
  nivel internacional (sobre todo por la FAO, UNESCO y el BM) precisamente en el momento
  en que se estaba diseñando e iniciando la implementación del PTA.4

5.    Valoración de la Pertinencia del PTA
  El diseño e inicio de la implementación del PNTFTA/PTA se dieron en un periodo muy
  pertinente (1998-2000) caracterizado por: i) un Sector Público Agrícola (SPA) que no
  trabajaba coordinadamente, ni estaba orientadas sus acciones por una política sectorial
  consensuada; ii) las acciones en el ámbito de la innovación tecnológica estaban siendo
  financiadas por múltiples fuentes y además estaban siendo ejecutadas por diversos actores



                                              - 48 -

   públicos y privados con diferentes enfoques (algunos contradictorios entre sí en el mismo
   territorio) y desarticulados entre sí; iii) el MAGFOR había presentado en 1998 unos nuevos
   lineamientos estratégicos de política sectorial y de desarrollo rural, para el corto, mediano y
   largo plazo, incluyendo explícitamente el tema de la innovación tecnológica; sin embargo, no
   existía algún programa para implementar las nuevas políticas, aunque si existían numerosos
   proyectos que, no obstante, no respondían totalmente a esos nuevos lineamientos; iv) se
   formuló y negoció con el BM y el FMI la Estrategia Reforzada de Crecimiento Económico y
   Reducción de la Pobreza (ERCERP), la que incluyó al PNTFTA.

6.     Valoración de la Implementación del PTA
   La implementación no se alejo de la búsqueda del logro de los propósitos y objetivos
   originales del PTA. Sin embargo se dieron cambios importantes en la estrategia de
   implementación: (i) Prevaleció la implementación de componentes y sub-componentes,
   vinculados a estructuras institucionales, así como el establecimiento y fortalecimiento de la
   orientación por la demanda de cada uno de los sub-sistemas del SINTA, que una visión
   sistémica, integradora y sincronizada del desarrollo del Sistema y sus sub-sistemas; (ii) Se
   introdujo un enfoque de la oferta (PNLxL) que no fue debidamente analizado y negociado
   para elaborar de manera explícita una nueva estrategia hibrida (oferta y demanda) de
   implementación; y (iii) se realizaron numerosos cambios en las tácticas operativas de cada
   componente. Por otra parte, varios instrumentos de administración y gerencia, incluyendo los
   Planes de Implementación de los Componentes, el SIGP y el SEIA, no llegaron a convertirse
   en verdaderas herramientas gerenciales y administrativas. Todo esto condujo a la
   fragmentación de las acciones y dificultó un uso más efectivo de los recursos del PTA.

7.     Logros y Retos pendientes desde la óptica del establecimiento del SINTA

7.1.   Cambios en el desempeño de los sub-sistemas del SINTA

   Sub-Sistema de Investigación
   El PTA logró revertir la tendencia histórica del Sub-sistema Nacional de Investigación
   Agrícola (SNIA) de basarse en la oferta pública, habiendo establecido una nueva orientación y
   capacidad estratégica básica para responder a la demanda. Las actividades de investigación y
   desarrollo (I&D) del SNIA forman ahora parte de un proceso de cambio caracterizado por: (i)
   una mayor influencia por parte de los pequeños y medianos productores sobre los objetivos y
   los procesos de I&D; (ii) un mayor pluralismo de oferentes públicos y privados, y una mayor
   diversificación de la demanda, de servicios de investigación; (iii) una creciente valoración
   social de la colaboración inter-institucional, de la calidad de las tecnologías generadas, del
   enfoque de cadenas agroalimentarias y conglomerados agrícolas en el ámbito rural, del
   establecimiento de alianzas internacionales y de la vinculación con los otros sub-sistemas
   (educación y extensión); y (iv) la utilización de instrumentos modernos de asignación y
   manejo de recursos que separan el financiamiento, la contratación y la provisión de los
   servicios de investigación (fondos competitivos, contratación de servicios directa o
   indirectamente).

   Uno de los principales retos que enfrenta el SNIA el de llevar a cabo un proceso integral de



                                                 - 49 -

formulación de una agenda nacional de investigación consensuada que complemente la
consulta y análisis de la demanda y prioridades territoriales de investigación realizado por
FUNICA, con (i) un análisis de las tendencias económicas (producción, consumo) globales y
nacionales y de las políticas económicas a nivel internacional y (ii) un (auto)diagnóstico crítico
de las capacidades y desempeños de los principales entes de investigación agrícola y rural del
país. En última instancia se trata de responder a las nuevas demandas de conocimiento
resultantes de las tendencias mencionadas.

Sub-Sistema de Extensión
La tendencia del Sub-Sistema Nacional de Extensión Agrícola (SNEA) de orientar cada vez
más sus acciones hacia la satisfacción de la demanda ("inversión de la mirada") y necesidades
tecnológicas de los productores fue fortalecida como resultado del apoyo del PTA. Ya
existían numerosos actores públicos y privados, proyectos e iniciativas, con diferente grado de
interrelación en términos de intercambio de información y de cooperación, cuyos enfoques y
metodologías de extensión tenían el propósito de responder de manera más efectiva a las
necesidades tecnológicas de tipos específicos de productores en sus respectivos contextos
agroecológicos y socioeconómicos. Ahora el INTA y FUNICA están jugando un papel clave,
aunque todavía no determinante, en este proceso.

Sub-Sistema de Educación Técnica
El PTA logró ampliar el alcance de la visión de los actores del Sub-sistema nacional de
Educación y Capacitación Agrícola (SNETCA) apoyados por el Componente SETAC, para
abordar el tema más amplio de la educación agrícola. La DPT y FUNICA jugaron un papel
clave en esta ampliación de visión, lo que demostraba el potencial del trabajo conjunto
público-privado. El Comité Consultivo5 del Componente SETAC liderado por el INATEC,
logró apoyar la conformación de una Comisión Interinstitucional, de amplia membresía, para
el establecimiento del Sistema de Educación Agrícola Nacional (SEAN), así como la
definición participativa de líneas estratégicas para la educación agrícola a lo largo de dos ejes:
(i) la articulación curricular entre los sub-sistemas educativos formales (administrados por el
MECD, INATEC y el CNU) y (ii) la articulación de la asistencia técnica, la investigación y la
educación agrícola.

Por otra parte, no sólo se logró ampliar significativamente el acceso a capacitaciones por parte
de un numero mayor (1,596) de técnicos, profesionales, facilitadores, líderes comunitarios,
extensionistas y otros encargados de brindar servicios de extensión a los pequeños y medianos
productores, en comparación con la meta del PTA; sino que también se desarrollaron
capacidades locales (p.e. en las áreas piloto) para continuar con estas capacitaciones y, lo que
es aún mas importante, contando con el apoyo de varios componentes del PTA varios actores
del SNIA, SNEA y del SNETCA trabajaron coordinadamente, lográndose ejercitar numerosas
experiencias organizativas y metodológicas (p.e. CETAs, FAT, INTA y ECAs) de
capacitación, de realización de diagnósticos de capacitación y de inventarios de oferta y
demandas de servicios de capacitación, y de elaboraciones de matrices de competencia (con la
metodología DACUM). Todos estos ejercicios podrían ser sistematizados para generar
referencial metodológico y lecciones aprendidas.




                                             - 50 -

   Marco Institucional
   El PTA logró fortalecer la institucionalidad formal del INTA y FUNICA, pero aparte del
   fortalecimiento de la capacidad administrativa del MAGFOR (para manejar el PTA mismo y
   otros proyectos financiados por la cooperación internacional, lo que ha contribuido a
   incentivar el enfoque sectorial ­SWAP- en el marco de PRORURAL), tuvo poco impacto en
   el establecimiento de capacidades y de transformaciones institucionales sostenibles para el
   fortalecimiento del SINTA en MAGFOR e INATEC. El INTA fue fortalecido
   institucionalmente (planes estratégicos, etc,) y FUNICA creció organizacionalmente como
   fundación, formuló su plan estratégico y amplió su membresía; INATEC desarrolló
   capacidades a nivel central con la unidad del SETAC, sin embargo el aprendizaje acumulado
   en los especialistas no quedó en la institución y la misma unidad, además de la Comisión
   Interinstitucional del SNEA, dependían fundamentalmente del apoyo del Componente
   SETAC; mientras que en el MAGFOR la capacidad de la DPT se desplomó con la
   desaparición del apoyo del PTA aun cuando hay que recordar que durante la implementación
   del proyecto prácticamente se abandonó gradualmente al grupo de especialistas inicialmente
   contemplado en el PAD y que fueron contratados por el PTA desde un inicio.

   No obstante los logros anteriores, en términos generales el marco jurídico-institucional del
   SINTA todavía necesita un mayor ordenamiento; el IDR permaneció prácticamente al margen
   de los procesos institucionales vinculados al SINTA.

7.2.   Establecimiento del SINTA

   El SINTA fue establecido parcialmente y de manera un poco mas sostenible en términos del
   fortalecimiento del SNIA y del SNEA, y adquirió una mayor orientación hacia la demanda;
   aunque un aspecto crítico continúa siendo la relación investigación-extensión. En el SINTA
   hoy se reconoce más el papel que juega el conocimiento en la adopción permanente de nuevas
   tecnologías agrícolas, aunque esto no se logró entre todas las autoridades superiores de las
   instituciones del SPA vinculadas al SINTA. El SNETCA fue insosteniblemente fortalecido
   aunque se realizaron interesantes y fructíferos ejercicios de innovación tecnológica con
   actores del SNIA y del SNEA; si embargo, no se logró definir la naturaleza del tercer
   sub-sistema del SINTA: educación técnica agrícola, educación agrícola (el enfoque adoptado)
   o la educación rural?.

   El PTA no abordó el tema (plateado en la PINTA) del mejoramiento de la sincronización
   entre los 3 sub-sistemas del SINTA. Dado el desarrollo desigual entre los sub-sistemas,
   permanece el reto de la sincronización entre los niveles educativos que van alcanzando
   paulatinamente a lo largo del proceso de educación formal los niños y jóvenes del ámbito
   rural, la adquisición permanente de habilidades técnicas de las familias de pequeños y
   medianos productores que se espera demanden cada vez más las tecnologías modernas, la
   transición desde la adopción y adaptación hacia la creación ("generación") de nuevas
   tecnologías agrícolas (en el sentido amplio del término).

7.3.   Impacto, efectos y resultados del PTA6




                                              - 51 -

ü       un 70% de los PyMP atendidos por parte de FUNICA-FAT adoptaron al menos una de las
nuevas tecnologías ofrecidas en el marco PTA ;
ü       el 90% de los productores que recibieron asistencia técnica dentro del programa Libra por
Libra expresaron satisfacción por los servicios recibidos.
ü       un promedio de 50,000 pequeños y medianos productores (PMP) recibieron anualmente
semilla mejorada y un 84% de ellos recibió algún tipo de asistencia técnica en la ejecución del
Programa Nacional Libra por Libra.,
ü       Los PMP que recibieron asistencia técnica fueron en promedio: 32,000 por parte del
INTA, 7,200 por parte de FUNICA y 450 productores por las ECAs;
ü       La cobertura de los servicios de extensión incrementó en 21% (pasando del 27.5%
estimado en la línea de base a 33.3% según la encuesta 2004).
ü       La cobertura general brindada por todo el SNEA, sin embargo, sigue siendo muy baja,
dado el objetivo de la PINTAR de acelerar la innovación tecnológica agrícola y rural. El ritmo de
innovación tecnológica productiva (diversificación, manejo técnico-productivo) sigue siendo
bastante bajo entre los PMP.
ü       La cobertura por parte de los oferentes de servicios de extensión privados y gremiales
incrementó significativamente, reduciéndose significativamente la del INTA (al 12.1% de 21.6%
en año base), mientras que las ONGs siguen teniendo el mayor peso (36.4%).
ü       La satisfacción general de los productores sobre la calidad de los servicios de extensión ha
aumentado, al mismo tiempo que aumentó la cobertura. Todos los tipos de productores se sienten
un poco menos satisfecho de esta calidad (con excepción de los asalariados) en comparación con
el año base, aunque sus niveles de satisfacción se mantienen altos (más del 83%). Solo el INTA
sufrió una reducción (7%) en la valoración, pero todavía retiene un nivel bastante alto de
apreciación por parte de los productores (90%).
ü       La cobertura general de los servicios de capacitación aumentó (7.5%), especialmente a
favor de campesinos finqueros ganaderos, finqueros y             propietarios descapitalizados, en
detrimento de los finqueros intensivos, mientras que prácticamente se mantienen los niveles de
atención de los campesinos asalariados y minifundistas.
ü       La satisfacción de todos los tipos de productores sobre los servicios de capacitación del
INTA y de los ONGs mejoró significativamente a niveles muy altos (mas del 97%), colocándose a
la par de los servicios privados.
ü       En pocas palabras, aunque no se puede determinar con los datos de la encuesta si el PTA
contribuyó significativamente    al mantenimiento de la (baja) cobertura de los servicios de
capacitación (de solo el 27.4% en 2004) brindados por todos los actores del SINTA, si se puede
establecer que contribuyó a mejorar significativamente la satisfacción percibida por los
productores sobre la calidad de los servicios de capacitación del INTA.

8.      Sostenibilidad de los resultados del Proyecto
    Los logros del PTA tienen muchas probabilidades de ser sostenibles gracias fundamentalmente
    al nuevo enfoque de programa sectorial ("SWAP") adoptado por el Gobierno para
    implementar su Política y Estrategia de Desarrollo Rural Productivo (PEDRP), a fin de alinear
    y armonizar los recursos de la cooperación internacional en función de esta política mediante
    la implementación de PRORURAL (2006-2010). Este Programa tiene dos componentes que
    continuarán con el fortalecimiento de la capacidad institucional del SPA (ahora incluyendo al
    IDR e INAFOR) y de formulación de política del MAGFOR, además de contar con dos



                                               - 52 -

   componentes específicos dirigido a la aceleración de la innovación tecnológica agrícola
   (enmarcada en la PINTA) y al desarrollo forestal sostenible. La siguiente operación "PTA II"
   (financiada conjuntamente por BM y FIDA) da continuidad al "PTA I" apoyando
   precisamente a estos componentes.

   Sin embargo, la alta dependencia de INTA y MAG-FOR de los recursos del PTA para cubrir
   sus gastos corrientes amenaza la sostenibilidad de los logros institucionales, dadas las
   restricciones macroeconómicas sobre el gasto fiscal.

9.     Valoración de la Actuación de las Agencias que financiaron el PTA
   El Banco Mundial coordinó estrechamente con el MAGFOR y provocó su participación activa
   en la redacción de las ayudas memorias de todas las misiones conjuntas (con el FIDA,
   COSUDE e otras agencias colaboradoras como FAO y DANIDA), a lo largo de toda la
   implementación del PTA. Cada agencia de cooperación participó activamente en estas
   misiones proporcionando información, asesorando técnicamente y proponiendo soluciones.
   Las misiones abordaron obstante, siempre los temas técnicos y administrativos relevantes en
   base a una agenda compartida, los que siempre fueron debidamente discutidos entre todas las
   partes, en algunos casos se acordó flexibilizar las normas para facilitar la ejecución del
   proyecto. No obstante, en la práctica las misiones no siempre proveyeron a las instituciones
   nacionales los incentivos necesarios para realizar las medidas de ajustes acordadas en las
   ayudas memorias. En dos ocasiones el Banco congeló los desembolsos debido a la no
   actualización de las categorías de gastos y a la tardanza en la entrega de las evaluaciones del
   Programa de Libra por Libra, por parte del MAG-FOR

   El BM contribuyó además con otras iniciativas para el éxito del PTA: (i) proponer la
   utilización pionera en Nicaragua de su nuevo instrumento de Préstamo Adaptable de
   Programa para el largo plazo;        (ii) el fuerte impulso a la formulación de Planes de
   Implementación globales y por componente; (iii) la invitación a técnicos a participar en el
   Taller de AKIS; (iv) la introducción de las Iniciativas de Resultados Rápidos. El FIDA brindó
   un acompañamiento cercano a FUNICA en la implementación del FAT y COSUDE apoyó
   fuerte y permanentemente mediante: (i) la colocación de un asesor exclusivo para la Dirección
   de Política Tecnológica del MAGFOR; (ii) coaching a los líderes del PTA; y (ii) la provisión
   de asistencia técnica internacional al INTA. No hay duda que sin esta combinación de aportes
   el desempeño del PTA no hubiera sido satisfactorio.

10.    Valoración de la Actuación del Prestatario




                                               - 53 -

    El desempeño del Gobierno fue irregular. Por un lado, dada la co-ejecución del PTA por 4
    instituciones del SPA y una Fundación (privada con membresía mixta), donde cada una de
    ellas representaba intereses y punto de vista diferentes, el establecimiento del Comité Técnico
    del Proyecto (CTP) como instancia de diálogo y toma de decisiones puede considerarse como
    una experiencia exitosa que puede replicarse en otras iniciativas con situaciones similares. No
    obstante se observó algunas tensiones entre el MAG-FOR y el resto de instituciones
    ejecutoras principalmente en los temas relacionados con controles, licitaciones, desembolsos,
    rendición de cuentas, etc. En el ámbito de la conducción de la estrategia original de
    implementación del PTA, las instituciones ejecutoras no estuvieron proclives a procesos de
    análisis y reflexión que les permitiera enfrentar el reto conceptual, institucional, organizacional
    y político que implicaba el objetivo de establecer el SINTA; dado su inclinación a la acción
    inmediata, surge la pregunta sobre si tenían la capacidad institucional requerida.

    El paulatino debilitamiento del MAG-FOR, especialmente durante el último año del PTA,
    comprometió el liderazgo sectorial y la capacidad ejecutora del Ministerio: los cambios en la
    modalidad de ejecución del Proyecto en el MAG-FOR unido a problemas de                    iliquidez
    iniciados desde mediados del año 2004 ocasionaron atrasos considerables en la contratación
    de personal clave del MAGFOR y del PTA; se implementó una política de reducción salarial
    para personal ya contratado y de bajos salarios para las nuevas contrataciones; y personal
    clave del Proyecto renunció. Esto tuvo un impacto negativo en el desempeño de ciertas
    actividades y tareas, debido a la falta de recursos humanos y financieros necesarios para la
    ejecución eficiente del proyecto, especialmente, esto evitó la consolidación de un equipo de
    alto nivel técnico en materia de tecnología agrícola lo que redujo la capacidad de interacción,
    discusión y negociación de la DPT.

     El MHCP no siempre acompañó adecuadamente al CTP, a pesar de su mayor participación e
    incidencia en el manejo de recursos externos dado su nuevo papel de administrador de las
    Cuentas Especiales depositadas en el BCN.

11.     Lecciones Aprendidas.
ü       Establecer un SINTA implica definir: su propósito, imagen objetivo, estructura, la relación
con otras instancias y actores del sector público y privado, tipos de alianzas estratégicas,
mecanismos y estrategias de manejo de conocimientos, la difusión y comunicación y criterios para
evaluar su desempeño. La definición de "compromisos" por subsistema y procesos específicos
hubiera generado, por parte de las instituciones, una mayor apropiación de este objetivo.
ü       El diseño y establecimiento de mecanismos de ejecución que involucren al sector privado y
de la sociedad civil en intervenciones a nivel local de manera descentralizada requiere de un
fortalecimiento de la capacidad gerencial y flexibilidad del sector público.
ü       La nueva modalidad de co-financiamiento entre varias agencias de cooperación que
combinan préstamo con donaciones evidenció la necesidad de una mayor definición de las formas
de desembolsos y negociaciones con las diferentes agencias.
ü       El tipo de intervenciones dirigidas a establecer un SINTA requiere de: un análisis a
profundidad, con los socios y contrapartes, del alcance y supuestos de los objetivos, y de la
contribución de cada subsistema; formar el personal gerencial y técnico en aspectos de
planificación-monitoreo y evaluación, tomando en cuenta conceptos claves como la evaluación de



                                                - 54 -

sostenibilidad a nivel de sistemas de producción y de territorios, y las cadenas de productos a
impactos; una planificación-seguimiento­evaluación con una visión de largo plazo, niveles de
intervención por subsistemas y al identificación de los actores asociados a cada nivel de
intervención y la cadena de impactos; teniendo presente siempre el efecto esperado sobre las
articulaciones entre subsistemas; la ejecución del monitoreo de los impactos directamente por las
instancias involucradas. Si bien instancias externas pueden desarrollar estudios específicos de
impactos, es importante que los criterios y pautas sean definidos y acordados y que el proceso de
retroalimentación a los socios, se inicie en forma temprana, no al finalizar los
estudios/consultorías.

ü       La innovación tecnológica agrícola no puede provenir solamente del empleo y rediseño de
modalidades de asistencia técnica o capacitación concentrada exclusivamente en el manejo del
conocimiento, sino que requiere de una demanda efectiva y generalizada. Esto puede ser logrado
mediante el cambio de cultivares, el incremento de la tasa de adopción permanente (y no solo el
uso coyuntural) de nuevos genotipos y la generalización de uso de semillas de mejor calidad que
generen mayores ingresos a los productores de tal manera que aumenten su demanda económica
efectiva de nuevas soluciones tecnológicas. Otros estudios han detectado que PMP tienen
voluntad de pagar por los servicios, lo que posibilita el desarrollo de mercados de servicios
tecnológicos.
ü       La definición de agendas de investigación pertinentes deben tomar en cuenta: análisis de
las tendencias del sector agrícola y de diferentes rubros/ categorías de rubros (a nivel nacional e
internacional), análisis de necesidades en forma prospectiva; y "estado del arte" en innovación a
nivel Regional e Internacional; análisis interno crítico del desempeño de los subsistemas e
instituciones asociadas en cuanto al desarrollo de la investigación (análisis de la "oferta"); análisis
de demandas de los diferentes actores presentes a nivel nacional y en la cadena de producción
hasta consumidores finales.
ü       Si bien a través del SIA se desarrolló una infraestructura de comunicación en algunas
zonas del país, y creó un portal con informaciones agrícolas, hubiera sido necesario definir con
más claridad los clientes a quienes se dirige el SIA, la información específica requerida y su
calidad y grado de detalle, y las responsabilidades de los diferentes "proveedores" de información.
ü       Es necesario definir claramente la "división del trabajo" y responsabilidades entre las
diferentes instituciones públicas y privadas del SINTA, a fin de orientar los procesos y controlar la
calidad de investigación y extensión agrícola, esepeciaamente de casa a PRORURAL. Esto
implica coordinación al más alto nivel
ü       Con las experiencias generadas en materia de modalidades de asistencia técnica, sería
necesario identificar un menú y definir la complementariedad o no de dichas modalidades
aterrizadas a nivel de territorio, tipos de productores y cadenas productivas
ü       Si no participan todos los actores del SPA relacionados a la innovación tecnológica es
muy difícil que se pueda establecer un marco institucional moderno y sostenible para el SINTA.
La gestión eficaz de las innovaciones institucionales propuestas es un tema que debe ser
profundamente abordado, lo que implica la creación de capacidades conceptuales y metodológicas
nuevas.
ü       El proceso organizativo de una instancia como FUNICA requiere de: a) mantener viva una
agenda común de interés para todos los involucrados, b) la interiorización de sus roles de parte de
cada una de las estructuras participantes, c) la implementación de mecanismos de



                                                 - 55 -

aprovechamiento y fortalecimiento de capacidades entre los asociados, d) el apoyo con recursos
financieros y estratégicos de parte del Gobierno y la cooperación hasta que la Institución alcance
la sostenibilidad y e) contar con un equipo facilitador que opere los lineamientos estratégicos de
los órganos de dirección.
_________________________________________________

Notas al pie:

1. Se reconoce el aporte brindado por valiosos documentos y estudios, tales como los de Ortiz, Ammour, Sain y otros relevantes (Ángel, De Ferranti);
ver bibliografía.
2. Se entiende aquí que la educación rural incluye pre-primaria, primaria, secundaria, educación vocacional y programas de educación de adultos con
el propósito de fortalecer los conocimientos, habilidades, las actitudes y valores de la población rural de tal manera que puedan tener empleo tanto en
sus fincas como empleo no agrícola y mejorar su bienestar.
3. Esto fué tímidamente mencionado en el PAD.
4. (ver FAO: Education for rural people (ERP) Home Page: http://www.fao.org/sd/erp/index_en.htm).

5. Los miembros eran: INATEC, UNA, INTA, MAGFOR y técnicos del PTA.
6. Esta sección se basa en una interpretación de los datos resultantes de la encuesta 2004 presentada en MAGFOR/NITLAPAN Junio

2005a.




                                                                         - 56 -

- 57 -

