RETURN TO                            CIRCULATNG COPY                                 C-3
REPORTS
WITHIN                    2J' BE REURNLD TO REORTS DESK K
ON E W                                                         FILE COPY
DOCUMENT 0F INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 255a-MAU
APPRAISAL OF AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
-MAURITANIA
January 14, 1974
Regional Projects Departuent
Western Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited wîthout Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



QC%J 88                  t
ni                       ituil  e  
i; J ^           H "  c J        o
h*FF g t~~
ce'                        tH ,



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ...........................                             i-iv
I.     INTRODUCTION  ......................................                                 1
II.     THE  SETTING  .......................................                                 1
Physical  Environment  and Human  Resources                       ..........         1
Traditional Education System ......................                                  3
Government Education  System  .......................                                4
III.      EDUCATION  DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY  AND ASSESSMENT                        .....         6
IDA Project  Strategy  ..............................                               10
IV.     THE PROJECT  .......................................                                 10
General  ..        ..........................................                       10
Koranic School Experimental Study                       .................           il
Farm  Radio  Training/Programming  Center  ............                             12
Village  Training  Center  .......... ..                  ...............           13
Primary  Teacher Upgrading  .........................                               14
Nouakchott  Vocational Training  Center  ...........                    ..          15
Mamadou Tourê Vocational  Training  Center  ....                     ......         15
Technical Assistance  ................                     ..............           16
Evaluation  ......... ..... ,  .........                                            17
Cost  of  the Project  ...............................                              17
V.     IlIPLEMENTATION  ....................................                               20
VI.    AGREEMENTS  REACHIED AND  RECOMMENDATION  ....                      .........         21



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
APPENDICES
I.   Description of the Education and Training System
II. Education Finance
III.   Experimental Study of Literacy Training in the
Koranie Schools of Mauritania
IV. Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Enrollments in Mauritania Education System, 1971-72
3.   Recurrent Expenditures on Education (1973 Budget)
h.   Cost of the Project
5.   Contingency Allowances
6.   Schedule of Disbursements
7.   Disbursoment Schedule by Project Item
8.   Implementation.Schedule
CHARTS
7920    Mauritania:  Education and Training System (1572)
7921    Organization o! the Education/Training Project
7922    Organization Chart, of Ministry of Primary Education
and Religious Affairs
7923    Organization Chart of Ministry o! Technical Education,
Trairing of Professional Staff and Higher Education
7924    Distribution of Student Population by Class for the
Year 1971-72
MAP
No. 10696    Islamic Republic of Mauritania -
Education Project
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Mauritania in March 1973. The mission members were Messrs.
A. C. Tsantis (econonist), M. Loewen (general educator, PMWA), J. L.
Richard (technical educator, PMWA), B. Kimmins (architect, Unesco),
H. Doré (mass media specialist, Unesco), and R. Lesire (agricultural
educator, FAO). Mr. M. Wilson (general educator) also contributed to
this project appraisal.



GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
Koranie School  -  Informal group of primary-age students with the objective of
learning the Koran through the reading, writing and repetition
of its texts. No special facilities are used other than
simple pens, ink and copying boards. The Ben Amer schools
are similar but aimed at adults.
Marabout         -  Man or woman Koranic school teacher, with no formal training
and selected informally by the community; occasionally re-
munerated in cash or kind by the parents.
AF?A             - Association for Accelerated Vocational Training (French)
BDPA            -  Office for the Development of Agricultural Production
(agency of the French Government)
CEAC            -  Communauté Economique de l'Afrique Occidentale
(West African Economie Community)
UDEAO            -  Union Douanière des Etats de ltAfrique Occidentale
(West African Customs Union)
CET             -  College d'Enseignment Technique (Technical Schocl)
CFVA            - Agricultural Training and Extension Center
CPN             -  Centre Pédagogique National (National Pedagogical Center)
ENA             -  Ecole Nationale d'Administration (National School of
Administration)
ENECOFA          -  National School for Commercial and Family Education
ENI             -  Primary Teacher Training College
ENS             -  Ecole Normale Sup6rieure (Higher Teacher Training College)
LT              -  Lycée Technique (Technical High School)
MEFAR            - Ministry of Primary Education and Religious Affairs
METFCES          - Ministry of Technical/Vocational/Higher Education
MAURELEC         - Mauritania National Electricity Company
MIFE1MA          -  Company for the exploitation of iron ore in Mauritania






MAURITANIA
BASIC DATA /1
Population (1970)                                     1.2 million
Urban                                             195,000
Sedentary Rural                                   150,000
Nomadic                                           850,000
Population Annual Growth Rate                         about 2.0%
GNP per Capita                                        US$ 140
Modern Sector Employment                              41,000
Enrollments
Levels of Education        Student Numbers         Enrollment Ratio /2
Primary                     35,0o9                  15.5%
Lower Secondary             4,342           )
)        3.2%
Upper Secondary             1,000 (approx.))
Expenditures on Ediucation and Training
Public recurrent expenditures on education
and training as a percentage of total
recurrent expenditures                              21%
Total public expenditures on education and
and training as a percentage of GDP                4.5%
/1   Comparative education data in Annex 1.
/2 As percentage of age group (Annex 2).






MAIRITANIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project for Mauritania, for
which a credit of US$3.8 million is proposed.
ii.       The major challenges confronting educational development in
Mauritania are:
(a) the need to find viable alternatives to the high-cost,
urban-oriented and culturally foreign primary education
system (which is further constrained by the dispersion
and mobility of the population) in order to provide the
majority of Mauritania's young people with a relevant
basic education;
(b)  improvement of the formal system's complex administrative
structure and of the quality of its educational/training
programs to ensure that its graduates, on entering the
modern sector, possess better adapted skills and a better
potential for on-the-job development;
(c) the need to combat illiteracy--about 80-90% of the popula-
tion;
(d) the need to reinforce and supplement the efforts of the
extension services to help farmers and their families adapt
to new production techniques, especially those for irrigation
schemes which require resettlement.
iii.      The proposed project, which would be the Bank's first in the field
of education and training in Mauritania, is aimed at these key problem areas
and complements the work of other international and bilateral agencies. It
would finance:
(a) With regard to basic education needs, an experimental study
(10% of total costs, net of taxes) of the indigenous and
traditional Koranic school (which is community operated,
low cost and widespread) to ascertain whether modest amounts
of support through radio, supervision and simple instructional
materials can materially increase the literacy and numeracy
achieved by this instruction. If this proves to be the case,
a change in the structure of the education system could lead
to the provision of basic education to a greater proportion
of the school-age population. The study would also explore



- ii -
the capabilities of the indigenous schools which serve adults.
Specific costed alternative proposals for the reform of exist-
ing structures in the light of the study's results would be
developed.
(b)  With regard to modern sector needs,
(i) construction, equipment and technical assistance
for a vocational training center (30% of total costS,
net of taxes) at Nouakchott, the capital city, to
meet training and upgrading needs for clerical,
mechanical maintenance and construction skills.
Closely supervised by a managing board representative
of industry, the center would offer flexible programs,
capable of meeting changing needs on an accelerated
basis;
(ii) construction, equipment and technical assistance
for a technician training program (27% of total costs,
net of taxes) at the existing accelerated vocational
training center at Nouadhibou, to Mauritanize posts
at this level within the mining industry by 1980.
Close collaboration with the two principal firms (which
would participate in staffing and equipping the program)
would be an important feature;
(iii) equipment and technical assistance for the National
Pedagogical Center (4% of total costs, net of taxes)
for the upgrading and counselling of teachers in the
present first level (grades 1 to 7) of the school
system; this should improve its educational efficiency
and lover its unit costs;
(iv) technical assistance (two man-years) for the Directorate
of Planning (2% of total costs, net of taxes) to help
develop better indicators of manpower demand, as needed
to anticipate future enrollment requirements in the
formal system.
(c)  With regard to the needs of the adult, rural population,
(i)  construction, equipment and technical assistance for
a pilot village training center (9% of total costs,
net of taxes) in the irrigated rice scheme of M'Pourié
to train farmers and their families to adjust to the
changes in production and family life occasioned by a
new form of agriculture. If successful, the center
would be replicated in or adapted to irrigation and
other agricultural schemes, planned or under development;



- iii -
(li)  construction, equipment and technical assistance for
a farmer radio programming center (12% of total costs,
net of taxes) at Kaedi in the heart of Mauritania's
agricultural belt along the Senegal River, to help
strengthen the impact of the extension service, which
is being reformed through a UNDP program, and to
facilitate the work of other agencies in the farming
area. The center would broadcast agricultural, health
and other advice to farming families in local languages.
Mobile teams would tour farming areas to record peasant
reactions to the activities of the agricultural exten-
sion and other services, so as to establish an effective
dialogue between the government agencies and the popula-
tion.
(d) Services for the administration of the proposed project and
for the preparation of a second project (6% of total costs,
net of taxes).
iv.       The proposed project objectives are ambitious but they have been
conceived on solid grounds. The Mauritanian Government is already considering
a radical reform of basic education which would extend present access to a
greater proportion of the population while at the same time adapting programs
to the indigenous Islamic culture. It therefore welcomes the experimental
study as reflecting closely its social and cultural objectives. The reform
of the system is also likely to depend on improved curriculum development
services at the above-mentioned National Pedagogical Center and at the Higher
Teacher Training College, and on orientation to manpower demands. Finally,
the village training center and the farmer radio programming center complement
the government's actions to improve the extension services through the UNDP
project for training and upgrading at the Kaedi Agricultural and Extension
Training Center.
v.        A project unit would be established in the Ministry of Planning
and Research, given the inter-ministerial character of the project. The
Director of Planning would be project director, to be assisted by a full-time
deputy director (directeur adjoint). The project unit would coordinate the
work of project managers (chefs de projet) designated by the Ministries of
Basic Education, Technical Education and Rural Development to implement the
various project components. The project unit would be assisted with regard
to technical services by the Ministries of Culture and Information (radio
service) and of Industry and Equipment (Service de l'Infrastructure - design
and supervision of construction).
vi.       Contracts for equipment and didactic materials (US$ 0.60 million)
would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on international
competitive bidding, those below US$30,000 being advertised only locally and
those below US$5,000 (up to a cumulative maximum of USS45,000) being pur-
chased directly from local suppliers. Award of construction and furniture



- iv -
contracts (aggregatlng US$0,59 million), given their saall individual amounts
(for construction up to US$70>000; for furniture, US$5,000), would be made on
the basis of locally advertised coetitive bidding.  Doeestic manufacturers
of equipmnnt and materials wonld be avarded a preference of 15 percent or the
existing rate of duty, whichever is lover, in the evaluation of bids.
vii.      Total project conte are estimated at US$4.3 million, corresponding
to US$4.1 million net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of US$3.4
million,  The propos.d IDA credit of US$3.8 million equivalent would correspond
to about 92 percent of total pyoject comts, net of taxes and duties. Retro-
active finaneing, up to US$40,000, of specialist services to plan and organize
the experimental study and to start construction ad design, is recommended.
The project would be completed in approximately six years.
viii.     The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$3.8 million equivalent.



APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN MAURITANIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In June 1972, a UNESCO/IBRD mission visited Mauritania to identify
an education project suitable for Bank/IDA financing. The mission report,
submitted in December 1972, recomended expansion of basic education oppor-
tunities, non-formal rural training, and training and upgrading of industrial
and clerical workers. The report was discussed with the government in Feb-
ruary 1973 and agreement was reached on project items to be considered for
IDA assistance. The project was prepared/appraised in March 1973 by an IDA
mission comprising Messrs. A.C. Tsantis (Economist), M. Loewen (General Educa-
tor, PMWA), J.L. Richard (Technical Educator, PMWA), B. Kimmins (Architect,
UNESCO), H. Doré (Mass Media Specialist, UNESCO), and R. Lesire (Agricultural
Educator, FAO); M. Wilson (General Educator) also contributed to this project.
1.02      During appraisal, the request was modified to include the training
of low-level industrial technicians to address certain Mauritanization require-
ments, chiefly in the mining sector.
II. THE SETTING
Physical Environment and Human Resources
2.01      Mauritania is predominantly desert, with less than one-third of its
land usable for livestock and only a narrow belt along its southern border
(the Senegal River) where agriculture is possible. Its population, wholly
Moslem, is estimated at 1.2 million. About 70 percent is nomadic and pas-
toral, mainly Moors of Arab-Berber descent, living mostly in tents or semi-
permanent encampments near waterholes. Sedentary subsistence farmers, pre-
dominantly of Negro origin living along the Senegal River, comprise 14 percent
of the population. The remaining 16 percent is urban, living mainly in
Nouakchott, Nouadhibou and Rosso. Because of the drought, sedentarization
of the nomads has increased, mainly around wells. Uncertainty about the
permanency of their settlement makes the planning of social services difficult.
Roads are few and difficult and the distances between settlements are often
great. To counter these difficulties in communication, the government has
taken advantage of the strong oral culture of the country and widespread
radio ownership to develop radio as a basic means of communication with the
people as well as with specific audiences such as farmers and teachers. About
43 percent of the population is below age 15. Partiy because of the popula-
tion's dispersion (less than two inhabitants per km ) and mobility, the formal
primary school does not reach the children. Most of them do not receive even
a few years of education. At least 90 percent of the adult population is
illiterate.



-2-
2.02      As in other Sahelian couatries, only a sall percentage of the labor force
(or one per 60 inhabitants) is salaried.  Hovever, the dualistic cha:acter
of Mauritania's economy is unusually pronounced because of the technologically
advanced mining industry,   ployLg 5,0, Ukilled worker poste, including
those of heavy-duty equipmept operators, bave been MuritanXzed but the large
majority of middle-level manpover (90) aM  al.ot aIl professional staff (100)
are non-Mauritanians.  The p toetiaJ t£or fvrther prowtion of Nauritanians to
these ponts from vithin the induatry Io 1imted because of tbeir weak general
education background.  Alongside th*e *Inig tpÀkwtry Nsuritania has other
modern sector activitfLes more typicçl of a less developed country, employiag
about 14,000 people, mainly in public ad*Letstrati=o (7,000) and construction
(3,000).  Because of insufficiest treini.tg, uprading couro  are greatly
needed.  In construction, many workers are frou selghborlng countrles. Fina,.ly,
there is the traditional, rural s4ctox, whlch despite its domiaance in employ-
ment (550,000) accouats for only 31 perrent of GDP and bas generally been neg-
lected; the administrative ntfrastructure nd the amall nuaber of inadequately
prepared extension agents do not meet rural deveiçpment needs.
2.03      Social services dlatm about 3P percent of the government's recurrent
expenditure, of which two-thirde is 4eywagd to eadcation.  This aubstantial
effort provides less access to educaejop than mtght be nteicpated because
of very high unit co0ts. Large enrolileat expansion in he conventional forms
of education would be unwise, giveg 4w at ttu4*es and expect4tfoa6 they
generate, since prospects for signif front mployment expaneion in the modern
sector are not bright.  Empl yuent ip the mining sector, for eample, is now
at its peak.  Likewise in the fish procasstug ta jatry, ui$er-utilizOtioa
of facilities and labor is s0 great that *ve  a tripplîg pf output would have
a marginal impact on new emplgymegt.  0yrafl moder  sector e pioyment i8
expected to increase by about 3 percent per a&oum in the next ton years, in
the order of 500-600 people.  Total 4      o oa the . t/traiing system
vill therefore equally deped upon 4w govrum*t's porar  of    ritaniza-
tion.  To achieve the Nauritaizatio» by 1980 of 50-80 perc*at of all middle-
level posts, 50 percent of professiooal        fovelokers at oer Levels,
an additional 400-600 Mauritanians por y*ar must be trained.
2.04      The education/traiuing sysee  bhas Ote capacity to *eet aggregate
new employnent requirements, but the co»"eo.stion of its output and the quality
of the programs must be better aIapted, in particular to meeting the needs
for skills in the clerical, mainmenane  eechanics and construction (in the
Nouakchott area) fields. Simia4ry, scholarships for post-secondary studies
should be awarded to reflect more closely projected dqpand for professional
and technical personnel. Moreover, accelerated upgrading programe are needed
to raise the general technical lknowledge and skills of local employees to the
point where they can be successfully trained on the job to assume supervisory
and technical posts currently occupLed by foreigners. In general, mont exist-
ing programs must be changed to ,ak-e thg fagiing bpth more rtdevant to local
demands and cheaper.



- 3 -
2.05      The government's economic priorities for the next few years are
expected to put special emphasis on agricultural development, mainly through
irrigation projects, some possibly with IDA support. This will require farm-
er training since most are accustomed to traditional dry-climate crop cultiva-
tion. The new agricultural technology would also affect differently the
socio-economic development patterns of families living in irrigated areas.
Certain of these implications are beyond the direct capability of the exten-
sion service, even with the substantial aid planned by the UNDP and the FAO.
Innovative programs are required to give the farmers more active participa-
tion in development; to meet the health, nutrition and basic education needs
of the family with a view to increasing productivity; and to aid generally
in their adaptation to these profound changes.
The Education System
2.06      There are two education systems in Mauritania:  the traditional
and the formal system of foreign origin.  The traditional system has pre-
served the Moslem religion and an indigenous culture through the centuries.
Extensively attended by children between the ages of 5 and 15, and staffed
by volunteer teachers who are often self-taught and who enjoy considerable
social prestige, the Koranic school is supported by parents. However, it is
oriented to religious learning and has yet to incorporate knowledge of modern
life. The formal education system has a limited impact on the school-age
population. It caters almost exclusively to the urban segment of the popula-
tion and has generally met the needs of the economy. However, it is ill-
adapted in its programs and methods to the Mauritanian culture as a whole,
although it has served as a ladder of social and economic promotion for the
small percentage who accede to salaried employment. From a financial point
of view, this system is among the most expensive in the region because of
high unit costs.
Traditional Education System
2.07      The lower level of traditional education is called the Koranic
school since its objective is to instill the teachings of the Koran, primarily
through rote learning. A child will begin studies at about five years of age.
The teachers (Marabouts) may have from five to thirty pupils, though usually
not more than 15 at one time. The school is held in the Marabout's tent,
in a shady courtyard or in the lee of a dune; thus, there are few physical
constraints to the business of learning. The Marabout writes the first char-
acters of the Arabic alphabet on the child's wooden slate, teaching hîm the
sounds and how to form the letters. Once the alphabet is learned, the pupil
begins to memorize the first verses of the Koran. Instruction is individual;
while one child is reciting or writing or receiving new lines, the others are
memorizing.  The students are not necessarily of the same age nor of the same
attainment and progress depends solely on the number of parts memorized.
While few pupils ever learn all the 60 parts of the Koran, literacy-- at least
the ability to read and understand new lines from the Koran-- is probably



- 4 -
achieved by about Part 10. Literacy and religious knowledge are the main
products, theugh students may also learn social behavior and some elements
of their country's history and culture. Few pupils in these schools go beyond
Part 15, at which time they are 10-12 years old.  Koranic achools are much
the same throughout the country and generally vell attended. However, they
may have less of a lasting impact on children in the riverine areas vho do
not speak Arab-related tongues at home. A village or nomadic camp may have
several Marabouts. Usually he or she is a person who has attained advanced
knowledge of the Koran. Mont but not all of the Marabouts are literate.
To be called to teach by the comunity is an honor and the teaching is freely
offered. Parental satisfaction with their child's performance is expressed
by giving gifts to the Marabout and, to scme extent, by payment for results.
The importance of this traditional education is acknowledged in the close
relationship between the Ministry of Primary Education and Religious Affairs
and the religious authorities. Both seek to give this flourishing non-formal
Arab language "achool" a greater role to play in the education of the young.
Religious schools for adulte (which incorporate elements of gremmar and
numeracy in addition to literacy) have also sprung up in Mauritania and
spread to other Islamic ceuntries. Soue support is given by the regional
governorates to these Ben Amer schools. A more complete description of the
traditional school system, including the higher levels of studies, is given
in Appendix I.
Governrent Education System - Formal Education
2.08      The formal education system is based on a seven-year primary school,
a four-year lover secondary achool and the three-year "'lycée". Higher educa-
tion in Mauritania consists of training for secondary teachers and school
inspectors and, more recently, for civil servants. Most Mauritanians at this
level, however, study abroad on foreign scholarships. Enrollments by level
and type of education for 1971/72 are given in Annex 2. While the enrollment
ratios are among the lowest in Africa, the unit coests are among the highest,
due to (a) the introduction of a bilingual program (in theory, all subjects
at the primary level are taught in French and Arabic, but the lack of a biling-
ual teaching corps has led to the existence of tvo separate corps of teachers,
pushing the class/teacher ratio to 1:1.6 or almost two teachers for every
class; and (b) the small size of the schools and the incentives to parents and
students in the form of boarding and scholarships (originally designed to
overcome parental opposition to formal education). Almost all capital expendi-
tures in the sector are met by external assistance (Appendix II).
2.09      The administration of education is complicated by the existence of
three ministries sharîng responsibilities for formal education. Coordination
between them is poor. Moreover, their relations with other ministries are
als limited even when the latter are clients (for example, the Ministry of
Technical Education trains extension vorkers for the Ministry of Rural
Development). This structure also makes it difficult to provide certain
services such as planning and curriculum development vhich are intended to



-5-
be common to all education services. While considerable progress has been
achieved in the collection and analysis of educational data for all levels
of education, the effectiveness of the planning unit responsible for this
work (in the Ministry of Secondary Education) has been limited by the diffi-
culty of access to other services (as well as by the lack of manpower planning
data which could provide the basis for enrollment planning). Similar diffi-
culties handicap the National Pedagogical Center. This center, administered
by the Ministry of Primary Education and Religious Affairs, is in theory respon-
sible for curriculum development and for teacher upgrading for the secondary
level. However, its resources have hitherto been limited by the other com-
mitments of its parent ministry and the lack of contribution from its other
clientele. An eventual merging of curriculum development capabilities with
a strengthened Higher Teacher Training College could lead to the development
of a powerful tool for future reform.
2.10      The formal education system is small, consisting of 40,000 students,
90 percent of them in primary school. Enrollments at this level, mainly in
urban areas or large villages, have tripled in the last ten years but still
account for only 15 percent of the 6 to 13 age group. As a result of the
factors described in para. 2.08, annual recurrent expenditures per student
have reached UM 8,000 (CFAF 40,000) or about 90% of the GDP per capita in
1972, to be compared with CFAF 10,000 in Senegal, CFAF 6,000 in Mali, and
CFAF 12,000 in Upper Volta. Primary education claims a high 43 percent of
the education budget, making significant enrollment expansion within the
formal education system difficult even if the dispersion and mobility of the
population were to permit this. Internal efficiency is low, attributable to
the poor teaching (50 percent of the teachers are unqualified by local
standards), the unfamiliarity of the culture the instruction reflects (textbooks
frequently deal with sub-Saharan Africa), and the continuing reliance on
French, which is a foreign language for the majority, as the main language
for instruction. Arabic-speaking teachers often can teach only reading and
writing, due to lack of training and materials. Despite some attempts to
make the content of education more relevant (a French reader which deals
with Mauritanian themes, for example), the bias of the schooling is toward
the towns and the imported culture they stand for. A 1971 field survey by
UNICEF did not encounter a single primary school graduate in most of the
villages visited.
2.11      Similar problems beset the other levels and types of education as
well.  General secondary education follows French models, influencing priîary
school through the selection examinations. Limited Arabization of the curri-
culum in history and geography for the first years is only now getting under
way. Technical and vocational secondary education fails to prepare the number
and quality of Mauritanians needed for the replacement of foreign middle-level
manpower. A notable exception in vocational training is the Mamadou Touré
Center (accelerated technical trades training, Appendix I, para. 21), but
most of the trainees find employment in the high-salary mining sector in the
north and center of the country, leaving the other demands of the economy



- 6 -
unsatisfied, particularly in Nouakchott, Rosso and the south. Clerical and
comercial training reseubles general secondary education; it contains very
little practical content and la unnecessarily long. Generally, the costs
of education and training at the secondary level are exorbitant; almost all
students hold scholarships, and unit costs in general education amount to
UM 22,000 (US$524), not ipcludlng foreigu subsidies for the half of the
teaching force which is expatriate. Clerical training coats at the Ecole
Nationale d'Enseignement Commercial et Familial (E4ECOPA) average an exorbitant
UM 60,000 (US$1,428)fstudent/year.  Clearly, strong governient action is
required to effect econoies ln the utllization of facilities, to reduce
public subsidies to education and to design programs that address Mauritania's
economic priorities (Chapter UtI).
Non-formal Education
2.12      Until recently, there was Iittle official interest in education/
training needs which could not be met by the formal system. As a result, the
adult literacy program is at an embryonic stage. While the iresourceful mem-
bers of the Women's Federation (a Party-affiliated welfare body) have tried
to implement badly needed programs l  nutrition, health and child care, they
have been hampered by a lack of funds.  Only, the private Ben Amer schools
(Appendix I) have attempted to bridge the traditional: and government systems
through adult courses in religion and literacy.  However, this effort is
limited. Only the seven hours a week of educational and lnformational broad-
casting (on such diverse matters as health, woman's role in the society,
livestock raising and Arabic courses in Ouolof) address the broader task of
community education.  Unfortunately, tehe quality of the programming is weak.
III.  EUCATION            ctDEAND, AS$SSSM
3.01      Future education development planning in Mauritan&t must overcome
four existing constraints: physical (para. 2.01), finaneial (paras. 2.06,
2.10-11), administrative (para. 21.09), and, cultural (paras. Z.06 and 2.07).
These constraints are overwheluing; hence a radical departure from present
conventional forms of educatiot/training is required to provide (a) wider
access to some form of bastc education for a larger proportion of the popula-
tion; (b) more relevant and practical guidance to the productive rural popu-
lation in its economic activities, and (c) integrated social development pro-
grams for the rural population in such areas as health and nutrition.  The
government recognizes this anti attaches very high priority to education reform
and innovation that will meet the economic needs of the country while also re-
habilitating the Arabic language and, Islamic culture. A Reform Commission
was established in 1971 to propose ways to achieve these goals.



-7-
3.02      The Commission's draft proposals generally endorse the government's
interim measures for the improvement and expansion of the education system
aimed at in the 1970-73 Developnent Plan. These measures fall into two cate-
gories. The first constitutes the first steps toward a long-term education
reform and addresses the system's most serious constraints (para. 3.01) through:
(a) exploration of inexpensive alternatives for the provision
of basic literacy to the mass of the population, compatible
with Mauritanian cultural aspirations;
(b)  reduction in education costs through more efficient use
of teachers and classrooms and decreases in public subsidies;
(c) the strengthening of system-wide capabilities in planning
curriculum development and teacher training and upgrading;
(d) further Arabization of the curricula.
The second group of measures responds more directly to overall sectoral
demands:
(a)  innovative programs to improve production in the rural
sector, involving the farmer more directly in the develop-
ment effort and, in particular, promoting the socio-economic
development of family units in the new irrigated perimeters
(para. 2.05);
(b) improvements in the quality of education through upgrading
the qualifications and the performance of teaching staff;
(c) expansion or creation of local training programs to meet the
economy's requirements for specific types of skilled and
middle-level posts, in particular those held by expatriates
(para. 2.04).
3.03      The proposal offering the most potential for an economically viable
expansion of basic education is the call for an experimental study of the
traditional Koranic schools to explore whether improved supervision and mate-
rials could raise the literacy level of the students while keeping costs low.
This proposal has strong support from religious and political leaders in com-
mon recognition of the need to radically reform the conventional system in
order to meet the unusual conditions under which learning must operate in
Mauritania. Assistance is required, however, to design and administer this
experimental study.
3.04      Undoubtedly, the measures discussed above represent bold, new
directions for the development of education which should be encouraged, but
other recommendations of the Reform Commission should be the subject of



- 8 -
further review between the goverxment and IDA, especîally vith regard to
their financial and emploayent implications and to their consistency with
the objectives listed under paragraphe 3.02 and 3.03.  These recommndations
include:
(a) Structural changes In the education systen:
(1) reduction by o~ year each of primary and lover
secondary educati, vhich vould reduce unit cas ta --
but still nest permit extension to a significantly higher
proportion of the sehiool-age population at the primary
level - and leave untouched the problea of a secondary
output aled at, but exceeding, the needs of the modern
seetor; and
(il) introduction of a two-year continuation program oriented
toward rural lfîe for priary graduates wha canot enter
secondary education; this ls likely to prave a mere
"holding action' in the absence of specific seemes
offering opportunities for employment or self-employment.
(b) Promotion of students to different types and levels of education
on a fixed percentage beais of enrollents.  Tis remains difficult
in the absence of iudicative mnpoer estiates and zay prove no
more than a "brake" on social demnd.
(c)  Expansion of post-secondary education opportunities vithin the
country, leading to almost certain high unit costs.
3.05      Sound public decisions on the future development of the education
system vill depend to a large extent on the goverment's ability to strengthen
the institutions that muet plan and implement the reform, in particular the
proposed new Higher Teacher Training College (Appendix 1l) and the agencies
responsible for manpower and educational planning. The establishment of the
Higher Teacher Training College i8 a priority. Its main functions should be
to integrate and coordinate the teacher-training and curriculum development
work nov done by several institutions. As a first step toward strengthening
the country's curriculum development capability, one of the components of the
project is the reinforcement of teacher-upgrading and radio programming
courses at the National Pedagogical Center.
3.06      In order to illustrate the financial impact of the policy options
that could be derived from the existing situation, the UNESCO Identification
mission costed ôut four indicative cases (1970 as the base year) which vere
the basis of discussions with the government. Alternative A assumes main-
tenance of the present education system, excluding non-formai education
(paras. 2.08 - 2.11). Alternative B incorporates the recommendations of the
Reform Commission (para. 3.04). Alternative C assumes a three-year primary



- 9 -
education, starting at age 10 and following universal and strengthened tradi-
tional Koranic education. Alternative D limits participation in formal
primary education to the proportion required to ensure an adequate flow of
manpower to the modern sector of the economy, and a strengthened Koranic
education meeting the needs of the majority in the subsistence economy. In
the case of C and D, non-formal community programs working through the exten-
sion, health and adult literacy services would cater to the population's
needs beyond the level of basic education.
1970                1980                          2000
A      B      C       D       A        B       C        D
Enrollment
Ratios:
Primary          15.5    24.0   21.0   80.0*   18.0    35.0    30.0    95.0*  25.0
Continuation
Program           -       -      4.8     -      -        -      7.5       -        -
Lower
Secondary        3.1     4.0    4.8    3.5    3.5       6.0     7.5      5.0     5.0
Upper
Secondary        1.2     1.4    1.6    1.4    1.4       2.0     2.5      3.0     3.0
Higher                    .15    .15    .07    .07       .25      .50     .15      .15
Total Expenditures,
Formal and Non-
formal Systens
(CFAF**
million)        2,000   4,200  4,500  3,600  3,450  15,400  17,400  11,350  10,750
Total
Expenditures
as % of GDP       3.4     4.3    4.6    3.7    3.5       4.9      5.5     3.6      3.4
CFAF per Capita 1,720   3,000  3,200  2,600  2,500   6,700   7,600   4,900   4,700
*    10-12 age group.
**   1970 base of CFA francs.



- 10 -
It is clear that an option that relies heavily en traditional and non-formal
program   a is cpper. Bovevr, a decision to select such an option or a
variation vill depend on the outccoe of innovative, expertuental projects
deosigned to test the féesibility of a non-formal approach from several angles:
the human (what skills are needed and vhat in the recptivity of the popula-
tion), the administrative and logistical, and conts and effectiveness. The
question of future strategy ham beom discussed vith the gov rment during
negotiations and vlll be further reviwed periodically thereafter, in the
light of planned investments in the sector (vhich might affect the videspread
implem=tatioù of the results of the experimental activittes that are the
focus of the project) and of results or interta evaluation reports on the
individual project items.
IDA Project Strategy
3.07      The proposed project vould pave the way for innovative programs
which would ultimately serve the majority of the population. This implies
(a) exploring the potential of traditional non-formal Koranie education for
becoming an integral component of an extended national systea of education,
and (b) developing and testing new education and trainlng prograus directly
geared to the needs of the farmer and his family in both the traditional
sector and in the new technological environment of the irrigation schenes.
Iu addition, the project would 4a.ist the goverument in upgrading primary
teachers and in meeting specific skilled and mlddle-1evel mampover require-
ments of the modern sector.
IV.  Tm  PRDJCT
General
4.01      The project vould finance:
(a)  The costs, including 5.5 mnn-years of specialist services,
of an experîmental study of the Koranic schools.
(b)  Construction and/or equipsent for
(i)  an experimental farm radio training/programming
center;
(hi) an experimental village training center for an
irrigated acheme;
(iii)  the National Pedagogical Conter (conversion of
an existing facility);



- il -
(iv) a Vocational Training Center in Nouakchott; and
(v) the Mamadou Touré Vocational Training Center in
Nouadhibou (training of technicians).
(c) Provision of
(i) 39 man-years of specialist services and 12.5 years
of fellowships for the institutions in (b);
(ii) one and a half man-years of specialist services
and a one-year fellowship, both in manpower plan-
ning; and
(iii) two and one-half man-years for the deputy project
director and five man-years for supporting staff.
(d) Furniture, equipment and operating costs for the project unit.
(e) Preliminary studies for a second project.
Koranic School Experimental Study
4.02      This project item, under the management of the Director of the
National Pedagogical Center, consists of a three-year experimental study that
would make use of two resources hitherto untapped: the traditional Koranic
school and the radio. The experimental study would (a) explore the feasibility
of introducing basic education (reading, writing and arithmetic) within the
Koranic school (both primary and adult levels) through modest inputs in the form
of instructional materials, broadcast information and lessons, and improved su-
pervision; and (b) develop alternative proposals on the structure and enroll-
ments of education for the government's consideration, based on the results of
the field experiments in the Koranic schools. The study would be conducted un-
der Mauritanian leadership, with significant inputs of local personnel. The
Ministry of Primary Education and Religious Affairs (which is also responsible
for adult literacy programs) would work closely with religious leaders in the
study's implementation. As discussed with these leaders and the Party Committee
on Cultural Affairs, the religious and cultural content of the Koranic school
would be respected but its program would be broadened to include numeracy
and more functional language. The study would require 5.5 man-years of tech-
nical assistance, the services of local specialists and of senior students in
the higher teacher-training institutions, plus support staff and related
expenditures for experimentation and evaluation. External assistance would
focus mainly on the overall organization, design and coordination of activities
and on support in technical fields such as educational research and evaluation
(geared to implementation of field experiments), management (logistical and
communications problems presented by spatially extensive systems) and mass
media (use of radio for instruction). Mauritanian specialists and students
would be responsible for the major part of the field work including surveys,
the application of tests to teachers and students, and related work where
their knowledge of customs and the environment would be indispensable. They
would also assist in the processing of survey and experimental data.



- 12 -
4.03      The study team vould be based at the National Pedagogical Center,
where the didactic materials and radio broadesats vould be prepared by local
staff, advised, as required, by foreign speciali9ts. During the experiment,
contact with the Koranic schools vould be established through the local Arabie
inspectors and local religîous leaders to guide the teachers and obtain feed-
back from both teachers and students. These inspectors are already assigned
to goveroment primary schools in the area. They would be appropriately
trained and given the financial and logistical support required by field
visits to the Koranic schools. mTh first year of the study vould involve a
survey of a sample of Koranic schools în five regions through the application
of tests to measure the present level of Arabie literacy and arithmetie among
both teachers and students. This first year would aUlso include advance pre-
paration of low-cost didactic materials and radio broadeauts and the training
of the inspectors. During the second and third years the modest inputs dis-
cussed earlier would be applied. The number of experimental schoole should
be sufficiently amall to permit careful monitoring (cousunications are likely
to be difficult) yet large enough to be representative of the population dif-
ferences and to be indicative of improved achievement, as meacured by etan-
dardized tests. The sample would include schools in African language areas
(para. 2.07). In this connection the government has all but completed the
first survey of Koranic schools. Progress vould be evaluated each year and
both the interim reports and the final recomendations based on the experi-
mental findings would be submitted to the Reform Commission and to IDA.  Dur-
ing negotiations the government provlded assurances that (a) the Director
of the National Pedagogical Conter dlll be appointed as project manager; (b)
upon termination of the design and experimental phases it will consult with
IDA on the continuation of the study and, when the study is completed, on its
results and the recommendations for further implementation; and (c) the Nation-
al Commission for Educational Reform, unless otherwise agreed* will supervise
the study, consulting with the religîous authorities on the proposed structure,
content and staffing of the programa concerned. In order to plan and organize
the first year of the study, and in particular the design of the sample of
schools to be studied, it is recommended that the post of tochnical adviser
to the project manager be retroactively financed up to USS2$,000. In the
event that he is not appointed before signing, his appointment would be a
condition of disbursement for this project item. A further description of
the study is given in Appendix III.
Farm Radio Training/Programming Center
4.04      This project item consists of the construction and equipment at
Kaedi on the Senegal River of a small programming and transmission/retrans-
mission center, includîng a medium-wave transmitter (20 kw), control room, and
office space for the preparation, editing and recording of broadeasts aimed at
farming families. Vehicles and recording equiprnent for two mobile teams would
be provided so as to obtain feedback from farmers on broadcasts prepared in
the center. The two teams would use the facilities year-round on a rotating
basis (40-hour week). While the main thrust would be to develop and broad-
cast from the center programs designed ta inform and advise local populations



- 13 -
on agricultural, livestock, health and family matters of particular concern to
them and based on the listener points of view and specific needs, certain edu-
cational broadcasts of a more general interest, notably those addressing the
primary schools and Koranic schools, would be re-broadcast from the national
radio facilities in Nouakchott. The broadcasts, in toucouleur and other
local languages of the riverine area, would reach about 15,000 farmers in the
Kaedi region; they and thelr families represent 30 percent of the sedentary
population, according to the pre-drought census. Their listening habits would
be sampled regularly; their views and requests for advice or help would be
the primary focus of the center's work. The content of the broadeasts would
complement and strengthen the extension agents' guidance on production and
marketing, expanding it to include other elements which influence rural life
and production, such as health and nutrition. The extension service, hitherto
weak in quality and organization, is being rehabilitated with the help of the
UNDP and it is felt that radio would be a significant force in strengthening
this action while at the same time providing more direct links between the
peasants and the authorities in Nouakchott.  A permanent team of staff from
the services of the Ministry of Rural Development, from the Kaedi Agriculture
Training Institute and from the Ministry of Health would prepare the broadcasts,
under the guidance of a specialist in rural radio, who would coordinate his
work with the radio specialist at the National Pedagogical Center (para. 4.06).
The Ministry of Culture and Information (responsible for national radio) would
provide technical assistance. In order to maximize benefits to the listeners,
farmers would be encouraged to organize listening/discussion groups. The
mobile teams would visit these groups regularly to get material for broad-
casts (requests for technical information and the comments of the farmers
themselves) in order to create a dialogue between extension and community
development services and the farm population.  The government has provided
assurances during negotiations that it will establish a committee to ensure
inter-ministerial participation in the operation of the farm radio center,
and that its director will be given sufficient authority to make all decisions
required for its efficient day-to-day operation. The goverament has also
agreed that at least ten hours of educational broadcasting per week will be
scheduled, at times suitable for the listener population. Establishment of
the committee would be a condition of disbursement of the funds related to
this project item.
Village Training Center
4.05      This project item consists of the construction, equipment and
initial operation of an experimental training center to meet the integrated
development needs of the farming conmunity (about 1,000 families) of the
M'Pourié irrigation scheme.  Alongside the site of an existing state farm
developed with assistance from the People's Republic of China, an extensive
3,000-ha area has been prepared for irrigated rice growing, to be occupied by
peasants displaced from the site and from that of the neighboring state farm.
The village training center would consist of two multi-purpoffe rooms, an of-
fice, storage space, and an open-air kitchen (totaling 290 m ). It would pro-
vide those aspects of farmer training not held in the field, offer adult lit-
eracy courses, provide training for the farmers' vives in nutrition, health,
child rearing and gardening. In a work-shop located on the state farm, the



- 14 -
farmers would also learn simple tool maintenance. In general, the activities
to be conducted in the center and the duration of the courses would be deter-
mined by the farmers then_elves, with guidance and assistance from officials
of variOus ministries. However, a key activity would be the training of heade
of production groupe (generally the family) in the technique  required for
the successful exploitation of thoir individual lots and in the coummial main-
tenance of watervays and managesnmt of vater.  The center's operations vould
be under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development in
order to ensure relevance te productioni activities and to permit the effective
extension of this nodel to other irrigation achemes, should it prove successful.
The government has agreed te establish a comaittee under the chairmanship of
the Minister of Rural Developasnt, representing agricultural, health and other
interested agenciés, to supervise and regulate the centerts operation and pro-
grams. It is estlmated that at leat 4,800 familles eventually vill have to
be trained for the irrigation achemes already în existence or currently under
development.  The permanent full-time staff vould consist of an agronomist
specialized in training and lover level extension workers specialized in irri-
gation techniques. Additionally, the government vould provide a specialist
in women's education, together vith two graduates of the family and home
economics training program cfferad at Nouakchott (vho vould thonselves have
received ad hoç training ln agriculture, under a program to be organized by
and held at the Kaedi agricultural training institution), together with a
farm technician specialized in dike maintenance and five intermediate level
extension vorkers spécialized in irrigation techniques. The Federation of
Mauritanian Women would play a role in the organization of the courses for
vomen. The government has given assurances during negotiations that (i) a
conmittee, chaired by the Minister of Rural Development, vill be established
vith the participation of health and other concerned agencies; (li) the pro-
posed training center vill be establiéhed in the proximity of the M'Pourie
schenme on a site acceptable to IDA; (iiï) the center's vomen staff will under-
take a short training course in agriculture; and (iv) the work prograns of the
center and its evaluation, together with plans for eventual extension of the
project, vill be revieved vith IDA. The establishment of the committee vould
be a condition of disbursement for this project item.
Primary Teacher Upgrading
4.06      This project item, to be managed by the Director of the National
Pedagogical Center, consists of the provision of technical assistance, radio
recording, and didactic materials production equipment and supplies to the
National Pedagogical Center for the development of primary teacher upgrading
programs. The programs would be prepared and edited at the center and broad-
cast in Arabic and French by the national radio network. Special written
materials, also prepared and produced at the center, would be distributed to
the teaching staff to complement the radio upgrading programs. The upgrading
would concentrate initially on the primary teaching force. It would be accom-
plished through an expansion and restructuring of present broadcasts aimed at
primary teachers. Each new broadcast would last 30 minutes, initially twice
a week (with repeats) and would provide pedagogical guidance, model classroom
practice, guidance on handling student problems and a forum for the teachers



- 15 -
themselves to discuss everyday problems. Existing primary school inspectors,
together with the center's staff, would monitor the results of the programs
and obtain feedback from the teachers through field sampling. All the materials
wou1d be prepared by the local staff of the National Pedagogical Center, which
would be strengthened by about five qualified personnel (preferably former
inspectors). These five persons would be trained as the nucleus of an educational
broadcasting service by Arabic-Francophone speaking specialists in broadcast
preparation and the design, development and production of support materials.
The development of this capability is required for both the implementation
of the experimental study and its eventual extension. The government gave
assurances during negotiations that it will provide the additional professional
and support staff and appropriate physical facilities.
Nouakchott Vocational Training Center
4.07       This project item, for which the project manager will be the
Director of Technical Education, consists of the construction and equipment
of three workshops and four other training areas for the accelerated traïning
of îndustrial and clerical vorkers. The center would be set up for 110 students
but would ensure flexibility by opening and closing traîning courses upon de-
mand. The center vould operate year-round, in-service upgrading programs for
the personnel of the public and private sectors in such areas as typing, account-
ing and general maintenance mechanics. The staff of the center would consist
of a director and six teachers. A special program vould be implemented (Appen-
dix IV) to train Mauritanian teaching staff to fill all posts vithin three
years of the center's commencement of operations. In the meantime, technical
assistance would be required to teach the courses and provide on-the-job
training to counterparts. The government has agreed to establish a committee,
under the chairmanship of the Minister responsible for vocational education
and consisting of government officials and industry representatives who, to-
gether with the director of the center, would determine the content of the
training programs and would make decisions on the use of its allocated budget.
The government provided assurances to this effect, and establishment of the
governing board îs a condition of disbursement of funds for this project item.
Mamadou Tourd Vocational Training Center
4.08       This project item, to be managed by the director of the existing
center, under povers delegated by the Director of Technical Education, would
upgrade and provide a basic secondary technical education for young Maurita-
nians between 18 and 30 years of age who would later be trained on the job
for supervisory and foreman posts in the equipment maintenance sections of
the mining industry. Although internal promotion within the industry permits
some posts to be filled, a major obstacle is the low level of technical know-
ledge and skills among employees, due in part to the academic character of
lower secondary education. While the largest company, Mauritanian Iron Ore
Company (MIFERMA), operates facilities for training semi-skilled and skilled
workers -- as vell as a literacy program -- the secondary levels of general
technîcal training have been handled at the Lycée Technique at Nouakchott (which
is considered insufficiently practical and, in the case of the mining industry,
too far removed from the work situation).  Future foremen -- employees as well
as new recruits -- selected from candidates with at least three years of



- 16 -
secondary education, would pursue a two-year program designed to raise their
level of general technical knowledge and skills while at the same tise acquainting
them with the machines they vould be likely to encounter (high-cost, heavy-
duty electromechanical/hydraulic squipamt). Fifty percent of their time vould
be apent in general technical education and 50 percent in the vorkshop. To
ensure access to heavy-duty equipsent end to permit active participation by
staff of MIFERMA, the training progrs vould be located at the Mumadou Touri
Vocational Training Center at Nouadhibou, a successful institution which could
reduce costs of the project by sharing its facilities (classrooms and some vorkshops).
On completion of the two-year training program (by vhich time thetr level vould
permit on-the-job training) the graduates vould receive another two years' training
vithin the industry before asusuing supervision of equipsent maintenance tean.
Over a six-year period, 150 persona vould be prepared for on-the-job training
or, assuming they eventually enter supervisory pouta, about 50 percent of the
Mauritanization requirements of preèsntly identifiable poste at this level.
The proximity of the Mauritanian Iron Ore Company (MIFERMA) facilities vill
enable visite and training sessions vithin the industry. In particular, the
mining industry vould be consulted on the nethods and levels of selection and
qualification and on the training methode and content of the progrm.  The
governuent has contacted the principal company involved, MIFERMA, vith regard to
its participation in the program through the provision of staff time and
heavy equipment use for training.  The company has agreed in principle to
this. A total of 18 man-years over the six years of the program would be
financed under the project, amounting to US$720,000, on the assumption that
approximately 12 man-years of staff time vould be provided by MIFERMA.
During negotiations the government provided assurances that (a) a committee
consisting of government officials, representatives of the mining industry,
the director of the Mamadou Touré Center, and the director of the proposed
program will be established, under the chairmanship of the Minister re-
sponsible for vocational education, to organize, regulate and supervise the
program; and (b) evaluation reports will be forwarded to IDA for review.
The establishment of the above-mentioned committee would be a condition of
disbursement of funds for this project item. Once the training needs have
been satisfied, the facilities would revert to other educational or community
purposes, the investment being considered amortized.
Technical Assistance
4.09       In addition to providing the technical assistance for the experimentai
study (para. 4.02) and for the Nouakchott (para. 4.07) and Manadou Toure
(para. 4.08) training centers, the project would include anotherunine and
one-half years of specialist services for the village training center, farm
radio programming center, National Pedagogical Genter, and the Ministry of
Planning (for manpower planning). All these poste involve highly specialized
skills, not obtainable in Mauritania, which are crucial to the success of the
project items. The key emphasis in these specialists' terme of reference
would be the training of local counterparts, who would be partly educated
abroad (12.5 years of fellowshipJ are provided) but mainly on the job, working
on the practical problems encountered in project implementation. The post
of deputy project director would alo be financed under the project. Re would
be responsible for the day-to-day management of technical services provided by



- 17 -
the project unit (architectural studies, site supervision, procurement,
accounting) to the project managers (para. 5.01). In order to permit the
preparation of an eventual second project (which would focus on extending
the results of the proposed project items, if successful), eight man-months
of consultant assistance are included in the project in the general fields of
educational planning, curriculum development and school design. All special-
ists would be acceptable to IDA and would be employed on terms and condi-
tions agreeable to IDA.
Evaluation
4.10       Built-in evaluation is of particular importance in this project,
given the innovative and experimental character of certain project items. In
order to guide the government and IDA in their regular review of educational
development objectives and strategy (paras. 3.04, 3.06), the terms of
reference of all key specialista for the project items in paragraphs 4.02
and 4.08 would include the development of an evaluation design (to be accept-
able to IDA) which would permit the monitoring of progress and modification
of methods and approaches (if required) during the life of the project.
Evaluation strategy for the experimental study of Koranic education is
indicated in Appendix III. Particular attention would be given to the condi-
tions under which project items could be replicated in other parts of the
country.
Cost of the Project
4.11       The total cost of the project is estimated at UM 181 million, or
US$4.3 million equivalent, including taxes. A breakdown of gross project
costs is given in Annex 4. The net project coats are distributed as follows:



- 18 -
OuiguiyaL2.   (millions)   U.S. Dollars (Thousands)  % of
Local   Fbreign   Total   Local   Fbreign   Total  Total
A. Study/Experiment                    2.73    11.55    14.26    65       275       340     10.00
B. Rural Education, Radio, Kaedi       1.73    15.15    16.88    41       360       401     12.00
Civil Works                0.49      2 .Y7    3.28    12        66       78
FPrniture                  0.06      0.14     0.20     1         3        4
Equipment                   0.38     8.82     9.20      9      210       219
Technical Assistance        0.80     3.40     4.20    19        81      100
C. Village Training Center, PPourié  2.11    10.53    12.6        50      251       301      9.00
Civil Works                0.59      3.40     3.99    14        81       95
Farniture                  0.05      0.08     0.13     1         2        3
Equipment                   0.08     o.84     0.92      2       20       22
Technical Assistance        1.39     6.21     7.60    33       148      181
D. Primary Teacher Upgrading, N/Chott 0.87      W.35      6.22    21      127       148      4.00
Civil Works                0.03      0.19     0.22      1        5        6
Furniture                  0.05      0.11     0.16     1         2        3
Equipment                   0.09     2.07     2.16      2       49       51
Technical Assistance        0.07     2.98     3.68    17        71       88
E. Vocational Training & Upgrading
Conter, N/Chott    6.927    35. 91    42.88   166     855      1021     30.00
Civil Workæ                1.62      9.18    10.80    38       219      257
Ftrniture                  0.24      0.52     0.76     6        12       18
Equipment                   0.22     5.38     5.60      6      128      134
Technical Assistance        4.89    20.83    25.72   116       496      612
F. Technical Education & Training
I,4 bou   6.98    31.58 3.8.56   166         752       918     27.00
Civil Works                 0.73     4.11      4.t54   17       98      115
Furniture                  0.12      0.28     0.40      3        7       10
Equipment                   0.13     3.02     3.15      3       72       75
Technical Assistance        6.00    24.17    30-17   143       575      718
G. Manpower Specialiat                 0.59      2.52     3.11    14       60        74      2.00
H. Consultant Service for preparation
of an eventual second project and
professional services              0.42     1.43      1.85    10       34        44      1.00
I. Project Unit                        1.17     5.84      7.01    28      139       167      5.00
Sub-Total                  23.57   119.86   143.43   561      2853    3.414    100.00
Physical Contingencies              0.79    5.42       6.21    19      129       148
Price Contingencies                 g.00   18.73      23.73   120      446       566
Total (net of taxes)               29.36  144.01    173.37   700      3428    4.128
Total (incl. taxes)                37.17  14.01    181.18   886       3428    4.314
L    Rate of exchange : lUS$ = Ouguiya 42 (CFAF 210)



- 19 -
4.12      The total project cost of US$4.3 million corresponds to US$4.1 mil-
lion (net of taxes), of which US$3.4 million is for foreign currency costs
and US$0.7 million for local expenditures. The proposed credit of US$3.8 mil-
lion would finance 92 percent of the total project costs (net of taxes). The
cost af construction, net of taxes, has been estimated by subtracting from
the total cost estimate (based on contracts for civil works similar to those
in the project) about 20 percent, representing taxes and duties on imported
and local materials and other contract components.  Exclusive of contingencies,
the study would amount to 10 percent of the cost; new construction 16 percent;
furniture and equipment 16 percent; specialist services 53 percent; and the
project unit 5 percent. The estimated unit cost of new construction at
Nouakchott (US$140-190 per square meter of gross area) is high, due to the
almost complete lack of construction materials in the country. The inordinately
high technical assistance component is due in large part to the priority need
for vocational/technical training programs which are to meet ïimediate, specific
manpower requirements, after which their continued existence would no longer be
justified. The alternative of first training local teachers, even through
crash programs, was considered but could not be retained in view of the urgency
and, in the vocational areas, because of the lack of local personnel with suf-
ficient work experience at the levels required. It was also considered that
on-the-job vocational/technical training is preferable to overseas training
because of the difficulties many foreign trained nationals encounter in re-ad-
apting to Mauritanian conditions.
4.13      Contingencies.  Contingency allowances included in the project costs
consist of (a) unforeseen factors, 10 percent of estimated costs of civil
works, professional services, furniture, equipment and the study/experiment;
and (b) price escalation varying from 5 to 7 percent per year for the different
local and foreign cost categories, as shown in Annex 5. All contingencies
amount to 17 percent of the total estimated project cost and to 21 percent
of the total cost before contingencies.
4.14      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component would
be approximately US$3.4 million equivalent, representing about 83 percent
of the total project costs, net of taxes. The foreign exchange components
are as follows: (i) civil works 85 percent, (ii) furniture 71 percent, (iii)
equipment 96 percent, (iv) technical assistance 80 percent, (v) fellowships
100 percent, and (vi) project unit 83 percent. The local component would
consist mainly of labor and services.
4.15      Project Recurrent Costs.  Recurrent expenditures for the operation
of all project institutions would be about UM 13 million in 1980, when the
last year of the special technician training course would be offered (Appendix
II). By that year these expenditures would amount to about 1.7 percent of
the projected recurrent expenditures on education under alternatives C and D
(para. 3.06). In the case of neither projection is the demand for additional
recurrent funds by the project excessive. Unit recurrent costs for the
operation of the Kaedi radio studio would amount to UM 215 (US$5) per farmer
in the immediate impact area; for the village training center, they would amount
to about UM 300 (US$7) per person in the irrigation scheme, which is reason-
able, given the experimental nature of the program.



- 20 -
V. IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Administration.  A project unit vould be established vithin the
Ministry of Planning and would be responsible for (î) supervision of project
implementation, (ii) coordination vith other ministries and parties involved
in the project, and (iii) liaison vith IDA. The project director (directeur
du projet), who would be the Director of Planning, would be on a part-time
basis. His full-time assistant, to be called deputy director (directeur
adjoint, para. 4.09), vould be empowered to make all day-to-day decisions
relating to the operation of the unit, including coordination of technical
assistance specialists, and vould administer the procurement of goods and
services under the project. The project director would be empowered to draw
up short-term contracts for ad hoc consultant services to aid in implementation,
upon consultation with and approval of IDA, up to a total of two man-years.
Each of the five participating Ministries would appoint a part-time project
manager (chef de projet) who would be responsible for the technical aspects
of implementation of the project component within his Ministry and for coor-
dination with the project unit. The projeCt managers would be the officers
responsible for the administrative or operational divisions with authority
for the project items in question. The selection and appointment of the
deputy director is a condition of credit effectiveness. To facilitate imple-
mentation of the project, the Borrower would establish a special account at
the Treasury, maintaining in it funds for the following three months' expend-
itures. To cover current expenditures of the project unit, an additional
account would be established, drawing on the former.
5.02      Professional services.  Professional services for the design and
supervision of construction of the four project items would be undertaken, on
the government's choice, by the architectural services division of UNESCO's
Regional Office for Africa in Dakar, in close collaboration with the Service
of Infrastructure, Ministry of Equipment, which has had experience in IDA
procedures and in the construction of educational facilities. To accelerate
implementation, which vas to have started by November 1973, retroactive fi-
nancing of material and equipment costs related to the design stage, up to
US$15,000, is recommended.
5.03      Sites.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
government that all necessary action to acquire land and rights for all proj-
ect items concerned will be taken before the scheduled start of construction.
5.04      Procurement.  Contracts for equipment and didactic materials (US$
0.60 million) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance vith the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. In order
to facilitate delivery, the borrower would endeavor to ensure that contracts
for lots of equipment would normally be for at least US$30,000.  Lots below
US$30,000 would be awarded on the basis of locally advertised competitive
bidding except those less than US$5,000, which would be procured locally off-
the-shelf to a cumulative maximum of about US$45,000. For the procurement of



- 21 -
civil works (US$0.55 million) and furniture (US$0.04 million), individual
contracts (a maximum of US$70,000 for construction and US$5,000 for furniture)
would be awarded on the basis of locally advertised competitive bidding.
Disbursements
5.05      Disbursements from the proposed credit of US$3.8 million equivalent,
corresponding to about 92 percent of total project costs (net of taxes) will
cover (i) 100 percent of CIF costs of imported furniture, equipmnent and
materials; (ii) 100 percent of total expenditures for consultant services
rendered in relation to the experimental study; (iii) 69 percent of total
expenditures for civil works; (iv) 91 percent of total expenditures for locally
produced furniture, equipment and materials; and (v) 86 percent of total expen-
ditures for technical assistance and scholarships. There would be retroactive
financing of expenditures incurred after November 1, 1973, of up to US$25,000
for services related to the experimental study and up to US$15,000 for imported
materials and equipment related to the design stage of the project. The esti-
mated schedules of disbursements are shown in Annexes 6 and 7. Construction
is expected to be completed within about two years after the signing of the
Credit Agreement, but implementation of the training components of the project
will take up to six years (Annex 8).
5.06      Any undisbursed balance of the credit at project closing date would
be allocated for goods and services related to the project and mutually
acceptable to the government and IDA.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(i)  the government will exchange views with IDA on its objec-
tives for formal and non-formal education and training,
on planned investments in the sector, and on interim eval-
uation reports and/or recommendations concerning the pro-
ject items (paras. 3.06, 4.02 - 4.10);
(ii)  the government will establish and maintain committees to
regulate and supervise the farm radio training/programming
center, the village training center, and the Nouakchott
and Mamadou TourS vocational training centers (paras. 4.04,
4.05, 4.07 and 4.08); the National Commission for Educa-
tional Reform will supervise the experimental study of
Koranic education and consult with the religious authori-
ties on the study (para. 4.03);
(iii)  the National Pedagogical Center will be provided with the
additional staff and appropriate space required for imple-
mentation of the experimental study and the upgrading of
primary teachers (para. 4.06).



- 22 -
6.02      The Director ef Planning vas desigiat*d as project director and the
post of deputy project  reetor vill be cLreated vwth pwers as described in
paragraph 5.01.
6.03      A Coidition of Eff.ctiy.lss of the Credit »Ill be the eatablishment
of the project nuit -ad Uie  tpp    ,   of theé projeet director and deputy
project direc-tor (para. 5.01).
6.04      Co _ditios of Cred.U M12È>ursoist relative to each project item
in paragraphs 4.04, 4.05, 4.OI-iw   4.*08 iill be the est.ablishment of the com-
mîittees cçncwed vith the  *t n  .stisan*d supervisoIn of these items.
6.05      ev                       yoep«dl.ed  -or the services of a technical
advieor (up to     5              got5.o  to   lrgandgmize the e xpier'tal study of
Koranic schools (para. 4.03) uid for prot*&sioal services (up to US$15,000)
for the design gad supervipiço  of civlU  orke <par&. 5.02).
6.Q6      The propos.d proJeot c tituts   suitelçe bsis 1fr the proposed
IDA credit of US$3.8 mu3lie4n *,qutv.tent to MgmirLtenJ.



APPENDIX I
Page 1
MAURITANIA
DESCRIPTION OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Administration and Structure
1.        Public education is administered by three separate ministries:
the Ministry of Primary Education and Religious Affairs (MEFAR); the Ministry
of Secondary Education, Youth and Sport; and the Ministry of Technical Educa-
tion, Training of Professional Staff and Higher Education (METFC). There is
no formal machinery for coordination apart from the recently created Commission
on Educational Reform (which includes representatives of other interested
ministries such as the Ministry of Rural Development). The educational plan-
ning unit of the Ministry of Secondary Education is responsible for the collec-
tion and analysis of educational data for all levels and branches and for the
preparation and implementation of projects. However, this unit is experienc-
ing difficulties in fulfilling its role because of its inability to obtain
data on other ministries' affairs. The National Pedagogical Center (MEFAR),
which likewise has system-wide responsibilities in curriculum development and
in-service training, is experiencing similar difficulties, aggravated by the
lack of personnel and resources. The project will help strengthen the infra-
structure for planning, curriculum development, and in-service training.
2.        Education is free in Mauritania.  This is in line with pre-independence
policy designed to attract the local people to the "imported" educational sys-
tem. Ironically, this policy is still being implemented even though social
pressures for education work to support it. The government pays high subsidies
to parents in the form of scholarships, supplies and other costa (paras. 5
and 6, Appendix II). The government constructs all schools and provides books
and other school supplies (although there is an insufficient provision of books
and supplies at the primary level).
Basic Education
3.        Basic education in Mauritania takes two forms:  the traditional
Koranic school, which may reach as much as 60 percent of the primary age
population; and the formal primary school, originally designed to provide
a amall number of indigenous personnel for the lower ranks of the colonial
civil service.
4.        The primary school (enrolling 35,000 in 1971/72) still reaches
only about 16 percent of the equivalent age group, despite attempts to
adapt it to local conditions through the introduction of Arabic. Among
the many causes are the system's high costs and its reliance on fixed
structures (the administrator, the teacher and the school itself) to deal
with an essentially mobile and dispersed population. Moreover, the low
national ratio disguises serious imbalances: regional ratios differ consid-
erably, 4% in the First Region (mainly desert) but 50% or more in towns



APPENDIX I
Page 2
such as Nouakchott or Rosso. Attempts to adapt the primary school to local
conditions have proved expensive. With the adoption of a bilingual curriculum
in 1969 and subsequent difficulties in establishing a bilingual teaching force
of any acceptable quality, there are noe practically two separate corps of
teachers, one Arabic speaking, the other French, with the result that there
are almost two teachers (1:6) for every class. Wherever a Francophone teacher
or teachers are assigned, an appropriate ratio of Arabophone teachers muet be
maintained. Thus, in incomplete schools wîth small classes the teaching hours
actually available often outweigh the real needs. Purther imbalances exist
because Arabophone teachers are often limited by their lack of formal education
and training to giving instruction in reading, writing and grammar. Efforts
to upgrade teachers are seriously handicapped by the physical difficulties of
travel vithin the country. It is hoped that the existing use of radio to give
teachers practical advice and support can be strengthened and broadened. How-
ever ill-adâpted it may be, the primary school - and indeed the rest of the
formal system - is likely to be maintained to ensure manpover flows to 'the
modern sector at least until such time as research can point to viable alter-
natives for meeting the dual needs of reaching a greater proportion of the
population and providing acceas tO further education for those required by
the economy. At present, the pri-ary school remains an expensive form of
social selection; only 20 percent of the final year studentâ go on to further
study and the remainder, with kaosledge and skills they vill have no oppor-
tunity to apply, fall back into the pool of urban uneuployment (according
to a 1971 UNICEF study, few primary graduates are found in the villages of
the interior).
5.        The Koranic school has as its main objective the maintenance and
propagation of Islamic culture. Mauritania is almost entirêly Moslem and a
high proportion of the population speaks Arabic. The teachers, men or women
respected for their learning, generally have no formal training and follow
traditional methods of instruction in teaching the readiag and writing of
Arabic script. The content of instruction is the Koran itself, which is read,
written and recited one verse at a time until it is memorized satisfactorily.
Parents often pay the teacher in cash or in kind, according to results.
Financial support and gifts are not wystematic, however, and practices vary.
However, students are rarely turned avay if they cannot pay.  The learning
situation is informal - in the shade, generally on the sand though occasionally
on straw mats, and the students write with twigs and washablé ink (made from a
powder obtainable from any peddler or merchant) on wooden slates.  No special
conditions or physical facilities are required; ta be established, a Koranic
school needs only the teacher and students. It is the only school which is
compatible with nomadic life. Instruction is also individualized to the
extent that students in a given class are often of different ages and at
different levels in their studies. While a scientific assessment of the
precise impact of Koranic education has yet to be made (an objective of the
proposed experimental study), several characteristics suggest that it may be
a promising foundation on which to build a more systematic education:  it is
informal, requires little or no infrastructure, is integrated with the com-
munity, uses the national language (though about 20% of the population speak



APPENDIX I
Page 3
African languages) and offers the possibility of access to wider learning
through the printed word of a widely spoken language which can provide access
to the modern world. Moreover, the Koranic school is credited with preserv-
ing the indigenous culture, which is rich in poetry and song and has a re-
putation beyond national boundaries within the Arab-speaking world.
6.        There are also the Mahadras (with two levels, adolescents and adults),
which have three broad curriculum areas: (i) Islamic studies -- law, philoso-
phy, commentaries; (ii) linguistics -- Arab language, syntax, etc.; and (iii)
scientific studies -- mathematics, astronomy, optics, medicine, history (of
course, the content is of a traditional nature, sometimes unchanged for cen-
turies). Surprisingly enough, all three areas may on occasion be handled by
a single teacher. Like the Koranic schools, these schools cost the government
nothing and are well-adapted to the country's social and cultural envirorment.
7.        Attendance and the daily timetable vary, depending on whether the
context of the school is a permanent "campement" or settlement (where there
is a stable clientele) or whether the "school" is part of a nomadic group.
Youths (males) sometimes travel considerable distances to become the full-
time students of reputed masters. Such students may bring money or sheep and
cattle, either as a gift for the master or to support themselves during their
stay. The desire for learning is strong. The goverrment does try to assist
the Koranic schools, though in a permissive, non-directive way. Where there
are several schools in a community, the Ministry of Primary Education and
Religious Affairs (MEFAR) counsels regrouping so that teaching can be diversi-
fied (different masters have different strengths). Primary school teachers --
often those who are Arabophone -- are encouraged to complete their work load
through participation in the Koranic schools' activities. Thus the way is
open for modernization, particularly as the quality of Arabophone primary teach-
ers improves (an objective of the primary teacher upgrading project). Occasion-
ally, small subventions may be given to Koranie schools to encourage this par-
ticipation (total budget foreseen for 1974 is CFAF 8 million or US$38,000).
A parallel activity of the Ministry is to strengthen the mosque as an instrument
of culture and education: there are two "official" (government supported)
mosques in each region; they operate Koranic schools and receive small subsi-
dies (1974 proposed budget is CFAF 6 million or about US$28,000).
8.        In the regions so far surveyed by MEFAR's Directorate of Religious
Affairs, as a first step toward the experimental study, the following picture
(excluding the official mosque-related schools) of the non-formal, parallel
system of education emerges:
"Schools"                      "Students"
Higher         70                              852
Middle       100                             3,109 (est.)
Lower        330                             6,607
500                           10,568



APPENDIX I
Page 4
Undoubtedly, these figures do not include many nomadic schools, dispersed by
the effects of the drought, nor is the Boutilimit area (heavily religious
and strongly Arabophone) iucluded. Moreover, siace the Koranic school is
flexible -- in the sense that students core and go, according to need or
ability -- these figures represent enrollments at only one point in time.
Many more students likely attend during a given period - the dry season,
for example, in the south or the 'rainy" season elsewhere wheu pasturage is
more stable. It is clear, however, that a strong, spontaneous and popularly
supported movement is at work. Religious broadcasting also has an educational
side. There are three broadcasts per week, two in Arabic and one in French,
with "repeats" in Sarakole, Oulof, Toucouleur (African languages) and in
Rassaniya (Berber/Arabic dialect).  The Directorate of Religious Affairs is
responsible for these broadeasts, which address problems of modernization and
enjoy a certain popularity amoug the youth.
9.        Sdme attempts to modernize the traditional schools have been made.
For example, El HadJ Mahmoud Bah has opened private, non-subsidized schools
of a new kind, providing traditional instruction combined with modern subjects,
physical education and singing. Another example is the "Ben Amer" private
schools established some years ago. These Arab-language schools (45 in 1970
with 85 classes) teach the Koran and other subjects including French. Unit
costs are low, CFAF 2,500 per year, or about US$11.
Lower Secondary Education
10.       In the final year of primary education the social pressures for
further study become evident. Of the 4,342 in this class in 1970/71, some
35 percent repeated the class in 1971/72, seeking a further chance at the
lower secondary entrance examination. The overall breakdown (1971/72) was
as follows:
a. Transfers to:
No.
-    General lower secondary (first year)      730       17
-    Technical school (CET)                     80        2
-    National School for Commercial and
Family Education (ENECOFA)                 47       1
-    Agricultural Training and Extension
Center (CFVA) (no recruitment in 1971-72) -         -
-    Nursing school                             10       -
b.   Repeaters in final grade                      1,550      35
c.   Seeking employment                           1,925       45
Total                                   4,342     100



APPENDIX I
Page 5
Lover secondary schools (CEGs) already exist in the regional capitals and
are being created in the main towns of the various departments with FED aid.
The curriculum of these schools is basically non-scientific in character.
While technology supposedly replaces science at this level, the curriculum
is not practical, stressing theory and draftsmanship rather than the manipula-
tion of technical objects or acquisition of skills. Sixty percent of the few
materials issued to the schools some years ago had been broken or mislaid
some two years later, according to one source. Although a section at the
Higher Teacher Training College (ENS) now trains teachers for this subject,
the majority of teachers in the field have received little or no specialized
training in the subject apart from short briefings.  Other teaching resources
are similarly limited. Some 50 percent of the teachers at the secondary level
are expatriates but the ENS is likely to meet lower secondary needs once it
is installed in its new facilities. The Boutilimit Institute (an Arab-
language religious foundation) provides lower secondary courses with a con-
centration in language and religion, preparing the students for the Arab
language sections of the national lycee and the primary teacher training
college.
11.       The flow of the 636 students from the final year (3 ieme - 1970/71)
of lower secondary was distributed as follows in 1971/72.
a.   Transfer to:
No.        %
-    Lycées                                    345         34
-    Primary Teacher Training College (ENI)   53            8
-    National School of Administration (ENA)  37            6
-    Nursing School                             20          4
-    Family/Commercial Training School
(ENECOFA)                                   5          1
b.   Repeaters (3 ieme)                              147        23
c.   Job market                                       29         4
636       100
Thus, most graduates are absorbed at this level and except in "3 ième," an
examination year, efficiency is fair, repeaters representing 12 percent of
total enrollments. Hovever, the opening of further CEGs in the department
capitals is likely to increase the difficulties of obtaining employment at
this level and also pressures to enter the next level of the system.
12.       The Lycée National dates only from 1961, when neighboring Senegal's
university vas being created. With an enrollment of 711 in 1971/72, the lycée
follows French curricula, and the baccalauréat examination -- the key to higher
education -- is set and marked by the French Office of the Baccalaureate in
Dakar, Senegal. As this is the only general upper secondary school in the
country (the former lycee at Rosso was closed and later transformed into a



APPENDIX I
Page 6
lower secondary school folloving student disorders), 56 percent of the students
are boarders. The impact of the new CEGs on enrollments i8 to be met by five
new classrooms and two new science laboratories (a loan from Libya) at the
Lycee.
13.       The lycée has science facilities, but they do not appear to be used
systematically and the equipment is incomplete and from a variety of sources
(Chinese, Russian, American, etc.). For baccalaureate holders, scholarships
are available nationally at the ENS and at the National School of Adminis-
tration (ENA), which trains primarily for the civil service. These insti-
tutions are staffed mainly through French technical assistance although
they are headed by nationals. Other graduating students go abroad on nation-
al or foreign scholarshipe.
7
14.       Almost the entirety of the final year of the lycée is at present
absorbed by these sources; for example, in 1971/172, 113 students were in the
tirst year of university studies abroad. While this number includes over-age
students and repeaters, ve may assume that a high percentage of the 1970/71
"classe terminale", also 113, is included. Entry to universities abroad is
also possible from the ENS program for training lover secondary teachers,
since the two-year program is designed to be the equivalent of the French
DUEL or DUES (first-year certificate in letters and science).
15.       The financial burden of secondary education is high.  In 1970/71,
2,410 secondary students (70 percent of the total enrollment) received a
boarding scholarship of CFAF 47,500 a year ($206) and 568 (17 percent) a day
scholarship of CFAF 35,000 or $152.
Teacher Training
16.       Teacher training for primary education i  the responsibility of
the Primary Teacher Training School (ENI). There is no fixed program of
studies, and the timetable has changed several times during the last school
year. The school presently has two courses: "Cycle A" (86 students in
1971/72), a four-year course for "instituteurs adjoints", which is parallel
to the lover secondary course and includes only a small element of professional
training.  This program is rightly to be phased out and will be replaced by a
one-year course in pedagogy for lover secondary graduates. The other program
(145 enrollments in 1971/72) trains teachers with the lover secondary certifi-
cate in a three-year program. One section trains Arabophone graduates of the
Boutilimit Institute.
17.       The Ecole Normale Supérieure (ENS) trains teachers for lower secondary
education and deputy inspectors for primary education. ENS is temporarily
housed in the Youth Center (Maison des Jeunes) and uses the laboratories at
the ENI and the Lycée National. Buildings are likely to be constructed with
French aid. The goal is to train 303 teachers and 60 deputy inspectors by
1980. Recruitment is at baccalauréat level. The staff consists of 14 teachers,
two of whom are Mauritanians, for 63 students. The teacher training program
ensures equivalence with the first year of the university course in France.



APPENDIX I
Page 7
Eight of the 15 hours per week are devoted to the subjects to be taught by
the trainees, four to pedagogy and three to Arabic. The program for inspec-
tors is designed to provide training for administrative duties and pedagogical
couneelling; it comprises 14 hours of general education subjects and 10 hours
of educational theory and methods, school inspection and administration.
A practical test in school inspection is included in the final examination.
18.       The National School of Administration (ENA), which had an enroll-
ment of 80 in 1973, provides further training and education for civil servants
and prepares candidates for entry into the civil service on the basis of the
personnel requirements expressed by the various departments. Each year, de-
pending on demand, sections are opened or closed for training financial or
tax specialists, customs and postal officers, and personnel for public works,
justice and general administration. Training is at three levels: level A
(baccalauréat entry 3-year program) and levels B and C (2-year program for
B, entry with the lover secondary certificate; primary certificate and at
least one year of secondary for C), which prepare for entry to the correspond-
ing grades of the civil service. In 1973 somewhat over half of the enroll-
ments were in program B, the remainder in C. Program A (for senior posts),
which had 10 trainees in 1972, expects only 3 in 1974. It is hoped to expand
this program to 50, making the ENA a higher education institution; however,
the costs and quality of training might not compare favorably with overseas
training.  Entry is by competitive examination for non-civil service candid-
ates. Entrants from the civil service must have had three years' experience
in their present grade and have attended the summer preparatory course before
taking the competitive entrance examination. The college has trained 182
civil servants since it was founded in 1968. The staff consists of nine full-
time teachers, one of whom is Mauritanian, and 26 civil servants who teach
part-time. For the future it is planned to expand program A and to phase
our program C. ENA's programs are essentially theoretical, except for the
secretarial course, which includes some, but insufficient practical work (15
percent). The school lacks flexibility at present; on-the-job training for
civil service personnel and an operational problem-solving approach to admin-
istration which vould take staff and students into the work situation are
urgently required. Returning graduates will pose another problem over the
next few years: the need for orientation and ad hoc training for the higher
level administrative posts, hitherto not offered by the school. The ENS and
the ENA are Mauritania's only institutions that might be considered as offer-
ing higher education. Most of higher education graduates are trained abroad.
Higher Education (abroad)
19.       In 1971/72, 303 Mauritanians were studying overseas, about 50 percent
in law and arts subjects, 14 percent in science, 14 percent in medicine and
22 percent in technical subjects. The countries receiving the largest number
of students were the USSR, Senegal, France, Egypt and Algeria. The numher
per subJect is relatively low and apparent priorities (agriculture, mining
and geology, veterinary medicine, commerce) represent only 13 percent of the



APMENDIX I
IPagé 8
total.  African countries received 50 percent of the students.  Most of the
students vere at the beginning of their university education; 63 percent in
the first and second years.  The majotity vere receiving scholarahips, 27
percent of them nationally financèd.
Technical and Vocational Education
20.       Six public establihiente provide eduùation and training to some
600 students.  The MIFERMA miniag ce,pany also operâtes semi-skilled worker
vocational training centets at Nouadhibou and Zouerate with a similar enroll-
ment.
2t.       The College d'Ense4rç      tei que (CET - Technisal School)
provides a three-year courte fêr trainiing skilled workerse sôme of whom vill
go on to the teohnical Lyc4e (LT), which i8 being set up near the CET (39
students out of 286 in 1973).  tor CET graduates vith on-the-job experience
there is a foutth year leading to a higher qualification (t'Maitrise"). Candi-
datés for admission to the sehool muat have compieted at least six years of
priuary education and they are recruited on the basis of gtades and psycholo-
gical aptitude tests. The CT ôfférs a three-year program, leading to the CAP
(certificate of craftsman ability>)  the fistt year is essentially orientation,
with the program divi.ded aiaot equülly betweel  practical/t-echnological sub-
jects and general éducation; in the deoônd year four optione (sheet metal,
auto mechanic, general mechaniïta  tleetricity) ate offeted.  Again, almost
half of the program relates to the reinforcement of general skilis but the
practical work takes on a vecationai character. The third year is devoted
to specialization vithin oün &É tfie four oaptions, Which eventuall-y vill be
extended to 16 trades.  A cowittrei lneluding induetty representatives,
determines the direction a atudant t*kes after the fiFat yeaf. Industry
representatives alao partiipàte ini the cettiificate exa*ânation.  The past
rate for the certificate is; approxiMately 10 percent and about 50 percent
of the students ariginally enrolled attain the qualification. While the
course does include six weeks on-the-job experience in induatry during the
third year, it is claimed that the gràduates do not fit the specifications
actually sought by induetry.  mhis i9 perhaps because the schooles climate
and the students' expectations are academïic râther than vwrk-oriented. For
many, the course is a substitute for lover secondary and an alternative way
ta reach an upper secondary edueation. Indeed, a f£urth year does exist
which gives the better students further reinforcement in their general educa-
tion that enablés them to tackle the technical high school course (LT). In
this way the CAP program is, to some éxtent, biased toward further education.
Approximately 50 percent (20) of LT entrants are expected to reach the third
and final year; of these, 50 percent will continue for the final year of
technician training (technical baccalaùteate - BT) presently given in France.
For these few, the course represents an expensive eight years, with the BT
giving them t-he key to higher educatioE tathet than entry into the ranks of
technicians (where they would in any case require compleientary on-the-job
training). To improve the effectiveness of these facilities, the link between
the CET and the LT should be severed, making the CET a shorter, more practical



APPENDIX I
Page 9
program preparing older trainees more directly for the work enviroment. The
LT would recruit more generally from lower secondary as a science/technology-
orlented high school. Entry would be competitive but also of better quality
since a greater pool of candidates could be tapped. The level of entry,
however, would continue to be jeopardized by the essentially non-scientific
character of lower secondary education. The college and lycee techniques
have been progressively expanded with the aid of FAC. Further "tranches"
are scheduled for 1974 and 1975, with enrollments increasing to at least
400 by 1977. At that point the facilities would be under-utilized, given the
present programs. The teaching force planned for an enrollment of 400 is 49
(of whom 42 expatriates), giving a high ratio of 1:8. The required operating
budget would be FCFA 380 million or $1.6 million, largely borne by France.
MAURELEC Training Center
22.       On the same, central Nouakchott site as the CET/LT, the national
electricity company, MAURELEC, has constructed a small vocational training
center (30 trainees) for the upgrading of its staff. The center is equipped
with teaching aids developed by Electricité de France and is staffed through
French technical assistance. Opened in May 1972, the center provides a train-
ing course lasting one and a half to two years (in the case of illiterate
workers), with the emphasis on practical technical training (electricity,
automobile electrical systems). Literacy classes are also given. The classes
are scheduled within the normal working day. There is close collaboration
with the CET/LT, with reciprocal use of workshops. The Ministry of Public
Works has opened a similar center at Ksar (Nouakchott) for the further train-
ing of its mechanics, fitters and drivers, particularly those working on the
IDA road maintenance project.
Mamadou Touré Accelerated Vocational Training Center
23.       With a capacity of 160, this center had 123 trainees enrolled in
10 sections (3 marine - fishing, shipbuilding and diesel; 3 industrial -
sheet metal, auto and general mechanics; 4 building trades - masonry, carpentry,
electrical, construction). Trainees are recruited at age 18+, generally with
6-7 years of primary education. All boarded in 1972, but now 50 percent lodge
elsewhere. The courses last 9 months, are mainly practical (32 out of 40 hours
per week) and graduate semi-skilled workers. The curricula were designed by
the French Association for Vocational Training (AFPA) but have been adapted to
local needs. Aided by the center's sound administration, this approach gives
good results. Drop-out is low (10%) and most of the remaining students qualify
at the end of the year. Use of facilities is on the whole good, but the teach-
er/student ratio (normally 1:14 for this system) is still a high 1:9; however,
this includes Mauritanians receiving on-the-job training as instructors and
two non-teaching expatriates in administration. The marine sections appear to
be the weakest part of the program; although Mauritania has a fishing industry,
the fleets are of foreign register and there are no local entrepreneurs to
purchase the small wooden vessels the shipwrights are trained to make. The
planned Japanese-assisted marine school (which would have a training trawler)



APPENDIX I
Page 10
and the planned harbor extension works should provide the occasion to review
the usefulness of these sections in terms of Mauritania's future needs. The
center's own plans to develop cooperatives as an outlet for boats and trainees
seems rather premature.
24.       The National School for Commercial and Family Education (ENECOFA)
(1973) enrollment of 104) was established with the help of Unesco and UNICEF
in January 1971 to train commercial and secretarial personnel and family edu-
cation teachers ("monitrices d'enseignement familial"). The commercial educa-
tion section is at two levels: a first course, lasting two years and leading
to the CAP, and a second course, taking two years after the BEPC and leading
to the "brevet de technicien". General subjects account for 50 percent of
the instruction. The family education section provides a three-year training
course for girls who have reached the level of the final grade of primary
school, and leads to the family education CAP. The program includes 50 per-
cent of general educational subjects in the first two years and 30 percent
in the third year, which also provides for four months of practical training
in the field. The teaching staff consists of 2 Unesco experts, 2 French tech-
nical assistants and 2 Mauritanians, in addition to some 17 part-time teachers.
The school is housed in what was a private home, allowing no possibility for
expansion. Employment prospects are fair for graduates of the commercial
section, and undoubtedly there is a need for family education instructors
for both urban areas (the unemployed, tent-dwelling urban squatters in partic-
ular) and rural (in the context of agricultural operations, such as the
M'Pourié scheme, which are likely to have many new influences on the family
as a social and productive unit). Health and nutritional problems are a
cause for grave concern among the nomadic populations, where infant mortality
is particularly high. For these reasons, the League of Mauritanian Women
continues to give strong support to the school. Also, it would be more appro-
priate to transfer its commercial sections (two-thirds of the enrollments) to
a more practical work environment (such as the proposed Vocational Training
Center in Nouakchott) along with ENA's secretarial program. At present the
future of the school is uncertain. Its operating costs are high; however,
UNDP support extends to 1976 and the school's continued operation has been
requested by the League of Mauritanian Women. It is hoped that the Village
Training Center (Appraisal report, para. 4.05) will help identify more
precisely the specific professional profile required by the work context
in rural areas, thus giving feedback for future development of the school.
Agricultural and Extension Training
25.       The only institution of its kind in Mauritania, the Kaedi Center
for Agricultural and Extension Training had an enrollment of 60 in 1973.
Located on the Senegal River, in the most populous and settled agricultural
area, the center trains lower-level agricultural technicians (a three-year
program, with primary school education required for entry) and middle-level
extension workers (the latter program began in 1972, with recruiting at the
lover secondary school-leaving centificate level). Since 1968 (the year of
the first graduating class) the center has produced 76 graduates (50 of them



APPENDIX I
Page 11
agricultural agents), who have been hired by the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment. The motivation of the trainees (they have tended to regard the center
as a substitute for the lower secondary schools which they were either too
old oc too poorly qualified to enter) and their background (often urban
rather than rural) have worked against the success of the program. Moreover,
the program is increasingly ill-adapted to Mauritanian needs, focusing on
rain-fed crops typical of dry-climate areas rather than on the newer farming
technology required by the large-scale irrigated crop areas which the goverm-
ment and aid donors/lenders are encouraging in the Senegal River and south-
eastern agricultural zones (in the 400 mm or above rainfall belts). Some 18,700
hectares of land vill ultimately be under irrigation, excluding the state farms
(to be established within each of the large schemes as both production units
and models/resources for the farmers). Approximately 13,000 hectares are to be
distributed to small farmers. Thus, at least 4,000 heads of family will need
to be trained in new agricultural techniques and to receive constant on-the-job
guidance. The importance of an active and technically adapted corps of exten-
sion workers is clear. The UNDP, which has aided the school for five years,
has extended its financing to permit re-orientation of the school toward these
new tasks. An FAO expert redesigned the program during 1972/73 and has been
appointed Chief Technical Adviser to follow through on his work. The new
programs, which include 30 percent of practical work, will train lower (program
C) and middle-level (program B) technicians in a three-year program, with one
year of specialization at level C and two years for program B. For program
C, entrants (who must be between 15 and 19 years of age) must pass a competi-
tive entrance examination and must have at least a primary school certificate.
For program B, recruitment is at two levels -- for students in upper secondary
school (ages 16-20) and for staff of the Ministry of Rural Development who are
under age 35 and have three years' experience in a post immediately below the
one they seek to enter. Again, entry is on a competitive basis. All success-
ful candidates receive scholarships (approximately CFAF 40,000). The school's
capacity is 75 but with improved utilization 115 could be accommodated. In
1972/73 there were 33 trainees in program C and 27 in program B (its first
year of operation). Thus, by 1975 the output will be approximately 15 per
year in program C and 20 in program B, assuming some drop-out. The school is
staffed by 5 UNDP experts and one Mauritanian, assisted in practical work by
8 lower-level Mauritanian technicians. Three UN volunteers were supposed to
have handled the general education courses but they have not yet been recruited.
Another 8 Mauritanian instructors are being trained in France; they will return
in 1974. Major tasks for the director and his CTA will be to establish confi-
dence in the school (frequent staff changes and student unrest have damaged its
reputation in recent years) and also to strengthen its relationship with its
clientele, the various services of the Ministry of Rural Development. The
school has been and still is operated by the Ministry of Technical and Pro-
fessional Education; this may have been a factor in poor coordination in the
past. It might also be useful to consider separating training from what is
essentially upgrading (in the case of serving officers) in program B; the
differences in age and experience among the program entrants would argue for
this. Similarly, better selection of recruits for both programs should be
a continuing goal, given the past problems experienced with the motivation of



APPENDIX I
Page 12
trainees. Another urgent task vill be the re-training ln irrigation techniques
of agents in the field. The present plan, which seems sound, is to defer
recruitment in 1974/75 to the following year so as to devote the time and
capacity thus freed to the re-traiuing and simultaneous evaluation of all
existing field extension personnel. In view of their poor performance in the
past, this seems entirely justified. Unit costs per year are high (US$2,140),
and therefore increased utilization of the staff and facilities is desirable.
Although a period of reform has hopefully begun, the Agricultural Services
remain unsatisfied vith the 8chool' products and are frankly akeptical about
its future performance. In particular, they feel that the need for "grass-
roots" extension workers -- themselves former successful peasants -- is not
yet met and cannot be met by a formal institution. For this reason, they give
strong support to the proposad village training center, which vill address
this specific need.
Righer-level Agricultural Trainlng
26.       In the next four years some 12 agricultural engineers, 3 veterinarians
and 8 middle-level technicians vill return from abroad. Of the 12 engineers,
8 are being trained by BDPA in France to take up posts at the Kaedi Center.



APPENDIX II
Page 1 of 3
MAURITANIA
EDUCATION FINANCE
General
1.       Central government recurrent expenditures on education/training (Annex 3)
have increased considerably (by about 15% p.a.) in the past five years, from CFAF
1,248 million in 1969 to CFAF 2,172 million in 1973 (budget estimate, excluding
for comparative purposes the government contribution to technical assistance per-
sonnel and other transfers, amounting to CFAF 200 million). In 1973 these re-
current expenditures on education accounted for about 21% of the total. The educa-
tion sector's share of the recurrent budget has remained at about the same level
in the past five years, but represents a significant increase since independence
(14% in 1960), which is indicative of the priority attached to the sector.
2.       Regional,authorities also contribute to the costs of education but only
at the level of formal primary schools. Adequate comparative information has been
collected only for 1969 and 1970, in which years the regional governments expended
CFAF 56 million and CFAF 61 million, amounting to 9.3% and 8.5% respectively, of
their total recurrent expenditures. These amounts were allocated for student board-
ing in sparsely populated, nomadic areas and for school canteens. The regional
expenditures varied from less than 1% in the District of Nouakchott to 15.2% in the
Fifth Region (1970).
3.       Other recurrent expenditures on education include those for private educa-
tion (Ben Amer schools and schools operated by the mining companies), estimated at
about CFAF 100 million per year (Unesco - Mauritania, Education and Development), and
those contributed by parents to the traditional Koranic school teachers, the amount
of which is difficult to assess.
4.       A substantial amount of recurrent expenditures and most of the capital
expenditures are being met by external assistance, particularly from France in the
form of teachers, materials, scholarships and construction of facilities. By 1972-
1973 there were 183 expatriate teaching and school administrative personnel pro-
vided under technical assistance programs. The expansion of secondary level institu-
tions has actually increased Mauritania's dependence on foreign sources for teach-
ing staff, which in many instances amounts to 90-100% of the institutions' personnel.
The cost of technical assistance to the government, including provision for housing,
is about equal to the salaries of local personnel. The government's annual con-
tribution to technical assistance personnel from France, Federal Republic of Germany,
and Yugoslavia amounts to CFAF 360,000 per person, but for those of other origins
it is as high as CFAF 900,000. Lodging costs average FCFA 80,000 per month. The
most significant capital investments by external sources in recent years and for
projects under study are listed on page 3 of this Appendix.
5.       The total administrative costs are a reasonable proportion of the total re-
current expenditures on education, some 3%.  Because of the high primary unit costs,
about 43% of the total recurrent expenditures ui« allocated to this level, 95% of it



APPENDIX II
Page 2 of 3
for teacher salaries. The proportion of the budget allocated for materials for the
various types of education/training at the secondary level is very low. This is
not clear from the budgetary allocations because scholarships and student allowances
have been included in the allocations for materials; for example, of CAFA 1,079
million for secondary general, technical and vocational education, about CFAF 180
million is for materials and CFAF 491 million for scholarships.
6.       Scholarships have been used as an incentive to induce students to attend
school. The costs are clearly excessive, ranging from CFAF 35,000 (lowest day
scholarship for a general secondary school student) to CFAF 240,000 for an A level
trainee at the ENA. The scholarships include allowances for teaching materials
(CFAF 4,500 - 13,500), clothes and pocket money (CFAF 10,000 - 54,000) and board
and lodging (CFAF 9,000 - 81,000). Since most of the schools are located in the
two main urban areas (Nouakchott and Nouadhibou), the public budget also includes
provisions for travel costs of all students attending the schools but not residing
in these areas. All these considerations, as well as less than full use of facilities
and staff, have pushed unit costs to very high levels; at the primary level to
CFAF 41,000, at the lover secondary level to CFAF 169,000, and at the upper secondary
level to CFA? 235,000. The unit costs at the secondary level represent an average
for the different types of education. The cost of some programs is too high; for
example, in 1973 unit costs at ENECOFA amounted to CFA? 288,000 for trainees in
the first cycle and CFAF 363,000 for those in the second cycle. Most of the students
pursuing higher level students outaide Mauritania in 1973, less than 100 were
supported directly by the Mauritanien government. Most of the students are study-
ing in Arab countries.
Prolection of Expenditures
7.       The following main assumptions have been used in the Unesco report for the
projection of expenditures: annual population growth is estimated at 2% from 1970
to 1980 and 2.5% from 1980 to 2000; GDP is expected to grow at 5.3% per year from
1970 to 1980 and at 6% thereafter.  Average teacher salaries are assumed to increase
by at leact 1.75% per year, which is half the real growth of per capita GDP.
Finally, it is assumed that recurrent expenditure per student will grow at the same
rate as teacherse salaries,
8.       The estimated annual recurrent costs by 1980 generated by the different
project components would be as follows:
CFAF million
Kaedi  Radio Center                14.0 L1
M'Pourié Village Center             7.t
Teacher Training (CPN)                 
Nouakchott Training Center         21.2 Z?
Nouadhibou Training Center         20.2
Total      62.8  or UM 12.6 million
/1 Additional expenditures CFA? il million.
T2 Includes student allowances (transport costs, day fellowships and
canteen) of about CFAF 9 million which are deemed necessary, given
the dispersion of the population in Mauritania.



(I
EXTERNAL AID IN THE FIELD OF EDUCATION
Amount     Millions
Source                                  Purpose of Project                $000's      CFA francs   Period       Comments
A. Current proiects
UNDP/Unesco                  Technology teaching at secondary
level                                  30.0                    1972
UNDP/Unesco                  ENECOFA, Nouakchott                       182.0                    1972-76
UNDP/FAO                     CFVA, Kaedi                            1,143.3                     1971-75       2nd stage
UNICEF                       Student-training scholarships,
further training courses for
teachers, ENECOFA scholarships         57.2                    1972-73
WFP                          School meals                              910.0                    1971-75
France                       Supply of teachers                                                 1972          130 teachers
FED                          Construction of buildings for
primary schools (Nouakchott,
Kae'di, Kiffa, Aioun, Atar,
Mederdra, Boghé, Tidjikja) and
secondary schools (Kaedi,
Boghé)                                            291,250      1970-72
B. Pro4ects under
study_
UNDP/Unesco                   Technical assistan'e to the Educa-
tion Studies Office                   240.0
UNDP/ILO                      "Rural pre-training"                      570.0
UNDP                          Wool training center                       65.0
France                        Construction of Secondary Teacher
France                           Training College                                                                /3
France                        Expansion of Technical Lycêe                                       1972            73
France                        Supply of 100-kw short-wave radio
transmitter                                                                    14
France
Construction of National School of
France                           Administration                                                                 Volunteers
Participation in the "Rural pre-                                                  to be
Libya                            training" project                                                              supplied
Construction of Islamic Lycée at
Boutilimit                                        .
/1  Excluding financing of scholarsl.ips.
2Excluding continuation of current projects. 
/3  Projects that appear to be finally approved.                S
74  Now approved (November 1973)                                Source:  Information compiled by the Unesco/IBRD
missions.                                           O
'u j






APPENDIX III
Page l
MUURITANIA
EXPERIMENTAL STUDY OF LITERACY TRAINING
IN THE KORANIC SCHOOLS OF MAIURITANIA_
Objectives
1.01      Alongside the inherited colonial school system a traditional educa-
tion system existe in Mauritania whose goal is to help children understand
the Koran. This involves first learning to read and write Arabic script.
Since the proposed education reforms include increased use of Arabic in gov-
ernnent schools, the two systems have in coimmon the objective of literacy.
While ability to read and write effectively is the key to other subjects, at
present this access may be handicapped by a child's need to master two lang-
uages to be successful in the formal school. In the case of areas speaking
non-Arabo-Berber languages, trilingualism may in fact be required.
1.02      In the formal government schools, costs are high (Appendix II,
para. 6), precluding any significant extension, and the curriculum is geared
to secondary level entrance requirements rather than to the skills and knowledge
required for living successfully in Mauritania. Since modern employment
opportunities are limited, the primary school not only creates expectations
that cannot be fulfilled but is also an extremely expensive way of preparing
the few who do accede to secondary school. Thus the government is interested
in incorporating, though not necessarily taking over, the Koranic school into
a national program which would spread literacy in the primary age group with-
out undue increase in recurrent costs. It is also interested in exploring
the extension of literacy among adults, through existing informal Arabic
schools or through government-operated literacy classes.  Once literacy has
been generalized, the Government could mount non-formal training programs for
youth and adults and also use mass media more effectively to spread the knowl-
edge and skills required for development. Should the traditional Koranic
system prove capable, perhaps with modest inputs, of providing basic education
(reading, writing and arithmetic) up to the grade 2 or 3 level, the government
could permit Koranic pupils to transfer to advanced grades in the primary
schools to the extent that enrollm,ent expansion were permitted by the develop-
ment of the modern sector.
1.03      The traditional system h.as three levels:  literacy and memorizing
the Koran for children in the primary age group, and the Mahadra schools for
youth and adults.  There are also non-formal Ben Amer schools for adults
(Appendix I, para. 9) with similar methods to those of the Koranic school.
Given the low literacy rate in Mauritania, these adult schools would also be
part of the experiment, to ascertai:n whether simple inputs could improve their
organization.
1.04      The proposed experimental study would address all three levels to
examine the learning which Koranic students actually achieve and to determine
what could be attained through modest inputs and some guidance to the teachers



APPENDIX III
Page 2
and what alternative forms a national program of basic education based on
these results might take. Finally, detailed recoimmendations in the form of
costed plans would be submitted to the government. Active field experimen-
tation would give the advantage of permitting the design, development and
testing of some of the tools (radio, supporting written materials, pedagogi-
cal methods) which would be required for an eventual extension of basic
education.
1.05      In the first year, the study team (largely national), would select
schools for participation in the experiment, select materials and methods,
prepare radio broadcasts and supporting documentation, and develop tests to
evaluate both the results of present teaching activities and the improvements
to be achieved through new inputs. Parents and village councils in partici-
pating villages would be carefully briefed about the goals of the experiment
lest they feel that the religious goals of the Koranic school were being
undermined.  The government has agreed that the National Educational Reform
Commission will supervise the study and consult closely with the religious
leaders.
2.01      The study vould have the following specific goals:
(i) Neasure the present level of Arabic literacy (reading
and vriting) and arithuetic attalned by students in
first-level achools and, by experiment, see what
functional level of Arabic literàcy could be attained
through inexpensive materials, radio broadcasts for
students and teachers, and supervision by pedagogical
counselors (Arab-speaking and Moslem).
(ii) Evaluate other pedagogical improvements attained in the
youth/adult schools with similarly modest inputs of
supervision, materials and broadcasts.
(iii) Review the overall cost effectiveness of the improved
first level and youth/adult schools.
(iv) Make recommendations to the government on future policy
for all levels of non-formal Koranic education.
3.01      The Experimental Study
Responsibilities:
(a)  The director of the National Pedagogical Center
(CPN) of the Ministry of Basic Education and
Religious Affairs, would be responsible for the
study. He would be aided by qualified Mauritanian
and expatriate personnel.



APPENDIX III
Page 3
(b) The director of the Education Project would be
responsible for all financial accounting and report
to IDA on the study at regular intervals, in particular
at the end of the design and experimental phases and on
the results of the stuay.
Resources Required:
4.01      Supervisory personnel would be assigned to the experimental
schools.  From the points of view of availability and skills and experience,
it would be advisable to use the Arabic-speaking primary school inspectors
(graduates of the E.N.S.) who are attached to each region. Arrangements
would be made (in terms of time allocation, travel allowances and transpor-
tation) to permit these inspectors to visit and counsel the Koranic teachers.
An intensive briefing course would be held to acquaint participating inspec-
tors with the study objectives. An advantage would be that the inspectors
generally would have attended Koranic schools themselves.
4.02      Instructional materials, supplementary to the Koran, would be pre-
pared on the basis of a detailed pedagogical analysis of existing teaching
practice in the schools and would be supplied to the Koranic teachers
(Marabouts) and their pupils. These literacy materials would broaden the
content of Arabic language instruction to include functional, everyday words
and would systematically introduce teaching methods, adapted to the Marabouts'
capabilities, which would facilitate language learning. Where the Koranic
teacher has basic numeracy, adapted materials and methods would be developed
to help him introduce this element.
4.03      Short but frequent radio broadcasts addressed to teachers and
pupils would be used to reinforce and supplement the written materials and
to advise the teachers. Through radio, the support of celebrated cultural
and religious leaders could be actively engaged.
Year One
5.01      On the basis of available demographic data (see SEDES: Demographic
Study of 1965, pp. 44, 189, 190; and CEA sampling of 1973) plus field visits,
five administrative regions would be selected for the study. Four regions
would have predominantly nomadic populations (possibly regions 2, 5, 6 and
7), while one region would be more settled, with a Toucouleur population
(conceivably region 4).
5.02      Standardized, objective tests would be prepared to sample achieve-
ment levels in Arabic literacy and arithmetic in the Koranic schools and
Ben Amer schools in the designated regions. Pre-testing of these instruments
could be carried out in the immediate Nouakchott area. The tests would need
to cover a knowledge range from O to about grade 4 equivalent, given the
probable broad spectrum of student achievement. Since a proportion of the
Koranic school students would also be attending primary school, data about



APPENDIX III
Page 4
students' school attendance and family background would be gathered by ques-
tionnaire so as to separate out the group of primary school attenders. A
useful parallel study would be to examine the impact of Koranic school attend-
ance on performance in Arabic-taught primary school subjects.
Design and Development Phase
6.01      After field testing and revision, the tests and questionnaires
would be administered by CPN staff, ENS students and the regional Arabic
inspectors to both pupils and teachers in a sample of schools in each region.
In addition to information which will help define the profiles (both pedagogi-
cal and sociological) of the Koranic teacher and his students, it will be
important to explore other dimensions of this informal schooling: for exam-
ple, how many teachers and classes are there in a village of a given size;
how does one become a Koranic teacher/student; will changing/adding to exist-
ing curricula and methods be welcomed; does adherence to the Koranic school
vary according to tribal group or according to the life style of the popula-
tion; to what extent will supervision and other controls be tolerated. These
questions - and many others - must be answered in order to ascertain the ad-
vantages and the difficulties of using the Koranic school as one of the found-
ation stones of a restructured national system of education.
6.02      In the case of the adult schools it will be interesting to make a
comparison of the costs, the effectiveness and the attractiveness to the
population between these establishments and the courses given by the govern-
ment's literacy service. Would, for example, a functional literacy approach
be cheaper and better received? Or is the religious/cultural element indis-
pensable to motivation?
Year Two
Experimental Phase
7.01      In each of the five regions a sample of schools at each level
would be designated for the experiment. The sample should be modest, given
the difficulties of communication, but large enough to provide good feedback
about the degree of adaptation of the materials, methods and broadcasts. A
control group of schools could be selected, should this be considered necess-
ary. The inputs might also be varied in subsamples so as to permit the as-
sessment of the level at which significant changes in performance occur.
7.02      Radio broadcasts to the Koranic school pupils would be prepared in
direct relation to the materials prepared. The deputy director of the study
would be responsible for coordinating the work calendars of the CPN teams
working on broadcasts and written materials, with due regard for the logisti-
cal problems posed by distribution of printed documentation. One approach
would be to have the Arabic inspectors deliver materials; however, as this
means delivering perhaps as much as two months' materials at a time, produc-
tion activities should be scheduled accordingly. The inspectors should visit



APPENDIX III
Page 5
the experimental schools at least three times during the year of experimenta-
tion (which can be planned flexibly so as to take advantage of the free peri-
ods in the inspectors' schedules since the Koranic school is continuous and
year-round), spending at least the equivalent of a full day, including obser-
vation of classes, on each visit. At the end of the period, the field survey
teams (CPN and ENS staff and students, plus external specialists) would
administer tests and questionnaires in the participating schools so as to
examine changes in performance and attitudes.
Year Three
8.01      During the third year, the experiences and data of the first two
years would be analyzed with a view to formulating economically viable pro-
gram(s) for recommendation to the government.  The analysis should answer at
least the following questions:
(a)  Were increases in learning achieved?
(b)  What were the costs?
(c)  Which inputs (written materials, broadcasts, supervisor, changes
in motivation accompanying these) were most significant in bring-
ing about the increased learning?
(d)  What lessons were learned about relationships with the Koranic
teachers, their students, and the villages which would guide the
design of an extended program?
(e)  What were the typical nature and value of payments (cash or in
kind) made by parents to Koranic schools and the frequency and
extent of such payments?
(f)  Were logistical problems solved?
(g)  What profiles (of the Koranic teacher, of the inspector) were
most suited to extended implementation?
(h)  What would be the operational problems in linking the non-formal
Koranic school to the formal system or to a modified version of it?
8.02      On the basis of this analysis, alternatives would be formulated and
used as the basis of a detailed planning exercise, subsequent to their review
by the government and by IDA. Alternative plans should indicate:
(i)  further investments required for the design, development and
production of materials/broadcasts and for staff training
(inspectors/pedagogical advisers, technical personnel);



APPENDIX III
Page 6
(ii) the size and characteristics of the target populations;
(iii) the recurrent costs of an extended program;
(iv) a detailed calendar of implementation.
PERSONNEL NEEDED FOR STUDY
Mauritanian Personnel                          Nan-Moutha
1.   The director of CPN, 1/4 time in              9 M/m
charge of study for 3 years         70,000x9-630,OO0 CFAF
2.   One primary inspector to help
prepare tests, distribute materials,         36 m/m
full-time 3 years                   60,OOOx36-2,160,000
3.   One primary inspector to prepare radio
broadcasts to Koranic and adult              36 m/m
schools, full-time 3 years          60,000x36-2,160O000
4.   Five regional Arabic inspectors to serve
as part-time supervisors to Koranic         60 m/m
schools, 1/3 time 3 yrs x 5         60,000x60-3,600,00
5.   Ten ENS or ENI students to administer, code
and analyze tests and questionnaires,       30 m/m
during one month in each of three years, l
month x 3 yrs. x 10 (on scholarships)
Contribution of personnel by government 8,550,000 CFAF (US$41,000)
Foreign Personnel
One Arabic-speaking specialist, to be assigned
to the CPN full-time for 3 years       36 m/m       US$ 130,000
Varlous consultants for work on func-
tional literacy, test construction,
selection of broadcasts, logistical   30 m/m        US$ 110,000
problems, cost-analysis, etc.
Expatriate Total    US$ 240,000



APPENDIX III
Page 7
MATERIALS NEEDED FOR THE STUDY
5 small vehicles for the inspectors, 5 x 3,500           20,000
1 vehicle for the CPN                                     7,000
Literacy materials and numeracy materials                20,000
Other school supplies                                     3,000
Supplies and equipment for the experiment                 8,000
Operating costs of 6 vehicles for 3 years
10,000 km/yr x 3 yrs x 6 - 180,000 km.
180,000 x 15 j                                           27,000
Field expenses for students + other team members          9,000
US$ 94,000
Suumary of Disbursements
Personnel:          Mauritanian*          6,000
Expatriate        240,000
Materials and supplies                   94,000
US$ 340,000
*Driver and secretary






APPENDIX IV
MAURITANIA EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1..       The project includes a provision for about 46 man-years of
specialist services to assist the government in implementing the project
and training local counterparts. The cost of this technical assistance
is estimated at US$1,860,200, exclusive of specialist services for the
basic education study (Annex 1, this Appendix) and administrative/design
services related to implementation. In addition, this project includes a
provision for about 12.5 man-years of fellowships to local personnel for
training abroad. The total cost of fellowships, including the special
local fellowships for the agriculture radio and village training components,
is estimated at US$93,000. Annex 1 to this Appendix gives the implementa-
tion periods of the specialist services and the fellowships.
2.        Two of the technical assistance programs included in the above
provision and totaling US$1,239,000 will be discussed separately. The
first concerns the Nouakchott Vocational Training Center and the second
the special technician training program to be established at the Mamadou
Touré Vocational Training Center in Nouadhibou.
3.        The Nouakchott Vocational Training Center for the training and
upgrading of industrial and clerical workers would commence operations
with an expatriate director and with three Mauritanians and four expatriate
specialists in administrative and teaching posts. During the first three
years of operations an additional four Mauritanians would be trained;
after a short period during which they would be the counterparts to the
technical assistance specialists, they would assume teaching duties.
No training program to replace the specialist in industrial drawing is
planned; it is expected that the small demand for draughtsmen can be met
in the two years during which a special program would be offered; after
a few years the director of the center would review the need for another
such program. Finally, the training program for the local director would
comprise two phases: the first would involve his training/upgrading as
a teacher, and the second his training in administration/management. The
initial training program of the local director would depend on his back-
ground, which preferably should be in one of the clerical/commercial areas.
4.        The special technician training program to be established at
the Mamadou Touré Vocational Training Center would require a total of 29
man-years for administrative and teaching staff and about one man-year
for program preparation, equipment lists, etc. The following distribution
of the staff is expected: one director for four years, 3 teachers for two
years, and 5 teachers for four years. Assuming that MIFERMA will provide
at least 11 man-years of the teaching requirements and one man-year for
program development and preparation of equipment lists, 18 man-years would
remain to be financed within the project and the corresponding provision
has been made.






MAUJRITANJIA
Techoical Assistance_Rgurmet   (xcoin   tuy
ITaplementation Period
Year            1           2            3               4               S               6                7             Total
A. Specialists/Project                              o     Quarter        i 2 3 4   S 67 8   9 10 il 12   13 14 15 16   17 18 19 20   21 22 23 24   25 26 27 28   Man-Menthe    Coat
Agricutturat Radio                          1                               x x x x   x  Rt x  x                                                                             24         88,000
Agricoltural Training                       2                               ax  ax    x  x  a  a                                                                             48        176,000
Teacher Training                            2                          a   x x a                                                                                             24         88,000
Tndust. & Clerical Training, M/Choit  7a/                          . a a   a ax a a        a  a  a    a  a  a  a    a  a  a  a    a                                         159       530,000
Technician Training                         4                      X X X      XXX       X  a  a                      x a               a  a    x  a  a  a    x  a  x  a     216       709,000
(Nouadhibou)
Manpower Specialist                         i                        xx    axax x                                                                                            16         66,000
Project Manager                             1                   atc xx    axax x    a  a                                                                                     30       210,000
Sub-Total                                                                                                                                                               519      1,767,000
B.Flishs
Agricultural Radio                         b!                                                                                                                                           10,000
Agricuituraf Training                       c!                         a                                                                                                                 2,200
Indust. & Clerical Training, N/Choit  7                         a a a a   a a a a   a  a  a  a    a  a  a                                                                   138        74,000
Manpower Specialist                         I                        xx   x x                                                                                                12          7,000
Sob-Ttarai,2C
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                         1,860,200
a/ Detaiied description cf technical assistance and Mauritanization of poste scheme in Annex 2 to Appendia TV.
b!Twos persons to visit similar schemesa in other African coontries (ai $2,500 each) and ten tripe for short vieite to Senegal for exchange of information
(at $500 each).
c! Feilowships for epecial agricolttural training program of permanent staff of the village training tenter.
Nevember 30, 1973                                                                                                                                                                                                         O



MAURITANIA
Technical Assistance and Mauritanization Scheme
For Nouakchott Training and Upgrading Center                                           Costs (US$ 000)
a/                                    b/ Scholar-
TA          Scholarships                            Implementation Scheduleî                                       Tt-  ships       Total
Posts/Profession         Man-Years        Man-Years         Q     1 2 3 4   5 6 7 8   9 10 11 12   13 14 15 16   17 18 19 20
Director
Specialist                 4                                               xx x x   x  x  x  x    x  x  x  x    x  x  x  x                    176              176
Mauritanian                                2.5                  T T T T   ...   . .           T  T    T  T  T  T        -  -  -  -                    15         19
Building Mainwork                            1.5    T T T T T T ...9  9
Building Subsidary                           1.5                  T T T T TT                 .             .             . .  . . .                      9    9
Typing                                       1.5                  T TTT TT    .    .    . . . . . .                                                      9   9
Draughtsman                   2                                                 x x x   x  x  x  x    x                                          66                66
Accountant
Specialist                  2                                                x x x   x  x  x  x    x                                           66               66
Mauritanian                                1.5                             TT T T   T  T  -  -    -                                                    9          9
Secretary-Act. Clerk
Specialist                  2                                                x xx    x x  x  x  x    x                                         66               66
Mauritanian                                1.5                             TT T T   T  T  -  -    -                                                    9          9
Mech. General Maintenance
Specialist                  2                                                x xx x   x  x  x  x    x                                          66                66
Mauritanian                                1.5                             TT T T   T  T  -  -    -                                                    9          9
General
Procurement              1/4                                    x                                                                              11               1i2
Program Develop-
ment/Evaluation          2                                   x  x      x x   x       x               x               x                       88               88            N
TOTAL             13 1/4          11.5                                                                                                 539     73       '612 
C+
o
x technical assistance; T training of locals; - - - counterpart period of locals; . . . teaching by locals.
a/ Assumes credit effectiveness (Q) Jan-March 1974; center open for operation Fa111975 (7th Quarter).                                                                           C
b/ Estimated at $40,000/year for director and,evaluator and at $30,000/year for rest of specialist staff.



COMPAATIVE  REPTATION  INEICATOEI                                                                                                                          ANNEX i
Publia   T ut ON?       ~% oR Total    ?nttnary  Pr,eary         Onnnndnty         s..e..ed-ry                     '            Anenal  Pelpet
tîeas Edu...ti-e       Deveted tn         ablir Eu-   RE it.1-  S tedeeta    En-o1-           SenedaaY        Studentu       Higher En-        RenIietghe-
Rate      Eupenditte-e    Edn...tte          peedit.ren    men t       Per          ment          Re-nîlee.t        per          ro11e.et te       Cdnatee
Pnpnlutlne       CER/CAPITA    (% oR          Par Capita        (Public Ee-    tcmn   En   lact           Tnunher       Racla Net         Cm          muhe          Ag~ice it-r           10,08
Adulte)    (RatEnt             pndtee          dctne         PnPnaiul Enl                                                               m           ?pltn
Prince US$)         nm1sy)                                                             tnel            ime           Eeginemcng
Veut     (ntIllame.)         (US$)                                                                                                                              E.__
mueRai t  the avlatem
vaatnuiedunattntieyeteieeutid  the  heetrla               ~~~~~1969       1.4 F         2,010 P          99             73               4.39.                        99           4660E 24                                                                      776
amaîyada aR relatlra  atagee  f Caeadu                             2970          21.-I P         3,700R?         93             309              6.1             20 E          99 R        25            80 R1I  E                       l9                              1
edatine    .dee       ....e be_re _        eneaey, PrA. Rep.                1969          61,6 p          2,930 P         99              85               3.1             9.1DI        96          38             66y           283             21            75                230
areenuth.ee'.Raenr  ne              Jpu                                969         103.4 F          1,2EP            99             Il C             3.9            20.5          99          26             90            20              21            21                308
the beat  et_ Cepeetnt,                   Nteam199                                         13.0? F         3,430?F         99            18E               7.               30.0m        99 R        30           6,6             41             19             25                230
nrnes~uat1ael  anieparene ehauld Nec Cnelamd                       1921           3.8 F          2,700 P         99             118              4.8 id6.  N                   99          21            68            ...18                          18                287
6et appra.he wtEi.th~   f.ainuttn.g        N-rey                              1970           3.9            2,860           99             169              6.7              17.3         99          23            71En           22 E            16            22                 64 c
RtabI prse- e b-   .1.the dRn1metg.-          ee                              1970           8.1 F          4,040 P         99             311              9.0              15.0        1(0          18            88             51              14            14                240
tabl  buhuenîetdln-                        RUitted Ktegdua                    1969          55.7            2,070 P         97              94              5.8              13.8         98          28            38              O C           18             16                188B
gy hy tha BunE mîceres   ram                                                  1978         204.8           4,76R            99             253              5.8              06.0         97          25            94            . . .            3                                2
u-ehf ith.te dta  Nhenk thelune                 Cren                          1971           8.9 P          1,090?F         82E             23E R2.2                         9.3 E        99 E        33E O          9E            16ER            31Et          14EI               86F
euh dut. a ar  atil Rieperon  Cm          2.  Ieeîad                        1.72           3,0 H          1,390 H          98             90              5.1             14 .8         92          35            25             22              19             -.154
emea -epel    ud4  Rant_ Ce            I 01i6                       1970          33.6            1.020           94DI            28              2.4             12.35E        91          35            29             22 C           38             19                 31 C
ekîgtu imprave thee pangnen-           APRICA
m 5muthe   rurn   utn t
ap -taa    ak.  On th' are et
thee- data, the   aîeu  quult-             4.  Al9enti                        1921          13.8              300           25 P            34 P            90OF            29.9FP        64          40             13            18              26             6                 25
fi-ti-   h.Id b~   -..  i.      3.  Camernan                       1970           5.8              180          . ..              6              3.8             18.0          74          48             8             2332                           4                   7
ttalaeabuA6ehre   n                         6.  C. A. R.                      1970           1.6              140          . .54.0                                          20.0          73XP        64             4xs           18              30
mEnA:               d         ~           . -d1970                                         3.6              60             7              SI4.30                         14.31         33          72              2             8              30
1)l  bIRdn -ut due'  ae ~detr   tle       8:  En... (B)                      19 70          09300                          30 I            14              5.8            23.0           RIE         50            13             10             28
the 1-tabeImgndn-  ail edculeittpîa                                           1921          24.6 P             80 P          7               34.0FT                         19.5          16          51             3              2             34             17
ued tnatnlmg, tarnul amd ene-   10.  Gub-                          1968            0.5 P           630FP          30 Dl          1ilC            3.3 c           13.07C        25          40 O           10            18              18 E           I
foamnal;                       ~~~~~~~~~11.  Chu..  7..             970            0.              310          ..3                              4.7             21.  Q         4          29              8             4              1815ER                            13 E
2.)d Prtmry- educa.tia- eRr             12:  Poe   u968                                    4,9 P           311?F             A           10              4,2 C           20.4          44          46              6             8              238 
ta  dntio-  ut tha ftirt   Zee             3     oy                            9190         11,3              15             0 R8 O5.3                                      20.0          64          3h            10              2             32             29R- 
anA curundaVl  uduatlunretec      14.  Libenie                        490              .3             240           15               8              3.7             11.7          30X         31            12E             h             16             192                 9 c
.1 th~~         15.   Mal                           1072           3.0 P             2p           10               3              4.6 N           32.M8                     4              4              6              17            3
_u a ienmiu    nthe eennur            16.  Muortiutai                     1970            0,7             140            102                            4520.0                        os s        22              3            13              24            15
general   tenhatul,  aginultuma1);  17.  M  --na                        1920          13.5              230           200              9              4 N1           17.4           54          35            12              3              22             3                  7A
18.  Nigariu                       0971          53.5       1        20p          ..                      3      3.                             4 E         7              4            Il              23             6                   6
33 'Oucattaeal    danuttun  (Cal. 19.    naa                     1968            3.8 P            230FR         l      ~       il P             3.5            20.I          43XE         46             8X p          2              25              2 C8 A
00   rîdeaerlenul   eh    20.  Starc  Len.e                              0968           2,4 P            19E0p         27              4               3_0            00.3C         32           31            13              2C            25             22                 94
nînal, Raneratul,  agtnelrnral, 21.  S...ulCu                      4971             2. tF            7rF                          I               ..              67Et                     30              2             2              20            20                   OA
a_m.l   d hm.u.-e.n.. .n          ,22.  Indue                          1920           07                12E          ..               4 A             3.3O           22.0 O        31XP        480A            2 A           3C             17 A           203B               10C
onnaClamol                 23.  ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~T- -ee            1971          03.3 P            10 E         ...               4              4.5             16.4.         37          45              2             t              29            CC                   3
unacete;                       ~~~~~~~~~24.  ugauda                19 70          9.               130            VS5A            6              5.2 N           24.3 Q        4h PC       36              4U Pil                       21            10                   5
4) "Litararyratetu   (Cal. 3)           25.  Uppen lana092                                 53.4 p            h4F p                         2              40             27 .4          10          45             2              3             23              6                  1
are niaally  htaieed îtuecanl-ry   36.  lu-r                                  1870          18.8               90           13               8              5'7 N           19.0 R        78          44              8            20              24            10                   2 O
nununun.    On  _ay  __ntetra rhey   27.  zanhia                              1971           4.1 P            40E0F         43              18              5.6             17.4          80 P        50            12              5              P7             8 
a. Iny apr    -atnend Et lu             C.£   anEtAANC CAROBBEAN
dnhblal thut u-y -niur,- da1im1-   2. traR
ti_   i         ~~hua h8eme                       0i.                    971            12 P             560F         89              30              5.2             27.07         84          29             26             8              25            îî
nom aR   lînarata  29.   lamîntnue Rapnhltn  1969    4.1 C            350 C         55               6              2.9 p           07.0          80          56            17              1              2h            10                 167  C 80  6  17  26 
tnllmeed rmeetetantty         30.   Ci~E  la1oadan                1969           3.5F P           300C          49  A           10 PV           3.0 O          23.4 19        63C         31            OS            32E            ...13c C                            V
3)                            31.   Guatemala~~~~21.             1968            5.2 P           360FP          38 TA           6 8             2.3            17.           43           8                           222             26            306
4uil   tpe dinr   lu _f           Handr-                        1973           2.70H            290a          32              lE              3 5            24.5           81XE        3 7           14 I           17             14              864E
ruat      atududrrrern                    33.   Janata                        1969           1.9 C            670FP         86              24              4.4            19.1           86xI        52            43                A            19                                11Ap 
panAi tere dunaed an. aucanin j34   1oeoti                          1970          50.               670           76              18              2.6            17.1L           1          4              92                           232hC2
by puh1it  aud quuul-pebi                133.   Ni",ruua                      169            2.0 P            43Ey P        53              10              2.4             19.0           03 3                       6 3                          23            20P1
ageenlue 1                    ~~~~~~~~36.  Tîr.i.u1u  nd Tab.un    1971            1.0 P           860F P        9               40              0.1             18.9          93          35             49            Il2                           îo                  14






ENROLLMENTS IN MAURITANIA EDUCATION SYSTEM, INCLUDING OVERSEAS STUDENTS
1971-72
Percentage              Percent-                 Pupil/
of                  age        Percentage    Teacher
Grades   Age-Group   Enrollment  Enrollment  Teachers  Fbreign   Qualified          Ratio
Primary
Fbrmal System Z.         1-7       6-14       35,049          87.0       1,585        °           52        22:1
General Secondary
1st cycle                8-11     14-17         3,034
lot cycle abroad                                  127         10.0                                50        24:1
2nd cycle               12-14     18-20          711             *         156_2      51
2nd cycle abroad                                  61
Technical
lst cycle                8-1l     14-17           207 )                     35z2      30          95         7:1
2nd cycle               12-14     18-20           27 )
Vocational                                                                                                     8:1
Mamadou Toure Center      -       18-            145           2.0          18        50                     /5
ENECOFA Ist cycle        8-11                      73 ) 94                   630of which
2nd cycle       12-14                     21 )                           h T.A.
E.N.A.                                             80                       36 Lb      28                     ,5
Primary Teacher Training                            237
Higher Education
Secondary Teacher                                  72                       14         76        100         5:1
Training (E.N.S.)                                             .
Program A (E.N.A.)      14-16    1o-               10          1
Stadying abroad                                   303
/1 There is no parallel private achool qystem. However, the mining companies have a few gchools for employees'             k
children. There are also an estimated 20,000 pupils in the primary Koranie schools not attending government
schools and about 2,000 in the "Ben Amer" schools (adults).
/2 Both lst and 2nd cycle.
Z3 There are approxirnately 20 part-time teachers.
t4 Includes 26 part-time teachers (mainly eivil servants).
/5 Pupil: teacher ratio not relevant, given proportion of part-time teachers.






ANNEX 3
NAURITANIk
ÆWCURRCUT EXPENDITUIJÆS ON EDUCATION (1973 BUDGET)
(FCFA 000)
Ninistry of       Ministry of      Ninistry of
Fundamntal        Secondary        Technical &
Type of Expenditures       Education         Education        Higher Educ.       Total
Hinistry Overheads
Personnel                     18,995             15,815          16,600          51,410
Materials                      5,240              9,890            4,170         19,300
Fundamental Education
Personnel                    972,700                                            972,700
Materials                     46,340                                             46,340
Secondary Education
Personnel                                      301,905                          301,905
Materials                                      247,900 /1                       247,900
Technical & Vocational
Fersonnel                                                        72,250         72,250
.-aterials                                                       338,910 /2     338,910
Teacher Training
Personnel                     22,845                             11,410          34,255
Materials                     29,345                              56,270 £3      85,615
National Pedagogical Center
Personnel                      9,530                                              9,530
Materials                      2,500                                              2,500
Adult Education
Personnel                      2,355                                              2,355
Materials                      2,000                                              2,000
Sub-Total                    1,111,850           575,510          499,610       2,186,970
Local Contribution to
Technical Assistance
Personnel                       19,710            36,720           25,830          82,260
Depenses Communes
Personnel                     14,390             7,450            6,510          28,350
Materials                     45,780            23,700            20,700         90,180
TOTAL:                  1,191,730           643,380          552,650       2,387,760
of which:  Materials            11.0%              43.8%             76.0%          34.9%
Includes 200 m. for scholarships and 31.2 m. for student transportation.
2 Includes 35 m. for scholarships and salary allowances for students of E.N.A.
and 206.8 m. for scholarships in other institutions.
/3 Includes 48.8 m. for scholarships and salary allowances to students of E.N.S.
Source:  Ministries of Fundamental Education, Secondary Education, Technical and
Higher Education and Finance



MAURITANIA - EDUCATION PROJECT
Cost of the Project
% Of[        us$ '000        ouguiyaL . (millions)    Taxes   US$ '000    ouguiya (millions)
No.   Item                 Total Cost   Net of Taxes           Net of Taxes          %Groas                Oroass
1                       2             3                                      5         6             7
1. Civil works
(incl. site works)        16,14          551                 23,14             20,16      690          28y98
2.  Furniture                   1,11          38                  1,60             28,95        53          2,22
3.  Equipment                  14,68         501                 21,04               -         501         21,04
4. TSchnical assistance        51,93       1,773                 74,47                       1,773         74,47
5. Prof. services and           1,29          44                  1,85               _44                    1,85
preparation of an
eventual second project
6. Study/experiment             9,96         340                 14,28                         340         14,28
7. Project unit                 4,89         167                  7,01               _         167          7,01
8.  Sub-total                 100,00       3,414                143,39                       3,568        149,85
9.  Contingencies              20,91L3        7114                29,98            20,913    746          31,33
10. Total gross cost                                                                          4,314        181,18
11.  Total net of taxes                     4,128                173,37
Total project cost, net of taxes.
2 Rate of exchange: US$ 1.00 = Ouguiya 42 (CFAF 210).
% of total net cost before contingencies resp. of gross cost before contingencies.



Country.  Mauritania               Project:  Education I                                                      Date:  October 12, 1973
Contingencies Allowances (in '000  and US$)                               Rate of Exchange US$ 1,00 = Ouguiya 42 (OFAF 210)
ITEMS                         Site Dev. Buildings Furniture Equipment Tec.Asst. Prof.Serv. Stuy/Exp. Proj. Adm. Sub-Total   Totd
A Contingencies' Percentages       Local     Local       Local    Local    Local       Local        Local       Local      Local      Local
B Contingencies' Amounts         Foreign    Foreign   Foreign    Foreign  Foren  Foreign           Foreign    Forein    Foreign   ForeC
A  a. Unforeseen Factors    L                 10          10        10        _         1            1
F                10         10        10         -        10           10          -
b. Price Escalation       L                16          16        15        25        10           14          12
F   S            15         14        12         18       10           14          12
c:
c. Total a + b            L                26          26       25         25        20           24          12
F   tr           25         24        22         18       20           24          12
P
B  a. Unforeseen Factors    L   >t              8          1         2         _         1            7          _          19
F U$            47           3        45         _         3           28          _         129
US$L
US$F    R
b. Price Escalation       L   A            13           2         3        89         1            9           3        120
F   ,            70          4        58        255        3           39          17        446
US$L                                                                                            76 &
US$F   r o
c. Sub-Total Cont.        L   -o
F   ' '
US$L    U X         21           3        5         89         2           16          3        139
US$F   t           117           7      106        255        6           67          12        575       714
d. Total Project Cost    L  
before Cont.           F   r
US$L   rH           83          il       20        355        10          65          28        572
US$F               468          27      481       1418        34         275         139       28h2    3,414
7-1        -37       501       1773                   3h0          67
C  Total Project Cost         L
F
US$L               104          14       25        444        12           81          31       711           s
US$F               585          34      587       1673       4h           342        156       3417    4,128



A2NNEX 6
MAURITANIA - ElJCATION PROJECT I
Schedule of Disbursements (92% basis net of taxes)
(in US$/1
Accumnulated          Undi sbur sed
Quarter         Di sbursements          Di sbur sement s         Balance
3,800,000
1                 20,500                 20,500               3,779,500
2               103,250                 123,750               3,676,250
3               157,250                 281,000               3,579,000
4                277,250                558,250               3,241,750
5               326,000                 884,250               2,915,750
6               524,500               1,408,750               2,391,250
7                297,000              1,705,750               2,094,250
8                280,750              1,986,500               1,813,500
9               135,250               2,121,750               1,678,250
10               151,250               2,273,000               1,527,000
il                213,000              2,486,ooo               1,314,000
12               195,000               2,681,000               1,119,000
13               116,000               2,797,000               1,003,000
14                 76,000              2,875,000                 925,000
15                 68,500              2,943,500                 856,500
16               114,250               3,057,750                 742,250
17                114,250              3,172,000                 628,000
18                85,750               3,257,750                 542,250
19                 85,750              3,343,500                 456,500
20                 85,750              3,4?9,250                 370,750
21                b5,750              3,515,000                  285,000
22                70,750               3,5585,750                214,250
23                7C,750               3e656,500                 143,500
24                71,750              3,728,250                   71,750
25                71,750               3,500,000
3,800,000
/A  Rate of exchange: 1US$ = h2 Ouguiya (210 CFAF)
November 30,1973



o                  8  -    v
I S S 4 _^
o°                 g  e    V
V                V                   V  V    V
N             ND                 V  e    O
_ o ov V
R             e                  e  vo  v«
ô                  ô  V    o
r                _                  _  <    v
GO O O V V-
b             ô                  o  V    V
_             4                  e  4    ot
....           8          S       8  N    v
V             <         Z        o      du
t             4         a        r' g    <
er 2 10 ;
:z- , ot, n
,, .,1
g      ô  ô        g        o
N             0      >i 4        _   I   S
o,        o   ôoF             oô   ô
_ R  a < < S
°O     Ô  00 V    V  V    00
I t  _      >      ^  a  S    <  S    ^
0° 0°     0      0  0  V    Vl Ô    V
I m;        v     n  v' v'   N  e:
....          oO      o  Ô  V    V         V
0            N       n  V  V    V         V
ô     ô  Ô       Ô  Ô  V    z  rO   V
> R , v R S @ to o 
N      o  o  oO  o      o  o  V    V  V    o
rq  r^ o  al     n  S  v    N  4    >
ND V      _  _          ra  _    v  .    3E
o  o  o  o       o  o  v    v  v    R
o  o  o  o       o  o  .s   N  N
V C  o o > V "l  o V
... o o o o o o V V. V o
°  °- S  °       .`,^ _  V'   o  V'   S
4 a IA rv < _ N
ô  o  o  8       8  8  N    V         V
e  n      4  Vq      N  n  V,   >         >
-
O  O  O       O  O  V    V         V
O  O  O       O  O  N    1x1      61
^  R           e  v    v         o
° 8 °« v v
V t _ ° o
.... 8 R r° R
_ v 4 R R
o° S 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8
o  o  o  o       o  o  o    o  o    o
xD  _  _  r.     <  o  b    .a  <    X
<" ,J VE X <r
_ U
C 'o b
< O ve m
4 c c = v X ç
o N g H C
8  =  x i o      4    .  S                  e
.>     X C X  + .=   a, =   -                =
C  z  "  2  o   n          z             »
,z, H :,, ? C 0 CS H i



MAURITANIA - ED0CATION PROJECT
I.plaeoitotioo Schedolo
Yner
Q,uarter                        Fir-t                                    Se-oui                                 Third                           Fouth                                          Fiffi,                                Sixth
Ioplaontation             -2        -I         1         2       3        4       5        6       7       8        9         10         il        12          13         14         15          16         17         18        19        20      21        22        23      24
A    Study
b    Rural Education
Radio Centra, aeedi
Civil Worka                       Il     **/        ///      TT'.    CCC      CC+       1t+   +++      +4-       ++
Furnittre                                   L       TTT      000     0s00     +++      +1+    +++      +--
Equipaent                                LTT        TTO      000     000      0+4      +-4    +++      +++       +
t    Village Treiaiag Centre
MI'Pouarie RODSa
Civil Worka                        S      S00 /-      /      /TT     TCC      CCC      ---    +++      +++      +++
FPrnittre                                   L        TT      000     000      +.-      +++    +++      +++
Equipent                                   LT       TTT      000     000      00+      +4+    +++      +++      ++
D    Teec.her Traiaiog Nonekohott
Civil W-otk                        S      S*/        /fT     CCC     +++      +++      +4+    +++
Purnittre                                  lT       T1O      OOO   04       +++      +4-    +++      +
Equipeent                         LL     TTT        TOO      000     000      +i+      +4-   ++-       +++
E    Ttrainng & Upgrading Centra
Civil Worika            SS       **       1/1        /IT     TCC     CCC      CCC      CCt +,   +      ---      -+t      ++
Furniture                                                    LTT     TOO      000      o++    4-4      -          +      +
Equipment                        LLT     TTT        o00      000       O      00       00 o+     +     + +               -+t 4-
F    Tochoicol Treiaiag Centra
Nouqdhibou
Civil Worka            SS        JT7 I/I            TTT      CCC      CCC     C--      +i+    ---      +i+     +
Furnit-re                         LT     TTT        000      O00     00       + +      +      --++     +i+
R'.oipenot                        LL     TTT        TOO      000     005      t-+-    -+++       ++     i
Eopanditaroa
Civil Works    1551,000                                     39,00   15S,00  207,00  69,00   27,00              11,70    21,00        22,00
F-onitur-       S 38,000                            3,00    4,00    10,00    9,00  10,00                        1,00     1,00
Eqoipent        0501,000                           50,00  141,00    54,00  179,00  10,00   67,00
Tach.Aseiat. 71,773,000                  20,00     90,00  112,00   124,00  144,00 154,00  176,00  149,00 147,00   131,00            101,00    99,00        78,00      65,00     23,00        23,00     23,00    32,00    21,00    21,00    10,00   10,00   10,00   10,00
Prep. of 2nd
Project + Frof,
Services      5 44,000         6,00    5,00      5,00      2,00      2,00    2,00   3,00    3,00    3,00   3,00        3,00        3,00       4,00
Study           S340,000                31,00    31,00    31,00    31,00   15,00  36,00   15,00   15,00  15,00    24,00             24,00      24,00                             21,00       24,00
Project Unît   $167.000         14,50   15,25    15,25    125 5    15,25   15,25  15,25   15,25   15,25  15,25    15,25
Sub-Total    S3,414,000         20,50   71,25   194,25   344,25   391,25  571,25 297,25  303,25  182,25 192,25   195,25            150,00    127,00        78,00     65,00      47,00       47,00      23,00    32,00    21,00    21,00    10,00   10,00    10,00   10,00
Centingeociet  0714,000                                               10,50   14.70  45.20   41.00             12,70    65,20       58,10                                       49.50       49,50      45,50    45,50    45,50    45,50    45,50   45,50   47,30   47,30
TOTAL         S4,128,000        20,50   71,25   194,25   344,25   401,75  585,95 342,45  344,25  182,25 204,95   260,45            208,10    127,00        78,00     65,00      96,50       96,50      68,50    77,50    66,50    66,50    55,50   55,50   57,30   57,30
Civil Works Schedule                                                    Fur-itrc and Equipn..t Schhduil
SS v Site S-ry.                                                        Lt = Furniture ond Equip-eet liaIs
*t   Prelirinary  -rehitectur 1 drawing                                 T1 = Tendering - A-orda
CC   Co-at-ucti-n                                                      00 = Procurement
/i/  = Prep- rotion of construction drainga                            +t- = Cuorna-te  P-riod
TT  = Tende-ing - A-ords
-+-v =uetantee Period
Technicol Atai6t rnce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      x,
nee ctool tino (detùiled schedula givea
i Avea- to Appoodix IV)
Noveaber 30, 1973



MAURITANIA: EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM (1972)
ADULT LITERACY CLASSES
*
NON-FORMAL        UNGRADED KORANIC SCHOOLS
WOMEN'S CENTERS
ENA                         ENA
LOWER SECONDARY                 LYCÉE NATIONAL
GENERAL       |      2   3  4   5   6   7       CFF8 9 1$0 -                     EBAC                                      ABROAD
ncl. Teacher Trainig                                                                      PRIMARY TEACHER
and Administration                                                                        TRAINING COLLEGE            HIGHER TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
VOCATIONAL                                                           _                                                          - DURATION/AGES FLEXIBLE
Incl. Agriculture                                          8       0i          A            21   41             CT        $-EXAMINATION GIVING A
and Nursing                                                                                                                    FORMAL QUALIFICATION
l_>EJ                          CFEF - CERTIFICAT DE FIN D'ETUDES
ENA            - ECOLE NATIONALE D'ADMINISTRATION        ENECOFA                          ENECOFA                               FONDAMENTALES - PRIMARY SCHOOL CERTIFICATE
- NATIONAL SCHOOL                                                                                      BEPC - BREVET DES ETUDES DE PREMIER CYCLE
OF ADMINISTRATION                                 3                                    E2                     - LOWER SECONDARY CERTIFICATE
LYCEE NATIONAL - NATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL                                                                                    BAC - BACCALAUREAT - HIGH SCHOOL
CET            - COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE                       4  E3                                                   CERTIFICATE ("T" - TECHNICAL)
- TECHNICAL COLLEGE                     MAMADOU TOURE CENTER                                           CAP - CERTIFICAT D'APTITUDE PROFESSIONELLE
- CERTIFICATE OF VOCATIONAL APTITUDE
HIGH ECHOOL    - T N                              E5                                                        - COMPETITIVE ENTRANCE EXAMINATION
ENECOFA        - ÉCOLE NATIONALE D'ENSEIGNEMENT                                                                           E1 - SKILLED WORKER
COMMERCIAL ET FAMILIAL                                                                                  E2 - BOOKKEEPERS
MAMADOU TOURE - ACCELERATED VOCATIONAL                   CFVA                             CFVA                                     E
TRAINING CENTER                                                                                          3   HOME ECONOMICS TEACHERS/ SOCIAL WORKER
CFVA           - CENTRE DE FORMATION ET DE                                  -6   -7                                       E4 - SECRETARIAL
VULGARISATION AGRICOLE -                                                                                E5 - SEMI-SKILLED MACHINE OPERATORS
AGRICULTURALI EXTENSION
TRAINING CENTER                         ÉCOLE INFIRMIERS                 ÉCOLE INFIRMIERS               E6 - FIRST LEVEL EXTENSION WORKER
ÉCOLE INFIRMIERS - NURSING SCHOOL                                                                        E                E7 - SECOND LEVEL EXTENSION WORKER
_  1 1 1 2             -     -    9               ~~~~~~~~~~E8 - NURSING AIDES
i E8                                              Eg - REGISTERED NURSES
World Bank-7920






MAURITANIE: ORGANIGRAMME DU PROJET EDUCATION/FORMATION
ORGANIZATION OF THE EDUCATION/TRAINING PROJECT
|M,P.R,
dépendence administrative                                       I           P           I
.......... .liaison -
DI iLCTEUR  ÏJu
PROJET
TECHNIQUES                  ADJOINT                                        L'INFRASTRUCTURE)
.--    +'                .                       '                      *.                    *-. ** 
(A                   () .  (>    *                                   (D)                       (E)                       (F)
P!tCl,Crr' \       CaFS  DE,             C.P.N.          ETUDE         CENTRE DE RADIO           CENTRE VILLAGEOIS                CENTRE DE                  CENTRE
PROJNAE  PCT0,3HETSD                       ..N             TD          EDUCATIVE RURALE   I           DE FORMATION    J          NOUAKCHOTT              MAMADOU TOURÉ
MINISTRIES                 MINISTRES                                         CONSEIL
RESPONSIBLE FOR          RESPONSABLES DES          M.E.F.A.R.               INTERMINISTERIEL                  M.D.R.                              M.ET.F.P.E.S. 
PROJECT ITEMS              SOUS PROJETS
A Teacher upgrading - National Pedagogical Center
1/ Directeur du Projet - Project Director                                                                            B  Experimental Study
2/ Directeur Adjoint - Deputy Director                                                                               C  Farm Radio Center
3/ Services et conseils techniques pour l'utilisation de la radio A, B, C - Technical                                D  Village Training Center
consultation and services for radio items A, B, C                                                                 E  Nouakchott Vocational Training Center
4/ Services et conseils architecturaux des sous-projets - Architectural services for all project items.              F  Nouadhibou Vocational Training Center
M.P.R.        - Ministère de la Planification et de la Recherche - Ministry of Planning and Research
M.C.I.         - Ministère de la Culture et de l'Information - Ministry of Culture and Information
M.E.D.I.       - Ministère de lEquipement et du Developpement Industriel - Ministry of Equipment and industrial Development
M.E.F,A.R.       Ministère de l'Enseigweoment Fondamental et des Affaires Religieuses - Ministry of Priary Education and Religious Affaira
M.D.R.         - Ministèrr du Developpement Rural - Ministry of Rural Development
M.E.T.F.C.E.S. - Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique et de Fomation des Cadres et de l'Enseignement Superieur - Mini8try of Technical/Vocational/Higher
Education                                                                                                                                             WorId Bank-7921






ORGANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRY OF PRIMARY
EDUCATION AND RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS
Advisers                                       ~nel                   ni
Secretariat
y|  eneral ;      ;      1                 Public Relations
l                      ~~~~~~~~~Off ice
Translation Office
Financia Affairs I
I  Unit      I                   |  PrsonnlUUni
Drect rate of                                                         Drectoate o
_Prim ar ducation                                                         Religious Affar
|Trainin  sechoo|r-         Inspection                                      Research              Administration
National
Pedagogical Centre                                                         Na,Co.
for Rel. Affairs
World Bank-7922






ORGANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRY OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION,
TRAINING OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF AND HIGHER EDUCATION
MINISTER
Secretary-General
|Diect|Directorateof
|Higher Education |                                                         |nGuidance
| Higher Teacher  |   | National School        U
Training College |           fAdmin. 
|Technical end|
Vocational Schools
Lower and Upper Secondary Technical Schools
Vocational Training Schools (NOUAKCHOTT)
- Industrial (NOUADHIBOU)
- Family/Commercial (NOUAKCHOTT).
- Agricultural (KAEDI>                          World Bank-7923






DISTRIBUTION OF STUDENT POPULATION BY CLASS FOR THE YEAR 1971-1972 I
% of total
enrollment
Higher                                                                                                                 1
education
376
14    Upper          General education               711              28
13    secondary      Techn. educa. and               270           1 86                                                       3
12 Jeducation        teacher-training                981        [  _ 
0|Lower          General education           3.034 
10    secondary    Techn. educa. and             703                  fi9
9  |education        teacher-training           3,737 41          8 
7                                                              4,360
6                                            _2,684                          
5    Primary                                r2,997                           
4    education                                                 5,289                                                       87
3    3'4                 =5,917- 
2                                                              6,390
1                                                              7,412
100
Notes:
1. The exact breakdown of enrolment in primary schools by sex and age is not available
for the years subsequent to 1967-1968.
2. Including 20 per cent in Mauritania (17 per cent teacher-training, 3 per cent administration).
3. Including 7 per cent technical and vocational education, 15 per cent teacher-training, 10 per cent girls.
The figures shown on the pyramid indicate enrolment in general education.
4. Including 16 per cent technical and vocational education, 2 per cent teacher training, 12 per cent girls.
5. Including 25 per cent girls.
IIz3 General education
Other types
Sources: Division of Statistics - Ministry of Planning - Nouakchott.                                        World Bank-7924






|   --   -  I        '      I   ,t                            tD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D  X  f /  a   n   O  /   C  f              f       °    o                                7  D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>:  <         A X              >  | X 0                 S S F                * t                   A l- 
m   X  \ X >          ;   [           1   (yw                          §           ()~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
9;t 3 4 _ D ^\,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
v  S   '°   `   '            `   r'         @     \,          }     i           i  \                   »S~~~~~~~~~7
"  `` l  `Oe=*"                    X    mH a»<`'    F ;   0 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
I  -  i-  El`Xoo                                                m            S0             ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
~~~~~`  4             >        g      1 /             b  t :  t  g      1     G    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



