CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 459 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 459 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1974
0


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1974, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meaning:
(a)   "Project Unit" means the unit to be established under Section 3.02(a)
of this Agreement.
(b)   "Ministry" means the Ministry of the Borrower at the time responsible
for economic planning.
(c)   "Sub-Project" means a part of the Project as described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and cor ditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($3,800,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement, piovided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made: (i) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories; (ii) on account of expenditures under
Part 1 of the Project, until a specialist acceptable to the Association shall have
been appointed Technical Advisor for such experimental study; and (iii) on account
of expenditures under Parts 2A, 2B, 2C, and 2D of the Project, until the appropriate
committee referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agreement shall have been established.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit (other than services of consultants) shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provision set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July I commencing
July 1, 1984, and ending January 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical,
educational, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of overall management and coordination
in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain within
its Ministry a Project Unit with such powers, responsibilities, functions and staff
as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall appoint to the staff of the Project Unit: the
Director of the Plan of its Ministry, as Project Director, and a full-time Deputy
Director acceptable to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall also appoint as Sub-Project Managers of Parts 2A,
2B, 2C, 2D and 3 of the Project, respectively, the officers responsible for the
administrative or operational divisions with authority for the corresponding part
of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the design work for, and the
supervision of, construction of the facilities included in Parts 2 and 3 of the Project
to be carried out by the Service de l'Infrastructure of the Borrower.
(b)   To assist the Borrower in carrying out the work referred to in paragraph
(a) hereof, the Borrower shall employ architectural consultants (referred to in
Schedule 4 paragraph A(3) to this Agreement) acceptable to the Association, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Parts 2 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) award the fellowships included in the
Project to appropriately qualified candidates in accordance with a plan to be
prepared in consultation with the Association; (ii) with regard to all specialists
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, employ specialists acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; (iii)
cause said specialists to prepare evaluation designs for each part of the Project;


﻿6
and (iv) make available interim reports on said evaluation to the Association
promptly after they are prepared.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, all reports, contract documents
and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its approval the
list of sites proposed for the construction of the facilities included in Part 2 of
the Project, promptly upon their preparation, the plans and specifications relating
thereto.
(c)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire before the scheduled commencement of construction of
the facilities included in Part 2 of the Project all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of said facilities
and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition and upon
request, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents- and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
S


﻿7
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall (a) cause the radio center under Part 2C
of the Project to: (i) broadcast educational programs addressed to the needs of
the farm populations during not less than ten hours per week, such programs to
be scheduled at such times as they shall be most likely to be Estened to by the
farm populations; (ii) to the extent that the programs prepared at such center
do not enable such ten hours per week broadcasting, retransmit educational
programs of a similar nature transmitted from Nouakchott; (iii) retransmit all
educational programs transmitted in French and Arabic from     Nouakchott and
addressed to primary school teachers; and
(b)   cause such center to be supplied with electricity, as required to carry
out its functions in an efficient and uninterrupted manner.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower reponsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project, open
a special account at the Trdsor and shall maintain in it funds in an amount
equivalent to the estimated expenditures under the Project during the following
three months. The Borrower shall also credit in said account the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account which the Association shall not have
paid directly to suppliers of goods or services at the Borrower's request and on
its behalf.
(b)   The Borrower shall open another account (caisse d'avance) in a bank
at Nouakchott, and shall credit it with funds withdrawn from the special account
referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, in such amounts as shall be needed to cover
ordinary, small expenditures under the Project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause each institution included in the
Project to carry on its operations and manage its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, technical and educational policies and practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower shall cause each institution included in the Project to
operate and maintain its plant, equipment, properties and facilities and make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering
and financial practices.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, title to all goods
financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the Credit shall be obtained
free of all liens.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall establish and maintain:
(a)   a committee to regulate and supervise the Farm Radio Programming
Center in Kaedi and to coordinate the broadcasting program on agricultural, health,
and educational matters and shall confer on the Director of such Center sufficient
power and authority to make any decision for efficient management.
(b)   a committee under the Chairmanship of the Minister of Rural
Development and with the participation of health authorities and other services
and institutions concerned, to supervise and regulate operations and programs of
the Village Training Center in MPouri.
(c)   a committee for technicians training program to be established at the
Mamadou Tour6 Vocational Training Center under the Chairmanship of the Minister
at the time responsible for vocational training and with the participation of
representatives of the mining industry, to regulate and Supervise the programs of
the Center, to define the content of the courses to be taught at this Center and
to make decisions on the use of funds available to such center.
(d)   a committee for the Nouakchott Vocational Training Center under the
Chairmanship of the Minister at the time responsible for vocational training and
with the participation of representatives of the graduates' potential employers to
define the content of the courses to be taught and to make decisions on the use
of the funds available to such center.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall evaluate the effectiveness of the training
programs included in the Project and for that purpose the Borrower shall establish,
prior to the graduation of the first promotion of trainees, and shall thereafter
maintain, a tracer system to collect data on employment, self-employment, reasons
for non-employment, premature termination of training, repetition    and on
employers' evaluation of the program.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall appoint the Director of the National Pedagogical Center


﻿9
as project manager f-)r Parts I and 3 of the Project and a full-time specialist to
assist him.
(b)   The Borrower shall consult with the Association on the continuation
of the study under Part I of the Project upon termination of the first two phases
of the study, namely, the design phase, and the experimental phase, and, promptly
after the conclusion of the study. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on the analysis of its results and the formulation of recommendations
with a view to their implementation.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall vest in the National Commission for the Reform     of
Education the responsibility for regulating and supervising the Koranic school
experimental study under Part 1 of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the religious authorities which guide
the Koranic schools, both for children and adults, be consulted by said Commission
on the proposed structure, content and staffing for the programs Under such study.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall use its best efforts to enter into
appropriate arrangements with potential employers, and specially the mining
industry to ensure employment of all qualified graduates from the Mamadou Tour6
Vocational Training Center under the technicians training program to be established
therein.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause said center to recruit not less than 35 trainees
per year.
(c)   The Borrower shall consult with such industry through the Committee
referred to in Section 4.04(c) of this Agreement on methods of selection, standards
of recruitment, qualification and number of trainees, and organization and definition
of training programs with a view to ensuring maximum adaptation of the program
to employment needs.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to ensure the
participation of the potential employers in the training program   through the
provision of personnel and equipment for the Mamadou Tour6 Technical Training
Program.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall, with regard to the Village Training Center
under Part 2B of the Project: (i) cause the staff of the Center to be given agricultural
training, and (ii) periodically review with the Association the work programs of
the Center.


﻿10
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided additional
space and staff at the National Pedagogical Center at Nouakchott, or successor
thereto, as required to carry out Parts 1 and 3 of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of paymnts,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its administrative subdivisions
and of any agency of the Borrower or of any such administrative subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or thre-.ens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the implementation and evaluation of the


﻿*                                   11
Project, and to inspection of all installation sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment related to the Project, and any records and documents relevant thereto.
Section 5.04. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange views with
each other from time to time, at the request of either party, on the Borrower's
objectives for formal and non-formal education and training, on the Borrower's
planned investments in the educational sector, and on interim evaluation reports
and recommendations concerning the different parts of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.


﻿12
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The Project Unit shall have been established within the Ministry of
Planning.
(b)   The Project Director and the Deputy Director shall have been
appointed in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section
3.02(b) of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date August 13, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.08 of Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministry is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et du
D6veloppement Industriel
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:
MINIPLAN
Nouakchott


﻿13
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s / A. Ould Abdallah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / X. de la Renaudisre
Director, Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿14.
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Imported equipment
and materials re-
lated to:
(a)   farmer radio              213,000      )
programming                             )
center (Kaedi)                          )
(b)   farmer train-               22,000     )
ing center                              )
(M'Pouri6)                              )
(c)   primary teach-              5 1,000    )
er upgrading                            )
(Nouakchott)
(d)   vocational                 140,000     )     100% of foreign
training/up-                            )    expenditures
grading center                          )
(Nouakchott)                            )
(e)   technical edu-              79,000     )
cation and train-                      )
ing (Nouadhibou)                        )
(f)   experimental               80,000      )
study                                   )
(g)   Project Unit               42,000      )


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
II.   Consultant
and Professional
Services in rela-
tion to:
(a)   experimental                 260,000        )
study                                      )
(b)   Project Unit                  121,000       )
(c)   professional                   44,000       )     100% of total
services re-                               )      expenditures
lated to civil                             )
works and spe-                             )
cialist services                           )
for Part 4 of                              )
the Project                                )
III. Civil works re-
quired for:
(a)   farmer radio                   67,300       )
programming                                )
center (Kaedi)                             )
(b)   farmer train-                  83,000       )
ing center                                 )
(M'Pouri6)                                 )
(c)   primary teach-                  5,200       )
er upgrading                               )      69% of total
(Nouakchott)                               )      expenditures
(d)   vocational                   221,500        )
training/up-                               )
grading center                             )
(Nouakchott)                               )


﻿16
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(e)   technical edu-               99,000             69% of total
cation/train-                                   expenditures
ing (Nouadhibou)
IV.   Locally produced
furniture and
materials re-
quired for:
(a)   farmer radio                   9,000      )
programming                               )
center (Kaedi)                            )
(b)   farmer train-                  3,000      )
ing center                                )
(M'Pouri6)                                )
(c)   primary teach-                 3,000      )
er upgrading                              )     91%  of total ex-
(Nouakchott)                                    penditures
(d)   vocational                   10,500       )
training/up-                              )
grading center                            )
(Nouakchott)                              )
(e)   technical edu-                 5,500      )
cation training                           )
(Nouadhibou)                              )
V.    Technical assistance
and scholarships other
than those under Cate-
gory 11(a), (b) and (c)
required for:
(a)   farmer radio                 86,000       )
programming                               )
center (Kaedi)                            )
)     86% of total
(b)   farmer train-               156,000       )     expenditures
ing center                                )
(M'Pouri)                                )


﻿17
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(c)   primary teach-             76,000      )
er upgrading                            )
(Nouakchott)                            )
(d)   technical edu-            527,000      )
cation/training                         )
(Nouakchott)                            )
)     86% of total
(e)   technical edu-            617,500      )     expenditures
cation training                         )
(Nouadhibou)                            )
(f)   manpower plan-             64,500      )
ner                                     )
VI.   Unallocated                     714,000
TOTAL         3,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term  "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made under Categories I(f) and (g) and 11(c) on account of
expenditures incurred after November 1, 1973 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $40,000; and


﻿18
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association after consultation with the Borrower, in respect of any other
expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of foreign expenditures under Categories II,
III and VI shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Categories, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of the Borrower's program to expand and improve
its educational system, consists of the following:
Part 1
The carrying out of an experimental study to ascertain whether support
of Koranic schools through radio programs and the provision of instructional
material helps to improve in an efficient and economic manner the basic
skills of students in such schools, both children and adults.
Part 2
A.    Establishment of a vocational training center at Nouakchott.
B.    Establishment of a pilot village training center within the perimeter
of the M'Pouri6 irrigation scheme, to assist farmers and their families to
make adequate use of, and to adjust to changes brought about by, such
irrigation schemes.
C.    Establishment of a radio training, programming and broadcasting center
at Kaedi, to prepare and broadcast programs to offer agricultural, health
and other advice to farming families, reinforcing, among others, agricultural
extension services.
D.    Establishment of a technical education/training program  within the
existing Mamadou Tourd Vocational Training Center at Nouadhibou.
The establishment of such facilities includes construction, equipping
and furnishing the facilities therefor, and the provision of the services,
including technical assistance, required for their operation.
Part 3
The setting up, in the National Pedagogical Center at Nouakchott or
in any successor thereto, of a program to upgrade and counsel teachers in
the first level of the Borrower's educational system.


﻿20
Part 4
The preparation of another edUcation development project, incluCiing
the setting up of a system to measure manpower requirements in Mauritania.
The Project includes also the provision of fellowships (about 12.5
man/years) and services to carry out the Project, as described in the Annex
to this Schedule (as such Annex may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association).
The Project is expected to be completed by September 1976; except the
provision of technical assistance which is expected to be completed by
December 1979.


﻿21
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Consultant and Professional Services
and Technical Assistance
Approximate
Man/months
A.    Experimental Study of Koranic Education                  66
B.    Farmer radio                                             24
C.    Farmer training center                                   48
D.    Primary teacher upgrading                                24
E.    Vocational training/upgrading                           159
F.   Technical education and training                         216
G.    Manpower Specialist                                      18
H.   Project Unit                                              90
1.   Professional services and Part 4
of the Project                                      16
661 Man/months
55 Man/years
Scholarships                                              12.5 Man/years


﻿SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Bidders will be required to prequalify.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $30,000 or more the following shall apply:
(a)   The Borrower shall, before qualification      is invited, inform  the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified contractors together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its approval, a list of all contracts for civil works to be let in carrying out
the Project indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast
timetable for award, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders. The bidding documents shall, inter
alia, specify that the bidder may submit bids in respect of individual educational
institutions included in the Project or a group of them included in the bid invitation,
together with related facilities or any combination thereof, the bids therefor to
be opened simultaneously and the Borrower to have the option of awarding to
one contractor one contract in respect of all such institutions and facilities, or
separate contracts in respect of several such institutions and facilities to different
contractors.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award,


﻿23
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it detennines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
(f)   The Association's approval shall be required for any proposed change
in a contract involving a price increase of more than 10% of the contract or more
than $20,000 equivalent, whichever is less.
3.    With respect to any other contract for civil works, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
*        in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, promptly
inform  the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    All invitations to bid for civil works may be advertised only in newspapers
of general circulation in Mauritania.
B.    Contracts for Materials, Furniture and EquipMent
I.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for its
approval, the lists of materials, furniture and equipment required for the Project
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price. Items shall be
indexed, coded and numbered for identification regarding the respective educational
institutions and the spaces for which they are required. Such items shall be grouped
in lots so as to permit bulk procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical
and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable, each such lot shall be for not
less than $30,000 equivalent. Amendments to such lists which may be made from
time to time shall also be submitted to the Association for approval. Procurement
shall be limited to those items of materials, furniture and equipment which are


﻿24
specified in the approved lists mentioned in paragraph B I above and which shall
be identified in contract documents by the same indexes, codes and numbers as
in such lists.
2.    With respect to any contract for equipment or materials estimated to cost
less than $5,000 equivalent the Borrower may procure such goods locally according
to its established procedure provided that contracts so awarded do not exceed
a cumulative total of $45,000 equivalent.
3.    With respect to any other contract for such goods:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders. All invitations to 'id for contracts
for equipment or materials estimated to cost $5,000 equivalent or more but not
more than $30,000 equivalent, and all invitations to bid for contracts for furniture
may be advertised only in newspapers of general circulation in Mauritania.
(b)   The Borrower shall send to the Association, after bids have been
evaluated, a summary and analysis thereof, and, in the case of a bid for $5,000
equivalent or more, obtain the Association's approval before awarding a contract.
In case of a contract to be awarded to other than the lowest bidder, the Borrower
shall send to the Association a brief justification by the Project Unit of the proposed
award.
4.    Promptly after the contract has been awarded, the Borrower shall furnish
the Association with the following:
(i)         a certificate signed by the Project Director that the goods
contracted for are in accordance with the quantities and
specifications in the list approved by the Association under
paragraph BI above; and
(ii)        two conformed copies of the contract awarded, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from its Credit
Account in respect of such contract.


﻿25
C.   Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For goods included in the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule I to
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference
to goods manufactured in the Republic of Mauritania in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Republic
of Mauritania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in the
Republic of Mauritania equal to at least 20( of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B:   bids offering goods manufactured in the Republic
of Mauritania other than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the


﻿26
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿27
SCHEDULE 4
Project Organization and Responsibilities
A.    The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit, within the Ministry, will be under the direction of the
Director of the Plan who will be responsible for the overall management of the
Project and for coordination with all departments and agencies of the Borrower
participating in the carrying out of the Project. To that end, in his capacity as
Project Director he will have direct access to the Ministers with overall authority
for the said departments and agencies.
2.    The Project Unit will consist, in addition to the Director, of the following
full-time staff expected to be financed under the Credit:
(i)         a deputy director;
(ii)        an accountant; and
*6             (iii)        a secretary/typist.
3.    The Project Unit will be provided with adequate premises, equipment,
supporting staff, means of communication and transport and, in addition, will be
aided by the services of:
(i)         the Service de l'Infrastructure and of architect/consultants whose
terms of reference are indicated in C below, and
(ii)        radio technical and maintenance personnel of the Service de la
Radio whose terms of reference are indicated in D below.
4.    Under the general direction of the Project Director, the Deputy Director
of the Project, employed full-time and expected to be financed under the Credit,
will be responsible for (i) day-to-day management, (ii) administration of
procurement of goods and services, (iii) recruitment and coordination of technical
assistance, (iv) coordination with the Sub-Project managers (Section 3.02(c)) on
(ii) above. Specific responsiblities of the Project Director and of the Deputy Director
are listed below in B.
5.    The Sub-Project managers will be responsible for:
(i)         Program design, development, implementation and evaluation;


﻿28
(ii)        Timely preparation of lists of equipment and materials, together
with appropriate pedagogical specifications, for communication
to the Project Unit;
(iii)       Preparation in collaboration with the Service de l'Infrastructure
and   the  architect/consultants of educational specifications
concerning    construction   and    communication     of   said
specifications to the Project Unit;
(iv)        Preparation of the terms of reference (which will include inter
alia evaluation designs) of specialists and selection and
supervision of said specialists (Section 3.05);
(v)         Selection and briefing of qualified national counterparts, in
accordance with the calendar for implementation of technical
assistance;
(vi)        Preparation of terms of reference of short-term consultants and
selection and supervision of said consultants; and
(vii)       Preparation of regular statements of progress for inclusion in
the trimestrial reports to be submitted     to the Association
through the Project Director.
B.    Specific responsibilities within the Project Unit
1.    The Project Director will be responsible for:
(i)         Coordination of communications with the Association for the
day-to-day technical aspects of the Project;
(ii)        Resolution of any disagreement between the Project Unit and
the Sub-Project managers relative to the procurement of goods
and services, including technical assistance;
(iii)       Ensuring that regular project reports relative to the Project are
prepared and sent to the Association;
(iv)        Drawing up, signing and administering up to two man-years of
short-term    consultant    contracts   relative  to    Project
implementation;


﻿29
(v)         Overall supervision 'for the duties of the Deputy Director listed
below;
(vi)        Selection  of Project Unit staff and       definitions of their
responsibilities; and
(vii)       Management of the account (caisse d'avance) provided for in
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement.
2.    The Deputy Director
The Deputy Director will be responsible for:
(a)   Equipment
(i)         Ensuring that a detailed list of all items of equipment required
for the Project giving detailed specifications for each item, its
unit cost and the total cost per type of item are established
by the Sub-Project managers;
(ii)        Grouping articles into lots that will facilitate procurement;
(iii)       Establishing the lots in such a way as to permit easy delivery
to the individual establishments concerned. Items should be
coded and numbered;
(iv)        Preparing standard    bidding documents and     ensuring    that
procedures for procurement as provided for in Section 2.03 of
the Development Credit Agreement are respected;
(v)         Assuring the making of analysis and the evaluation of all bids
received;
(vi)        Inspecting all items of equipment received in order to ensure
that the quantities of items received are correct and in
accordance with the specifications; and
(vii)       Taking all necessary steps to ensure that items procured are
delivered and stored safely at the locations and on the dates
specified.
(b)   Construction


﻿30
(i)          Collecting all necessary information relative to the location and
conditions of sites of the facilities to be constructed under the
Project;
(ii)         Ensuring that architect/consultant services required for the
design of construction are recruited to compliment the services
of the Service de l'Infrastructure, on the basis of Section 3.03
of this Agreement;
(iii)        Ensuring that architect briefs are prepared with the assistance
of Sub-Project managers taking into account sound pedagogical
specifications and other criteria such as reasonableness of prices
and functionality of design;
(iv)         Prequalifying contractors (with the help     of the Service de
l'Infrastructure);
(v)          Preparing all tender documents relative to construction and to
the procurement of furniture and for evaluating bids received;
(vi)         Ensuring that all reports, designs, working drawings and other
documents relative to construction of the Project are revised;
and
(vii)        Preparing a program   of regular site visits to be conducted by
the architect/consultants.
(c)   Specialists
(i)          Pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement, recruiting all
specialists according to the terms of reference developed with
the Sub-Project managers and forwarding to the Association
terms of reference and curricula vitae relative to the employment
of all specialists;
(ii)         Preparing and administering specialists' contracts in collaboration
with the respective Sub-Project managers; and
(iii)        Aiding   specialists  to  find  suitable  housing   and   office
accommodation.
(d)   General


﻿31
(i)         Supervising and directing the work of the Project Unit staff;
(ii)        Drawing up and keeping up-to-date an overall plan for the
implementation of the Project to be based on a critical path
method or any other suitable management technique. Such a
calendar should indicate all activities or decisions to be
undertaken relative to the implementation of all the Project
items;
(iii)       Ensuring that all necessary logistic arrangements (transportation,
provision of equipment and materials, recruitment of office
personnel) are made in order that the Project Unit and the
different parts of the Project operate with maximum
effectiveness;
(iv)        Preparing for the Borrower, to be sent to the Association, regular
quarterly reports on the progress of Project implementation;
(v)         Ensuring that the Project Director is regularly informed of the
progress in the execution of the Project;
(vi)        Preparing all evaluation reports and regular financial reports
provided for in the Credit Agreement;
(vii)       Drawing up any letters of credit if needed; and
(viii)      Signing or countersigning any and all checks.
3.    The Accountant
He will be responsible for:
(i)         Establishing, under the general supervision of the Deputy
Director, an overall system of accounting according to the
Borrower's regulations and the provisions of this Agreement and
for its implementation;
(ii)        Ensuring that the different accounts have sufficient funds to
meet expected disbursements;
(iii)       Maintaining and verifying any special account which may be
opened relative to the Project;


﻿32
(iv)        Taking all necessary measures in accordance with this Agreement
in order to ensure prompt disbursement of the Credit and,
specifically, for ensuring that all requests for disbursement are
accompanied by the necessary supporting documents prepared
in accordance with the procedures of the Association;
(v)         Ensuring that a detailed accounting is kept of all contracts signed
for the procurement of goods and services for the Project;
(vi)        Ensuring that the personnel working under his orders comply
with the financial regulations in force; and
(vii)       Supervising personnel under his authority.
C.    Responsibilities  of    the    Service   de   l'Infrastructure  and    the
Architect/Consultants
The persons or agency selected by the Borrower on the basis of Section
3.03 of this Agreement will be responsible for performing the following tasks on
behalf of the Project Unit:
(i)         Preparing all architectural designs, plans and specifications with
supporting documents.;
(ii)        Ensuring that said designs and plans meet specifications relative
to space allocations and to pedagogical requirements in order
to minimize as much as possible any revision of plans during
the period of construction after contractors' bids have been
received;
(iii)       Ensuring that the contractors respect tile normis and standards
indicated in the specifications;
(iv)        Taking all necessary steps to ensure that all furniture is designed
and manufactured according to specifications;
(v)         Ensuring timely purchase and delivery of all furniture and
construction materials;
(vi)        Verifying and channeling to the Project Unit all requests for
payment to be made to contractors;


﻿33
(vii)       Checking progress of construction through regular site visits; and
(viii)      Preparing monthly progress reports for the Project Unit.
D.    Responsibilities of the Service de la Radio
The Service de la Radio will ensure that the following services are performed
on behalf of the Project Unit in furtherance of the following items: (a) Koranic
School experimental study, (b) teacher up-grading program, and (c) farm radio
programming center:
(i)         Helping the respective Sub-Project managers to prepare any list
of technicaI equipment required for the production of radio
programs;
(ii)        Ensuring the necessary maintenance of technical equipment
indicated above;
(iii)       Preparing weekly broadcasting schedules on the basis of requests
prepared by the Sub-Project managers;
(iv)        Aiding in the surveys or samplings of radio listeners required
for Project evaluation;
(v)         Providing promptly as needed technical personnel to the National
Pedagogical Center (one programming specialist) and to the Farm
Radio   Programming    Center   (one   technical maintenance
specialist); and
(vi)        Making a technical evaluation of broadcast reception and
establishing the technical data base required for an eventual
extension of broadcasting to other parts of the country.


